-- Mitsubishi Heavy Ordered to Pay for Forced Labor in Korea
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-07-31T09:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/mitsubishi-heavy-ordered-by-korean-court-to-pay-for-forced-labor.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  was
ordered by a South Korean court to pay compensation for forced
labor during  Japan ’s colonial rule of the peninsula, the latest
in a series of incidents that have soured relations between the
two countries.  Mitsubishi Heavy was ordered to pay the families of five
former Korean workers 80 million won ($72,000) each, Yonhap News
reported yesterday, citing the Busan High Court. The plaintiffs
had requested 101 million won each, according to a court
official, who asked not to be named, citing court policy.  The decision underscores how Japan’s past occupation of
neighboring countries taints regional relationships 68 years
after the end of World War II. The Seoul High Court earlier this
month ordered  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401)  to pay
compensation to four Korean workers over forced labor. South
Korean soccer fans last week unfurled a giant banner directed at
the Japan team and fans which read, ‘A nation that forgets its
history has no future.’  “Relations between  Korea  and Japan are at their worst
since the Abe administration took office, as Japan isn’t showing
any room for compromise when it comes down to historical issues
with Korea,” Jin Chang Soo, director of Japan studies at the
non-profit Sejong Institute, southeast of Seoul, said by phone,
referring to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. “At times like
this, communication between the two nations is vital but there
seems to be none at the moment, which increases misunderstanding
and distrust.”  Mitsubishi Heavy plans to appeal the ruling, company
spokesman Hideo Ikuno said by phone yesterday, without giving
details of the case. The decision is “unjust” and
“regrettable,” he said. Nippon Steel said on July 11 it plans
to appeal the  Seoul  court’s ruling to pay 100 million won each
to four plaintiffs.  Issues Resolved  All issues related to the claims by Korean wartime laborers
have been settled as part of a 1965 treaty that normalized
relations between Japan and South Korea, Japanese Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at the time.  The giant banner at Seoul’s Jamsil Olympic stadium was
removed at half-time during the East Asian Cup  match  between
South Korea and Japan on July 28. Japan won the game 2-1.
Earlier, fans had briefly unrolled a giant portrait of Ahn Jung-geun, a Korean independence activist who assassinated the then
Japanese Resident General of Korea  Hirobumi Ito  in 1909.  The actions of South Korean soccer fans were
“regrettable,” Suga told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Japanese fans facing the South Korean supporters also
briefly waved a Rising Sun flag, Japan’s national flag from 1870
and 1945 and considered a symbol of Japanese imperialism  in
many Asian countries, including  South Korea  and  China . A
modified version of the flag is still used by Japan’s Self-Defense Forces.  Wartime Brothels  In addition to demanding payments for forced laborers,
South Korea has called on the Japanese government to officially
compensate Korean women who worked in wartime brothels. Several
survivors and their supporters installed a bronze statue of a
young girl in traditional Korean dress in front of the Japanese
embassy in Seoul in protest in December 2011.  Historians say as many as 200,000 women, mostly from China
and Korea, were forced into sexual servitude by the Japanese
army. Japan apologized in 1993 and set up a compensation fund
that some victims rejected because it was financed through
private contributions. Prime Minister Abe has questioned whether
the so-called “comfort women” were forced into prostitution.  Sex Slaves  Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto further ignited tensions in May
when he said that “anyone could understand” brothels were
needed for soldiers facing battle. He later told a Tokyo press
conference the use of such sex slaves was “inexcusable” and
Japan should express a “heartfelt apology” to the victims. He
reiterated that Japan shouldn’t be singled out because other
countries’ militaries had also violated  women’s rights .  Hackles were raised once again this week, when Finance
Minister Taro Aso was quoted by the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper as
telling a seminar in Tokyo that Abe’s government, which is
considering overhauling the country’s pacifist constitution,
should learn from  Germany ’s Weimar Constitution, which he said
was amended quietly, leading to the rise of the Nazis.  “Japanese political leaders should be careful with their
words and behavior,” South Korean Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Cho Tai Young told reporters yesterday, adding that Aso’s
remarks would “obviously hurt many people.”  Regional Tensions  The fallout from Aso’s remarks were being felt beyond
Korea, said Liu Jiangyong, vice director of the Institute of
Modern International Relations at  Tsinghua University  in
Beijing.  “This will not only impact China-Japan relations, it will
impact Japan’s relations with other countries, such as Japan-Korea relations and Japan-U.S. relations,” Liu said in a
telephone interview. “ Nazi Germany  and Japanese militarism have
long been refuted by the international community.”  Japan and South Korea are also engaged in a dispute over
the administration of the Dokdo Islands, known as Takeshima in
Japan, which lie between the two countries.  Even amid political tensions,  Asia ’s second- and fourth-largest economies have common interests in sustaining trade and
growth in the region as China’s expansion cools. Ties between
the two include taking part in the so-called Chiang Mai regional
currency pool, intended to aid stability in times of global
financial turbulence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  