-- ITV Shares Advance as Content Creation Attracts More Revenue
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-07-30T09:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/itv-earnings-advance-11-as-broadcaster-pushes-content-creation.html
ITV Plc (ITV) , owner of the U.K.’s biggest
commercial TV station, rose the most in eight months after
first-half earnings increased as the company focused on creating
content and bought production assets.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
exceptional items climbed 11 percent from a year earlier to 291
million pounds ($446 million), the London-based company said in
a statement today. Revenue climbed 2.3 percent to 1.31 billion
pounds, beating analysts’ average estimate of 1.15 billion
pounds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ITV, whose shows include “Downton Abbey” and “X
Factor,” has been reducing its dependence on advertising by
investing in content creation and acquiring production assets.
Non-advertising revenue rose 11 percent in the first half to 568
million pounds, the broadcaster said.  “We’re making good progress with our strategy of growing
and rebalancing the business as we build new revenue streams and
improve margins,” Chief Executive Officer Adam Crozier said in
today’s statement.  The shares rose as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday
advance since November, and were up 5 percent at 164.90 pence as
of 9:41 a.m. in  London . The stock has climbed 57 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 6.5 billion pounds.  ITV Studios  “We remain firm supporters of ITV, which is executing well
on rebalancing the group by deploying cash flow into building
ITV Studios, while we view it as a natural play on UK macro
recovery,” Paul Richards, an analyst at Numis Securities who
recommends adding the stock, wrote in a note today.  Net advertising sales from ITV Family declined 3 percent in
the first half because of tough second-quarter comparatives, the
broadcaster said today. The division should have “broadly
flat” net advertising revenue for the nine months to the end of
September 2013 after rising 9 percent in the third quarter.  Revenue at content-production arm ITV Studios increased by
11 percent to 395 million pounds, according to the statement.  ITV last week said it  paid an initial 12.5 million pounds 
for Big Talk Productions, producer of films including “Shaun of
the Dead” and TV series such as “Rev.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 