-- Jain Dismisses Concern Deutsche Lost Debt-Trading Ground
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-30T12:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/jain-dismisses-concern-deutsche-lost-debt-trading-ground.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain dismissed concern that his company is losing
market share in debt trading, a mainstay of investment banking
revenue, as it reduces assets to meet capital goals.  “Our market share indices are all in line, our peer
performance versus average is still pretty good,” Jain said on
a conference call with analysts today. “A very strong U.S.
fixed income performance might at the margin, and a slightly
dampened European performance, might have had an impact” on the
second quarter, he said.  Deutsche Bank, which ranks third globally for revenue from
trading in debt, currencies and commodities, saw income drop 11
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, while its
biggest U.S. competitors made gains. The Frankfurt-based lender,
seeking to remain one of the top three investment banks, is
reducing assets to bolster capital levels and fired staff to cut
costs.  Jain was responding to a question from  Stuart Graham, the
London-based founder of Autonomous Research LLP.  “I know you’ve said you’re relatively relaxed about it,
but this is the third quarter in a row that you’ve missed
consensus,” Graham said on the conference call. “I wonder
whether there’s something going on in terms of you’re having to
shift the business down as you shed assets etcetera and we’re
settling into a lower fixed income, currencies and commodities
revenue trajectory.”  Missing Expectations  Deutsche Bank’s revenue from trading debt and other
products fell to 1.9 billion euros ($2.52 billion) in the second
quarter from 2.13 billion euros a year earlier, the bank said in
a statement on its website today. That missed the 2.12 billion-euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup
Inc.,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , had a cumulative
12 percent increase from debt trading, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Deutsche Bank doesn’t track analysts’ expectations as
closely as it does market share when judging performance, said
Jain, 50, a former debt salesman who led the investment bank
unit before becoming co-CEO in June last year.  Staff Cuts  Deutsche Bank employed 8,543 front office staff at its
investment-banking unit at the end of June, down 12 percent from
the same period a year earlier, according to documents the
company published on its website today. The bank said it reduced
its balance sheet 6 percent to 1.9 trillion euros at the end of
June from six months earlier to help raise capital adequacy
levels.  “I would not put this down to any loss of competitive
capacity,” Jain said. “The headcount cuts that we’ve done, the
balance sheet reduction -- the usual suspects -- we’re very
sensitive to making sure that those are done in ways that don’t
impair our performance and I’m confident the new team is on
track.”  Revenue from Deutsche Bank’s investment bank rose 9 percent
to 3.71 billion euros in the second quarter as gains from
trading equities and underwriting stocks and bonds outweighed
the debt trading income decline, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  