-- Japan Output Falls Most Since 2011 in June After May Surge
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-07-30T03:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/japan-production-fell-most-since-2011-in-june-after-surge-in-may.html
Japan ’s industrial  production (JNIPYOY)  fell
in June by the most since March 2011, when the nation was hit by
a record earthquake, as automakers cut  output (JNIPMOM)  for a second month
after a surge in April.  Output declined 3.3 percent from the previous month, the
Trade Ministry said today in  Tokyo , after climbing in May by the
most since December 2011. Production slid 4.8 percent from a
year earlier in June. The jobless rate was 3.9 percent, the
lowest since 2008, a separate report showed.  Today’s report adds to challenges for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who must decide whether to proceed with a consumption-tax
increase that threatens to arrest a rebound in the world’s
third-largest economy. Weakening production would undermine his
calls for higher wages to bolster his reflation efforts after
temporary boosts from monetary and fiscal stimulus.  “The fall in production is likely temporary and will be
offset by the expected July increase,” said Masaaki Kanno,
chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a
former  Bank of Japan  official. “I don’t think there has been a
change in the underlying trend for industrial output.”  The decline in industrial output was steeper than any
economists forecast in a  Bloomberg News  survey where the median
of 29 estimates was for a 1.5 percent drop. Production is
expected to rise 6.5 percent in July from June, then drop 0.9
percent in August, according to a survey of companies by the
ministry.  Abe’s polices have weakened the yen about 12 percent
against the dollar this year, bolstering exporter profits and
pushing up stocks. The Topix Index of shares advanced 1.6
percent percent as of 12:42 p.m. in Tokyo even after today’s
production figures, and was heading for the first gain in five
days.  Labor Market  While the lower jobless rate mainly reflected a decline in
the work force, the labor market is “improving gradually but
steadily,” Miwako Nakamura, a Tokyo-based economist at JPMorgan
said in a note.  Car production in Japan fell in June, with Toyota Motor
Corp.’s output dropping 9.9 percent from a year earlier, Honda
Motor Co.’s falling 35 percent, and Nissan Motor Co.’s down 7.9
percent.  Japan has 30 percent odds of tipping into its fourth
recession since 2008 should Abe go ahead with increasing the
 sales tax  to 8 percent in April from the current 5 percent,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
this month. He’ll need a 5 trillion yen ($50 billion) fiscal
package to cushion the impact of the increase, the survey
showed.  South Korean industrial output in June rose 0.4 percent on
month, in line with the median estimate in a survey of
economists by Bloomberg News, and dropped 2.6 percent compared
to the same month last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  