-- Treasuries, Oil Climb After Fed as Stocks Erase Gains
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-07-31T20:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/japan-futures-drop-on-steady-yen-before-fed-wti-rebounds.html
Treasuries rose, reversing earlier
losses, and the dollar declined after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from indicating when it will reduce the pace of
stimulus. Stocks erased gains in the final hour of trading.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell two basis points to 2.58
percent as of 4 p.m. in  New York , after earlier jumping as much
as nine points. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  lost 0.1 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent,
wiping out a 0.7 percent advance. Gold futures fell 0.9 percent,
trimming the biggest monthly gain since January 2012, while oil
rallied 1.9 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index capped the
longest losing streak since April.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues are
debating when employment gains will be sufficient to warrant
tapering bond purchases that swelled the Fed’s balance sheet to
a record $3.57 trillion. The Fed said that while economic growth
should pick up from its recent pace, persistently low inflation
could hamper the recovery. Government data today showed gross
domestic product grew at a 1.7 percent annualized rate, more
than the 1 percent advance predicted in a survey of economists.
The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England  meet tomorrow.  “The mention of low inflation being a risk may push out
expectations for tapering, but by and large, this statement
reads as expected,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of U.S.
equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said
in an interview. His firm oversees $290 billion.  Bond Purchases  The Fed said its bond purchases will remain divided between
$45 billion a month of  Treasury securities  and $40 billion a
month of mortgage-backed securities. The Fed also will continue
reinvesting securities as they mature.  “The committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said today at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in  Washington .  The Fed’s recognition of the risk of deflation was the main
change in its policy statement, according to  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York.  “Clearly the economy is not a fragile as it was in late
2012,” Chandler wrote in a note to clients. “On the other
hand, the increase saliency of the low inflation in the Fed’s
thinking is also critical, not just growth and employment.”  $85 Billion  Speculation about the fate of the Fed’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases has whipsawed markets since May, when
Bernanke first indicated policy makers could begin reducing the
stimulus this year if the  job market  continues to improve.  The  S&P 500  tumbled 5.8 percent from a record high on May
21 through June 24. It then rebounded as much as 7.8 percent,
reaching its latest closing record of 1,695.53 on July 22 as
policy makers stressed that any tapering of stimulus depends on
improving economic data. Ten-year Treasury yields jumped from an
intraday low of 1.61 percent on May 1 to as high as 2.75 percent
on July 8.  Three rounds of bond purchases by the U.S. central bank,
coupled with improving earnings and economic growth, has helped
propel the  S&P 500 (SPX)  up about 150 percent from its bear-market low
in 2009. The central bank will begin to reduce its bond-purchase
program in September, according to the latest Bloomberg survey
of economists.  Bond Yields  Thirty-year U.S. bond yields fell four basis points to 3.64
percent after reaching 3.74 percent, the most since Aug. 16,
2011. U.S. government securities generated a loss of 0.2 percent
in July through yesterday and have declined 2.6 percent for the
year, according to the  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)   Consumer, energy and industrial companies helped lead gains
among the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500. Comcast Corp.
climbed 5.6 percent after posting earnings that topped analyst
estimates.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  briefly rose above its $38 initial
public offering price for the first time since its debut trading
day, before retreating.  Mosaic Co. fell 6.2 percent, extending losses from
yesterday after OAO Uralkali decided to end production
restrictions on potash that underpinned global prices. Visa Inc.
lost 7.5 percent after a court ruling on debit-card fees.  Trading volumes for S&P 500 companies were 11 percent above
the 30-day average. Some 33 companies in the S&P 500  released
quarterly results  today. Of those that have reported so far this
season, 73 percent have topped analysts’ profit projections and
56 percent beat sales estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  1,700 Resistance  The S&P 500 reversed course after pulling within 2 points
of 1,700, sliding more than 0.7 percent in the final hour. It
was the third time in seven days the index surpassed 1,698 only
to retreat by the close of trading. Equities opened the session
higher after the GDP data and a private report on employment
topped economists’ estimates.  The 200,000 increase in private jobs in July followed a
revised 198,000 gain in June that was higher than initially
estimated, according to data today from the ADP Research
Institute in Roseland, New Jersey. The median forecast of 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a July advance of
180,000.  Government payroll data, to be released Aug. 2, will show
employers added 185,000 workers in July, after increasing
195,000 in June, a survey shows. The jobless rate probably fell
to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent, according to economists’
projections.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index ended little changed today and
advanced 5.1 percent in July, also the biggest rally since
October 2011.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s biggest brewer, rose
6.9 percent, the most in more than three years, after second-quarter profit growth topped estimates as it improved sales in
 Brazil  and sold higher-priced beers in the U.S. Eutelsat
Communications SA slid 6.2 percent after agreeing to buy
Satelites Mexicanos SA in a transaction valued at $1.14 billion
including debt.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.5 percent, trimming
this month’s advance to 0.9 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,
 Malaysia  and the  Philippines  slid more than 1.2 percent. The
Shanghai Composite rose for a second day, gaining 0.2 percent
after Chinese policy makers pledged to stabilize growth.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 1 percent.
Nickel, copper, lead and oil jumped at least 1.9 percent to lead
gains. West Texas Intermediate crude oil rose 8.8 percent to
$105.03 a barrel in July, its biggest gain since August. Today’s
rally followed data showing oil inventories at a major hub
dropped to a 15-month low.  The euro has gained 2.2 percent to the greenback this
month, while the yen has appreciated 1.2 percent. New Zealand’s
dollar has led all major gainers with a 3.2 percent increase and
the Norwegian krone has climbed 3 percent, the second-most.
Brazil’s real is the biggest loser, with a 2.1 percent decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  