-- Japan Lifts Ban on Oregon White Wheat as GM Checks Start
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-07-30T07:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/japan-lifts-ban-on-oregon-white-wheat-as-gm-checks-introduced.html
Japan  will resume purchases of U.S.
western-white wheat, lifting a two-month ban on the grain
imposed after the discovery of unapproved gene-altered crop on
an  Oregon  farm, said the agriculture ministry. Futures climbed.  “We will restart tenders to import western-white wheat on
Aug. 1, while purchases of soft-white wheat for livestock feed
are planned to resume on Aug. 7,” said spokesman Fumihiro
Michikura by phone today. Both types are grown in Oregon, where
the GM wheat developed by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  was found.  A resumption of Japanese purchases may support wheat
futures in  Chicago , which have lost 15 percent this year on
prospects for abundant global production, said Takaki Shigemoto,
an analyst at JSC Corp. in  Tokyo . The action also eased food
industry concerns about short supply, as Japan depends on
imports for almost 90 percent of its wheat, he said. Western-white wheat is used in Japan for production of cakes and cookies.  Japan established a system to detect the unapproved strain
before shipment from the U.S., said Sunao Orihara, director for
grain trade and operation of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries. The health ministry will also test U.S.
wheat cargoes upon arrival to confirm supplies aren’t tainted.  The country is seeking to buy 89,579 metric tons of U.S.
western-white wheat in the tender on Aug. 1, the agriculture
ministry said today in a statement. Wheat for delivery in
September on the Chicago Board of Trade gained 1.1 percent to
$6.5875 a bushel at 4:17 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s  food-safety  law bans sales of food containing GM
crops that haven’t been confirmed safe by the nation’s health
ministry. Contaminated supplies must be shipped back to
exporting countries or disposed of.  Monsanto, USDA  The agriculture ministry bought 23,963 tons of club wheat
grown in neighboring Washington state, 1,710 tons of U.S. soft-red winter, and 1,497 tons of Australian premium-white in a
tender on July 11 as alternatives to the Oregon wheat.  Monsanto and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  are
investigating how a gene-altered plant that hasn’t been approved
for commercial use was found on the Oregon farm eight years
after nationwide field tests ended. After the USDA’s May 29
announcement, Japan,  South Korea  and Taiwan suspended some U.S.
wheat purchases. South Korea and Taiwan have resumed buying.  The experimental wheat, designed to survive a weed killer
called Roundup, may have gotten into an Oregon field by an
“accidental or purposeful” act, Monsanto’s Chief Technology
Officer Robb Fraley said last month.  The agriculture ministry controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales of wheat to stabilize supply in Japan, which
depends on imports for about 60 percent of its food. The U.S. is
the world’s biggest exporter. The  Consumers Union  of Japan on
June 4 asked the government to ban imports of all U.S. wheat to
ensure food safety.  “We’ve come a long way in terms of the Ministry of
Agriculture in Japan to reassure them,” U.S. Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said in an interview with  Peter Cook  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains” that aired July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  