-- JPMorgan Energy Traders Spur Inquiries From Agencies
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-30T21:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/jpmorgan-energy-traders-spur-inquiries-from-agencies.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  energy traders
who avoided individual penalties in a $410 million settlement
with a federal regulator may face action by other agencies.  Federal and state agencies are free to pursue penalties
against the bank’s employees if they choose, Jon Wellinghoff,
chairman of the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , said today
in an interview. He said the FERC would cooperate with other
agencies, which he didn’t identify.  “We have had some discussions with some agencies that I
can’t disclose at this time,” Wellinghoff said.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by market value, agreed
today to pay $410 million to resolve FERC accusations that its
traders manipulated power markets in  California  and the Midwest
from 2010 to 2012. The agency decided not to pursue sanctions
against individuals, though it named them in the settlement.  “The decision was made to move forward in this case from a
standpoint of expeditiously settling the matter” not to punish
individuals, Wellinghoff said. The FERC has previously reached
agreements to end an investigation without sanctioning
individuals, he said.  Asked in a separate interview with Bloomberg Television
today if he was aware of any investigations being conducted by
other agencies, the FERC chairman said he knew of none.  JPMorgan traders Francis Dunleavy, Andrew Kittell and John
Bartholomew are still employed with the bank, according to the
FERC settlement documents. They worked in JPMorgan’s commodities
unit, run by Blythe Masters, the FERC order showed.  Lawful Conduct  Dunleavy, Kittell and Bartholomew didn’t settle with the
commission. The agency decided not to sanction them after they
explained to the commission that their conduct was lawful,
according to a statement from Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, the
 law firm  representing them.  “The commission’s decision to voluntarily settle with
JPMorgan and not proceed against the individuals can only be
read as the commission correctly concluding that no case or
findings against the individuals could be sustained in a court
of law,” William Scherman, their lawyer, said in the statement.  He declined to comment on Wellinghoff’s interview.  Steven Greenlee, a spokesman for the California Independent
System Operator, declined to comment whether the state grid
authority was conducting its own investigation or has received
any inquiries from government agencies.  FERC on July 16 announced $18 million in civil penalties
for four former traders for  Barclays Plc (BARC) , over allegations of
market manipulation. The sanctions were part of $488 million in
fines and penalties levied at Barclays and the individuals,
which the bank has vowed to fight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  