-- Julius Sees U.K. at ‘Escape Velocity’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-07-30T10:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/julius-sees-u-k-at-escape-velocity-.html
Former Bank of England policy makers
Deanne Julius and Charles Goodhart said the U.K. has now reached
the “escape velocity” that Governor Mark Carney said economies
need to achieve.  “We’re at a rate of growth that’s probably close to the
trend rate,” Julius said at Fathom Consulting’s Monetary Policy
Forum in  London  today. “We’ve done this after a long period of
bouncing along the bottom. This represents escape velocity.”  Another former policy maker, John Gieve, who spoke
alongside Julius and Goodhart at the event, also suggested that
the economy has turned a corner after growth  accelerated to 0.6
percent in the second quarter . Julius’s remarks that the economy
has reached “escape velocity” echo the words that Carney used
in January, before taking up the governor’s job, as the
threshold for momentum that central banks should be aiming for.  “We’re doing it and we will continue to do it, subject to
not getting any major shocks from abroad,” Goodhart said. “The
British economy may be recovering rather faster than people
expect. That’s partly because business investment, having been
very low, will begin to kick in.”  The former officials spoke two days before Carney and the
BOE Monetary Policy Committee unveil their monthly stimulus
decision after the first round of quarterly economy forecasting
at the central bank since the former Bank of  Canada  governor
started there this month. The bank will refrain from adding to
the 375 billion pounds ($574 billion) of bond purchases it has
already made to aid the economy, according to all but one of 42
 economists surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  “I don’t think additional monetary stimulus is
warranted,” Julius, who was a member of the MPC from 1997 until
2001. “The question is more how and when we’ll unwind it.”  ‘Relative Optimist’  Goodhart, who served on the MPC around the same time as
Julius, said he’s a “relative optimist” on the economy’s
growth potential and that “we’re more or less at the turning
point.”  “Most recessions involve a period of above-trend growth,
and there’s a reasonable probability we see that now,” said
Gieve, a former BOE deputy governor. “I think we’re quite some
way from materially changing monetary policy.”  The discussion also focused on likely measures by the Bank
of England to guide investors on the future path of interest
rates. Gieve said Carney will opt for a form of communication
that will hook the bank’s monetary-policy stance to some type of
economic data.  ‘Hit Quickly’  “My own bet is Carney will go for something on conditions,
and there he’ll have to avoid something that’s revised massively
and that he can hit quickly,” Gieve said. “He’ll go for either
unemployment or possibly real incomes, but probably
unemployment.”  Goodhart said such forward guidance will be difficult for
the nine-member committee to adapt to.  “I don’t think it matters very much for the British
economy, but it matters very much for the MPC, because it will
constrain the MPC’s own procedures,” he said. “If you’re
independent, how can you commit yourself to an interest-rate
path? And how can you commit your successor?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  