-- Justice Review of Yahoo Secret Order Due in September
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-30T16:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/justice-review-of-yahoo-secret-order-due-in-september.html
The U.S.  Justice Department 
estimated it will complete a court-ordered declassification
review related to the National Security Agency’s 2008 bulk
collection requests of  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  by Sept. 12, according to
a court filing.  The Justice Department’s response came in a filing
yesterday with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the
secret court that ordered the department to conduct the review
earlier this month.  “In the interest of providing a more complete picture of
the litigation in this matter, the government also proposes to
undertake a declassification review of certain additional
materials in this litigation,” John P. Carlin, the acting
assistant attorney general of the Justice Department’s national
security division, said in the  filing .  The U.S. government is reviewing its classified data
collection programs after two were disclosed to media
organizations by former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.
They include bulk collection of phone records from U.S.
citizens, as well as an Internet surveillance program, known as
Prism, that targets foreign citizens outside the U.S. suspected
of being connected to terrorism.  The disclosures have increased scrutiny from lawmakers and
civil liberties groups about the scope of government
surveillance by the NSA. They have also brought new requests
from technology companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for more leeway in making public the data
requests made by the government.  Release Requested  Yahoo, in a June 14 request to the intelligence court,
requested the government release the details of an April 2008
opinion related to the data collection programs. A “more
fulsome release of this decision is now warranted” in light of
the government’s decision to declassify certain elements of its
surveillance programs, as well as “the current controversy
surrounding the use of directives issued” under the statute
that allows for the collection of Internet data, known as
Section 702, the company said in the filing.  The Justice Department didn’t say it would release the
review of the opinion by Sept. 12, only that it estimated it
would be completed by that time. The department said it would
conduct and complete a similar reviews of the briefs and
materials cited in the opinion by Sept. 27. It cited 14 briefs 
and materials listed in the opinion in the filing.  Andrew Ames, the Justice Department’s national security
division spokesman, declined to comment beyond the filing.  Rolling Reviews  Reviews of other related materials will be completed on “a
rolling basis thereafter,” according to the filing.  Reggie B. Walton, a judge on the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, said in his July 15  order  that the court
“anticipates publishing that memorandum opinion in a form that
redacts any properly classified information” upon completion of
the review.  The Justice Department said it faced several potential
hurdles to the specific declassification of the Yahoo order,
including the need to coordinate with the review of court
opinions in the case, the “overarching Executive Branch
declassification effort,” as well as multiple Freedom of
Information Act cases involving similar issues.  “The declassification decisions being made in the instant
case are intertwined with these other declassification
reviews,” the Justice Department said.  Walton, in a  letter  to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said Yahoo is the only
nongovernmental party that has ever sought to “substantively
contest” a directive from the government. The company refused
to comply with a government directive in 2007, which led to the
decision by the foreign intelligence court in 2008, Walton said
in letter dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  