-- Komatsu’s Profit Decline Shows Mining Slowdown Trumps Yen
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-07-30T07:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/komatsu-s-profit-decline-shows-mining-slowdown-trumps-yen-2-.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ’s decline in first-quarter operating profit shows a lower yen and growth in Japan
aren’t enough to overcome weakness among its customers,
threatening a strategy built around boosting margins through
sales of more expensive mining equipment.  A sales slowdown among mining companies “reflects the
reliance on emerging markets, including  China ,” said  Yoku Ihara , an investment advisor at Retela Crea Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “The impression is bad, compared with the strong profit
growth for carmakers.”  Komatsu, the world’s second-biggest construction-equipment
maker, yesterday said operating profit  fell  5.9 percent to 52.4
billion yen ($535 million) in the three months ended June 30,
from 55.7 billion yen a year earlier. That compares with the
61.7 billion yen estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Net income rose 16 percent, aided by lower tax payments.  Falling commodity prices have reduced mining activity in
 Indonesia  and Latin America, cutting into Komatsu’s sales of
high-margin mining equipment. The weakening of the yen and
increased spending on construction projects in  Japan  failed to
cushion the overall decline.  Komatsu shares closed  up  1.3 percent at 2,192 yen in Tokyo
Stock Exchange trading after earlier falling as much as 72 yen,
or 3.3 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.5 percent.  Yen Declines   Revenue for the quarter fell 3.1 percent to 455.2 billion
yen. Sales from mining equipment, including dump trucks and
excavators, dropped 17 percent to 130 billion yen, the company
said in a presentation yesterday.  Rio Tinto Group, one of Komatsu’s biggest mining customers,
said yesterday that it’s delaying work on a $5.1 billion
underground expansion of its Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in Mongolia  While demand from mining companies remains tough, sales of
Komatsu’s mining equipment aren’t likely to decline further
after hitting bottom in the first quarter, Katsushi Saito, an
analyst at Nomura Securities Co., said today in a report.
Operating profit is expected to recover from the past quarter,
aided by the weakening of the yen, the report said.  The yen has declined about 13 percent since Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took office on Dec. 26, the most among the Group of
10 currencies. The currency today traded at 98.3 yen to the
dollar as of 3:20 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Abenomics  “The outlook for mining equipment is uncertain” with a
risk that demand will further decline, said Shinji Kuroda, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Securities Japan Ltd. “The company
would have to make up for the slide of mining equipment by sales
of components and gains from the currency.”  Abe’s economic measures are expected to boost domestic
demand, already spurred by Japan’s spending on the
reconstruction of areas wrecked by an earthquake and tsunami in
2011, Komatsu President Tetsuji Ohashi said on June 26.  For the first quarter, an increase in construction projects
in Japan and recovering sales in the U.S. and China failed to
offset declines in regions including Southeast Asia and Latin
America, according to the company’s presentation.  Lower commodity prices and a reluctance to embark on new
investment are behind the slide in sales from miners, Akira
Sugiki, senior executive officer at Komatsu, told analysts and
investors yesterday during a conference call.  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) , Komatsu’s closest
domestic rival, said yesterday that first-quarter operating
profit fell 28 percent to 9.6 billion yen after sales of mining
equipment declined and demand for construction equipment in
 India  fell. The shares fell 3 percent to 1,973 yen in Tokyo.  Regional Sales  Komatsu’s Japanese sales from construction equipment rose
6.3 percent to 66.4 billion yen, accounting for 16 percent of
global sales. North America revenue increased 6 percent to 65.6
billion yen; China edged up 1.7 percent to 41.4 billion yen.  Sales in Asia outside Japan and China dropped 39 percent to
47.9 billion yen, the biggest decline by region. Sales in Latin
America fell 6.2 percent to 59.4 billion yen.  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest construction
equipment maker, last week cut its earnings forecast and posted
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates for a third straight
quarter as mining-equipment sales declined on slower commodity
demand from  emerging markets .  Komatsu left its full-year forecasts for operating profit
and net income at 305 billion yen and 184 billion yen
respectively, yesterday’s statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  