-- Korea Pension Poised to Raise Shareholdings
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-07-30T06:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/korea-pension-says-stock-positions-to-rise-as-disclosure-reduced.html
Relaxing South Korean disclosure
requirements will probably spur the nation’s biggest pension
fund to increase shareholdings in some local  companies , the head
of the fund’s investment strategy division said.  The National Pension Service may boost stakes in some
stocks above the 10 percent threshold that requires government
institutions to report positions, Yoon Young Mok, the head of
the NPS’s strategy unit in  Seoul , said by phone on July 29. The
new rule, scheduled to take effect on Aug. 29, lengthens the
timing of disclosures to once a quarter from within five days of
the last transaction, according to a draft of the  law  posted on
the Ministry of Government Legislation’s website.  The existing disclosure requirements had made it difficult
for the fund to make some “strategic” changes to its holdings,
Yoon told reporters last month. The fund, which holds about 6
percent of publicly traded shares in South Korea, is the biggest
investor in the nation’s $1.1 trillion stock market, Yoon said.
It owns at least 6.1 percent of  SK Telecom Co. (017670) ,  Mando Corp. (060980)  and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , according to an April 9 regulatory filing.  “There are certain companies that we need to acquire more
than 10 percent,” Yoon said in the phone interview, declining
to name specific stocks. The NPS had 408 trillion won ($366
billion) in assets as of April.  The revised bill, which is being reviewed by the Ministry
of Government Legislation, will need to be passed at meetings of
the nation’s vice ministers and Cabinet before taking effect
next month, according to a statement by the  Financial Services
Commission  released June 13.  ‘Backward Step’  The new rule is a “backward step” to international
investors in terms of market transparency, said Julian Mayo, the
London-based co-chief investment officer at  Charlemagne Capital
Ltd. (CCAP) , which oversees $2.7 billion.  “Five days sounds reasonable, while every quarter does
not,” Mayo wrote in a July 29 e-mail. “Someone could buy 10
percent of a company on July 1, and then add to it, and not
disclose until Sept. 30.”  Non-state institutions in South Korea will still have to
abide by the existing rules. In Hong Kong, investors holding at
least 5 percent of a publicly traded company have three business
days to disclose ownership changes and 10 days for special
situations such as initial public offerings in which they have a
5 percent stake, according to the  website  of the city’s
Securities and Futures Commission.  Boosting Investments  The NPS will raise the weighting of overseas  stocks  to 10.5
percent of assets in 2014 from 9.3 percent targeted for this
year, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which oversees the
NPS, said in a June 14 statement. The representation for
domestic equities will be left unchanged at 20 percent.  The new disclosure rule will probably push the NPS to buy
more shares of small and mid-sized companies, which will boost
investor confidence, according to Heo Pil Seok, chief executive
officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $6.4 billion.  “There have been times when other investors hesitated in
purchasing certain domestic equities just because the pension
fund was unlikely to invest more in them,” he said by phone on
July 29.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  gained 0.9 percent today in Seoul. The gauge has
fallen 4 percent this year as a stronger won curbed the
competitiveness of the nation’s exporters and as concern mounted
the U.S. Federal Reserve would wind back stimulus. The South
Korean gauge  trades  for 9 times 12-month projected profit, less
than the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s multiple of 10, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  