-- N.Z. Parliament Apologizes to Reporter in Spy Agency Leak Probe
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-30T04:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/n-z-parliament-apologizes-to-reporter-in-spy-agency-leak-probe.html
  New Zealand ’s Speaker of Parliament
apologized to a journalist whose phone records were provided to
an inquiry investigating how she obtained a leaked report on the
nation’s spy agency.  “This is completely unacceptable and I have personally
apologized to the journalist concerned,” Speaker  David Carter 
said in a statement today. “This private information should not
have been released, and could be seen to attack the freedom of
the press.”  It is the latest twist in a saga sparked by revelations
that the Government Security and Communications Bureau had
illegally spied on Kim Dotcom, founder of the cloud-storage
service Megaupload.com that the U.S. shut down on copyright
infringement charges. Revenue Minister Peter Dunne resigned from
the role last month after failing to adequately respond to an
inquiry into how an external review of the GSCB’s spying
activities was leaked to the Dominion Post newspaper.  Dunne was identified as having had frequent contact with
the journalist who got the report, including 86 e-mail exchanges
in the two weeks prior to the leak.  “I don’t believe the release of information about a
journalist or their records is appropriate,” Prime Minister
John Key said in parliament today.  Key’s government has introduced legislation that will allow
the GCSB to carry out domestic spying on New Zealanders under
certain circumstances, prompting protests from political
opponents and peace groups.  Earlier today, a group called Anonymous New Zealand hacked
into 14 of the governing  National Party ’s websites, including
that of Key, protesting against what the group described as
“despicable” legislation.  New Zealand’s Defence Force yesterday denied spying on a
journalist while he was working for U.S. news organization
McClatchy Co. in  Afghanistan , following allegations in the
Sunday Star-Times newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  