-- Nasdaq Lowered to Sell by Goldman Sachs on Lower Profit Margins
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-30T13:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/nasdaq-lowered-to-sell-by-goldman-sachs-on-lower-profit-margins.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised
selling shares of  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc., saying the company’s
diversification strategy will reduce profit margins and may
cause the exchange operator to miss earnings forecasts.  Goldman Sachs analyst Alexander Blostein cut his rating on
the second-largest U.S. exchange operator to sell from neutral
and reduced his price estimate to $28 a share from $30.  “The Street is too optimistic on the firm’s operating
margin outlook as NDAQ’s business mix continues to shift toward
lower-margin revenue streams, creating risks to 2014 and 2015
EPS estimates,” Blostein wrote in a research note today, using
the company’s ticker symbol.  Nasdaq shares fell 2.8 percent to $32.10 as of 9:31 a.m. in
New York. They have gained 29 percent this year, almost double
the 17 percent advance in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index.  The company’s stock has fallen 2.5 percent since the July
23 close, before it reported second-quarter earnings the next
day that missed analyst estimates. It was the first time profit
came in below expectations in five quarters and only the second
time in 13 quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The results were hurt by costs associated with acquisitions
that are part of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld ’s
strategy to diversify the company. In recent months, Nasdaq has
bought U.S. Treasury trading platform eSpeed and Thomson Reuters
Corp.’s shareholder-relations business. It also took a 25
percent stake in Dutch alternative trading system The Order
Machine, which focuses on options.  New Businesses  The moves into new business won’t make up for shortcomings
in other areas, said Blostein, because of the smaller margins.
In the wake of the eSpeed and Thomson Reuters deals, he
estimates a 39 percent margin compared with 45 percent in 2012.  Revenue at the firm’s information services, market services
and listings businesses, which together comprise 83 percent of
Nasdaq’s 2012 sales, have been flat over the last two years,
Blostein wrote, citing “challenging trading trends.”  While other businesses have a blended profit margin of 58
percent, the former Thomson Reuters unit acquired by Nasdaq
means “the firm’s Tech Solutions business continues to gain
share of the overall revenue pie, with only 7 percent operating
margin.”  Blostein said Goldman Sachs’s models suggest Nasdaq’s
expenses in 2014 will be on average 3 percent higher than
current analyst estimates.  Blostein’s call is the only  sell rating  on the stock among
18 analyst opinions compiled by Bloomberg. Nine rate the stock a
buy and eight have hold ratings. The average 12-month price
estimate is $34.57 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  