-- New Jersey Says 37 Applications Received for Online Gaming
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-30T18:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/new-jersey-says-37-applications-received-for-online-gaming-ok.html
New Jersey  regulators completed a
preliminary review of applications filed by companies that want
to work on Internet gambling with the state’s casinos.  A total of 37 applications were received, including three
from companies previously licensed by the state, the  Division of
Gaming Enforcement  said today in a statement.  The names won’t be disclosed until they are published on a
list of active vendors on the division’s website. The state
defines the applicants as those providing software, marketing,
telecommunications or other services. Each of the state’s 12
casinos notified regulators of their intent to partner with an
Internet gaming provider last month.  “We see this as the first round of filings and we expect
that more applications will be filed as the start of Internet
gaming moves closer,” the divison’s director, David Rebuck,
said in a statement.  New Jersey is one of three states to legalize online
betting, along with Nevada and Delaware. The state has said
online gambling may begin between three months and nine months
from the Feb. 26 passage of the legislation. That deadline may
be extended, the state has said.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , owner of four Atlantic City
casinos, has partnered with online gaming provider  888 Holdings
Plc. (888)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman said
yesterday he hoped to offer Internet betting in the state by the
end of the year.  His comments were echoed today by  Keith Smith , president
and CEO of  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , which co-owns the state’s top-grossing casino, the Borgata. Boyd is in an online venture with
 Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc. (BPTY)   Andrew Zarnett, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc., increased his annual estimate of the New Jersey online
gaming market by $50 million to $275 million on July 5.  “Due to the quantity and caliber of the online partner
combinations, we expect the Internet gaming market to be more
robust than initially believed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  