-- Next Increases Profit Target by $15 Million on Fewer Markdowns
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-07-30T07:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/next-increases-profit-target-by-15-million-on-fewer-markdowns.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, increased the higher end of its profit target
by 10 million pounds ($15 million) as it sold more summer items
at full-price.  Full-year profit before tax will be as much as 675 million
pounds, the Leicester, England-based retailer said today, ahead
of an earlier target of as much as 665 million pounds. Profit is
being helped by the company selling fewer items at a discount as
it went into the sale season with 20 percent less stock. The
shares rose as much as 3.6 percent to a record in London.  “We did a much better job on markdown” said Chief
Executive Officer Simon Wolfson in a phone interview as the
company managed its full-priced inventory better, which led the
company to beat its own targets for those sales. That impacted
revenue in the final few weeks of the first half as it had less
product on offer in the “End of Season” sale.  “The Next brand is continuing to trade well as it
progressively upscales the offer,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at
Credit Suisse, said. “Judging by the high levels of clearance
across the High Street, we do not expect this pattern to have
been repeated by many peers.”  The FTSE-100 retailer, which has more than 500 outlets in
the U.K. and Ireland, is focusing on tighter stock levels,
opening retail space such as homeware outlets and growing online
to stoke sales as Britons continue to be cautious in their
discretionary spending.  Share Gains  Next  shares  rose 2.4 percent to 5,020 pence at 8:43 a.m. in
London trading, boosting this year’s gain to 35 percent and the
market valuation to 7.9 billion pounds.  Total sales under the Next brand, excluding value-added
tax, rose 2.3 percent in the 26 weeks ended July 27, compared to
the median estimate of a 2.4 percent gain from 13 analysts in a
survey compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may advance between 1.5
percent and 3.5 percent in the full year if they reach the
company’s second-half goal of advancing between 1 percent and 4
percent.  Wolfson said Britons are becoming more spontaneous with
their purchases with weekly sales volatility continuing.  “I think it’s a much bigger trend which is about
convenience. You have Sunday shopping, online shopping. Its not
a reflection of the economy,” the CEO said by phone. “Very
little has changed in the U.K.” for the consumer, with earnings
growth still lagging inflation, meaning “shoppers are getting
poorer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  