-- Northwestern to Pay $3 Million in Grant-Fraud Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-30T18:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/northwestern-to-pay-3-million-in-grant-fraud-case.html
Northwestern University agreed to
pay $2.93 million to resolve allegations of grant fraud by a
cancer researcher, federal prosecutors in  Chicago  said.  The university allegedly allowed Dr. Charles L. Bennett,
then a researcher at its Chicago medical campus, to submit false
claims under research grants from the  National Institutes of
Health , Acting U.S. Attorney Gary S. Shapiro said today in a
statement.  From those NIH funds, Bennett was allowed reimbursement for
professional and consulting services, plus food and travel
expenses for himself, friends and family from January 2003
through August 2010, according to a settlement agreement filed
today with U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo in Chicago.  “Allowing researchers to use federal grant money to pay
for personal travel, hotels and meals, and to hire unqualified
friends and relatives as ‘consultants’ violates the public trust
and federal law,” Shapiro said.  Melissa Theis, a former employee at the Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Care Center in Chicago, filed a whistle-blower
lawsuit under the federal  False Claims Act  against the
university and Bennett under seal in 2009.  The settlement portion of the case docket was made public
today. Theis will receive $498,100 from the settlement proceeds,
according to Shapiro’s statement. The school must pay the
settlement within 14 business days.  Myeloma Drugs  The NIH grant was intended to cover research into adverse
drug events, multiple myeloma drugs and quality of care for
cancer patients, Shapiro said.  Northwestern expressly denied the allegations made by Theis
and the U.S., according to the settlement agreement.  Theis’s allegations were “at odds with the university’s
commitment to a culture of compliance in the administration of
federal research grants,” Al Cubbage, a spokesman for the
school, said in an e-mailed statement. The school cooperated in
the investigation of the allegations “in an effort to
demonstrate their inconsistency with its institutional values.”  The university elected to settle to avoid “protracted
litigation,” he said. Northwestern’s main campus is in the
Chicago suburb of Evanston.  “We deny the allegations in the complaint,” Bennett’s
attorney, James M. Becker of Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC in
Philadelphia, said today in a phone interview. The lawyer said
he and his client are “actively engaged” in discussions to
resolve the matter.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Theis v.  Northwestern University ,
09-cv-01943, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  