-- Novartis Gilenya Patient Diagnosed With Rare Infection
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-07-30T15:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/novartis-gilenya-patient-diagnosed-with-rare-infection.html
A patient taking  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Gilenya multiple sclerosis pill contracted a potentially deadly
 brain infection , adding to concern that the medicine may lose
ground to a competing product.  Unlike a previous case, the patient hadn’t taken  Biogen
Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tysabri injection, an MS drug that increases the
risk of the viral infection, known as progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy, Novartis said in an e-mail today.  “This may cause some further jitters about the growth
potential of this drug, which is a key driver for the company,”
Richard Parkes, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a
report today.  Novartis, based in  Basel , Switzerland, already faces
increased competition for Gilenya from Biogen’s Tecfidera,
another oral MS medicine that was approved by U.S.regulators
this year. Gilenya sales surged 66 percent to $468 million in
the second quarter, Novartis said July 17.  Novartis fell 0.6 percent to 66.25 Swiss francs in Zurich.
The Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index fell 0.2 percent.  Second-quarter revenue from Tecfidera was $192 million,
Biogen said July 25, more than double analysts’ average
estimate.  The patient who contracted progressive multifocal
leukoencephalopathy had been treated with Gilenya for seven
months, Novartis said in an e-mailed statement today.  There had been no cases of PML attributed to Gilenya among
about 71,000 patients treated with the drug, the company said.
In a case last year, the patient who contracted PML had
previously used Tysabri.  “Given several atypical features of the case, Novartis is
working with the reporting physician to further understand all
possible contributing factors including those beyond
treatment,” Novartis said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  