-- NYSE Euronext Profit Exceeds Estimates on Derivatives
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-07-30T20:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/nyse-euronext-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-derivatives.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S. exchange
operator being bought by IntercontinentalExchange Inc., reported
second-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as revenue
from derivatives trading rose and costs fell.  Net income climbed 38 percent to $173 million from a year
earlier, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Earnings excluding some items were 63 cents a share, versus the
 58-cent median estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  IntercontinentalExchange, the 12-year-old energy and
commodity futures bourse known as ICE, is buying the 220-year-old exchange operator as the profitability of equities trading
declines and derivatives generate more income. European Union
regulators approved the deal on June 24. While NYSE’s earnings
had dropped 26 percent in 2012 as fewer U.S. shares changed
hands, profit increased during the first three months of 2013 on
lowered expenses.  “The results today indicate that  ICE (ICE)  is getting a stronger
company than initially thought,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in  London , wrote in e-mailed comments. He
has a sector-perform recommendation on the shares, similar to
hold. “This will likely be NYSE’s last results before its
acquisition.”  NYSE  shares  rose 0.7 percent to $41.70 today. They have
gained 32 percent this year, almost twice the Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index of 26 bourses. IntercontinentalExchange added
0.8 percent to $179.66, extending its 2013 advance to 45
percent.  Deal Dividend  NYSE’s board declared a third-quarter dividend of 30 cents
a share provided the ICE transaction is not completed by the
record date of Sept. 16. The deal, which was approved by
shareholders of both companies last month, should receive
approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission by Aug. 15,
NYSE Chief Executive Officer Duncan L. Niederauer said on a
conference call today.  “We continue to execute solidly against our business plan
as we build momentum toward closing the ICE deal,” Niederauer
said in the statement. “Our shareholders and the European
Commission have approved the transaction, and we are working
with the College of Regulators in  Europe  and other regulators to
obtain all the appropriate remaining approvals.”  Derivatives Unit  Operating income from derivatives trading increased 21
percent to $103 million, accounting for about 40 percent of the
total, according to today’s statement. Profit from equity
trading and stock listings increased less than 1 percent to $128
million, the company said.  Options trading in the U.S. slipped to a daily average of
15.9 million contracts last year from a ninth-consecutive record
of 18.1 million in 2011, data from the Chicago-based Options
Clearing Corp. show. So far in 2013, it has averaged 17 million,
up about 7 percent. U.S. exchange-listed equity trading  volume 
averaged 6.58 billion a day last quarter, down 3.5 percent from
the same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  NYSE has been cutting  costs  in a plan known as Project 14
meant to eliminate $250 million of expenses by the end of 2014.
The company today said it has achieved 64 percent of the
expense-reduction target and it’s likely to beat previously
announced full-year cost guidance of $1.5 billion.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., NYSE’s smaller equity-exchange and
U.S.-listings rival, reported on July 24 that  second-quarter
earnings  missed estimates as profit declined amid costs
associated with acquisitions.  Analysts project Atlanta-based ICE will say Aug. 6 that
earnings rose 7 percent during the quarter. Deutsche Boerse AG,
based in  Frankfurt , reported a decrease in profit on July 25 as
it predicted its business environment will deteriorate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  