-- Obama’s Latest ’Grand Bargain’: Good Grief
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-30T22:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/obama-s-latest-grand-bargain-good-grief.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is
taking yet another run at a grand bargain with Congress,
conjuring images of the  famous  “Peanuts” cartoon, in which
Lucy invites Charlie Brown to kick the football, then pulls it
away at the last second. The question is: Who’s Lucy and who’s
Charlie Brown?  Unlike earlier attempts at a deficit-cutting grand bargain,
this one is more modest. Obama traveled to an Amazon.com Inc.
distribution center in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , to  propose  cuts
in corporate taxes in exchange for increases in education and
job-creation spending. It mostly repackages an 18-month-old
corporate- tax-reform  plan with numerous evergreen  job-creation 
ideas. Some Republicans are openly laughing at it. Politically
speaking, it may be about as likely as a  Charlie Brown  field
goal.  That said -- and because ideas deserve to be assessed on
their merits, if only for that brief moment between their
preview on cable TV and their dismissal on Twitter -- do Obama’s
proposals make sense?  The president would cut corporate taxes to 28 percent from
35 percent, with a rate of 25 percent for manufacturers.
 Bloomberg News  reports that he would tap about $2 trillion in
untaxed offshore earnings, possibly by giving companies a one-time-only low rate to encourage the repatriation of income,
though the White House isn’t saying what rate it favors.  The president would also close loopholes that benefit
special interests, including the oil-and-gas industry and
private-equity firms. And entrepreneurs would get quicker write-offs on as much as $1 million in new investments.  Obama would pair all of that -- which would happily produce
a one-time windfall in  tax revenue  -- with increased spending on
highways, bridges and transit systems, dozens of new
manufacturing institutes and community college job-retraining
programs.  All of this is good as far as it goes. The president could
have been more specific about the rate at which he would tax
overseas income. A rate of 5.25 percent applied to all earnings
held offshore by U.S. companies could generate as much as $105
billion.  He could also have supported a  territorial  tax system, in
which corporate earnings are taxed in the country where they are
earned. Almost all other advanced countries have adopted this,
leaving U.S. companies at a disadvantage. The U.S. taxes
worldwide income, but levies on overseas earnings can be
deferred until the money is brought back to the U.S.,
encouraging multinationals to use elaborate strategies to show
that their income wasn’t really earned in the U.S.  So much for the policy. As for the politics -- well, it’s
complicated. By calling for a cut in corporate taxes, and by
paying for new spending with loophole-closing, Obama is
borrowing Republican anti-tax, anti-deficit, anti-corporate-welfare rhetoric. It also helps that Representative  Dave Camp ,
the Michigan Republican who heads the House Ways and Means
Committee, has been  traveling  with his Senate counterpart,
Democratic Senator Max Baucus of  Montana , to promote tax reform.
Camp even had  encouraging words  for the president after his
speech.  More broadly, it’s not hard to see Obama’s strategy: With
its cuts in tax rates and narrowed loopholes, the plan is
designed to appeal to a wide swath of corporate America, the
small-business lobby and a large number of congressional
Republicans who support cutting taxes and ending corporate
welfare. And with its increases in public-works spending, the
plan appeals to organized labor, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and a large number of Democrats who support more stimulus
spending.  And yet. Many Republicans don’t like any tax reform that
isn’t “revenue neutral” -- that is, gives back any increased
revenue to corporations in the form of lower rates.  Gene
Sperling , director of the National Economic Council, says the
windfall isn’t large or lasting enough to sustain deeper rate
cuts. For the long term, he says, the president favors
legislation that is revenue neutral. Until the administration
provides more detail, Republicans are unlikely to take him at
his word.  The danger here, of course, is that neither congressional
Republicans nor the White House trust each other. Both suspect
the other is planning to pull the football away once their
opponent commits to the game. If that’s the case, this speech is
destined to become just another panel in an endless “Peanuts”
cartoon strip -- with the U.S. public playing the role of
Charlie Brown.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 