-- Occidental Profit Unchanged as Higher Output Offsets Lower Price
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-07-30T11:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/occidental-profit-unchanged-as-higher-output-offsets-lower-price.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the
largest onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., said
second-quarter profit was unchanged as surging output in Texas
and California helped offset falling oil prices abroad.  Net income of $1.32 billion, or $1.64 a share, compared
with earnings of $1.33 billion, or $1.64, a year earlier, Los
Angeles-based Occidental said in a statement on  Business Wire 
today. Per-share profit excluding one-time items missed the
$1.60 average of 23  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen, who gained more
autonomy at the company after shareholders voted to oust
longtime Chairman Ray Irani in May, said April 25 he is
exploring a breakup that would “move the needle” of the
company’s shares.  Possibilities include splitting into as many as three
companies, separating units in Texas, California and the  Middle
East  and North Africa, according to comments Chazen made in May
meetings with analysts including Oppenheimer & Co.’s Fadel Gheit
and Bank of America Corp.’s  Doug Leggate .  “The key to Occidental is not earnings but restructuring
and showing what steps they have taken so far,” Gheit said in a
telephone interview before earnings were released. Gheit, based
in  New York , rates the company the equivalent of a buy and
doesn’t own the shares.  Brent crude , the global benchmark, fell 5 percent to
$103.35 a barrel, and the average price of natural gas futures
traded in New York rose 71 percent from the year-earlier quarter
to $4.018 per million British thermal units.  Earnings were announced before regular trading began in
U.S. markets. Occidental fell 0.3 percent to $90.48 yesterday in
New York. The shares, which have 19 buy ratings and nine holds
from analysts, have risen 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  