-- Lockheed Reaches Accord With Pentagon on 71 More F-35s
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-30T19:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/lockheed-reaches-accord-with-pentagon-on-71-more-f-35s.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. and the
Pentagon reached an accord for the company to produce 71 more
F-35 jet fighters, saying costs per plane have been reduced
about 4 percent in a move that will protect the weapons system
from automatic budget cuts.  The decrease in costs “coupled with negotiating lower
prices on a number of smaller contracts will allow the
department to purchase all the aircraft originally planned,
including those that were in jeopardy of being cut due to
sequestration,” according to a joint statement today from the
Pentagon’s F-35 program office and Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor.  The contracts may be valued at as much as $7 billion,
according to two people familiar with the deal who asked not to
be identified while final details remained under negotiation.
That’s down from an estimate of $9 billion cited by Pentagon
officials discussing the pending contracts at a congressional
hearing in April.  The F-35 is the Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, with an
estimated price tag of $391.2 billion for a fleet of 2,443
aircraft, up 68 percent from the projection in 2001, as measured
in current dollars. The rising costs and troubles in building
the plane as it’s still being developed have produced criticism
in Congress.  Congressional Cut  The Senate Defense Appropriations subcommittee, taking
action today on the  defense budget  for fiscal 2014, adopted a
provision that would reduce to 36 from 42 the number of F-35
jets the Pentagon could buy from Lockheed during fiscal 2015.
That’s the year the military wanted to start ramping up
production to 42 from the current 29 jets annually.  The reduction in such advance procurement is a setback to
the Pentagon and Lockheed. The three other congressional defense
panels that have acted so far on their respective budgets didn’t
reduce the Pentagon’s request for funds next year to keep buying
hard-to-manufacture parts for the jets to be purchased in 2015.  In their announcement today, Lockheed and the Pentagon said
that an “agreement in principle” has been reached on two
contracts for 36 and 35 jets. The contracts include the first
deliveries of jets for Australia, Norway, Italy and a fourth
fighter for the U.K.  Cost Details  “Cost details will be released once both contracts are
finalized, however, in general, the unit prices for all three”
models of the jets will be at least four percent lower than the
fifth production contract, according to the statement.  The 35 aircraft in the seventh contract are estimated to
cost 8 percent less than the fifth contract signed in December,
according to the statement.  “These two contracts represent a fair deal that is
beneficial to the government and Lockheed Martin,” Lieutenant
General Christopher Bogdan, the Pentagon’s F-35 program manager,
said in the statement. “These agreements are proof that the
cost arrow is moving in the right direction.”  The 71 aircraft are in addition to 95 jets already under
contract, 67 of which have been delivered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  