-- Loeb Letter Backs Sony Electronics While Slamming Movie Flops
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-07-30T23:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/loeb-letter-backs-sony-electronics-while-slamming-movie-flops.html
Daniel Loeb , the billionaire
investor pushing  Sony Corp. (6758)  to sell part of its entertainment
units, devoted more than half of his quarterly letter to
praising an electronics turnaround and slamming movie flops.  Sony Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  “deserves
plaudits for the green shoots increasingly visible in
electronics,” Loeb’s Third Point LLC said, citing momentum in
smartphones. At the same time, it pointed to blunders at a
“poorly managed” film unit with “high salaries for
underperforming senior executives.”  Loeb’s latest salvo, which names executives he considers to
be at fault, comes two months after he broached the idea that
Sony should take part of its entertainment business public to
raise money for its electronics divisions. Analysts said the
Aug. 1 earnings report will probably show Sony’s first-quarter
profit evaporated as U.S. ticket sales of “White House Down”
and “After Earth” recouped less than half of production costs
totaling $280 million.  “The tone has gotten more shrill,” Koki Shiraishi, a
Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. said
yesterday. “He’s stepping up pressure because he hasn’t gotten
what he wants.”  Third Point  was kinder this week toward Sony’s effort to
revive its hardware division than in a May 14 letter that cited
“persistent losses” in electronics.  The strong momentum in introducing the Xperia line of
smartphones had been accompanied by a perfectly executed
introduction of the PlayStation 4 gaming console, according to
the letter. The game and mobile-products divisions may
contribute profit,’’ while televisions exert less of a drag on
earnings, Third Point said.  ‘Visible Improvement’  “Visible improvement in Sony’s new products has caused us
to rethink our approach to valuing electronics,” Third Point
said. “The game and mobile products divisions are now poised to
join the devices business as meaningful profit contributors.”  Sony probably broke even last quarter after posting a 93.9
billion yen ($957 million) profit in the March quarter,
according to the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Net income is  projected  to total 55.3 billion yen for the
12 months ending March 2014, according to the average of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s in line with the
company’s May projection of 50 billion yen.  While Hirai has stressed the importance of ties between
electronics and the entertainment business, Sony’s board has
agreed to consider Loeb’s proposal to sell part of the
entertainment unit in an IPO.  Consumer Electronics  “Sony is focused on creating  shareholder value  by
executing on our plan to revitalize and grow the electronics
business, while further strengthening the entertainment and
financial services businesses, which generate stable profit,”
 Jim Kennedy , a New York-based spokesman for Sony, said in an e-mailed statement.  Third Point, based in  New York , said in May that it held a
Sony stake valued at $1.1 billion, and since then it has been
pushing Loeb’s plan. An independent board and shareholders would
lead to more disciplined and accountable management at Sony’s
 Culver City , California-based movie and television studio, Loeb
has said.  Third Point owned 70 million shares through direct
ownership and cash-settled swaps as of mid-June, and is
interested in representation on Sony’s board, it said in a June
17 letter to Hirai. The holding represents about 6.9 percent of
outstanding shares, up from 64 million shares in May.  Sony climbed 2.9 percent to 2,117 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading yesterday. The stock has more than doubled this year.  ‘Waterworld,’ ‘Ishtar’  Still, Loeb was more critical when it came to the failings
of Sony’s film unit, comparing recent summer offerings to
‘Waterworld’’ and “Ishtar,” two epic Hollywood busts. Third
Point called out  Sony Pictures Entertainment ’s top executives
Michael Lynton and Amy Pascal as responsible for the
“debacle.”  “We find it perplexing that Mr. Hirai does not worry about
a division that has just released 2013’s versions of Waterworld
and Ishtar back-to-back,” it said. “These latest blunders are
prima facie evidence of our thesis that Entertainment’s U.S.-
based business is being ineffectively overseen.”  After topping U.S. movie sales last year, Sony has fallen
to sixth this year, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “White House Down,” an action movie with  Channing Tatum 
and Jamie Foxx, was made for $150 million and garnered $70.7
million in U.S. ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.
“After Earth,” with a production budget of $130 million, has
generated $60 million in U.S. sales. Production budgets don’t
include spending on marketing. Studios typically split box-office receipts with theaters.  “Unlike electronics,  entertainment remains poorly
managed, with a famously bloated corporate structure,”
according to the letter. The business also had “marketing
budgets that do not seem to be in line with any sense of return
on capital invested,” Third Point said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  