-- Hogs Drop as Cool Weather May Raise Animal Weights; Cattle Falls
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-07-30T15:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/hogs-drop-as-cool-weather-may-raise-animal-weights-cattle-falls.html
Hog futures slumped to a four-month
low on speculation that cooler weather in the U.S. Midwest may
raise animal weights, increasing pork supplies. Cattle declined.  The Midwest will have cooler-than-normal conditions during
the next 15 days, with temperatures ranging from 64 degrees
Fahrenheit (17.7 Celsius ) to 80 degrees Fahrenheit according to
MDA Information Systems. Average hog-carcass  weights  fell 1.1
percent this month through yesterday amid a heatwave, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. Hogs eat less during hot
weather.  “Seasonally, we’re coming into a time frame where the
cooler weather is aiding weight gain,”  Don Roose , the president
of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said in a
telephone interview. “The anticipation of larger supplies ahead
is driving the market down. Weights will start to rise and
should grow through next summer.”  Hog futures for October settlement declined 1.7 percent to
83.05 cents a pound at 10:46 a.m. on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, heading for the fourth straight decline. Earlier, the
price touched 82.925 cents, the lowest for a most-active
contract since March 11.  Corn prices fell to a 33-month low yesterday on the outlook
for a record crop in the U.S., the world’s largest producer and
exporter. The grain is the main ingredient in livestock feed.  “If the grain prices continue to sit at these lower levels
or move lower, you’re going to see further expansion for the
weight of herds,” Roose said.  Cattle futures for October delivery declined 0.4 percent to
$1.25425 a pound on the CME. Prices are down 4.8 percent this
year through yesterday.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement fell 0.3
percent to $1.52875 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  