-- Hong Kong Watchdog Seeks to Liquidate China Metal Recycling
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-07-30T03:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/hong-kong-watchdog-seeks-to-liquidate-china-metal-recycling-1-.html
Hong Kong’s securities regulator
said it’s seeking to liquidate  China Metal Recycling Holdings
Ltd. (773) , once ranked the nation’s biggest scrap metal recycler,
after finding evidence the company fabricated sales.  The Hong Kong-based company, which counted China’s biggest
steelmaker among its customers, inflated the size of its
business to gain a listing in 2009, the Securities and Futures
Commission said yesterday in a  statement . The regulator said it
obtained court orders to appoint provisional liquidators.  China Metal adds to a rash of accounting scandals at
Chinese companies that have shaken investor confidence, sent
stocks tumbling and drawn scrutiny from regulators. The company,
accused of falsifying data by short-seller Glaucus Research
Group, is the first to be targeted for liquidation as the SFC
steps up efforts to toughen enforcement and share-sale rules.  “This is good for Hong Kong,” said Francis Lun, chief
economist at GE Oriental Financial Group. “The SFC is really
not taking any rubbish from this listed company.”  China  Metal shares have been suspended from trading since
January after Glaucus alleged the company was “a blatant fraud
that has deceived the market about the size of its business.”  Two Arrests  Two people were arrested on July 26 in connection with the
case and both are currently on bail, according to Hong Kong’s
police. Officers obtained documents after searching the
company’s office and other locations on July 26 and July 27, the
police said in a statement. It named the two as a 46 year-old
man surnamed Lam and a 42 year-old woman surnamed Lai.  China Metal’s Chief Financial Officer is Kenneth Lam Po-kei, age 46, and Lai Wun-yin, age 42, is a board member,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alan Fung, China Metal’s group finance director, didn’t
answer calls to his office and e-mailed requests for comment
yesterday.  China Metal, which first sold shares in June 2009,
suspended trading on Jan. 28 after Glaucus Research made its
allegations against the company and  rated  it a “strong sell.”
The company called the claims groundless and said at the time
its chairman planned legal action against the short-seller.  Chinese companies seeking listings in the U.S. have drawn
scrutiny in recent years. In June, China MediaExpress Holdings
Inc., which obtained a U.S. stock listing without an initial
public offering by buying a listed company, was sued by U.S.
regulators for allegedly falsifying financial statements. The
Securities and Exchange Commission has filed fraud cases against
more than 60 U.S.-listed Chinese companies and executives.  Provisional Liquidators  Short-seller Muddy Waters LLC, founded and led by  Carson
Block , has been a critic of Chinese firms, with a mixed track-record. Tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp. slumped 74
percent before eventually filing for bankruptcy protection in
March 2012 after Muddy Waters claimed the company overstated its
assets. Shares of New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc.
and Focus Media Holding Ltd. rebounded after initial slumps when
Block questioned their accounting. Both companies have denied
any wrongdoing.  Hong Kong’s regulator has appointed two provisional
liquidators from Borrelli Walsh Ltd. to China Metal, in an
application made on July 26, according to a statement yesterday
from the company. They have the power to take over the company’s
operations and assets and investigate its affairs.  “The provisional liquidators will be undertaking an urgent
assessment of the operations of the company and its subsidiaries
in consultation with the management of the company,” according
to the company’s statement. The shares will remain suspended.  Address Allegations  The court will hear the case on Aug. 2 on the continuation
of appointment of provisional liquidators, where China Metal
will have the chance to address the allegations, the SFC
statement yesterday said.  Wellrun Ltd., the company’s largest shareholder, objects to
the SFC’s application and believes it’s not beneficial to
shareholders, it said yesterday in a statement. Wellrun’s sole
beneficial owner is China Metal’s Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Chun Chi Wai.  On Jan. 25, Chun said he would sell 29 percent of the
company’s stock under his ownership for at least HK$3.41 billion
($440 million) to China Energy Conservation and Environmental
Protection Group. The sale would leave Chun with 23.1 percent of
the company and make the buyer its largest shareholder. On July
1, the company said the sale had yet to occur and that new
conditions had been attached to its completion, including a
deadline of Dec. 31.  Zhang Chao, China Energy Conservation’s Beijing-based
spokesman, did not answer three calls to his office line seeking
comment.  Sold Shares  The company raised HK$1.55 billion when it sold shares in
June 2009. Wong Hok-leung, a former chief financial officer,
resigned in November 2009 after saying he was denied proper
access to the company’s financial information. The company
called Wong’s allegations unfounded.  Angel Yeung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for UBS AG,
which managed the 2009 share sale, declined to comment on the
SFC’s statement.  The SFC has proposed making banks criminally liable for
false statements in initial public offering documents. Hontex
International Holdings Co. agreed in June 2012 to pay
shareholders $133 million to end a lawsuit that the SFC brought
against it for misleading investors in its prospectus.  China Metal said on July 1 it was again delaying its 2012
annual results announcement as its auditors needed more time.
Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp., which controls the country’s
biggest listed steelmaker, is one of the company’s customers.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and China
Metal Recycling Holdings Limited, HCCW 210/2013, Hong Kong’s
Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  