-- Top Power Gear Maker Cuts Prices to Fight Slump: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-07-31T12:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/top-power-gear-maker-cuts-prices-to-fight-slump-corporate-india.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
 India ’s largest maker of power equipment, cut prices by at least
15 percent in the past year to stem a slide in orders that
threatens to send profit lower for a  second straight year .  Electricity producers are scaling back investment because
of a shortage of fuel, hurting manufacturers of equipment such
as boilers, turbines and generators, said P.K. Bajpai, finance
director at the state-owned company. Pending projects aren’t
yielding orders as  Asia ’s third-largest economy expands at the
slowest pace in a decade, according to Bajpai.  “We are trying to bid as aggressively as possible, but
there’s overcapacity in the market,” Bajpai said in an
interview. “We’ve corrected our prices in line with the market.
We can only wait for things to improve as they will take time to
get sorted.”  Shares of the New Delhi-based company have tumbled 31
percent this year, the fifth-worst performer on the benchmark
30-stock  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index, after net income fell for the
first time in 12 years. The South Asian nation plans to add 118
gigawatts of generation projects in the five years through March
2017 after falling 31 percent short of its capacity addition
target of 80 gigawatts in the previous period.  Profit Drop  Bharat Heavy, scheduled to report on Aug. 3 its performance
for the quarter ended June 30, may say net income declined 14
percent from a year earlier to 7.93 billion rupees ($131.3
million), according to the median of 38 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 58  analysts  who track the stock, 32 recommend
selling it, while eight favor buying it, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Bharat Heavy advanced 3.8
percent to 158.30 rupees today in Mumbai, the most in a month.  A shortage of coal and natural gas, fuels used to generate
power, and the inability of indebted state distribution
utilities to pay have reduced generation projects. Plans by
power producers to invest as much as $43 billion have been
shelved as the $1.8 trillion economy expanded 5 percent last
year, the least since 2003.  Environmental concerns and delays in land acquisition are
also stalling investments.  Stalled Projects  Tata Power Co., India’s second-largest and third-most
indebted generator, is struggling to turn around the nation’s
biggest power plant by allowing it to seek higher tariffs and
find cheaper fuels as it negotiates with lenders to waive
penalties for failing to meet some loan conditions.  Producers, including  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) ,  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) 
and state-run  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  have together shelved more than 50
gigawatts of projects, citing fuel shortages. Projects with a
generation capacity of 7 gigawatts were stranded without coal,
B.K. Chaturvedi, member-energy at the Planning Commission said
in February.  Bharat Heavy’s sales in the 12 months ended March 31 grew
less than 1 percent to 476.2 billion rupees, slowing from an
average 25 percent in the previous four years, while net income
declined 6 percent to 66.1 billion rupees.  “At the moment, nothing seems to be going in favor of the
company,” said Anubhav Gupta, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities
Pvt. in Mumbai. “For Bharat Heavy’s fortunes to revive, the
government has to take some special measures for the power
sector.”  Cutting Costs  Bharat Heavy’s profit is set to drop in the current fiscal
year and next, said Gupta and Chirag Muchhala, an analyst at
Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. Average annual orders won
by the equipment maker more than halved in the two years through
March 2013 from an average 597 billion rupees over the previous
three years.  Demand for the machinery may increase during the nation’s
13th Five-Year Plan that starts April 2017, when the government
prepares an expenditure outlay, benefiting Bharat Heavy, Satish Kumar and Jay Kakkad, analysts at Standard Chartered Securities
India Ltd., wrote in a July 18  report .  The company also expects to cut costs by manufacturing some
components locally and as 12,000  workers  retire in the next five
years, they wrote.  Besides an economic slowdown and fuel-supply bottlenecks,
local competitors and cheaper imports from  China  have also hurt
Bharat Heavy. The company’s share of  orders  have fallen to 41
percent in the current five-year plan from 49 percent in the
prior period, Bharat Heavy said in a presentation in November.  Fierce Competition  Rivals including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,  BGR Energy Systems
Ltd. (BGRL)  and  JSW Energy Ltd. (JSW)  have partnered with foreign equipment
makers to set up factories, raising the nation’s local capacity
to almost 30 gigawatts.  “Entry of new domestic players in the boiler-turbine-generator industry has led to overcapacities resulting in severe
price under-cutting to win new orders,” said Muchhala. “Bharat
Heavy alone has an installed capacity to produce 20 gigawatts of
power equipment capacity, whereas annual orders are nearly half
of that due to the economic slowdown.”  India is considering raising levies on imports of power
plant equipment to 26 percent to shield the local industry,
heavy industry minister Praful Patel said July 24. The
government raised taxes on overseas purchases last year to 21
percent.  “There’s fierce competition,” said Bharat Heavy’s Bajpai.
“There are projects in the pipeline, but they aren’t getting
converted into orders. You see what is happening to coal,
environment and land issues. Who is going to lend to projects if
these problems persist?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  