-- OPEC Nations Seek Cash for $1.5 Billion Solar Shift: Arab Credit
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-30T07:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/opec-nations-seek-cash-for-1-5-billion-solar-shift-arab-credit.html
Two of the largest oil producers are
readying the  Middle East ’s first big push into renewable energy,
planning solar-power plants that will need more than $1.5
billion in financing by the end of 2014.  Saudi Arabia , the biggest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, and the  United Arab Emirates ,
fourth-biggest in the group, are seeking to add 1,000 megawatts
of solar capacity, enough to electrify 200,000 homes. The
forecast expansion, which includes Jordan, will require loans
and export credits, said Vahid Fotuhi, president of the Dubai-based Emirates Solar Industry Association.  Governments across the Middle East and North Africa
consider sun and wind energy as crucial for meeting the needs of
growing populations and economies, with Saudi Arabia leading the
way. Oil-producers want to develop renewables to conserve more
crude for export, while countries relying on imported fuel see
local green power as a cheaper alternative. State support for
utilities and a growth in regional power demand of about 5
percent a year mean companies such as  Abu Dhabi National Energy
Co. (TAQA)  can borrow at rates that are 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, lower than  Spain ’s Abengoa Solar SA.  Risk Profile  “If you see a rising population and rising energy demand,
that really helps the risk profile,” Amol Shitole, a credit
analyst with SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore,  India , said by
telephone July 25. Projects that can pair local companies with
international power-plant developers already known to lenders
will have “strong support from banks,” he said.  Renewables investment in the Middle East and North Africa
rose 40 percent last year to $2.9 billion, according to the
 International Renewable Energy Agency . Spending on more than 100
projects under development, including those for solar, wind and
geothermal power, could surge to about $13 billion in a few
years, Abu Dhabi-based IRENA said yesterday in a report released
jointly with U.A.E. government and a research group called the
Renewable Energy Policy Network.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, plans to
invest more than $100 billion to generate about 41,000 megawatts
from solar energy, or a third of its total power output, by
2032. That compares with about 16 megawatts of solar capacity
today, a level that places the kingdom behind  Egypt ,  Morocco ,
 Algeria  and the U.A.E., according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Revolving Credits  Abu Dhabi  National Energy, a conventional energy-producer
known as Taqa, raised about $4 billion in loans this year and in
2012. The $2.5 billion in revolving credits it arranged in
December include a three-year credit priced at 75 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate, and a five-year
component priced at 100 basis points more than the Libor
benchmark, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Abengoa Solar, a partner in an Abu Dhabi sun-power plant,
borrowed $142 million at 175 basis points more than Libor,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Costs are even higher
for  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest U.S. solar manufacturer and
builder of Dubai’s first solar electricity plant, which arranged
a $431 million secured letter of credit at 225 basis points more
than Libor, data gathered by Bloomberg show.  Backing from the Abu Dhabi government helped Taqa achieve
an A rating, the sixth-highest investment grade, at  Standard &
Poor’s .  Abengoa SA (ABG) , Abengoa Solar’s Spanish parent, is rated B,
six levels below investment grade. First Solar isn’t rated.  ‘Green Sukuk’  “Bank loans will be the way to go for financing,” rather
than bond sales, said Shitole of SJS. Startup renewables
projects would borrow more cheaply using loans and could issue
bonds later to refinance their bank debt once the plants are
earning steady income necessary to make regular interest
payments, he said.  Lenders may hesitate to continue funding the massive
expansion foreseen by Saudi Arabia as commercial banks seek to
limit exposure to renewables projects, said Steve Mercieca, the
Dubai-based chief executive officer of the Clean Energy Business
Council. Governments should encourage the availability of
Islamic bonds, or green sukuk, to help finance solar facilities
under construction, he said.  “The Saudi market already has an attractive framework for
building and funding traditional  power plants , and liquidity is
ample in local banks,” Mercieca said. “Appetite is going to be
substantial” for the funding of such projects, he said.  Masdar Project  Taqa and its partners in the Ruwais Power Co. last week
became the region’s second company to sell a project bond, with
repayment of interest linked to the utility’s profit. The S2
power plant raised $825 million in bonds due in 2036 at a 6
percent margin, improving on the 6.2 percent margin on $1.5
billion of bonds Bahrain’s government sold last week.  Masdar, Abu Dhabi’s government-owned renewable energy
company, opened the $750 million, 100 megawatt Shams 1 solar
power plant, the region’s largest, in March. Together with
partners Abengoa Solar and French oil producer  Total SA (FP) , it
borrowed a $612 million secured loan in March 2011, without
disclosing terms on the debt that matures in 2033.  Abu Dhabi has announced plans to build a plant of the same
size that will employ photovoltaic technology, which uses panels
to convert sunlight directly into electricity.  Fotuhi of the Solar Association said the first contracts
will be awarded next year for a number of projects now being
planned, a prospect that makes 2014 “very exciting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  