-- Oprah Winfrey’s OWN Cable Network Posts First Quarterly Profit
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-30T15:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/oprah-winfrey-s-own-cable-network-posts-first-quarterly-profit.html
Oprah Winfrey ’s OWN cable network
posted its first quarterly profit, said  Discovery Communications
Inc. (DISCA) , the TV host’s partner in the venture.  OWN became “ cash flow  positive” in the three months ended
June 30,  David Zaslav , chief executive officer of Discovery
Communications, said on an analyst call today after the owner of
cable channels Animal Planet and TLC reported earnings.  OWN, which debuted in 2008 and has received a $420 million
investment from Discovery Communications, may have lost as much
as  $330 million  since its inception through the end of last
year. Now that it’s profitable, the company should start to
recoup that money, Zaslav said.  “I want to congratulate Oprah and the entire team at OWN
for this significant milestone,” he said. “We remain very
bullish on its long-term trajectory and our ability to drive
continued asset appreciation in the future.”  OWN signed 30 new advertising clients during the recent
upfront market where marketers buy commercial time in advance of
the coming season, Zaslav said. The network has also secured
higher fees from pay-TV operators that carry the channel, about
20 cents per subscriber each month on average.  Second-quarter profit excluding some items at Discovery
Communications was 82 cents a share, compared with 76 cents a
year earlier, according to a statement. Analysts had estimated
91 cents, on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue at the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based company
advanced 30 percent to $1.47 billion, while analysts estimated
$1.48 billion.  Discovery Communications cut its annual profit and sales
forecast. The company now expects annual net income of $1.1
billion to $1.15 billion, down from a  prior  forecast of $1.2
billion to $1.3 billion. Revenue will be $5.55 billion to $5.63
billion, compared with a prior view of $5.58 billion to $5.7
billion, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  