-- Moscow Police Round Up 1,030 in Raids After Assault on Officer
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-07-30T18:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/moscow-police-round-up-1-030-in-raids-after-assault-on-officer.html
Moscow police rounded up 1,030
people in two days of raids at the city’s open-air markets after
an officer was injured in a July 27 attack.  The detainees were bussed to police stations and had their
fingerprints taken, according to the city law enforcement’s
website. The raids started after Anton Kudryashov, a criminal
investigator, was assaulted when he tried to arrest a migrant
worker from southern Russia’s Dagestan region on a rape charge,
according to police.  The markets, predominantly operated by migrants from the
Caucasus and central Asia, are becoming a focal point of the
campaign as Moscow prepares for its first mayoral election in a
decade. Acting Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , who is leading in polls,
visited Kudyrashov in the hospital and said he would clean up
the city’s markets and address illegal immigration.  Migrants are the biggest concern for 44 percent of
Muscovites, according to a July 12-23 poll of 1,500 people by
the Moscow-based Public Opinion Foundation, or FOM. Sobyanin had
56 percent support, compared with 6 percent for Alexei Navalny,
a leader of the opposition, according to the same poll, which
didn’t provide a margin of error.  Kudryashov and his colleagues were attacked by about 20
people when they tried to detain a man accused of raping an
underage girl, police said. While they did detain the accused
person, the officer’s attacker escaped and was apprehended
yesterday. Both are in custody.  The attacker and his wife, also captured earlier, were
charged with life-threatening assault on a police officer and
faces a sentence of 12 years to life in prison, the country’s
Investigative Committee said.  Policy recently opened 250 criminal cases for the
organization of illegal immigration and may open another 300,
Moscow police chief Anatoly Yakunin said in a video posted on
City Hall’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  