-- PBOC Conducts First Reverse Repos Since February; Swaps Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-30T08:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/pboc-conducts-first-reverse-repos-since-february-swaps-decline.html
China ’s central bank conducted
reverse-repurchase operations for the first time in five months,
helping alleviate a cash squeeze that drove the benchmark
interbank lending rate to a four-week high.  The People’s Bank of China added 17 billion  yuan  ($2.8
billion) to the financial system today at a  yield  of 4.4 percent
using seven-day reverse repos. That compares with 3.35 percent
when the contracts were last issued on Jan. 31 and 3.45 percent
at a Feb. 7 auction of 14-day agreements, according to central
bank data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest-rate swaps  and money-market rates declined, while China’s stocks rose.  “The PBOC is not prepared to ease liquidity aggressively;
that’s why they offered these reverse repos at a higher rate
than before,” said Albert Leung, a strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. “At the same time they are
also prepared to step in when the liquidity is too tight, so
most likely the situation will be that liquidity will be tighter
in the second half of the year than the first half.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped eight
basis points to 4.01 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest
decline since July 3.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of the availability of
cash in the banking system, fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 4.998 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
exceeded 5 percent yesterday for the first time in four weeks
and reached a record 12.45 percent on June 20.  Liquidity is often tight at month-end as banks hoard money
to meet regulatory requirements, Bank of America’s Leung said.  PBOC Shift  The resumption of reverse repos reflects a “shift” in the
PBOC’s stance to prevent a repeat of last month’s cash crunch,
according to Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  Hong Kong . “The levels could also serve as a signal that
the era of ultra-loose and easy money is over,” he wrote in a
note today.  China’s stocks rose, erasing the benchmark index’s losses
this month, as the resumption of reverse repos boosted financial
companies.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose for the first time in
five days, adding 0.7 percent to 1,990.06. The gauge has risen
0.6 percent this month after plunging 14 percent in June. Ping
An Bank Co. gained 2.9 percent, Citic Securities Co. advanced 2
percent and Bank of China Ltd. climbed 1.5 percent.  A total of 85 billion yuan of central bank bills will
mature this week, compared with zero last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  