-- Peugeot Wins EU Nod for $9.28 Billion State Guarantee
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-30T16:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/peugeot-wins-eu-approval-for-7-billion-euro-state-guarantee.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  won European
Union approval for the French government to guarantee 7 billion
euros ($9.28 billion) in bonds for its banking unit.  In return for the EU approval,  Europe ’s second-largest
carmaker agreed to curb its debt levels and faces restrictions
on acquisitions. Shares advanced as much as 5.6 percent in Paris
trading and were up 4 percent to 9 euros when markets closed, a
14-month high.  “We have arrived at a formula which allows PSA to
restructure in accordance with clear limits, reducing to a
minimum the damaging effects for competitors who have not
received support from public funding,”  Joaquin Almunia , EU
competition commissioner, said in a statement. “This is a
balanced result which offers the PSA group the chance to make a
new start on a sound basis.”  The French government offered to guarantee the bonds for
Peugeot’s finance arm to help the carmaker keep down borrowing
costs, which is key to offering loans that are competitive with
rivals such as  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Peugeot consumed 3 billion euros
in cash in its automotive unit last year and is working to
reduce losses amid a sixth straight annual decline in the
European auto market.  The commission, which checks whether  government aid  is in
line with EU competition rules, in February gave temporary
approval for the state to guarantee 1.2 billion euros of bonds
at BPF, which the carmaker’s finance arm successfully sold in
March.  ‘Good News’  “This is of course very good news for Peugeot,”
Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities who recommends
selling the shares, said by phone. “By helping out Peugeot’s
bank, the French state is effectively helping the whole company.
But the EU Commission considered this didn’t constitute a
distortion of competition.”  Peugeot, which is reporting first-half earnings tomorrow,
said that the commission’s approval was required for any
acquisition exceeding 100 million euros a year by the
manufacturer or any of its subsidiaries.  Peugeot also pledged to make the group “return to
viability,” it said in a statement and that it would take
“appropriate measures” if net debt exceeds a certain limit.  Peugeot also said its banking unit pledged not to reduce
the spread currently applied to wholesale financing for Peugeot
and Citroen dealers. The company’s commitments will remain in
effect until the end of 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  