-- Pfizer Beats Estimates as Company Prepares for Split
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-30T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/pfizer-beats-estimates-as-company-prepares-for-split.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s two new brand-drug
units will operate on a separate basis, reporting independent
profits and losses, under the leaders that Chief Executive
Officer  Ian Read  elevated to head them.  The businesses, along with an established products line
that could be split from the company after 2017, will report
separate results that will show  investors  how each line of
drugs, and the leaders managing them, are performing.  “I wanted to focus great executive talent on both of those
segments of the business,” Read said in a telephone interview
today after the New York-based company reported second-quarter
earnings. The units, led by Geno Germano and Amy Schulman, have
different needs and strategies, Read said.  Pfizer is in the middle of a transition that may see the
world’s largest drugmaker broken up into a brand-medicine
company, which Read calls the “innovative core,” and a
generics business. Such a split almost certainly wouldn’t happen
until at least 2017, in part because Pfizer needs three years of
audited financial statements, as well as time to get the
businesses running smoothly on a separate basis.  “Our current thinking is that this is about getting all
three of these businesses to hum internally,” Chief Financial
Officer Frank D’Amelio said today on a conference call. D’Amelio
said it would be difficult to split the company before 2017 if
Pfizer decides to take that ultimate step.  Earnings Beat  Earlier today, Pfizer reported  second-quarter earnings 
excluding one-time items of 56 cents a share, 1 cent more than
the average of 15  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income rose more than fourfold from a year earlier to $14.1
billion, or $1.98 a share, helped by the spinoff of the
company’s animal-health unit and a patent settlement, Pfizer
said in a statement.  Pfizer rose less than 1 percent to $29.67 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The shares have gained 25 percent in the last 12
months.  Schulman, a lawyer who has run Pfizer’s animal health and
nutrition businesses, has never been in charge of a
pharmaceuticals unit before. Read, an accountant by training,
said that doesn’t matter and mentioned the head of Pfizer’s
cancer business.  “I don’t have specific in-depth oncology experience, but
Garry Nicholson does. A leader can’t be an expert in each of
those businesses,” Read said in a telephone interview. “Amy is
a talented leader of organizations. She’s proven that in the way
she’s run the general counsel’s organization. She’s done an
excellent job in nutritionals.”  More Responsibility  Read has been giving more responsibility to Schulman since
he took over as CEO in December 2010. He added to her
responsibilities the infant nutrition unit, sold last year to
Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN)  for $11.9 billion. Then he
gave her the $3.21 billion-a-year consumer business that
includes ChapStick, Centrum vitamins, and over-the-counter
drugs.  Read said that her businesses, which include vaccines,
cancer and consumer products, require similar strategies.  “They have specific research efforts, small communities,
with a very tailored way of delivering the message that often
needs institutional selling,” Read said. “It was better to
have  executive leadership  focused on that, and have other
leaders focused on the complexities of the large primary care,
specialty markets set.”  Germano’s Division  Germano will have those businesses, as well as the
company’s inflammation and immunology, cardiovascular disease,
rare disease, men’s and women’s health, pain and neurosciences,
and rare diseases operations. His division will include new
potential blockbusters Eliquis, a blood thinner, and Xeljanz, a
rheumatoid arthritis drug.  The company has given Germano a more prominent role in
investor presentations and media interviews. He previously ran
the company’s specialty and oncology divisions.  The elevation of Germano and Schulman puts two of the
company’s rising stars in even higher profile positions. They
changes “definitely could be part of succession planning, and
putting people where they’re strongest,” said Judson Clark, an
analyst with Edward Jones & Co.  Read, when asked whether he was thinking about an eventual
transition at the top should he leave or retire, said Germano
and Schulman were among many talented leaders at Pfizer.  ‘Talented’ Executives  “I don’t think I even came close to saying it,” he said
when asked about succession plans. “We have a very talented
CFO, probably the best in the industry, in Frank D’Amelio. I
have a great research person.  John Young  is extremely talented,
Geno’s talented, Amy’s talented. One of my responsibilities as
CEO is to ensure that all of the executives who have capability
and capacity have the opportunity to develop, and that’s what
I’m focused on as part of my responsibility.”  Part of Germano’s role will be boosting sales of Xeljanz
and Eliquis, introduced this year. The early sales of both have
been slow.  Xeljanz generated $33 million in  sales in the quarter ,
after analysts estimated it would sell $42 million. Pfizer said
it expects to announce results from two studies of Xeljanz in
psoriasis by the end of this year. Sales of Eliquis weren’t
disclosed, though  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , which splits revenue
from the drug with Pfizer, reported just $12 million in sales in
the second quarter. Bristol-Myers said it was overhauling its
plans to market the drug.  Below Expectations  “I would agree that Eliquis has recently gone below our
expectations,” Read said in the interview. The company has more
work to do getting the drug into hospitals as well as gaining
preferred treatment by health insurers.  Read said he was happy with the company’s partnership with
Bristol-Myers.  As for Xeljanz, “Our expectations weren’t as high as the
street for the initial launch,” Read said. “It’s going to be a
steady but sure growth in this product.” The drug isn’t yet
approved in  Europe , and may face a several-year wait before it
is, the company said today.  The Eliquis and Xeljanz sales “continued to disappoint,”
said Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.
“While better Lipitor and Celebrex sales helped to offset some
of this, these are unlikely to help in the mid to long term as
sources of revenue,” he said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  