-- Platts, Metal Bulletin Say Some Traders Refuse to Provide Prices
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-30T16:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/platts-metal-bulletin-say-some-traders-refuse-to-provide-prices.html
Platts and Metal Bulletin Ltd.,
which publish commodity-price reports, said some traders stopped
giving information on metals as regulators scrutinize methods
for setting rates and prices.  Platts, a unit of  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , is aware of
two companies that no longer take part in its assessments,
according to Joe Innace, editorial director for metals in  New
York . That had no effect on the process of compiling prices, he
said today in response to Bloomberg questions.  European Union antitrust officials raided Platts’ offices
in May, along with those of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc and
 Statoil ASA (STL) , as part of an investigation into alleged plotting
to manipulate published prices for products including oil.
Regulators are looking at commodity-price reporting after
finding that banks rigged the London interbank offered rate, a
benchmark for $300 trillion of global interest-rate contracts.  “Clearly there has been a review of practices as a result
of the issues related to the oil markets and Libor,” Raju Daswani, managing director at Metal Bulletin, said by e-mail
yesterday. “Since the Libor incident, a very few companies --
and it is a small minority -- have scaled back their
participation in our price-discovery process, and in very
isolated cases established official policies of not contributing
to some of our published benchmarks.”  Barclays, UBS  U.K. and U.S. regulators have imposed fines of more than
$2.5 billion on Barclays Plc, UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc for manipulating Libor.  Platts and London-based Metal Bulletin publish information
on commodity prices and metal premiums based on surveys of
traders. Their reports complement benchmarks from exchanges and
are used by buyers and sellers of raw materials.  Metal Bulletin is a unit of  Euromoney Institutional
Investor Plc. (ERM)   Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGT)  holds a majority
 stake  in Euromoney, figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
companies including Platts and Metal Bullletin in providing
commodity prices and news.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  