-- Potash Price War May Signal End of BHP’s $15 Billion Project
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-07-31T12:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/potash-price-war-may-signal-end-of-bhp-s-15-billion-mine-plan.html
The break-up of OAO Uralkali’s
potash marketing partnership may signal the death knell for
plans by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest mining company, to spend
as much as $15 billion to start producing the crop nutrient.  Uralkali, the largest potash producer, yesterday quit a
venture that controlled about 43 percent of global exports and
signaled prices may fall by as much as a quarter. BHP’s Jansen
project in  Canada  contains a 3 billion-metric-ton resource.  “This could be a game changer” for the project,  Heath Jansen , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote yesterday in a note
to clients. “Uralkali appears to have started a price war. We
would argue that the risk reward of proceeding with the project
is moving toward not proceeding.”  A spokeswoman for BHP declined to comment.  The move by Uralkali to end its venture with Belarus sent
shares of potash producers plunging as much as 27 percent from
 Israel  to  Germany  to Canada and the U.S. as investors speculated
a flood of supplies will lead to lower prices for potash, a soil
nutrient that strengthens plant roots. Uralkali, part-owned by
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, said it exited the venture after
Belarus undermined the sales agreements.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mackenzie  last month
said the mine was “a great option, but it’s just an option.”
According to the Melbourne-based company’s website, Jansen has
the “potential to become one of the world’s premier potash
mines.”  Fifth Pillar  While the company has said it sees the fertilizer
ingredient becoming the fifth pillar of its business in addition
to copper, iron ore, coal and petroleum production, BHP has
delayed a final  investment decision  amid a freeze at the company
on approving new projects to combat waning demand for raw
materials.  Uralkali now plans to boost sales to consumers including
China, which imports about a fifth of global supplies, the
Berezniki, Russia-based company said. The change in trading
policy may push prices below $300 a ton, CEO Vladislav Baumgertner told reporters. That’s at least 25 percent below the
current contract price for  China .  Prices for the nutrient have been falling, demand is waning
and stockpiles have been growing. The so-called price war
started by Uralkali may last as long as 18 months, leading to
even lower prices, Citigroup said.  Capacity Needed?  “If everyone knocks down their price forecast, then
obviously that’s going to make a lot of difference to a lot of
people’s cash-flow models,” Paul Burnside, principal consultant
on potash for London-based research company CRU, said yesterday.
“I’m fairly skeptical about further additions of capacity in
general. I’m really struggling to see why it’s needed.”  Still, a drop in prices will see producers canceling
projects at the same time as encouraging a future rebound in
demand from consumers in China and  India , Ash Lazenby, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote today in a note
to clients.  London-based  Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX)  is among companies
weighing new potash output. It is studying building a $1.9
billion potash mine in a national park in Yorkshire, in
northeastern  England .  “Given Sirius will not commence production in earnest
until 2017, it stands a better chance of entering the market
post the industry restructuring and under tighter supply/demand
conditions,”  Liberum’s Lazenby said.  Sirius Development  Sirius requires approval from local planners and financing
before starting development. The economics of the project can
withstand a drop in prices, Chief Executive Officer Chris Fraser
said in e-mailed comments to  Bloomberg News  yesterday, after
Uralkali’s announcement.  “The expected margins within the York Potash Project are
sufficiently robust to enable the project to withstand short
term price downside scenarios,” Fraser said. “The long-term
outlook remains for increased demand and the fundamentals of
that demand remain strong.”  For BHP, the Jansen mine may cost as much as $15 billion to
build and the company may only proceed on a “de-risked basis,”
either through selling a stake or bringing in a joint-venture
partner to help fund construction, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts said last month.  ‘Don’t Work’  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan CEO Bill Doyle said in May the
economics of Jansen “don’t work” and that it’s unlikely to
proceed. BHP said in 2011 it had committed to spending $1.2
billion on the project and almost $2 billion in Saskatchewan as
part of its “commitment to develop a world-class potash
business in the province.”  A potash price of $300 a ton cuts Citigroup’s valuation of
Jansen from $7.2 billion, at a $500-a-ton estimate, to a
negative valuation of $2.2 billion, it said.  BHP made a $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. in 2010
as it sought to add production of the crop nutrient. The bid was
blocked by the Canadian government. Saskatchewan is the world’s
biggest potash-producing region.  BHP may see the move by Uralkali as accelerating a switch
to more market-oriented pricing for potash, a process it has
encouraged in other commodities such as  iron ore , and a
development that may bolster its faith in Jansen’s economics.  “This development will affect their decision making
process,” Sophie Jourdier, an analyst at Liberum in London,
said yesterday by phone. “Obviously a company like BHP looks at
a very long-term view and it may be that they come to a decision
that they still want to go ahead with this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  