-- Trailing German SPD Fights to Woo Lost Voters to Oust Merkel
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-30T11:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/trailing-german-spd-fights-to-woo-lost-voters-to-oust-merkel.html
German Social Democratic candidate
Peer Steinbrueck said he’s fighting to woo back millions of
former SPD voters in his bid to oust  Chancellor Angela Merkel  as
he struggles to  narrow a poll gap  before Sept. 22 elections.  Unveiling a get-out-the-vote operation that will include a
nationwide tour “from Bavaria to the coast” over the next week
and a half, Steinbrueck said he and other SPD chiefs will make
about 100 appearances between now and election day.  “Until now we’ve been in training camp, tomorrow we go
onto the streets,” Steinbrueck said at an event in Berlin as he
stood in front new  campaign posters . “The SPD can decide this
election if it mobilizes.”  The SPD has failed to gain traction against the popular
chancellor with a campaign that’s sought to exploit domestic
issues such as wages, pensions, kindergarten shortages and
rising rents. Merkel, who is credited with steering Germany
through the  European debt crisis  while buoying the country’s
labor market, has held onto a steady lead.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc maintained a support
level of 40 percent, while the SPD held at 25 percent, according
to a  July 28 Emnid poll . The Merkel-allied FDP lost one point to
5 percent, the threshold for entering parliament, while the
Greens -- the SPD’s favored ally -- stayed at 13 percent, giving
neither of the main parties enough to form a government with its
chosen ally.  The SPD has outlined a strategy to target as many as 9
million supporters the party has lost since 1998, most of whom
have opted not to cast ballots rather than vote for other
parties. These voters will decide in the final weeks of the
election whether they’ll vote and who to vote for, Steinbrueck
and party leaders have said.  ‘Hot Phase’  The party’s door-to-door mobilization drive is already
under way in 257 of  Germany ’s 299 voting districts, the SPD’s
general secretary and chief strategist, Andrea Nahles, said at
the event today. The campaign’s “hot phase” will begin the
third weekend of August, Steinbrueck said, and he’ll focus on
town-hall style appearances, in contrast with Merkel.  The chancellor last week unveiled a six-week cross-country
campaign tour beginning Aug. 14 that will take her to 56 cities
and towns in all 16 of Germany’s states. Most of those
appearances will center on a campaign stump speech.  After attending the Bayreuth Festival over the weekend,
Merkel has started a two-week vacation.  Steinbrueck outlined the SPD’s plan to introduce a national
minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.28) an hour, bolster pensions
and guarantee more daycare places. He declined to repeat in
detail the party’s attacks against the government over the U.S.
surveillance scandal, which has so far failed to make a lasting
political impact in Germany.  The SPD candidate will begin in Germany’s southern Alps
tomorrow with a visit to a military mountain unit and then go
for a hike in a Bavarian forest on Aug. 1 with reporters.  Steinbrueck, whose candidacy has been hampered by early
revelations of speaking fees from banks and a series of gaffes,
has gone on the offense against the chancellery. Today he called
her policies “empty packages, empty bottles, only labels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  