-- Rand Declines Before Fed Policy Meeting; Bonds Gain on Budget
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-07-30T09:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/rand-declines-before-fed-policy-meeting-bonds-gain-on-budget.html
The rand depreciated for the third
day as investors await guidance from the U.S. Federal Reserve on
monetary stimulus, while bonds rose amid bets South Africa’s
budget balance swung to a surplus last month.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee, which has said it may
start paring stimulus should the  U.S. economy  meet the central
bank’s forecasts, starts a two-day policy meeting today. South
Africa posted a  budget surplus  in June for the first time in
three months, a report may show.  “All eyes are on the Fed,” Mohammed Nalla, head of
strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said
by phone. “Any sign that implies they might taper their asset
purchases sooner rather than later will” undermine the rand, he
said.  The rand depreciated 0.4 percent to 9.8363 per dollar as of
11:11 a.m. in Johannesburg, trimming the gain in July to 0.5
percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
8.17 percent. The yield is up 26 basis points this month.  South Africa ’s  budget  surplus in June was 16.5 billion rand
($1.7 billion), compared with a shortfall of 17.5 billion rand
the previous month, the National Treasury may report at 2 p.m.
local time, according to the median estimate of four economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “Today’s data should, on the balance, be positive for the
market,” Rand Merchant Bank fixed-income analysts Carmen Nel in
Cape Town and Mamello Matikinca in Johannesburg said in e-mailed
comments. The monthly budget surplus “may bring temporary
relief to the local market,” which has encountered “a bit of a
demand deficit for  government bonds ,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  