-- Raw Sugar Climbs to Four-Week High on Demand, Frost; Cocoa Slips
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-30T10:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/raw-sugar-climbs-to-four-week-high-on-demand-frost-cocoa-slips.html
Sugar climbed to a four-week high in
 New York  on speculation demand may be higher than forecast just
as a frost may cut output in southern Brazil, the world’s top
grower, and  Argentina . Cocoa slipped.  Brazilian raw sugar for immediate loading was last week
offered for sale at the same price as the October futures on ICE
Futures U.S., Brisbane, Australia-based researcher Green Pool
Commodity Specialists Pty. said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
That’s up from a discount of 0.1 cent a pound in the previous
seven-day period. The amount of sugar awaiting loading at
Brazil’s main ports rose 30 percent in the week ended July 24,
according to shipping agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  Frost formed last week in some sugar cane-, corn-, wheat-and coffee-growing regions of  Brazil ’s states of Parana, Mato
Grosso do Sul and Santa Catarina, according to Marco Antonio dos
Santos, an agronomist at Sao Paulo-based weather forecaster
Somar Meteorologia. Frost was also seen in Tucuman, Argentina’s
biggest cane-producing state, says Green Pool. Output in Tucuman
is now expected to fall, the researcher said.  “A stronger line-up from center south Brazil, combined
with a frost scare across Argentina and southern Brazil, seemed
to convince participants that sugar off-take is robust at these
lower prices,” said Tom McNeill, a director at Green Pool.
“Our major worry is that much of that demand is being driven by
China, which is building stocks at a high rate of knots.  India 
recently reshaped raws demand by imposing a small duty change –-
will China follow suit?”  Trading Volumes  Raw sugar for delivery in October gained 0.2 percent to
16.95 cents a pound by 6:12 a.m. on ICE in New York. Prices
touched 16.97 cents a pound, the highest for a most-active
contract since July 1. Futures trading volumes were 34 percent
lower than the average for the past 100 days for this time of
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. White sugar for
October delivery was up 0.6 percent at $491.80 a metric ton on
NYSE Liffe in London.  Vessels at the ports of Recife, Maceio, Vitoria, Paranagua
and Santos, Brazil’s biggest, were waiting to load 1.7 million
tons of sugar on July 24, data from Williams Brasil showed.
That’s up from 1.33 million tons a week earlier. Ships bound for
 China  were set to take 517,662 tons, more than three times
higher than the previous week’s total, the data showed.  Chinese imports are climbing as a government policy to
stockpile local sweetener means domestic prices are kept above
the international market, prompting more buying, said Czarnikow
Group Ltd. and Kingsman SA. Imports of raw sugar into China may
exceed 3 million tons this season, up 500,000 tons from an April
estimate, said Toby Cohen, a director at London-based Czarnikow.  Arabica coffee for delivery in September was unchanged at
$1.2115 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee for delivery in September
was 0.2 percent lower at $1,895 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Cocoa for September delivery fell 0.2 percent to $2,275 a
ton in New York. Cocoa for September delivery was unchanged at
1,543 pounds ($2,361) a ton in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  