-- RBC Says Potash Plunge Will Curb Saskatchewan Growth
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-07-30T18:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/rbc-says-potash-declines-could-cut-saskatchewan-gdp-growth-1-5-.html
Saskatchewan’s economy may grow half
as quickly as projected after OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest
potash producer, broke up a cartel that controlled 43 percent of
world exports, Royal Bank of  Canada  said in a note.  A “double digit” decline in potash production from the
Canadian province could reduce Saskatchewan’s gross domestic
product by 1 percentage point in 2013,  Paul Ferley , assistant
chief economist at Royal Bank, said in a report. Stalled
construction in the industry may shave another 0.5 percentage
points from growth, which Royal Bank had estimated at 2.9
percent this year, he said.  “Today’s developments will have a more significant impact
on the province of Saskatchewan rather than the overall Canadian
economy,” Ferley said. The “combined hit to mining and
construction has the potential to halve growth in
Saskatchewan.”  Royal Bank estimates that potash makes up 17 percent of
exports in Saskatchewan, the biggest producer of the crop
nutrient in Canada.  Saskatchewan forecast its economy would grow 2.6 percent
this year in part due to a rebound in potash production,
according to the 2013 budget. The provincial government expected
potash revenue would be C$519.9 million ($505 million), an
increase of C$122.5 million from the previous year. A C$50
change in the average potash price per tonne results in a
C$130.6 million change in royalties, the government said. Potash
royalties account for about 4.5 percent of the province’s
revenue of C$11.6 billion, according to the  fiscal plan.   Update Forecast  Saskatchewan’s government will be speaking with potash
producers to get a better understanding of the potential impact,
spokeswoman  Kathy Young  said in an e-mailed statement. The
province will update any changes to potash revenue when it
releases its first-quarter financial report in August, she said.  “It is too soon to know the potential impact of today’s
announcement by OAO Uralkali on price, production and provincial
potash revenues here in Saskatchewan,” Young said in the
statement.  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc., Canada’s largest maker
of the fertilizer, plunged as much as 26 percent, and was
trading 18 percent lower to C$31.88 at 2:15 p.m. in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  