-- RBS U.S. Credit Sales Head Britton Departs as Debt Unit Shrinks
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-07-30T15:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/rbs-u-s-credit-sales-head-britton-departs-as-debt-unit-shrinks.html
Anthony Britton,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s head of investment-grade credit sales in
the Americas, is leaving the bank as its debt-trading and sales
group in the region shrinks.  Britton, who’s been at the bank for nine years and was
“one of the chief architects” of its credit platform, will
depart the  Stamford , Connecticut, office in August, according to
an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Richard Joyce, who
joined the firm in 2010, will assume Britton’s role.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for the Edinburgh-based bank,
confirmed the contents of the memo. Britton declined to comment
when reached on his mobile phone.  RBS has been shrinking its investment bank after coming
under pressure from lawmakers and regulators to bolster capital.
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender began cutting 2,000
additional investment-banking jobs as its chief executive
officer Stephen Hester resigned last month.  RBS has made some hires in the debt unit this year,
including Stephen Chronert, UBS AG’s former head of high-yield
bond and leveraged loan sales in the U.S., for a similar role,
and Kevin Dooley, a former UBS managing director, to run its par
loan trading in the Americas.  “We are actively hiring to bolster our strong team of
sales and trading professionals,” Scott Eichel, global head of
asset-backed products and credit trading, said in an e-mailed
statement. Across Wall Street, “business models are changing
due to the regulatory environment, which has led to higher
capital ratios, lower liquidity and the shift to more electronic
trading,” he said. “When you have a shift this big, sometimes
you need different capabilities.”  RBS is the 12th most-active underwriter of investment-grade
sales in the U.S. this year, down from ninth last year and
eighth in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  