-- U.S. 10-Year Yield at Almost 2-Week High on Fed-Tapering Views
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-07-30T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/treasuries-gain-as-stevens-comments-raise-concern-on-economy.html
Treasury 10-year yields  rose  to
almost the highest level in more than two weeks before the
Federal Reserve’s statement tomorrow updating the outlook for
possible tapering of its $85 billion a month of bond-buying.  Benchmark 10-year notes erased earlier gains, extending a
third monthly loss, as the central bank meets today and
tomorrow. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said monetary
stimulus could be reduced if policy makers are convinced that
economic growth is sustainable. A report tomorrow is forecast to
show gross domestic product growth slowed last quarter.  “The Treasury market is focused on the Fed as their taper
talk has been the main driver of these higher rates,,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “The market is trading relatively thin because of
the loads of data and the Fed that we will be dealing with this
week. People want to get that out of the way before they settle
on a market direction.”  The benchmark U.S. 10-year rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.61 percent at 5:05 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2023 traded at 92 19/32. The yield has climbed
12 basis points this month.  The 10-year yield reached 2.63 percent on July 25, the most
since July 10. The high for the year is 2.75 percent on July 8.  Debt Returns  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this month and 2.6 percent
in 2013, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds
returned 0.5 percent for the month while declining 1.3 percent
for the year. U.K. gilts have risen 0.7 percent in July, with a
2.8 percent loss since the end of 2012, the indexes show.  Treasury trading volume at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, was $207.7 billion, below
this month’s average of $270.7 billion.  The Treasury Department said yesterday it will borrow about
6.3 percent less than it projected three months ago as a
stronger economy and job growth help narrow the nation’s budget
deficit. The estimates are made as part of the department’s
quarterly refunding announcement set for tomorrow.  The U.S. posted the widest monthly budget surplus in more
than five years in June, as spending plunged 47 percent and a
stronger economy lifted tax receipts, the Treasury said July 11.
The Obama administration projects the  federal budget  deficit
will shrink to $759 billion in the year ending Sept. 30, the
smallest gap in five years.  Debt Sales  The government, which has sold $32 billion of three-year
notes each month since October 2010, may reduce August’s
offering to $30 billion, Thomas Simons, an economist in New York
at Jefferies LLC, said in an e-mail. That would be followed by
as much as $2 billion less in sales of two- and five-year notes
later that month, he said.  “There is no doubting the reality that government finances
have clearly turned a corner,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S.
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in New
York, said in a note to clients. “While the size of the
refunding auctions may not be reduced, Treasury is likely to
telegraph lower issuance needs are looming. It is only a matter
of time.”  The Treasury may also give more guidance on the issuance on
floating rate notes, which they may sell as early as the fourth
quarter this year. The floating-rate notes would be the first
added U.S. government debt security since the Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, known as TIPS, were introduced
in 1997.  Economic Update  The Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence 
decreased to 80.3 in July from 82.1 a month earlier, data from
the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median projection in a Bloomberg survey called for a reading of
81.3. Estimates of the 75 economists ranged from 77 to 85.5.  The Commerce Department will say tomorrow that U.S.
economic output slowed to an annualized pace of 1 percent in the
period from April to June from a 1.8 percent pace the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of 83 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It’s really data dependent,” said Thomas di Galoma, head
of U.S. rates sales at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New York.
“Some people are backing off” from optimistic reads on growth
in GDP and jobs creation.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index rose to 83.27 basis
points, up from 72.62 on July 22, the least since May 24. The
gauge rose to 117.89 on July 5, the highest since December 2010.  The central bank bought $1.46 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2036 to November 2042 today, according to
the  website  of the Fed Bank of New York.  “It’s a modest in-range bid ahead of tomorrow’s more
relevant fundamental developments,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  