-- Republican-Leaning Groups Had More IRS Scrutiny: Analysis
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-30T21:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/republican-leaning-groups-had-more-irs-scrutiny-analysis.html
Self-described conservative and Tea
Party groups seeking tax-exempt status were asked more questions
by the  Internal Revenue Service  and had longer delays than
progressive organizations, according to an analysis by the House
Ways and Means Committee.  Conservative groups received three times as many questions
and 56 of their applications were pending as of May 31, while no
groups with “progressive” in their names had a pending
application, said the analysis released today by the Republican-led panel.  The committee can examine and summarize otherwise private
information from the IRS that others can’t. The analysis
included 104 Republican-leaning groups and seven “progressive”
organizations.  The analysis looked only at the pool of files flagged for
potentially impermissible political involvement that the IRS
inspector general examined. It didn’t include other groups that
might have been flagged for other reasons or at other times.  “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” Ways and Means
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, said in a statement.
“Congress will continue to investigate how the targeting began,
why it was allowed to continue for so long, and what the IRS is
doing to resolve this. Americans deserve to know the full
truth.”  ‘Occupy’ Groups  The study is part of Republicans’ attempts to show that the
inclusion of “progressives” and “occupy” groups on IRS watch
lists didn’t amount to the same level of scrutiny that Tea Party
groups received from the IRS starting in 2010.  Democrats say revelations about IRS scrutiny of progressive
groups cast doubt on the idea that only Republican-leaning
groups drew extra attention from the agency.  Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on Ways and
Means, said the Republican analysis excludes Democratic-leaning
groups without the word progressive in their names and includes
incomplete information about whether there were more Republican-leaning groups in the pool of applicants.  “The Republican analysis is noteworthy for what it fails
to acknowledge and what it fails to disclose,” Levin said in a
statement. “The overwhelming fact remains that Republicans will
do everything they can to deflect attention from their inability
to do almost anything -– a record that has earned them
historically low ratings from the American public.”  The IRS apologized in May for singling out Tea Party
groups’ applications because of their names. That disclosure has
led to six congressional inquiries, cost at least four IRS
officials their jobs, and prompted a criminal investigation.  IRS officials haven’t explained how and why the watch lists
were created and used, and today’s analysis didn’t shed light on
that question.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  