-- Rheinmetall Falls as Defense Arm Missed Targets: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-30T08:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/rheinmetall-falls-as-defense-arm-missed-targets-frankfurt-mover.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  fell the most in
almost five years after the German maker of armored military
vehicles said full-year earnings would fall short of forecasts
as the defense unit missed sales and profit targets.  Shares in Dusseldorf-based Rheinmetall slumped as much as
13 percent, the biggest intraday fall since November 2008, and
traded 12 percent lower at 35.05 euros as of 9:29 a.m. in
 Frankfurt , valuing the business at 1.4 billion euros ($1.86
billion). The stock has declined 3.5 percent this year.  Rheinmetall earnings before restructuring costs are
expected to be 180 million euros to 200 million euros, compared
with an earlier range of 240 million euros to 260 million euros,
the company said yesterady after market close. In March, it said
profit would be imparied by restructuring.  “This is effectively Rheinmetall’s third profit warning in
two years and the second after the new management took over and
presented its 2015 goals,” Tim Rokossa, an analyst for Deutsche
Bank with a hold rating on the stock, said in a note. “This
will raise concerns about these targets.”  Defense budget cuts drove the outlook revision, compounded
by higher costs to execute some programs, Rheinmetall said. The
munitions business was hit particularly hard with short-term
demand impaired, said the maker of Fuchs armored transport
vehicles and the Leopard 2 battle-tank gun.  Defense Unit  Operating profit before interest and taxes and excluding
restructuring costs will be 60 million euros to 70 million euros
this year at the defense unit. The previous forecast was for 130
million euros. Sales may fall 100 million euros short of a 2.4
billion-euro target, Rheinmetall said.  In March, Rheinmetall announced restructuring measures
expected to trim 2013 profit to generate savings as high as 70
million euros from 2015. Company-wide restructuring costs this
year may reach as much as 85 million euros, the company said
yesterday.  New order bookings in the defense sector reached 1.28
billion euros in the first half, the company said, up 13 percent
from a year earlier. The total excludes a 1.1 billion military
truck deal with  Australia  that will be booked in the third
quarter.  “Management still has much to prove to turn defense
margins around, and potentially also needs additional
restructuring charges,” Benjamin Glaeser, a London-based
analyst at Berenberg with a hold rating on Rheinmetall said in a
note.  The company is due to report half-year results on Aug. 9.
It confirmed its targets for the automotive arm and still
expects EBIT before restructuring of 140 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  