-- Richmond Escalates Eminent Domain Plan With Loan Offers
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-31T00:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/richmond-escalates-eminent-domain-plan-with-loan-offers.html
Richmond,  California , is planning to
buy residential mortgages in low-income areas for as little as
25 cents on the dollar and may force the sales under eminent
domain laws, moving forward with a controversial program that
would potentially seize home loans from investors.  Richmond, a city of about 106,500 on the east side of  San
Francisco  Bay, sent letters to 32 servicers and trustees with
offers to purchase 624  mortgages  whose loan balance exceeds the
property value, officials said on a conference call. The loans
are the first that the city plans to buy or seize under legal
powers unless loan servicers agree to sell, Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said.  “Our community is suffering and we’ll stand together until
the damage gets reversed,” McLaughlin said.  Richmond is the farthest along in a plan advocated by
Steven Gluckstern’s Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC for U.S.
cities to confiscate mortgages and write them down in an effort
to help homeowners escape oversized debt burdens. The idea has
drawn opposition from bondholders such as Pacific Investment
Management Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP and at least 18 trade
groups representing the finance industry, homebuilders and real
estate firms.  Mortgage Resolution Partners has struck about a “half
dozen” advisory agreements with local governments including
North  Las Vegas ,  Nevada , Gluckstern said in an interview earlier
this month.  Unlikely Sellers  “Both federal and California law clearly show that this
scheme is illegal,” said  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the
American Securitization Forum, a trade organization, said in a
statement.  Other opponents, including bondholders, say it would cause
unfair losses to investors holding some form of mortgage debt
such as pension funds, push lenders to withdraw from markets and
expose cities to legal risks.  None of the 32 servicer and bond trustees that oversee the
loans are likely to sell willingly, Chris Killian, head of the
securitization group for the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, Wall Street’s largest lobbying
organization, said in a telephone interview.  “You just can’t really sell performing loans out of
securitizations,” Killian said. “Additionally, everybody we
talk to in the industry thinks this is a bad idea that will be
bad for the mortgage markets.”  Risky Terms  Fewer than a third of the loans that Richmond is offering
to buy are delinquent. The rest are current on payments yet
feature risky terms such as variable  interest rates  that lured
millions of Americans to take on debt as home  prices  boomed from
2002 to 2006.  Low interest-only payments and negative amortization, where
unpaid principal was added to the ballooning balance with
interest compounded, are some of the exotic products that have
since been abandoned by the mortgage industry after the worst
housing collapse since the Great Depression.  Banks have been “unable or unwilling to fix” onerous
loans, Amy Schur, executive director of the Los Angeles-based
Alliance of Californians for Community Empowerment, said on the
conference call. Communities would be better served if local
groups help borrowers reduce debt, she said.  “Homeowner groups for years have been trying to get the
banks to reduce principal and reset them to current market
value,” she said. “Our local strategy is to get the job done,
save more homes and save our neighborhoods.”  ‘Ill-Advised’  The Richmond program “is a short-term solution for a few
underwater borrowers that will have severe negative long-term
costs for every homeowner in the city,” David H. Stevens, CEO
of the  Mortgage Bankers Association , said in a statement.  The city’s proposed action is “ill-advised and likely
unconstitutional and will add to Richmond’s problems rather than
solve them,” Stevens said.  Richmond’s $195,000 median home price last month, up almost
20 percent from a year earlier, ranked last among the 22 cities
tracked in Contra Costa County by research firm DataQuick. The
city’s inland location is far from the technology firms in San
Francisco and Silicon Valley, where new wealth propelled the
nine-county Bay Area median residential value to $555,000 in
June, a 33 percent gain, according to San Diego-based DataQuick.  Defaults Rise  New mortgage defaults in Contra Costa County rose 19
percent in the second quarter to 2,214 from the first three
months, the highest total of any Bay Area county.  The mortgages Richmond wants to buy would be purchased at
prices ranging from 25 percent to 100 percent, said Graham
Williams, chief executive officer of Mortgage Resolution
Partners.  The Richmond plan may not help homeowners who are already
delinquent, said Deutsch of the American Securitization Forum.  “Further, potential homebuyers in Richmond will have to
pay more for mortgages to cover the risk of eminent domain or
simply not be able to obtain a loan at all,” he said.  Richmond was a ship-building center during World War II.
Today  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is the largest employer, with 1,950 refinery
workers, data from the city’s most recent financial report show.
The 17 percent poverty rate is higher than the California
average of 14 percent, and two-thirds of the residents are black
or Hispanic, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  