-- Ringgit Rebound Predicted as GDP Limits Outflow Concern
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-07-31T08:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/ringgit-rebound-predicted-as-gdp-limits-outflow-concern.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit is poised to
rebound from a three-year low as the economy’s resilience damps
concern rising U.S. Treasury yields will prompt overseas
investors to dump the nation’s bonds, trading patterns show.  The currency has dropped 2.7 percent since June 30 to
3.2463 per dollar, a loss second only to  India ’s rupee among 23
other emerging-market currencies. The decline pushed the ringgit
beyond the limits of the Bollinger band, signaling a reversal
may be imminent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
biggest deviation in developing markets. Stochastic oscillators
also showed the ringgit is oversold.  Morgan Stanley predicts Malaysia’s economic growth and
 current-account surplus , which is more than twice China’s
relative to gross domestic product, will help the ringgit catch
up with regional peers. The central bank can use its $138
billion of  foreign-exchange reserves  to support the currency,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. GDP is forecast to
grow 5 percent this year, after a 5.6 percent gain in 2012, the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 21 analysts shows.  “We might be coming close to the end of the weakness cycle
in the ringgit,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview yesterday. “The current-account surplus still remains quite large, even though it has
come off” and domestic demand is driving growth, helping shield
the economy from external shocks, he said.  The ringgit’s 5.8 percent loss this year would be its worst
annual performance since a 35 percent plunge in 1997, during the
Asian financial crisis. It dropped as much as 0.9 percent to
3.2536 per dollar in Kuala Lumpur today, the weakest level since
July 2010.  Bond Flows  Fitch Ratings lowered its outlook for Malaysia’s A- credit
rating to negative from stable yesterday, citing worsening
prospects for cutting government debt levels. The ringgit could
underperform as $2.9 billion of sovereign notes mature today,
raising the prospect of capital outflows, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
Credit Agricole CIB strategist in Hong Kong, wrote in a research
note yesterday.  The currency slid this month on concern global investors,
who owned 33 percent of Malaysian government  bonds  in May, the
highest proportion in Southeast Asia, will pull funds out as the
U.S. outlines plans to rein in monetary stimulus. The Federal
Reserve will conclude a two-day policy meeting today in
 Washington  that may shed light on the timing of such a move.  Ten-year Treasury  yields  climbed 101 basis points, or 1.01
percentage point, to 2.62 percent since reaching this year’s low
on May 1. Malaysia’s 10-year bond  yield  rose 77 basis points to
4.14 percent in that time.  Outside Band  Technical indicators suggest the ringgit’s decline may have
reached the extreme. At today’s level, the ringgit was 0.4
percent weaker than the upper limit of the Bollinger Band. The
currency breached its normal trading range this week for the
first time in a month.  Bollinger Bands, developed by John Bollinger in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The limits represent two standard
deviations from the 20-day moving average, implying that the
likelihood of a currency moving outside the band is rare.  The “k-line” of stochastics, which measures current price
relative to highs and lows, has increased to 93, above the 80
threshold deemed as oversold for the ringgit. A dollar-sell
signal would be confirmed if the k-line crosses below its own
moving average, or “d-line,” which was at 89.  The currency will strengthen 2.4 percent to 3.17 per dollar
by the end of December, according to the median of 27 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Levels  BNP Paribas SA predicts rising debt levels will trigger a
bond and currency selloff as Prime Minister Najib Razak presses
ahead with a 10-year $444 billion spending program aimed at
lifting the nation to developed status by 2020. The slowdown in
 China , Malaysia’s second-biggest export market, is also weighing
on the country’s assets, according to the Paris-based lender.  Malaysia’s debt-to-GDP ratio of 53.5 percent is higher than
the 25 percent in  Indonesia , 51 percent in the  Philippines  and
43 percent in  Thailand , data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s
also approaching the government’s 55 percent limit.  “With China slowing and Fed tapering expected to impact
inflows negatively, this will amplify worries over debt
sustainability,” Singapore-based BNP analysts Yii Hui Wong and
Mirza Baig wrote in a July 29 research note. They cut their
year-end forecast for the ringgit to 3.25 per dollar from 3.15.  While Malaysia’s current-account surplus will narrow to 6
percent of GDP this year, from 6.1 percent in 2012 and 12
percent in 2011, it’s higher than the average 2.8 percent in
Asian countries and 2.4 percent for China, Bloomberg surveys
show.  Ringgit Options  Malaysia’s “fundamentals of a current-account surplus and
sustained growth should warrant a correction in the recent
weakness in the ringgit,” according to a July 25 report from
Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hans Redeker , the head of global
foreign-exchange strategy in  London .  Bank of America strategists including Christy Tan
recommended their clients use options to buy the ringgit, saying
the central bank will sell foreign reserves to shore up the
currency should the decline deepen.  “We believe that Bank Negara Malaysia is well prepared to
defend against a ringgit selloff event,” Tan wrote in a note to
clients on July 22. “In the event of a return in appetite for
regional bonds, the ringgit is well positioned to outperform in
the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 