-- Mrs. Watanabe Dumps Lira Bonds for Peso on Unrest: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-07-30T11:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/mrs-watanabe-dumps-lira-bonds-for-peso-on-unrest-turkey-credit.html
Japanese individuals cut their
purchases of Turkish bonds this year, driven away by the
protests that rocked the nation last month.  The amount of uridashi bonds sold in liras as a proportion
of total sales fell to 3.7 percent this year from 8.5 percent in
2012, dropping its ranking to No. 4, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Mexico displaced  Turkey , rising to second place
from eighth. Two-year lira yields are the highest among major
emerging markets after  Brazil .  The biggest anti-government protests in a decade last month
left six people dead and hundreds injured, helping send two-year
yields up 435 basis points from a record low on May 17. Foreign
investors sold $1.7 billion of Turkish bonds since Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may reduce its monthly asset purchases.  “The authoritarian crackdown of political protests is very
unattractive,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management LLC, said by e-mail from  Tokyo  yesterday. “Foreign
hot money now wants to go elsewhere.”  Sales of so-called uridashi bonds, issued in  Japan  and
denominated in lira, totaled $1 billion in 2013. This compares
with $3.52 billion for all of last year, when lira-denominated
uridashi debt replaced Brazil as the most popular foreign-currency bond after the Australian dollar, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Mrs. Watanabe’  Trades involving borrowing in low-cost nations to invest in
economies with higher interest rates have been popular among
investors in Japan, sometimes referred to as “Mrs. Watanabe,”
a reference to housewife investors who control family budgets.
After Mexico, the U.S. and  Australia  precede Turkey as the most
popular foreign destinations for Japanese investors this year.  Carry trades in Turkish lira returned 8.4 percent this year
in yen terms, ranking 17th among 23  emerging markets , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors who borrowed in yen and
invested in Mexican local debt gained 16.2 percent in the
period.  “There is a lot of news of instability in developing
countries after money-flow changes prompted by future Fed
tapering,” Toru Suehiro, a market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by e-mail yesterday. “Regarding
lira bonds, Japanese investors are avoiding them because of the
riots. Regarding the Mexican peso, on the other hand, Mexico is
expected to shine from the effects of the U.S.’s improving
economic condition as their economies are strongly related.”  Gezi Park  Protests against Erdogan’s government started on May 31
after police tear-gassed opponents of plans to re-develop Gezi
Park near Taksim Square in Istanbul. Unrest spread across the
country in June as demonstrators accused the government of
adopting an increasingly autocratic style.  The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.9262 against the dollar at
1:48 p.m. in Istanbul today, trimming declines in the past two
months to 2.6 percent, the biggest drop after  Russia ’s ruble
among emerging-market currencies in Europe, the Middle East and
 Africa .  The central bank has sold $6.75 billion to shore up the
currency, which slid to a record-low 1.9740 per dollar on July
8, and raised the overnight lending rate by 75 basis points a
week ago in the first rate increase since October 2011.  Yields on two-year lira debt fell nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 9.14 percent today. The yield on 10-year bonds declined eight basis points 9.35 percent. That
compares with a rate of 0.8 percent on similar-maturity yen
debt.  Bond Outflows  The “Mexican peso has a clear positive story which is the
strength in U.S. economy,”  Junya Tanase , a currency strategist
in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by e-mail yesterday.
Still, the lira remains relatively popular and offers
“relatively high yields and sound macro conditions,” he said.  Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Portfolio outflows from Turkish bonds and equities totaled
$934 million in the week to July 19, according to central bank
data released July 25. Bond outflows reached $3.4 billion and
those from equities totaled $1.54 billion since May 31, the data
show.  Turkey’s credit-default swaps, contracts insuring the
nation’s debt against non-payment, rose nine basis points to 211
today, after the biggest weekly increase in a month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging-market investments are “mainly a currency play to
Japanese investors who have suffered from extremely low interest
rates over many years,” according to Kazuto Doi, a portfolio
manager in Tokyo at Western Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $460 billion.  “People were excited when Turkey became investment grade
but soon after there were political instabilities,” Doi said in
e-mailed comments yesterday. “People can see an easier story in
 Mexico  to buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  