-- Santander Profit Jumps as Lower Clean-Up Costs Offset Brazil
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-30T16:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/santander-quarterly-profit-jumps-after-lower-provisioning-costs.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, said second-quarter profit rose eightfold as lower costs
for cleaning up soured property assets offset falling earnings
in Brazil and its home market.  Net income  climbed to 1.05 billion euros ($1.39 billion)
from 123 million euros a year ago, when it booked 1.3 billion
euros of one-time charges for Spanish real estate, the
Santander, Spain-based bank said in a filing to regulators
today. That compared with the 1.1 billion-euro average  estimate 
in a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts.  Santander is rebuilding earnings that slumped almost 60
percent in 2012 when the bank boosted provisions and took
charges to cover losses on assets linked to Spanish real estate.
Javier Marin, named as the bank’s new  chief executive officer  in
April, must also soothe investor concern about capital levels,
declining revenues in  Brazil  and bad loans in Spain.  “The results look pretty weak, with the key divisions of
Brazil and Spain a lot weaker than expected,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an  analyst  at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  London . said in a
phone interview. “In Spain, we are still seeing asset quality
deterioration at a rapid rate.”  Marin, 46, used his first earnings presentation after
replacing Alfredo Saenz as CEO to assert the bank had no need to
change its dividend policy this year or raise new capital.  Personal Advice  “The only thing I know is that the board appointed me
unanimously 90 days ago today,” Marin told reporters at the
bank’s headquarters outside Madrid. “Alfredo Saenz has not only
given me professional counsel but also a lot of personal
advice.”  Santander rose 0.8 percent to 5.49 euros at close of
trading in Madrid, paring this year’s decline to 10 percent. The
44-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
gained 8.1 percent over the same period.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, which reports
earnings tomorrow, has risen 1.7 percent.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 5.18
percent from 4.76 percent in March as the bank booked 2 billion
euros of loans as “doubtful” to comply with new Bank of Spain
criteria for refinanced loans, Santander said.  The reclassification will not require further provisions as
the bank already had 340 million euros set aside to cover it,
Santander said. Net loan loss provisions fell to 3.07 billion
euros from 3.4 billion euros a year ago.  Comfortable Capital  Core capital under Basel II criteria rose to 11.11 percent
from 10.67 percent in March. The bank intends to keep its core
capital ratio assuming Basel III rules were fully imposed above
9 percent, Santander said.  That’s enough to ensure the bank won’t need to change its
policy of paying out 60 cents a share this year with most
investors taking the payment in stock, said Marin. The Bank of
 Spain  told lenders in June that dividend distributions in 2013
should “be limited.”  “We are not going to issue capital,” Marin said on a
webcast for analysts today. “We are very comfortable with the
actual capital levels.”  Net interest income, or the excess revenue from interest
earned on assets compared with payments to depositors, fell 12
percent to 6.72 billion euros from a year earlier as net lending
shrank 8.4 percent from a year ago and 3.3 percent from the
first quarter.  Brazilian Decline  Profit from Brazil, Santander’s biggest earnings
contributor, declined to 420 million euros from 498 million
euros a year ago.  Net interest income slipped to 2.71 billion euros from 2.8
billion euros in the first quarter. The bad-loans ratio was 6.49
percent compared with 6.51 percent a year ago and 6.9 percent in
the first quarter. Bad loans in Brazil have peaked and credit
will be growing by as much as an annualized 10 percent by the
end of the year, Marin told analysts.  Earnings from Spain slumped 57 percent to 86 million euros
from a year ago as net interest income slid 17 percent,
Santander said. The bad-loans ratio for Spain jumped to 5.75
percent from 4.12 percent in March and 3.26 percent a year ago.  Profit from the U.K. rose to 263 million euros from 246
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  