-- Sebelius Takes Pitch on Health Law to Republican States
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-30T17:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/sebelius-takes-pitch-on-health-law-to-republican-states.html
The top two U.S. health officials
are planning multiple trips in the coming months to states led
by Republicans hostile to the Affordable Care Act, seeking
success there for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul
despite opposition.  With 63 days left before the law’s insurance exchanges open
for customers on Oct. 1, the Obama administration and allies
such as the nonprofit group Enroll America are accelerating
efforts to sign up at least 2.6 million healthy Americans, even
as foes mount a daily drumbeat to scrap it and  polls  show more
Americans oppose the law than support it.  In the last three weeks,  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. health
secretary, and  Marilyn Tavenner , the administrator for Medicare
and Medicaid, visited  Dallas , where Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, has refused to build an insurance exchange or expand
the state’s Medicaid program. Tavenner will visit Tennessee next
week and Sebelius will be in  Georgia  the week after that, two
states whose governors have taken similar stands.  “We’re going straight to the communities where the need is
the greatest, to work with our partners on the ground, to reach
people right where they are,” Joanne Peters, a spokeswoman for
the Health and Human Services Department, said in an e-mail.  No U.S. state has a higher proportion of uninsured
residents than  Texas , and the problem weighs on the economies of
cities such as Dallas, said Clay Jenkins, a county judge who met
with Sebelius during her visit there. About 25 percent of the
county’s 2.5 million people lack insurance, he said.  ‘Tackling the Problem’  “There’s nothing more important to Dallas County, to our
quality of life, and to our economy, than that we tackle the
problem of being the fourth-most uninsured county in the
country,” Jenkins, the county’s top local elected official,
said in a telephone interview.  The law, passed in 2010, creates new online insurance
exchanges that will offer as many as 25 million people a chance
to buy subsidized health insurance or enroll in Medicaid, the
state-federal medical plan for the poor. In areas where state
officials have refused to create exchanges, such as Texas,
 Tennessee  and Georgia, the U.S. government will operate the
online marketplaces. Enrollment for 2014 will continue until
March 31.  Jenkins headed up a group including local business leaders,
hospitals, churches and politicians that met with Sebelius on
July 23. He wants hospitals, schools and church leaders to
promote the law to local residents, and he’s working with two
nonprofit advocacy groups, the Texas Organizing Project and
Enroll America to knock on doors and host neighborhood events.
Jenkins isn’t getting any help from the Texas governor’s office.  ‘Deeply Flawed’  Perry has said Texas won’t expand Medicaid unless it is
overhauled to reduce costs. He also declined to create an
insurance marketplace for people to buy subsidized coverage,
leaving the federal government with no choice but to set up the
exchange on its own.  “Texas has never measured success by the number of
individuals on public assistance,” Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman
for Perry, said in an e-mail. “Obamacare is a deeply flawed,
unsustainable and misguided government takeover of our health-care system that will bankrupt the states and our federal
government.”  Jenkins , a Democrat, doesn’t see it that way.  “What we’re trying to do right now is not re-litigate or
politicize the health-care exchanges, but rather get the
information out,” he said. “We welcome any help the state
would provide.”  Federally funded health clinics, which treat about 15
million Americans a year, many without insurance, are key to the
Obama administration’s enrollment campaign. The government is
giving $150 million to the clinics to hire staff who will help
patients enroll in health plans.  County Officials  In  Fort Worth , Sebelius addressed the  National Association
of Counties , which Jenkins said he hopes will circulate “best
practices” for informing citizens about the law and enrolling
them once exchanges open.  “Our focus now is on making sure families know about the
opportunity that is coming when the marketplace opens on Oct.
1,” HHS’s Peters said. “We know it can’t be done by government
alone, and it can’t be done only in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  