-- SEC Sues Ex-Banco Santander Official Over Insider-Trading Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-30T19:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/sec-sues-ex-banco-santander-official-over-insider-trading-claims.html
A former  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  official
and an ex-judge in  Spain  were sued by U.S. regulators over
claims they used inside information to make illegal trades ahead
of  BHP Billiton  Ltd.’s $39 billion takeover bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc.  Cedric Canas Maillard, who was an executive adviser to
Banco Santander’s chief executive officer, and his friend Julio
Marin Ugedo, reaped illicit profits of nearly $1 million, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a  lawsuit  filed today
in federal court in  Manhattan . They made the trades after Canas
learned that Spain’s biggest bank had been asked to advise BHP
Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, on the deal.  The SEC’s lawsuit is the latest action related to a
continuing investigation into suspicious trading ahead of the
Aug. 17, 2010, public announcement of BHP’s acquisition bid. A
former Banco Santander employee agreed to pay $625,000 to settle
similar  insider trading  claims in 2011.  In the days leading up to the announcement, Canas purchased
the equivalent of 30,000 shares of U.S.-listed Potash through
highly leveraged securities called contracts-for-difference, or
CFDs, the SEC said.  “To those who think they can mask their insider trading by
trading CFDs rather than the underlying equity security, this
case demonstrates our resolve to detect such trading and hold
them accountable for violating the federal securities laws,”
Daniel Hawke, chief of the SEC market abuse unit, said in a
statement.  According to the SEC, there is no known defense counsel for
Canas and Marin.  Potash shares jumped 28 percent on the day the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based company said it had rejected the offer from
BHP. Melbourne-based BHP took its $130-a-share cash offer
directly to Potash investors before dropping the bid amid
regulatory opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  