-- Senate Confirms Five to U.S. Labor Board, Averts Shutdown
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-30T22:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/senate-confirms-five-to-u-s-labor-board-averts-shutdown.html
The Senate confirmed five nominees
to the U.S. labor board, bringing to an end a stalemate that had
threatened to shut down the board as soon as next month.  In separate 54-44 votes today, the Senate confirmed
Democrats Nancy Schiffer, a former AFL-CIO associate general
counsel, and Kent Hirozawa, chief lawyer for the board’s
Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce. Nominees Phil Miscimarra and Harry Johnson, lawyers who represent management in labor disputes,
were confirmed by voice vote to fill two Republican seats vacant
since December. Pearce was confirmed 59-38 to a second term.  All five seats will be filled for first time since
President  Barack Obama  took office.  The votes to fill the seats “will revitalize our
commitment to protect the rights of American employers and
employees,” Pearce said in a statement after the vote.  Obama agreed this month to drop the two Democrats he
appointed without Senate confirmation in 2012, substituting
Hirozawa and Schiffer. The swap helped end a stalemate and
allowed confirmation of stalled nominees to other administration
posts.  The actions of the five-member board have been in question
since January, when a federal appeals court in  Washington  ruled
Obama’s appointments to the board were unconstitutional because
the Senate wasn’t in a recess. More than 100 challenges of board
decisions are pending in courts citing the appeals court ruling,
board spokesman Gregory King said.  Schiffer from 2000 to 2012 was general counsel for the AFL-CIO, the federation led by  Richard Trumka  that represents 57
labor unions with 12 million members. Schiffer also worked for
the United Auto Workers Union.  Law Firms  Hirozawa worked at the labor board from 1984 to 1986 as an
attorney in the region that includes  New York City . Hirozawa
then was a partner in the New York law firm Gladstein, Reif and
Meginniss LLP, which “is organized around the principal that
workers and their organizations deserve top-quality legal
representation just as much as corporations,” according to its
website. He returned to the board in 2010 a counsel to Pearce.  Johnson is a lawyer with Arent Fox LLP in  Los Angeles  who
practices management-side labor and employment law. Miscimarra
is a partner in the labor and employment group of Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, in  Chicago .  Miscimarra, invited to testify before a House panel in
 South Carolina  on June 17, 2011, criticized the board’s acting
general counsel, Lafe Solomon, for issuing a complaint against
 Boeing Co. (BA)  in an unfair labor practice case tied to building a
factory in South Carolina, a state where laws forbid collective
bargaining agreements that require union membership.  The board on Dec. 9, 2011, withdrew the complaint after
Boeing reached an agreement with the International Association
of Machinists, which had asked the board to get involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  