-- Serbia Avoids Snap Election in Accord Over Smaller Coalition
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-07-31T14:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/serb-progressives-consider-snap-ballot-after-finance-chief-fired.html
Serbian political leaders averted
early elections after the country’s largest party agreed to the
prime minister’s cabinet shuffle that led to the ouster of a
junior partner and shaved the government’s majority to one seat.  The poll-leading Progressive Party accepted a decision by
Prime Minister Ivica Dacic to oust Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic and his United Regions of  Serbia  from the ruling
coalition, according to Belgrade-based Tanjug news agency.  Elections aren’t “in the interest of the people because
too many things need to be improved and done and the elections
would cause additional instability,” Vucic told reporters,
according to a video of the press conference provided by Tanjug.  The power struggle between the Progressives and Dacic’s
Socialist Party emerged in the past week, raising concern that
political uncertainty will derail the country’s progress toward
European Union membership and its work with the International
Monetary Fund to stabilize the economy.  The yield on the government’s dollar bond maturing in 2021
rose 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 6.9 percent
today by 1:33 p.m. in Belgrade, the highest in a month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dinar traded at
113.8730 per euro from 113.829 yesterday after dropping as much
as 0.4 percent earlier today. The central bank sold euros to
stem its decline, according to three traders who asked not to be
unidentified in line with bank policies.  Cabinet Review  The names of new cabinet officials will be known after Aug.
20, while parliament will hold a session to approve it by Aug.
27, Vucic said. He will review the effectiveness of the new
cabinet within six months, he said.  “The situation is far from being resolved,” Marko Blagojevic, the program director at the Center for Free
Elections and Democracy, said in a phone interview. “They are
starting from scratch, making a totally new cabinet and gave
themselves another month.”  Dacic and Vucic are allies from the 1990s when their
parties were led by former Serbian strongman Slobodan Milosevic
and nationalist leader Vojislav Seselj, during a decade marked
by wars, sanctions, bouts of hyperinflation and currency
devaluation.  World Bank  The political crisis will put the World Bank’s $200 million
loan to support Serbia’s budget on hold for three to five months
as the new cabinet and finance minister need to be appointed,
the World Bank’s resident representative, Loup Brefort, was
cited by NIN magazine today as saying. Approval will also depend
on the new government’s commitment to sell or shut down 179
state companies with more than 54,000 workers,  Dinkic, once an opposition leader in a fight to topple
Milosevic and the first central bank governor after the fall of
Milosevic in 2000, tried to quell the tension in the cabinet by
offering to split the Finance and Economy Ministry and handing
the economy portfolio over to the Progressives.  “If the cabinet won’t have us as partners, we will be a
constructive opposition,” Dinkic said yesterday. “Dacic is
simply defending his prime minister’s post.”  Dinkic will attend today’s cabinet meeting because he
continues his duties until a replacement is approved in a
parliamentary vote, government spokesman Milivoje Mihajlovic
said by phone.  Narrower Majority  Dinkic’s departure leaves the government with 126 seats in
the 250-member parliament, down from 140, according to a
breakdown of seats on the parliament’s website. That threatens
to derail government policies that led to a promise from the EU
to start membership negotiations in January to join the bloc.  “Political turmoil is an important credit negative for the
country, not just because it creates uncertainty about the
future leadership of Serbia, but perhaps more importantly
because the country is currently at a critical juncture,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-market strategist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  in  London , said in an e-mail today.  The cost to insure Serbian government bonds against non-payment for five years using credit default swaps rose to 390.93
points today from 389 points yesterday, still below the July 4
high of 396.3 points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The new cabinet together with monetary policy makers will
need to shore up Serbia’s $37 billion economy, fight inflation
and shield the dinar from market turmoil. The inflation rate
fell to 9.9 percent in May, dipping below 10 percent for the
first time in nine months.  Budget Problems  The budget gap is expected to top at least 6 percent of
gross domestic product this year, down from 7.3 percent in 2012.
The current-account deficit will reach 8.7 percent of GDP
according to IMF forecasts.  The economy grew 0.7 percent in the second quarter, after a
2.1 percent expansion in the first three months, according to
official statistics.  Slower growth is expected to weigh on budget revenue,
“keeping the budget deficit performance in focus,” Timothy Ash, the chief emerging-market economist at  Standard Bank (STAN)  Group
Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  