-- Sharif Cements Power as Loyalist Set to Win Pakistan Presidency
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-07-30T12:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/sharif-cements-power-as-loyalist-set-to-win-pakistan-presidency.html
The candidate of  Pakistan ’s ruling
party was set to be elected the country’s president, tightening
Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s grip on power as he struggles to
push ahead with plans to end energy and security crises.  Mamnoon Hussain of the Pakistan Muslim League (N) was
leading with 437 votes to 109 for his only opponent as ballots
were counted in the federal parliament and provincial
assemblies, according to an unofficial tally by state-run  Radio
Pakistan . He’ll succeed Asif Ali Zardari from September and
serve for five years.  “Though the presidency has become a ceremonial post, a
hostile and a non-compliant president can create a lot of
trouble,” said Rashid Ahmed Khan, a political analyst and
professor of international relations at the University of
Sargodha in Punjab province. “He can side with the army in the
event of a potential tussle.”  Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party boycotted the election,
saying that a Supreme Court decision to advance the vote from
Aug. 6 left it insufficient time to campaign. Hussain was on the
verge of defeating retired judge Wajihuddin Ahmed, who was
fielded by  Imran Khan ’s Tehreek-e-Insaf party.  Sharif, who won a record third term in May’s general
election, is seeking to revive an economy undermined by
electricity blackouts of as long as 18 hours a day, and curb
terrorist violence. Imran Khan has so far refused to attend an
all-party conference on ways to tackle the militancy, while
provincial leaders have objected to proposals to end energy
woes.  ‘Right Track’  Victory today would remove one potential obstacle to Sharif
“pursuing his policy agenda,” said Khan, the analyst. “The
honeymoon period for Sharif is ending fast. In the next two to
three months, he has to show that the economy is on the right
track.”  Hussain, who was born in the Indian city of Agra prior to
the partition of the subcontinent at the end of British colonial
rule, is a former governor of Sindh province. He joined the
Muslim League in 1969 and runs a textiles business in Karachi,
the  News daily  reported July 26, calling him a “low profile”
politician.  Constitutional changes in 2010 removed presidential powers
accrued by former military leader  Pervez Musharraf  to dismiss
the prime minister and appoint military leaders. Zardari, the
widower of assassinated Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto  who became
president after Musharraf was forced to resign in 2008, remained
a key player in Pakistani politics as head of the Peoples Party
which led the last ruling coalition.  More than 50 people were killed on July 27 in a twin market
bombing in the north west that targeted Pakistan’s Shiite
minority, the Dawn newspaper reported. Pakistan on July 28
protested a U.S. drone attack that killed seven militants in
North Waziristan, a stronghold of groups fighting international
forces across the border in  Afghanistan .  IMF Loan  The $210 billion economy had expanded at an annual average
of 3 percent since 2008, below the 7 percent pace the  Asian
Development Bank  says is needed to provide jobs for an idle
workforce. Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent growth in the year
that began July 1.  The International Monetary Fund’s board will meet in
September to consider a loan request of as much as $5.3 billion,
after a plunge in foreign exchange reserves triggered a near-5
percent devaluation of Pakistan’s rupee this year. The IMF has
asked Pakistan to ensure policy changes are underway when the
board considers the program, to help convince the lender that
the nation is “committed,” IMF mission head  Jeffrey Franks 
said this month.  Sharif’s victory in May 11 parliamentary polls kicked off a
year of transition in Pakistan. General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani’s
three-year term as army chief ends in November, while Chief
Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry will complete his period in office in
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  