-- SNB Suffers Second-Quarter Loss After Price of Gold Fell
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-07-30T05:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/snb-suffers-second-quarter-loss-after-price-of-gold-fell.html
The  Swiss National Bank  suffered a
loss of 18.5 billion francs ($20 billion) in the second quarter
as the price of gold tumbled, eroding the nominal value of its
holdings.  That loss compares with a profit of 8.25 billion francs for
the corresponding quarter a year earlier, the Zurich-based
institution said in a statement today. For the first half the
central bank reported a loss of 7.3 billion francs.  The price of gold fell to its lowest in 34 months in late
June, having lost a quarter of its value since the start of
April. The SNB said its gold holdings of 1,040 tonnes were
unchanged in the second quarter.  The central bank’s profit has been of public interest in
 Switzerland  after the SNB ran up a record 19 billion-franc book
loss in 2010, resulting in calls by some politicians for then-President Philipp Hildebrand to resign.  The net result from the SNB’s foreign currency positions --
a sum equal to about three-quarters of the economy’s annual
output -- amounted to a loss of 5.4 billion francs in the second
quarter, it said in the statement. It has amassed the reserves
due to its efforts to defend the cap of 1.20 per euro set in
2011.  The proportion of euros in the SNB’s foreign currency
reserves remained unchanged at 48 percent  as of June 28 , with
dollars at 27 percent, data on its website updated today also
showed. The proportion of foreign currency invested in AAA-rated
bonds fell to 71 percent from 76 percent during that period,
while holdings of AA-rated bonds increased to 23 percent.  Popular Campaign  The SNB’s gold holdings are the target of a popular
initiative, which demands that at least 20 percent of the
central bank’s assets be in the form of gold. The measure would
also block the sale of such holdings and require all SNB gold to
be located in Switzerland. Currently, about 20 percent at the
SNB’s gold is held at the  Bank of England  and another 10 percent
at the  Bank of Canada , with the remainder stored domestically.  SNB President Thomas Jordan in April said that the
initiative could limit its ability to conduct monetary policy,
breaking from the SNB’s policy of not commenting on politics.  Because the SNB’s balance sheet has expanded significantly
since it set the cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc, were the
initiative to be accepted, the SNB would have to buy a large
amount of gold to meet the 20 percent requirement, according to
Jordan.  The  Swiss People’s Party , the SVP, members of which started
the initiative after failing to get backing for the issues in
parliament, has submitted the requisite 100,000 valid signatures
for a referendum, although the actual popular vote may be years
away.  The quarterly results of the SNB, whose largest
shareholders are the federal government and the 26 cantons, are
calculated by comparing asset prices at the start and end of the
three-month period, and therefore have little bearing on the
central bank’s result for the full year. For 2012, the
distributed 1 billion francs to the government and cantons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  