-- SoftBank Profit Beats Estimates on Boost to Subscribers in Japan
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-31T00:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/softbank-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-japan-subscriber-boost.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese carrier
that acquired Sprint Corp for $21.6 billion, posted profit that
beat analyst estimates after using Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
acquisitions to lure subscribers.  Net income rose to 238.3 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in the
three months ended June from 105.6 billion yen a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement yesterday. That beat
the 198 billion-yen median estimate of three analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . Shares jumped the most in a week today.  Billionaire President Masayoshi Son is forecasting record
domestic earnings this year as he accelerates the addition of
new subscribers and the Sprint deal saves $2 billion annually by
pooling purchases of handsets and network equipment. SoftBank,
which owns a share of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., bought a stake
in game company  GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. (3765)  and gained
control of eAccess Ltd. to add bandwidth as Son seeks to
transform Japan’s No. 3 mobile carrier into the world’s biggest.  “SoftBank’s business in Japan is sound with sufficient
 cash flow  and no large risk here,” said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a
senior  fund manager  at Asahi Life Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“The question is how fast SoftBank can turn around Sprint.
Investors think it will take time.”  Full-year operating profit on a consolidated basis will be
at least 1 trillion yen, making up an expected operating loss
from Sprint, Son said. The company had said the profit from its
domestic operation would top the figure.  SoftBank rose as much as 4.9 percent, headed for the
biggest gain in more than a week, and traded at 6,520 yen at
9:15 a.m. in  Tokyo trading . The stock has more than  doubled this
year  while  Japan ’s benchmark Topix index has added 32 percent.  New Users  “Our main business is doing well, and we got one-time gain
from GungHo, whose business is also doing well,” Son said
yesterday as a reason for revising the estimate.  First-quarter results included 253.9 billion yen of gains
from consolidating GungHo and Willcom Inc. Operating profit for
the quarter was 391 billion yen, beating the 389 billion-yen
median estimate of six analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  SoftBank added 810,500 net users in the quarter, outpacing
the 87,200 new customers signed up by NTT DoCoMo Inc. and the
668,700 that joined KDDI Corp. SoftBank got 67 percent of  total
sales  from its mobile operations last financial year.  SoftBank bought local competitor eAccess to meet bandwidth
demand for smartphones in January. Willcom became SoftBank’s
consolidated unit after it left rehabilitation proceedings from
bankruptcy, SoftBank said July 1.  U.S. Challenge  “SoftBank is stealing market share from bigger rivals with
its various measures,”  Mitsushige Akino , chief fund manager at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the
announcement yesterday.  Son, Japan’s second-richest man according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , said in October he targeted Sprint because
it can challenge  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc.’s dominance of
the U.S. mobile-phone industry.  SoftBank acquired a 78 percent stake in Sprint, the third-largest U.S. mobile carrier. Son wants to replicate its domestic
success with Sprint’s 55.2 million subscribers by improving
networks and services, he said. Annual savings at Sprint will be
about $2 billion in the first four years from cost cutting, he
said at SoftBank’s annual shareholder meeting last month.  Sprint Loss  Sprint yesterday reported a wider-than-predicted loss after
the company shut down its Nextel network and shed more than 1
million monthly subscribers. The second-quarter loss was $1.6
billion, or 53 cents a share, it said in a separate statement.
Analysts had estimated a loss of 31 cents on average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I expect Sprint would make a V-shaped recovery at an
early stage,” Son said yesterday. The company will focus on
improving mobile devices, network service, branding and content
to revive growth at the U.S. carrier, he said.  The takeover included a $5 billion cash infusion, giving
Sprint money to bolster its network and pursue its own
acquisitions. Earlier this month, Sprint bought out the
remaining shares of Clearwire Corp for $3.9 billion, giving it
full control of a company that it owned a majority of. The deal
provides Sprint with a large swath of airwaves it will use to
improve its network and roll out fourth-generation services in
the U.S.  SoftBank, founded in 1981, has stakes in more than 1,300
companies, it said in a  presentation . SoftBank has a 36.7
percent stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s largest e-commerce company, making it the biggest investor, it said.  Alibaba’s full-year net income may total more than 200
billion yen if the first-quarter net income of 66.9 billion yen
is repeated the rest of the year, Son said.  “Alibaba keeps growing, so earnings would be much bigger
than this,” Son said.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  cut
SoftBank’s  credit ratings  to non-investment grades earlier this
month as the company completed the Sprint acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  