-- Some Warrantless Mobile Phone Data Searches Ruled Legal
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-31T00:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/some-warrantless-cell-phone-data-searches-legal-court-rules.html
Some warrantless searches of mobile
phone data are legal, a U.S. appeals court ruled, reversing a
lower court’s ruling.  The federal government doesn’t need to show a judge 
probable cause to compel wireless service providers to turn over 
60 days of records on the dates, times, numbers called and 
locations of a particular phone at the time calls are made, the 
U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans said today in a 2-1 
decision.  Under the federal Stored Communications Act, the government
has the right to conduct warrantless searches of such business
records, which are created by phone companies for billing
customers for phone use, according to the ruling.  “Communications content, such as the contents of letters,
phone calls and e-mails, which are not directed to a business,
but simply sent via that business, are generally protected,”
Judge Edith Brown Clement wrote for the court’s majority.
“Addressing information, which the business needs to route
those communications appropriately and efficiently are not.”  The court ruled that cell phone users know they are
voluntarily disclosing their locations and the numbers they call
to their service providers so that their calls can be connected.
Mobile providers warn customers these records may be turned over
to police under certain circumstances, according to the ruling.  The American Civil Liberties Union opposed the warrantless
searches. The ACLU said that “advances in technology have
changed society’s reasonable expectations of privacy in
information exposed to third parties,” Clement said in the
ruling.  Privacy Expectations  While the court agreed that technological advances can
“alter societal expectations of privacy,” Clement said,
the law sufficiently protects cell-phone users’ constitutional
rights by authorizing warrantless searches only against
individuals the government believes are reasonably suspicious
and who are identified with “specific and articulable facts.”  Judge James Dennis, in a dissenting opinion, called the
records “the most personally revealing information” cellular
providers collect. He compared the data to the GPS location
information, which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled last year was
covered by Fourth Amendment privacy protections.  The case is In Re: Application of the United States of
America for Historical Cell Site Data, 11-20884, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  