-- Sony Earnings Face Setback as Loeb Criticizes Movie Unit
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-07-30T22:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/sony-earnings-face-setback-as-loeb-criticizes-movie-unit.html
Billionaire investor  Daniel Loeb ’s
latest criticism of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s film and TV studio may be borne
out this week as first-quarter profit evaporates following big-budget flops at the box office.  The maker of Xperia smartphones and PlayStation consoles
may break even when it announces results Aug. 1, according to
the average estimate of three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . Sony, the world’s box-office leader last year, generated
$425.8 million in ticket sales during the quarter, less than
half of a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since Loeb’s Third Point LLC recommended selling off part
of the entertainment unit in an initial public offering, the
studio has released box-office disappointments in “After
Earth” and “White House Down.” Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  is focused on unprofitable electronics while entertainment
needs closer supervision amid a lack of franchises and bloated
costs, the hedge fund said in its quarterly investor letter.  “Given entertainment’s perpetual underperformance, perhaps
Sony’s reluctance to discuss it candidly stems from
(understandable) embarrassment,” Loeb wrote. “We are also
surprised that Sony’s CEO does not worry that entertainment
continues to generate profitability levels far below those of
its competitors.”  Sony posted net income of 93.9 billion yen ($956 million)
in the March quarter, compared with a  loss  of 24.6 billion yen a
year earlier.  ‘Poor Controls’  Full-year net income is  projected  to total 55.3 billion yen
for the 12 months ending March 2014, according to the average of
17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s in line with
the company’s May projection of 50 billion yen.  The film unit didn’t have a movie in the top 5 in the June
half, according to data from Box Office Mojo and Morgan Stanley.  Sony Pictures Entertainment  “is characterized by a
complete lack of accountability and poor financial controls”
under Sony Entertainment Chief Executive Officer Michael Lynton
and studio co-Chairman Amy Pascal, Third Point LLC said.  Sony’s board has agreed to consider Loeb’s proposal to sell
part of the entertainment unit in an IPO. Hirai has stressed the
importance of ties between electronics and the entertainment
business.  “Sony is focused on creating  shareholder value  by
executing on our plan to revitalize and grow the electronics
business, while further strengthening the entertainment and
financial services businesses, which generate stable profit,”
 Jim Kennedy , a New York-based spokesman for Sony, said in an e-mailed statement.  Consumer Electronics  After topping U.S. movie sales last year, Sony has fallen
to sixth this year, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  Third Point, based in  New York , said in May that it held a
Sony stake valued at $1.1 billion, and since then it has been
pushing Loeb’s plan. An independent board and shareholders would
lead to more disciplined and accountable management at Sony’s
 Culver City , California-based movie and television studio, Loeb
has said.  Third Point owned 70 million shares through direct
ownership and cash-settled swaps as of mid-June, and is
interested in representation on Sony’s board, it said in a June
17 letter to Hirai. The holding represents about 6.9 percent of
outstanding shares, up from 64 million shares in May.  Sony’s U.S.-traded American depositary receipts rose 1.8
percent today to $21.63 in New York.  “Entertainment business in general is often about luck,”
said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “Sony talks about what movies in progress but it’s hard
to make a precise estimate out of information given.”  ‘Waterworld,’ ‘Ishtar’  Music and film-studio earnings before taxes, interest,
depreciation and amortization at Sony trail industry peers,
according to Loeb. In yesterday’s letter, he compared “White
House Down” and “After Earth” to two epic Hollywood busts,
“Waterworld” and “Ishtar.” In light of the results, he said
Third Point was surprised that Hirai told reporters
entertainment was “doing just fine.”  “White House Down,” an action movie with  Channing Tatum 
and Jamie Foxx, was made for $150 million and garnered $116.4
million in global ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.
“After Earth,” with a production budget of $130 million, has
generated $235.9 million in worldwide sales.  Production budgets don’t include marketing spending, which
adds to the cost of putting out a movie. Receipts from box-office sales are typically split between studios and theaters.  Sony had a success in June with “This Is the End,” which
cost $32 million to make and has generated $107.6 million in
global ticket sales.  Hardware Progress  Loeb was kinder yesterday toward Sony’s effort to revive
Sony hardware division than in a May 14 letter that cited
“persistent losses” in electronics.  The strong momentum in introducing the Xperia line of
smartphones has been accompanied by a perfectly executed
introduction of the PlayStation 4,  Third Point ’s letter said.
The game and mobile-products divisions may contribute profit,
while televisions exert less of a drag on earnings, Third Point
said.  “Sony has made notable efforts and operation has improved
but the speed of migration of consumers to mobile products is
even faster,” said Yasuo Nakane, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
Group. “It’s tough for the company as its cameras, camcorders,
games, smartphones, TVs, personal computers and tablets are
cannibalizing each other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  