-- South Africa Water Expenditure Needs Rise to $71 Billion
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-30T12:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/south-africa-water-infrastructure-requires-700-billion-rand.html
South Africa will look to the bond
markets, banks and increasing customer revenue to finance the
700 billion rand ($71 billion) needed to meet the country’s
growing demand for water, the Department of Water Affairs said.  Africa’s largest economy raised the estimate for spending
on water provision over the next 10 years from 570 billion rand
after including sanitation, refurbishment of existing
infrastructure and irrigation, Trevor Balzer, the department’s
acting director general, said today in an interview. The country
has budgeted for about 45 percent of the 700 billion rand
needed, leaving a gap of 385 billion rand, he said.  South Africa’s water demand will outstrip its supply
between 2025 and 2030, according to projections in the National
Treasury’s 2012 Budget Review. The country, the world’s 30th
driest, is “water stressed” and the current inability to
provide clean water to communities contributes to poverty,
inequality and poor health, a government strategy document said
in June.  “We need to look at our current sources of funding and
whether there’s an opportunity to increase funds from them,”
Balzer said during the South African Water Energy and Food Forum
in Johannesburg. “We need to look at opportunities from central
government, in concessionary financing and we’ve got to push
more on the private-sector funding through commercial banks.”  South Africa loses about 1.58 million cubic meters of water
each year, or about a third of its urban supply, to leaks and
theft, according to the second edition of the National Water
Resource Strategy, published in June.  “We must improve on our revenue collection both at a
national level for the department and at municipal level,”
Balzer said. The department is putting together an investment
plan that will have more detail on how the funding gap will be
closed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  