-- Spain Recession Eases as Unemployment Drops From Record Level
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-30T07:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/spain-recession-eases-as-unemployment-drops-from-record-level.html
Spain ’s recession eased in the
second quarter, pushing unemployment down from its highest level
in the country’s democratic history and lending support to the
government’s prediction of an economic recovery in the second
half of the year.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.1 percent from the first
quarter, when it declined 0.5 percent, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said today. That matched the Bank of
Spain’s estimate on July 23. Inflation in July was 1.8 percent,
INE said in a separate release.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said last week that the
government must continue to overhaul the fourth-largest  economy 
in the euro region to consolidate a “fragile” recovery. Four
years of budget cuts have sapped domestic demand, hindering an
exit from a slump triggered in 2008 by the end of a real-estate
boom that lasted over a decade.  Cars will be among the first items Spanish consumers
purchase as the economy recovers,  Ramon Paredes , vice president
at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Seat unit, said last month. Seat has lost the
consumer sector of young adults looking to buy their first car
due to Spain’s record unemployment, he said. The jobless rate
fell to 26.3 percent in the second quarter from a record 27.2
percent, INE said on July 25.  “Difficult challenges remain ahead, the biggest of all is
unemployment,” de Guindos told lawmakers in  Madrid  on July 25,
adding that the government will order an independent review of
labor rules implemented in 2012. The nation needs to “deepen
reforms” in order to avoid a relapse as happened in 2011 after
a few quarters of growth, he said.  Economic Reforms  The Bank of Spain and the  International Monetary Fund  have
called on the government to take further steps to help companies
cut payroll. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who
saved Spain from a full European bailout last year after it
received EU aid for its banks, has repeatedly recommended
“growth-friendly” policies that don’t “unravel” the
austerity steps that have been taken.  At 10.6 percent, Spain’s  budget deficit  was the largest in
the European Union last year. The country has  until 2016  to
bring overspending back within the EU limit of 3 percent of
output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  