-- Spirit Falls With Indigo Stake Sale Seen as Step to Frontier
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-07-30T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/spirit-backer-indigo-s-stake-sale-seen-as-step-to-frontier-bid.html
Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  fell the most
in 10 months as investor Indigo Partners LLC prepares to sell
its holdings in a move that may be a step by the private-equity
firm to bid for  Frontier Airlines .  Spirit  declined  8.3 percent to $32.45 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day drop since September, after Indigo
filed to liquidate 12.1 million shares, or a 17 percent stake.  Indigo unloading its shares means managing partner William Franke will step down as non-executive chairman of the discount
airline. The private-equity firm is in exclusive talks with
Frontier parent  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) , Dow Jones
reported today, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation.  “If Indigo were to acquire Frontier, it would be negative
for Spirit because Bill Franke and his team at Indigo have
intimate hands-on knowledge of the Spirit business model and its
market potential,” James Parker, an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc., wrote in a note to investors today.  Deal Imminent  Franke decided to resign as Spirit’s chairman and sell
Indigo’s shares in the Miramar, Florida-based carrier because he
was concerned he couldn’t be a director of two competitors at
the same time, Dow Jones reported.  Prior to Spirit, Franke served as chairman and CEO of
America West Airlines Inc., the airline that combined with US
Airways Group Inc. in 2005 and kept that carrier’s name.  John
Wilson , a principal at Indigo and former executive at America
West, will also step down from Spirit’s board after the sale is
completed.  Peter Kowalchuk, a spokesman for Indianapolis-based
Republic, declined to comment. Representatives from Phoenix-based Indigo didn’t immediately respond to calls for comment.  Republic has had Frontier on the market for the past 18
months and a “deal could happen in the next several weeks,”
 Helane Becker , an analyst at Cowen & Co., said in a note today.
Becker, who is based in New York, rates Spirit’s shares
outperform.  If Indigo purchases Frontier, it would “raise the
potential for a successful competitor for Spirit,” said Parker,
who rates the shares outperform.  ‘Transforming Frontier’  Republic fell 0.4 percent to $13.30 at the close in  New
York  and has more than doubled this year.  On a conference call this month, executives at Republic
said that airline had entered into an exclusive, non-binding
agreement with a third-party buyer for Frontier, which operates
a fleet of about 50 planes in the Airbus SAS 320 family.  Republic Chief Executive Officer Bryan Bedford has said he
wants to transform Frontier into a low-cost, high-fee carrier
like Spirit. In May, Frontier  announced  plans to start charging
customers for carry-on baggage and refreshments.  “We are continued in our determined focus on transforming
Frontier into an ultra-low-cost carrier,” Daniel Shurz, a
senior vice president at Frontier, said during the Republic
conference call this month.  Bedford also said Republic wouldn’t continue to invest in
turning Frontier into a low-cost carrier. Instead, the company
would allow an investor to decide whether to pursue the
strategy, he said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  