-- Spy Program Boosters in Congress Join Calls for Curbs
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-07-30T22:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/spy-program-boosters-in-congress-join-calls-for-curbs.html
(Corrects Lofgren and Sensenbrenner legislation starting
in 19th paragraph.)  Fierce defenders of U.S. government
surveillance programs are the latest members of Congress to
suggest curtailing them, as a push started by Tea Party
Republicans and civil libertarian Democrats gains momentum.  Just two months after U.S. contractor Edward Snowden
disclosed the nature of the National Security Agency’s
collection of phone and Internet records from millions of
Americans, a House proposal to defund it came seven votes short
of passing July 24. Lawmakers in both parties now say they’re
drawing plans to restrict data collection, declassify court
orders allowing the spying and change the way the court’s judges
are appointed.  “That vote in the House reflected a very big amount of
skepticism amongst the people they represent” about “whether
people’s individual rights are being encroached upon,” Senator
 John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, said at a Bloomberg
Government luncheon yesterday.  McCain, one of the most vocal supporters on  Capitol Hill  of
anti-terrorism programs, said he wants to boost congressional
oversight of the activities and provide transparency to the
operations of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which
authorizes the data gathering.  Any move to diminish the NSA’s surveillance powers would
run into objections from staunch supporters of the programs,
including the Obama administration, the intelligence community
and congressional leaders, though they may be amenable to more
disclosure and oversight. The public also remains divided over
whether electronic spying efforts should be curtailed.  Public Opinion  Underpinning efforts to curb the NSA programs is a shift in
 public opinion  about government surveillance activities
fashioned after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. A July
17-21 Pew Research Center poll found that 50 percent of adults
surveyed approved of the government’s collection of phone and
Internet data, while 44 percent disapproved.  The Pew poll found that civil liberties concerns are
becoming the predominant issue for many American adults, with 47
percent saying their biggest concern is that the policies have
gone too far in restricting  privacy rights . Only 35 percent said
they’re more concerned that the surveillance isn’t going far
enough.  The July poll marked the first time that civil liberties
trumped protection from terrorists as the top issue since the
center began asking about that in 2004.  The telephone poll of 1,480 adults had a margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points.  Close Vote  Lawmakers are “being bowled over by a public reaction to
the level of surveillance and the absence of knowledge and the
absence of checks and balances,” said  Gordon Adams , a professor
at American University in Washington who teaches national
security policy. “We’re going to start seeing some
legislating.”  In last week’s House 205-217 vote, both parties and their
leaders splintered over an amendment to an annual defense-spending bill that would have ended the NSA’s blanket collection
of phone records. While 94 Republicans and 111 Democrats
supported curtailing funding for the telephone record-collection
effort, 134 Republicans and 83 Democrats voted against it.  Supporters of the amendment included Representative  James Clyburn  of  South Carolina , the third-ranking Democrat in the
House, and House Republican Conference Chairwoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington. The chamber’s top party leaders --
Republican Speaker  John Boehner  and Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  -- both voted against it.  Democrats’ Letter  While Boehner later defended the surveillance, Pelosi
reached out to the White House to seek changes. Pelosi and 153
other House Democrats sent President  Barack Obama  a letter July
26, urging curbs that would “preserve American’s privacy and
civil liberties while protecting our national security.”  Debate moves to the Senate, where the Judiciary Committee
will hold a hearing tomorrow on government surveillance powers.
Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , a senior Democrat on the
panel, said on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday that he supports
limits on the collection of metadata from telephone calls.  In both chambers, the leaders of the intelligence panels
have begun discussions with other lawmakers about changes to the
data-collection program even as they defend the need for it.  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, has said he will include new privacy
protections in an annual intelligence measure that will include
more disclosure about how the FISA court makes decisions.  That broader measure may also include a shift in how
“metadata” are stored and retained, with private companies and
not the government holding the information, according to a
congressional aide who asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the legislation.  Bill Planned  Rogers and the panel’s top Democrat, Dutch Ruppersberger of
 Maryland , both defended the phone-records collection last week
while pledging to “foster stronger public confidence.”  Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican
who sponsored the Patriot Act in 2001, and Democratic
Representative Zoe Lofgren of  California  are working together on
legislation to allow businesses to disclose their involvement
with surveillance orders.  A separate Sensenbrenner bill would limit collection of
phone data to targets of a federal terrorism investigation and
put new restrictions on the FISA court, said Ben Miller, a
Sensenbrenner spokesman.  Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat and
member of the House Intelligence Committee, has introduced two
bills since the Snowden revelations that would revamp the FISA
court. One would change the selection process for the court’s
judges, taking it out of the hands of the U.S. Supreme Court
Chief Justice to allow White House input and Senate
confirmation. The other seeks to declassify many of the FISA
court’s secret rulings.  NSA Supporters  Some lawmakers seeking changes to the government’s data
collection say they want the revisions to be narrowly tailored.  “I support these programs,” McCain said yesterday. “I
think many of them are important; it’s not that I want to
dismantle them. I do think we got to be much more transparent.”  Former intelligence officials last week released an open
letter defending the need for the government to keep
administering the programs as they’re configured today.  “We urge leaders of both parties in  Washington  to come
together to defend these programs and to ensure their effective
continuation,” wrote the officials, who included Porter Goss,
the former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and
Stephen Hadley, a former White House national security adviser.  A real question is whether or not Obama will leap into the
debate with his own proposal to thwart the ideas he finds most
objectionable, said Sean Kay, a professor of politics and
government at  Ohio  Wesleyan University in  Delaware , Ohio. The
president has some political incentive to act because there are
risks to Democratic turnout in the 2014 midterm elections if he
doesn’t take a stand for civil liberties, Kay said.  “This is the kind of thing that political advisers around
the president might look at and say, ‘If we’re not real careful
here, this issue could depress the vote in our base,’” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  