-- Stevens Says Inflation Data Still Gives RBA Scope to Ease
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-30T05:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/stevens-says-inflation-hasn-t-shifted-rba-scope-to-ease-policy.html
Australia ’s central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said second-quarter inflation data suggests
there’s still room to lower interest rates if required and that
he wouldn’t be surprised if the currency dropped further.  “Recent inflation data do not appear to have shifted” the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s assessment that the outlook for
prices may “afford some scope to ease policy further if needed
to support demand,” he said today in the  text  of a speech in
Sydney. “The recent decline in the  exchange rate  seems to make
sense from a macroeconomic perspective. It would not be a major
surprise if a further decline occurred over time.”  The Australian dollar dropped as traders added to bets the
RBA will reduce the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point
at next week’s meeting, adding to 2 percentage points of
reductions since November 2011. The RBA had left the cash rate
unchanged at a record-low 2.75 percent for the past two meetings
as the currency slid 12 percent last quarter, easing pressure on
the economy.  “An August rate cut would appear more likely than not,”
Adam Boyton, chief economist for Australia at Deutsche Bank AG
in Sydney, said in a research report after the speech. “The
speech sketches a ‘modest’ outlook for the economy.”  The currency, which held above $1 from mid-June last year
to May 9, traded at 90.85 U.S. cents at 3:03 p.m. in Sydney
today, from 91.60 cents before the speech was released. The
yield on two-year government debt fell to 2.34 percent, the
lowest in a year, as swaps traders bet there’s a 94 percent
chance the RBA will lower its benchmark rate on Aug. 6.  Shifting Portfolios  “One of the things we have been watching for as we have
been reducing  interest rates  has been an indication of savers
shifting portfolios towards some of the slightly more risky
asset classes, as that is one of the expected and intended
effects of monetary policy easing,” Stevens said today. “There
are clearly signs of policy working in this respect, though not,
to date, by so much that we see a serious impediment to further
easing, were that to be appropriate.”  Australia’s economy has been driven by a mining investment
expansion to meet demand in emerging nations including  China .
The central bank is aiming to rebalance the economy toward
employment-intensive industries including residential
construction as the investment boom wanes and China’s outlook
remains clouded. Government data today showed Australian
building approvals slumped 6.9 percent in June from a month
earlier.  ‘A While Off’  “Business capital spending outside the resources sector
has been subdued; housing investment likewise has been on the
low side,” Stevens said today. “There is ample scope for both
to rise. This is by no means a certainty though and while there
are signs of an increase in dwelling investment getting under
way, a stronger trend in non-resources business investment looks
like it is a while off yet.”  Government data showed last week that Australia’s  core
inflation  remained below the midpoint of the central bank’s 2
percent to 3 percent target in the second quarter compared with
a year earlier.  Asked in the question-and-answer session after the speech
about the impact on inflation of the falling Australian dollar,
Stevens said the RBA’s inflation targeting framework has
sufficient flexibility and credibility.  “Swings in the exchange rate, we’ve had some quite big
ones in recent years, and I think it’s unlikely that they’re
going to derail us seriously on inflation,” he said. “I don’t
think we’ll have too many dramas on that front, short of a very,
very large depreciation.”  Syrian Pound  The Aussie retreated 12 percent in the three months through
June, the biggest slide worldwide behind the Syrian pound, after
the RBA cut rates in May and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  signaled for the first time on May 22 that a
tapering of bond purchases that have devalued the greenback may
be on the cards as the world’s largest economy strengthens.  “Achieving the sort of growth we aspire to has become more
difficult,” Stevens said today. “Average output growth has
been lower over the past five years in Australia, as it has in
all other advanced economies. Moreover, the challenges ahead are
substantial and will require the appropriate responses.”  Resources Peak  Australian “resource sector investment rose from an
average of about 2 percent of GDP, where it had spent most of
the previous 50 years, to peak at about 8 percent,” Stevens
said today. “That big rise is now over, and a fall is in
prospect, with uncertain timing. It could be quite a big fall in
due course.”  Australia’s  unemployment rate  rose to 5.7 percent in June,
the highest since 2009, as full-time jobs declined in the month,
according to government data.  Consumer confidence  slid in July
and business conditions slumped in June, private reports showed
this month.  “It is somewhat concerning that the business community’s
confidence has been quite subdued in recent times,” Stevens
said today. “To the extent that substantial structural change
has been occurring, and there is inevitable uncertainty over the
international outlook, it is quite understandable that some
business segments have found the going hard and don’t feel very
confident. Moreover, the phase shift of the mining boom itself
is dampening confidence in some areas.”  China Concern  In China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, most
provinces reported first-half growth below annual targets that
in some instances were already lower than last year’s goals,
underscoring the breadth of the nation’s slowdown.  The statistics highlight the risk of China missing the
year’s nationwide 7.5 percent expansion goal as official concern
over local-government financing threatens to curb funding for
investment.  Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who is due to call an
election by the end of November, has altered the government’s
economic message since ousting predecessor  Julia Gillard  in
June. He’s selling himself as the best leader to steer Australia
through a downturn as Chinese demand wanes, and voters are
responding, with the ruling  Labor party  drawing level with the
opposition in some opinion polls.  “This speech marked the first occasion when the RBA seems
to have declared that mining investment is now passed its
peak,” said Paul Bloxham, chief Australia economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA economist. “We expect
the RBA to cut the cash rate next week, although this is
somewhat conditional on the level of the Australian dollar in
coming days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  