-- Sullivan & Cromwell, Wachtell, Milbank: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/sullivan-cromwell-wachtell-milbank-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised
 Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , a U.S. maker of over-the-counter medicines, which
agreed to buy Irish drug company  Elan Corp. (ELN)  for $8.6 billion,
gaining a low-tax base for international expansion. Morgan,
Lewis & Bockius LLP is providing Perrigo with counsel on
antitrust/competition. Elan was advised by A&L Goodbody and
Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft LLP.  The S&C team includes partners Matthew Hurd and Krishna Veeraraghavan, corporate; Andrew Mason and Davis Wang and Ron Creamer, tax; Matt Friestedt, executive compensation and
benefits; John Baumgardner, investment company act; and Adam Paris, contract issues.  The Morgan Lewis team included partner and practice group
leader of Morgan Lewis’s antitrust practice Scott Stempel and
antitrust partners Harry Robins and Izzet Sinan.  A&L Goodbody’s team for Elan was led by partners Alan Casey
and Cian McCourt.  The Cadwalader team included partners Christopher Cox and
Gregory P. Patti Jr., corporate; and David Miller and Richard Nugent, tax.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP acted as
financing counsel for Perrigo. The Fried Frank team includes
corporate partners Stuart Gelfond and J. Christian Nahr and tax
partner Robert Cassanos.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is representing Citigroup as
financial adviser to Elan. The firm’s team is led by co-chair of
Gibson Dunn’s M&A group and New York partner Barbara Becker and
includes New York corporate partner Dennis Friedman and London
corporate partner James Barabas.  Holders of Elan’s American depositary receipts will receive
$16.50 per ADR in cash and stock, the companies said in a
statement yesterday. The price is 11 percent more than the July
26 close for the ADRs and compares with an earlier offer of as
much as $15.50 per ADR by Royalty Pharma.  Buying the Dublin-based business allows Perrigo, based in
Allegan, Michigan, to re-domicile itself in Ireland, where the
corporate income-tax rate is 12.5 percent. It also gives the
acquirer access to royalties for the multiple sclerosis drug
Tysabri, which Elan discovered and then sold to  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) 
on Feb. 6. Elan began a formal sale process on June 15 after
Royalty Pharma tried to acquire it.  Perrigo sells non-prescription products for conditions such
as acid indigestion and nasal congestion, as well as generic
drugs, nutritional supplements and animal treatments, according
to its  website .  For more, click here.  Willkie, Stikeman on Hudson’s Bay $2.4 Billion Saks Purchase  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and Stikeman Elliott LLP are
acting for  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , the operator of  Canada ’s largest
department store chain, which agreed to acquire luxury retailer
 Saks Inc. (SKS)  for $2.4 billion, creating a company that will operate
320 stores in North America. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is
legal adviser to Saks.  The Willkie team was led by Gordon Caplan and Greg Astrachan and included partners Michael Zinder, Steven Klein,
Henry Cohn, Michael Katz and Jeff Korn.  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by Patricia A. Vlahakis, Joshua R. Cammaker and Gordon S. Moodie and consists
of partners Damian G. Didden, antitrust; Adam J. Shapiro,
executive compensation and benefits; Joshua A. Feltman,
restructuring and finance; and Jodi J. Schwartz, tax.  Stikeman’s legal team includes partners Ian Putnam and John Ciardullo, corporate/M&A; Dean Kraus, tax; Doug Klaassen, real
estate; Jennifer Legge, banking; Jeffrey Brown, antitrust; and
Eliot Kolers, litigation.  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP represents Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. as financial adviser to Saks. The firm’s team is led by New
York corporate partner Lois Herzeca.  The purchase price of $16 a share will be paid in cash, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. That represents a 30
percent premium to Saks’s closing price on May 20, the day
before media reports began, according to the statement.
Including debt, the transaction is valued at $2.9 billion.  Hudson’s Bay, founded in 1670 and based in Toronto, expects
the deal, which brings together Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth
Avenue brands, to produce C$100 million ($97 million) in cost
savings within three years. Saks hired Goldman Sachs in May to
explore strategic alternatives, including a sale.  For more, click here.  Essilor to Buy PPG’s Lens Venture Stake for $1.73 Billion  Jones Day LP is representing  Essilor International SA (EI) ,
which agreed to buy full control of its Transitions Optical
venture from  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  for $1.73 billion to strengthen
its tinted-products line in the French lensmaker’s biggest deal
ever. PPG’s counsel is Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz and Hogan
Lovells LLP.  The Jones Day team is led by New York mergers and
acquisitions partners Jere Thomson and Wesley Johnson Jr.  Additional Jones Day partners included Fiona Schaeffer, Joe Sims and Ryan Thomas, antitrust and competition law; Phil
Douglas and John Majoras; business and tort litigation; Manan
Shah, employee benefits and executive compensation; Warren
Nachlis, intellectual property; Todd Geremia, issues and
appeals and Scott Levine, tax.  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by corporate partner Steven A. Rosenblum and consists of partners Ronald C. Chen, corporate;
Ilene K. Gotts, antitrust; Adam J. Shapiro, executive
compensation and benefits; and Jodi J. Schwartz, tax.  Hogan Lovells ’ team included partners Elizabeth Donley,
Glenn Campbell and Audrey Reed.  The purchase of PPG’s 51 percent stake in the partnership
will add to earnings the first year that Transitions Optical is
integrated, Essilor, based in the Paris suburb of Charenton-le-Pont, said yesterday in a statement.  Transitions Optical makes polarizing lenses that adapt to
changing light and block harmful solar rays. The segment is
expanding at twice the rate of the optical industry, said
Essilor, the world’s biggest maker of eyeglass lenses. The
Pinellas Park, Florida-based venture had 2012 sales of $814
million. The takeover also includes Intercast, a supplier of sun
lenses based in Parma,  Italy , Essilor said.  PPG plans to use proceeds from the sale for  acquisitions 
and share repurchases, it said. The company, which suspended
stock buybacks at the start of the second quarter because of the
negotiations with Essilor, will restart the transactions, with a
targeted range of $500 million to $750 million for the year, PPG
said.  For more, click here.  Wachtell, Latham Advise Publicis and Omnicom on Merger  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  agreed to merge
in an all-stock transaction to create the world’s largest
advertising company with $23 billion in revenue, toppling market
leader  WPP Plc. (WPP)  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is advising
Publicis and Latham & Watkins LLP is advising Omnicom.  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by partners Martin Lipton and Adam O. Emmerich and includes partners Ante Vucic,
corporate; Deborah L. Paul, tax: Michael J. Segal and David E. Kahan; executive compensation and benefits; Eric M. Rosof,
restructuring and finance; and Ilene K. Gotts, antitrust.  Latham & Watkins’s cross-border team is led by mergers and
acquisitions partners Mark Gerstein and Brad Faris, securities
partner Joel Trotter and litigation partner Jeff Hammel. Advice
was also provided by partners Timothy FitzSimons, Olivier du
Mottay and Charles-Antoine Guelluy, corporate; Alex Cohen,
securities; Nicholas DeNovio, Laurence Stein, Sean Finn and
Xavier Renard, tax; Roger Goldman, litigation; Marc Williamson
and Michael Egge, antitrust and regulatory; and David Della Rocca, benefits and compensation.  Shareholders of Paris-based Publicis and New York-based
Omnicom will each hold about 50 percent of the new entity,
Publicis Omnicom Group. Publicis Chief Executive Officer Maurice Levy and John Wren, his counterpart at Omnicom, will be co-CEOs
as they unveiled the agreement at a press conference in Paris
July 28. Pending regulatory and stockholder approvals, the
creation of an industry powerhouse with $35 billion in market
value is expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2014.  The alliance will bring under one roof agencies including
Omnicom’s BBDO Worldwide and Publicis’s Leo Burnett and Saatchi
& Saatchi, extending their presence in every major market.  For more, click here.  Moves  Ex-Intelsat General Counsel Joins Milbank’s Washington Office  Phillip Spector, who for the past eight years has been
general counsel and head of business development at satellite
operator Intelsat, joined Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP’s
 Washington  office.  At Intelsat, Spector’s responsibilities included strategic
ventures and acquisitions, government affairs and regulatory
matters, procurement and provisioning of satellite capacity, and
multibillion dollar financing transactions, the firm said.  Before joining Intelsat in 2005, Spector was the managing
partner of the Washington office of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP, a member of the firm’s management
committee, and chairman of its communications and technology
group.  Spector will work closely with space-business partners
Peter Nesgos in New York and Dara Panahy in Washington. He will
also handle corporate and telecommunications matters.  “Phil will actively support our goal to solidify and
broaden our significant market presence in the space business
and expand our activity for existing satellite operator and
manufacturer clients, along with the major banks and investment
funds active in the sector,” Nesgos, who leads Milbank’s space
business group, said in a statement. “We see space and telecoms
continuing as a growth-engine for economies on a world-wide
basis.”  Milbank has 600 lawyers at 11 offices in the Americas,
Europe and Asia.  Antitrust Partner Joins Latham & Watkins in Brussels  Latham & Watkins LLP announced that antitrust lawyer Sven
Volcker will join the firm’s Brussels office as a partner in the
litigation department. He was previously at Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP.  Volcker’s practice includes counseling on EU antitrust
rules, merger clearance, cartel and other cases. In 17 years of
practice, he has advised on cross-border M&A matters and multi-jurisdictional cartel and abuse of dominance cases in industries
such as aviation, high technology, software and financial
services, the firm said.  Volcker is the second antitrust partner to join the firm’s
Brussels office recently. Lars Kjolbye is also joining the
Brussels office from Covington & Burling LLP.  “They are tremendous practice-builders, formidable
practitioners and great team players,” Michael Egge, global co-chairman of Latham & Watkins’ antitrust and competition practice
said in a statement about Volcker and Kjolbye. “The addition of
these experienced partners to our European and global practice
is a testament to our commitment to build a uniquely qualified,
highly skilled team that can handle a wide range of complex,
high-stakes assignments for our clients.”  Latham has more than 2,000 lawyers in 31 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Middle East and Asia.  News  Michigan Attorney General Seeks Role in Detroit Bankruptcy  Michigan ’s attorney general joined the  Detroit  bankruptcy
case, two days after announcing he would represent retired city
workers by seeking to enforce a clause in the state constitution
that shields pensions from cuts.  The filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit by
Attorney General Bill Schuette didn’t indicate whether he was
seeking to supplant the private lawyers already hired by the
city’s pension systems, to represent a proposed committee of
retired city workers or to act in some other capacity.  Yesterday’s move puts Schuette, 59, on both sides of the
debate over Detroit’s $18 billion bankruptcy. He has already
gone to a state appeals court on behalf of Governor Rick Snyder,
a fellow Republican, to defend the bankruptcy filing, which the
governor authorized on July 18.  Schuette asked a state appeals court to put on hold a lower
court’s July 19 ruling that Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing violated
the Michigan Constitution, which says public pension benefits
are an obligation that can’t be diminished.  The attorney general said on July 27 that he would join the
dozens of lawyers representing city workers, retirees,
bondholders and other creditors that are working on the case.  “I will defend the rights of Michigan citizens and defend
the Constitution of the state of Michigan,” he said in a
statement.  Schuette went on to say that he will continue to
“aggressively represent” Snyder, who was sued by city pension
officials that sought to prevent the bankruptcy.  Joy Yearout, Schuette’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 