-- Swedish Economy Unexpectedly Shrinks as Export Slump Deepens
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-30T08:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/swedish-economy-unexpectedly-shrinks-as-euro-crisis-hurts-demand.html
Sweden’s economy unexpectedly shrank
in the second quarter as the largest Nordic economy struggles to
expand amid slack demand from the recession-plagued euro area.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.1 percent in the three
months through June, after growing 0.6 percent in the prior
quarter, preliminary data from Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden
showed. Annual growth was 0.6 percent, slowing from 1.7 percent.
The economy was seen expanding a quarterly 0.1 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of 12 economists.  “Despite the weaker-than-expected figures, this will not
change the outlook for monetary policy,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB. “The first and the
second quarter should be seen together, showing some growth in
the first half of the year. Given the favorable conditions for
households, we should see a healthy consumption growth going
forward, and indicators suggest that exports should improve
gradually.”  The central bank this month kept its main rate unchanged
and said it will probably start raising rates in the second half
of next year as the economy improves. The export-reliant
economy’s recovery has been hampered by weak demand from euro-area nations that are struggling to emerge from the bloc’s
longest recession since the introduction of the single currency.  The krona slid 0.7 percent to 8.6433 per euro as of 9:48
a.m. in  Stockholm .  Exports Fall  Exports declined 0.8 percent in the quarter and household
consumption dropped 0.1 percent, the statistics agency said.
Government spending gained 0.2 percent and gross fixed capital
formation climbed 0.1 percent.  Both manufacturing and  consumer confidence  rose in June and
output is expected to grow 1.5 percent this year, compared to
0.7 percent in 2012, according to central bank estimates.  Finance Minister Anders Borg has said the government needs
to keep stimulating the economy next year to boost demand. It’s
spending 23 billion kronor ($3.6 billion), or about 0.7 percent
of GDP, this year on infrastructure, research and a reduced
corporate tax to 22 percent from 26.3 percent.  “The protracted crisis is leaving deep scars and a
recovery in Europe is having a hard time gaining traction,”
Borg said earlier this month in a statement.  Seasonally adjusted unemployment rose to 8 percent in June
from 7.9 percent the previous month, according to Statistics
Sweden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  