-- U.K. Lawmakers Urge Corporate-Tax Review
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/u-k-lawmakers-urge-corporate-tax-review.html
British lawmakers called for the
government to review its corporate-tax system as well as
encouraging the international push to reform global tax rules to
fight avoidance by multinational companies.  The House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee said in a
report published in  London  today that better oversight of tax
deals between the government and multinational companies is
needed. It called for a joint panel of both houses of Parliament
to be set up to hear testimony in private from Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs, the U.K. tax agency.  “There’s a sense that  corporation tax  is voluntary for
some multinationals which operate globally while small U.K.-
based businesses go by the book and have to pay,” John MacGregor, the chairman of the committee, said in an e-mailed
statement. “That brings the tax system into disrepute and loses
much-needed revenue.”  Group of 20 nations meeting in Moscow earlier this month
backed a plan to fight  tax evasion  presented by the  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development  and said tax planning
needed to be tackled. The Lords panel said today that though the
U.K. should continue to back the OECD’s reforms, it must review
its own tax rules as the Paris-based organization’s plans may
not be implemented within the proposed two-year timescale.  The Economic Affairs Committee said the Treasury should
review the way debt and equity are treated as the current system
may encourage companies to take on excessive debt in the U.K. to
reduce liabilities.  Large companies should also be required to publish a
summary of their corporation-tax returns to ensure clarity on
what taxes have been paid and to make it clearer when action
against tax avoidance is needed, the panel said.  The report also criticized HMRC’s practice of employing
staff on secondment from the four largest accountancy firms, and
said it should have more officials to deal with tax avoidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  