-- U.K. Should Make More Demands on Whiplash Claimants, Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/u-k-should-make-more-demands-on-whiplash-claimants-panel-says.html
The U.K. should consider reducing
time for road-accident insurance claims and require whiplash
claimants to produce more supporting evidence to prevent
fraudulent claims and cut premiums, a panel of lawmakers said.  There are about 500,000 claims each year for whiplash
injuries where soft tissue, usually in the neck, is damaged in
car accidents, according to the committee. The Association of
British Insurers says costs associated with whiplash claims make
up 20 percent of the average motor insurance premium.  In a report published today, Parliament’s cross-party
Transport Committee said the government should consider
requiring claimants to provide proof that they have either been
seen by a doctor or attended hospital emergency services shortly
after the accident. There should be a presumption against
accepting claims where adequate proof of injury is not provided,
the lawmakers said.  “The government must tighten up the requirements for
motor-insurance claims and ensure that insurers honor their
commitment to reduce premiums,” opposition Labour Party
lawmaker Louise Ellman, who chairs of the panel, said in an e-mail.  Direct Line Insurance Group Plc said the report highlights 
the need for the government to make fundamental changes to tackle 
fraudulent claims. The U.K.'s biggest home and motor insurer has 
called for a mandatory 90-day time limit for whiplash claims.   A more rigorous medical process and tighter timescales 
``will help reduce fraud and speed up the process for those 
genuinely injured,'' Steve Maddock, managing director of claims 
at Direct Line, said in e-mailed comments.  One in eight people who make a personal-injury claim for 
whiplash have either fabricated or exaggerated their injuries, 
according to Direct Line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  