-- UBS Has Relationship With 80% of Asia’s Billionaires
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-07-30T13:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/ubs-has-relationship-with-80-of-asia-s-billionaires.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss lender that’s
shrinking its investment banking business to focus on wealth
management, said it has a business relationship with as many as
eight out of 10 billionaires in  Asia .  “We have a penetration of one in two billionaires in the
world,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  told analysts
and reporters on a call after second-quarter earnings today.
“In Asia, this was much deeper.” The Zurich-based bank has a
relationship with as many as 80 percent of the billionaires in
Asia, a UBS official said in an e-mail following the call.  UBS is targeting affluent clients in  emerging markets  as
indebted economies and a crackdown on offshore tax evasion cloud
European growth prospects.  Switzerland ’s largest bank, ranked
No. 1 globally by client assets by Scorpio Partnership, is
boosting business with ultra-wealthy families with at least 50
million francs ($54 million) of investable assets.  The lender posted preliminary first-half earnings last week
that beat analysts’ estimates, even as it booked charges tied to
an $885 million settlement with the U.S. Federal Housing Finance
Agency over mortgage-backed bond sales. Pretax earnings at the
 wealth-management  division for customers outside the Americas
rose 11 percent to 557 million francs, the company added today
in a more detailed quarterly filing.  That unit attracted 10.1 billion francs in net new money,
with emerging markets and the Asia-Pacific regions driving
growth, and the most money coming from so-called ultra-high-net-worth individuals.  ‘Clear Trend’  The wealth-management business in the Americas added 2.7
billion francs in net new funds, boosting assets under
management worldwide to more than 1.7 trillion francs at the end
of June, compared with 1.4 trillion francs two years earlier.  “Our growth in the last 10 quarters since 2011 has been
clearly above market trends,” Ermotti said on the call. “We
are gaining back not only share of wallet with existing clients
but also more and more we can see a clear trend in the last two
quarters of new clients coming on board.”  UBS overtook Bank of America Corp. to the top a ranking as
it benefited from clients invested in emerging markets, London-based Scorpio said on July 10. Global wealth management assets
rose 8.7 percent to $18.5 trillion last year, helped by a 24
percent increase in net new money and market gains, according to
the report, which placed U.S. lenders  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  in third and fourth place respectively.  Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s second-biggest wealth manager, was fifth.  ‘Compelling Prospects’  UBS reported today for the first time how much money it
makes on assets of ultra-high-net-worth clients. The bank said
the super-rich segment has “compelling economics and growth
prospects,” as the lower costs of running the business make up
for a weaker margin on assets under management.  The bank said its net margin on ultra-high-net-worth
assets, which amounted to 394 billion francs at the end of June,
was 24 basis points, compared with 40 basis points for other
clients. The ratio of pretax profit to revenue was 43 percent
for the wealthiest, compared with 33 percent for others.  UBS’s wealth management unit reported a 1 basis point
decrease in gross margin, which reflects how much revenue the
bank makes on assets it oversees, to 90 basis points from 91
basis points in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  