-- Hudson’s Bay Takes Upscale Lead With Saks Deal:
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-07-31T12:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/hudson-s-bay-takes-upscale-lead-with-saks-deal-corporate-canada.html
(Corrects number of stores Nordstrom plans to open in 10th
paragraph.)  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) ,  Canada ’s oldest
company, is poised to challenge retailers Nordstrom Inc. and
Holt Renfrew & Co. Ltd. with a $2.4 billion purchase of  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  that takes the battle for consumers upscale.  HBC plans to open six to seven Saks stores in Canada by
next year, converting existing stores or building new ones after
announcing a deal yesterday to buy the New York-based chain for
$16 a share. The Toronto company, descended from a 17th-century
beaver-pelt trading firm, plans to open as many as 25 Saks Off
5th discount luxury retail locations.  The prime downtown locations of Hudson’s Bay provides Saks
an edge in the contest for luxury market consumers as Canada’s
condominium-buying population gravitates to cities. Seattle-based  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  is set to arrive in 2014.  “We’re going to be able to roll out our Saks stores at a
small fraction of what it will cost Nordstrom to open a store,”
Hudson’s Bay Chief Executive Officer Richard Baker said
yesterday in an interview.  HBC, Canada’s biggest department store chain, may also open
Saks locations close to rival Canadian luxury retailer Holt
Renfrew, including on Bloor Street in Toronto, where Holt is
based, Baker, 48 said. Holt, which has been in business since
1837, is owned by Hilary and W G Galen Weston. W G Galen Weston,
Canada’s second-richest man, is chairman of George Weston Ltd.,
the bakery company that controls grocer  Loblaw Cos. (L)   Suburban, Urban  “Hudson’s Bay Company has got these locations in downtown
spots, there’s a huge push right now from suburban to urban,”
said John Crombie, national retail director at Cushman &
Wakefield Ltd. “Hudson’s Bay has really got a lot more
opportunities there than Nordstrom would ever see.”  HBC is paying about nine times Saks’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on an equity
basis, compared with a median multiple of eight for similar
deals compiled by Bloomberg.  HBC rose 8.6 percent in the two days after the announcement
to close at a record high of C$17.90 in Toronto today. The
shares have risen 7.3 percent since the company’s initial public
offering in November. Saks has risen 4.6 percent since the
announcement to $16.02 at the close in New York for a rise of 52
percent this year.  Nordstrom Coming  The transaction is the latest in a string of retail deals
in Canada. Loblaw agreed to buy Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. for
C$12.4 billion ($12.1 billion) this month; Sobeys Inc. purchased
Safeway Inc.’s Canadian grocery stores for C$5.8 billion; Target
Corp. plans to open 124 stores this year and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. is adding 37 locations as competition for Canadian spending
heats up.  Nordstrom will open its first store in Calgary in the
autumn of 2014, with four more locations planned for major urban
centers like Vancouver, Montreal and Toronto. Nordstrom will
also open 15 to 20 Nordstrom Rack discount retail locations,
Karen McKibbin, president of Nordstrom Canada said in a July 16
interview.  “Over the years we’ve found that increased competition is
not only best for the customer but one of the best ways to help
us raise our game,” Colin Johnson, a spokesman for Nordstrom in
 Seattle , said in an e-mail yesterday.  Julie D’Uva, a spokeswoman for Holt Renfrew, said no one
was available to comment on the transaction yesterday.  Nordstrom won’t be able to offer the TopShop brand at its
Canadian locations as it does in the U.S., McKibbin said.
Hudson’s Bay has an exclusivity contract with the U.K. brand.  Luxury Antidote  “Hudson’s Bay Company could use the Saks banner and brand
selectively in Canada as a Nordstrom, Simon, Holt Renfrew
antidote,” said Tal Woolley, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
in a note to clients dated June 25, before the deal was
finalized. Woolley said Saks would enable Hudson’s Bay to
“pursue a more aggressive off-price strategy with Off 5th,
allowing Hudson’s Bay Company to compete more effectively at the
higher end of the market.”  HBC will also increase its U.S. presence with the deal,
which will add 41 Saks stores and 67 Saks Off 5th stores to its
48 U.S. Lord & Taylor stores and 90 Hudson’s Bay stores in
Canada, said Wayne Kozun, senior vice president of public
equities at Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, which will own 17
percent of HBC if the deal is completed. Ontario Teachers’ and
funds advised by West Face Capital Inc. will provide HBC with
$500 million and $250 million of equity funding, respectively,
to support the transaction, according to the statement
yesterday.  ‘Iconic Brand’  “We think this is a great opportunity to buy what is in
Canada a very iconic brand and to help them leverage themselves
to become a much bigger player,” in North America, Kozun said
in a phone interview yesterday from Toronto. Baker has done a
great job at “reinvigorating” the HBC brand by bringing a new
generation of customers into the stores, he said.  Baker over the past seven years has acquired and refreshed
retail chains while leveraging their real estate. Baker and NRDC
Equity Partners LLC, agreed to buy Hudson’s Bay in 2008,
investing $500 million in new equity.  He hired Bonnie Brooks as president and put her in charge
of The Bay after Brooks engineered the turnaround of Hong Kong-based department store Lane Crawford Joyce Group. Under Brooks,
Hudson’s Bay has upgraded and modernized its stores while
replacing under-performing brands with stronger ones.  HBC  reported  a loss of C$80.7 million on sales of C$884
billion in the first quarter of 2013 compared with a C$129.7
million loss on sales of C$848.2 million in the year-ago period.  Dividend Redirect  HBC will reduce its quarterly dividend to C$0.05 per share
from C$0.0937 per share after closing the acquisition, with the
intention of directing cash flow to reducing debt, according to
a company statement.  Saks trails Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom in key metrics
including sales per square foot because Saks over-expanded last
decade and is saddled with some under-performing stores. Saks
posted revenue of $3.15 billion last year, short of the $3.28
billion it recorded in the retail year that ended in early 2008.
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove has been closing the
chain’s underperforming branches. It now operates 41 namesake
stores, compared with 54 in early 2007.  Saks will continue to be based in New York and retain its
existing management, Baker said yesterday. While the newly
merged entity will combine back-office operations to save costs,
the three chains will retain separate buying operations so the
merchandise will reflect each brand’s identity, Baker said.  Considering REIT  HBC will evaluate creating a real estate investment trust
with the combined portfolio of the three main retail nameplates
it will now own, according to the statement yesterday.  Spinning out the retail properties into a real estate
investment trust will help increase returns to investors and
makes it a more attractive investment for Ontario Teachers’,
Kozun said.  “The key to the deal is Saks’ real estate, valued at $1.5
billion,” said Perry Caicco, an analyst at CIBC World Markets,
in a note to clients on July 30. Saks’ real estate was acquired
at 10.7 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and can be “spun into a REIT at a much higher
multiple,” Caicco said.  “Should the company elect to spin-out a REIT, we believe
leverage reduction will be accelerated,” Derek Dley, an analyst
with Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in a note to clients July 30.
Dley estimates the total REIT value to be C$3.8 billion with an
estimated REIT value per share of C$11.77.  REITs, which are taxed differently than companies by the
government, invest in income-producing real estate and pay out
most of their income to investors through unit distributions.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 REIT index has risen 3.8 percent over
the past 12 months compared with a 22 percent gain in the broad
S&P 500 stock guage. The S&P/TSX REIT  index  has dropped 12
percent over the same period.  Including debt, the transaction is valued at $2.9 billion.
Hudson’s Bay, founded in 1670, expects the deal to produce C$100
million in cost savings within three years. Saks hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in May to explore strategic alternatives,
including a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  