-- Zimbabwe Ends Vote to Decide If Mugabe Will Extend Rule
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-07-31T18:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/mugabe-bids-to-extend-rule-as-zimbabwe-chooses-president.html
Most Zimbabwean polling stations
closed in an election that will decide whether President  Robert Mugabe  will extend his 33-year rule amid claims by his opponents
that a flawed electoral roll threatened a free vote.  Both Mugabe, 89, and his main challenger,  Morgan Tsvangirai , 61, said they’re confident of victory and will
respect the result. While balloting for the southern African
nation’s president and 210 members of parliament was due to end
at 7 p.m. local time, electoral commission chairwoman Rita Makarau said turnout was high and polling booths would remain
open as long as needed “even if takes us to midnight.”  Voting was largely free of the violence that marred the
last Mugabe-Tsvangirai contest in 2008. Tsvangirai led the first
round of that election before he pulled out of a run-off saying
about 200 of his supporters had been killed.  “After all the conflict and stalemate, the suspicion, the
hostility, I think there is a sense of calmness that finally
Zimbabwe will be able to move on again,” Tsvangirai said after
voting with his wife in Harare’s Mt. Pleasant suburb.  The ballot will end a coalition government accord arranged
in 2009 by the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community 
after an aborted election the year before. The deal left Mugabe,
who’s led Zimbabwe since independence from the U.K. in 1980, as
president and named Tsvangirai prime minister. The electoral
commission’s failure to release the voters’ register prompted
complaints by Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change.  Election ‘Illegal’  “We have stated clearly that these elections are illegal
and unfair,” MDC Secretary-General Tendai Biti told reporters
yesterday in the capital, Harare. “Despite that, we are
absolutely certain we will win.”  Makarau told reporters in Harare that the election was
“free and fair.”  As many as 2 million people have been excluded from the
electoral roll, and in some cases a third of voters were turned
away from polling stations, he said.  Mugabe dismissed the claims as “politicking” in remarks
to reporters after he voted.  Dzikamai Tafumani, a 39-year-old mother of three in
Harare’s Mabvuku township who supports Tsvangirai, said she
wasn’t able to vote because her name didn’t appear on the
voters’ roll at four polling stations.  “We are suffering in  Zimbabwe ,” said Tafumani, who works
in a high school. “We get paid peanuts. Tsvangirai helped us a
lot during the unity government. Mugabe wants us to die. It’s
not a free and fair election.”  Voters’ Roll  The electoral register remained the most contentious issue
in the vote. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission printed 8.7
million ballots for the elections, while there are 6.4 million
registered voters, according to Makarau.  Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, who’s leading
observers from the  African Union , called the elections
“peaceful, orderly and free and fair.”  Emerging after casting his ballot in the Highfield township
outside Harare, Mugabe waved a pink-inked finger showing he had
voted toward reporters and said he still had plenty of work to
do.  “I’ve got lots of things to do -- repair our industries,
which have collapsed,” he said. “There’s much work to be done
in the mining sector.”  Mugabe and his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic
Front forced mining companies such as  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  to cede a majority share
of their local assets to black Zimbabweans or the government.
The southern African nation has the world’s second-biggest
platinum and chrome reserves as well as deposits of diamonds,
gold and coal. Tsvangirai has promised to repeal the measure.  Mugabe Education  “Mugabe educated us really, so how can he expect us to
believe his party will make us rich owners of huge mines and
banks,” said Rudo Kaseke, 28, a seamstress in Harare’s eastern
Mabvuku suburb. “We know how things work because he educated us
and now he’s promising things that we know can’t happen thanks
to his education. It’s very strange.”  During the life of the power-sharing government, ministers
from the MDC helped to steer Zimbabwe out of recession and slow
inflation that had soared to 500 billion percent, according to
the  International Monetary Fund . The economy has expanded every
year since 2009, with Finance Minister Biti predicting 3.4
percent growth this year.  Biti abolished the Zimbabwe dollar in favor of a multi-currency system using mainly the  U.S. dollar  and the South
African rand.  Mugabe’s Zanu-PF retained control of the security forces.  The electoral commission said on July 13 that it will
announce results of the presidential vote by Aug. 5. The process
took about a month in 2008. It hasn’t set a date for results
from the parliamentary ballot to be released.  “There’s been little violence, which itself is suspicious
because it means some other plan is being made to win,” said
Pleasance Matibenga, a 30-year-old male nurse in Harare. “You
won’t find anyone at ease or confident until all this is over.
This country is never-ending stress and uncertainty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Harare at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  