-- Umicore Gains After Maintaining Profit Forecast: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-07-30T08:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/umicore-gains-after-maintaining-profit-forecast-brussels-mover.html
Umicore SA (UMI) , the world’s largest
precious-metals recycler, rose the most in 10 months in Brussels
trading after maintaining its  profit forecast  following a drop
in metal prices.  Umicore soared as much as 8 percent on Euronext Brussels,
the biggest intraday gain since Sept. 14, and traded 1.32 euros
higher at 33.59 euros by 10:13 a.m. local time. The shares had
lost 23 percent this year through yesterday, the  worst
performance  among the 24 companies in the Stoxx 600 Chemicals
Index.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items will
decline to about 315 million euros ($418 million), plus or minus
15 million euros, this year, the Brussels-based company said
today in a statement. That compares with the 302.1 million-euro
average of 14 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The reiteration of the guidance range should come as a
relief to some that were looking for a cut,” Filip De Pauw, an
analyst at ING Bank NV in Brussels, wrote in an investor note.
“On 2014, we remain concerned given the limited scope for
volume growth in recycling, coupled with weaker spot metal
prices.”  Umicore’s recycling business, which accounted for  more than
70 percent  of operating profit last year, may not see the full
impact of the drop in precious-metal prices before next year as
the company tries to lock in prices 18 months to 24 months in
advance, Chief Executive Officer Marc Grynberg said on a
conference call in April. Recycling profit fell 16 percent in
the first half amid lower spot prices for specialty metals such
as  selenium , tellurium and rhodium, which Umicore can’t hedge,
and declining supply of spent auto-catalysts.  Precious Metals  Precious-metal prices have fallen more than 17 percent from
a Feb. 6 peak, as measured by the Bloomberg Spot Precious Metals
Index tracking prices of platinum, gold, palladium and silver.
The price of selenium was on average 36 percent lower in the
first half compared with the same period a year earlier,
 tellurium  30 percent and  rhodium  about 17 percent, according to
Metal Bulletin and  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Umicore trades for about 15.1 times next year’s profit,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, while Johnson Matthey
trades for 16.5 times estimated earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  