-- Unilever Euro Bonds Rise on First Trading Day as Spreads Narrow
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-30T14:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/unilever-euro-bonds-rise-on-first-trading-day-as-spreads-narrow.html
Unilever’s 750 million euros ($995
million) of notes rose on their first day of trading as yield
premiums on investment-grade corporate bonds in the region
dropped to a five-week low.  The Anglo-Dutch company’s 1.75 percent notes due August
2020 rose 0.5 cent on the euro to 100.2 cents at 3:01 p.m. in
 London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra  yield 
investors demand to hold euro-denominated investment-grade bonds
rather than  government securities  fell to 108.8 basis points,
the lowest since June 19, Bloomberg bond indexes show.  Borrowing costs dropped in  Europe  this month after central
banks in Europe and the U.K. sought to calm a rout in bond
markets triggered when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
indicated stimulus measures might be reduced. The ECB and the
U.S. Federal Open Market Committee are both holding meetings
this week.  “I think that Europe is sitting in a reasonably good
place,” said Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at
Morgan Stanley in London. “If the FOMC is more dovish, broad
risk markets will take that well. If the Fed is more hawkish, it
might remind investors of the contrast with recent statements
out of the BoE and the ECB.”  The average yield for euro-denominated investment-grade
company notes onds fell to 1.97 percent, the lowest in a week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Unilever is the first
non-financial company to sell investment-grade bonds in euros in
a week, according to Bloomberg data. The consumer-goods maker’s
first sale since 2008 received four times as many offers than
bonds available, a person familar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private.  French investors bought 27 percent of the bonds, while
buyers in the U.K. took 25 percent, 22 percent went to investors
in  Germany  and the remaining 26 percent was distributed among
other countries, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  