-- Uralkali Sinks Most Since 2008 as Pact Exit Signals Potash Drop
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-30T16:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/uralkali-sinks-most-since-2009-as-end-to-pact-stokes-potash-drop.html
OAO Uralkali tumbled the most in
more than four years as the world’s biggest potash producer
disrupted the industry by lifting limits on production that
underpinned prices.  The stock slumped 19 percent to 151.92 rubles by the close
in Moscow, the most since November 2008. Uralkali lost as much
as 26 percent and closed down 19 percent at $23 in  London , the
steepest decline since February 2009. That trimmed the discount
to the local stock to 0.2 percent.  The Russian potash producer will switch exports to its own
trader, Uralkali Trading, from the Belarusian Potash Co. joint
venture, known as BPC. Uralkali sees global potash prices
falling below $300 a ton after the company changes its trading
policy, Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said. The
stock  slumped last week  as Russian billionaire  Alexander Nesis 
sold off his 5.1 percent. Two weeks earlier, the Berezniki,
Russia-based company completed the buyout of shareholder
Zelimkhan Mutsoev for $1.3 billion.  “Uralkali unexpectedly decided that sales prices aren’t
that important,” Elena Sadovskaya, an analyst at Rye, Man & Gor
Securities, said by phone from Moscow today. “This creates
enormous risks.”  Uralkali’s cooperation with Belarusian potash producer
Belaruskali reached “a deadlock” after the government in Minsk
canceled their joint trader’s exclusive right to export the
country’s potash and Belaruskali made independent deliveries,
Uralkali said in a statement.  Shareholder ‘Signal’  “Those who followed the actions of the main shareholders,
received their signal in time,” Kirill Bagachenko, who manages
about $3 billion in Russian equities at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by phone.  Uralkali’s venture and a group comprising  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. , Mosaic Co. and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  had played off
each other, moderating output and exports along with demand to
prevent price swings.  The yield on Uralkali’s dollar bonds due April 2018, surged
35 basis points to a record 5.29 percent, the biggest jump since
June 24.  BCS cut the stock to sell today following the announcement,
according to an e-mailed note. VTB Capital reiterated its sell
recommendation and reduced the 12-month price estimate to $12,
citing concern potash will trade 40 percent below the five-year
average following the break-up of Uralkali’s “oligopoly” in
the sector, according to a note today.  Investors Exit  Nesis had bought into Uralkali together with billionaires
Suleiman Kerimov and Filaret Galchev in 2010. Mutsoev agreed in
June to sell his 189 million shares, a stake of about 6.4
percent.  “There’s a clear trend of investors exiting Uralkali as
there are no signs of recovery for the potash market in the near
future,” Sadovskaya said by phone yesterday. “This market is
not meant for investors seeking fast returns. People have been
streaming out of the stock following the Nesis stake sale.”  Prices for potash have fallen because of plentiful producer
inventories, stockpiles in  China , which imports about a fifth of
global shipments, and historically low import volumes in  India .  Potash Corp. (POT)  cut its 2013 earnings forecast by as much as
20 percent last week because of falling prices for the nutrient
used in fertilizer. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered Uralkali to
hold July 24, a day before VTB Capital reduced its rating on the
stock to sell.  Full Capacity  Potash Corp. tumbled 20 percent to $30.145 by 10:07 a.m. in
 New York , the most on an intraday basis since October 2008.  K+S
AG (SDF) , a German potash maker, retreated 24 percent to 20.10 euros,
the most since the stock’s listing in September 1998.  “For many years BPC, which accounted for 42 percent of the
global potash market, had been the sole supplier of potash
fertilizers manufactured by Belaruskali and Uralkali,” Denis Vorchik, an analyst at UralSib Capital, said in an e-mailed note
today. “The split between the two key global players is a game
changer for the concentrated global potash market. The lack of
supply-side discipline will cause global potash producers to
switch to volume-maximization strategies, which will lower the
bargaining power of suppliers and put potash prices under
pressure.”  Uralkali, which has the lowest production costs among
international peers, will run at full capacity next year,
Baumgertner told reporters by phone today. Output will rise to
13 million tons in 2014 from 10.5 million tons this year, he
said. Uralkali’s production cost is $62 a ton, compared with
more than $100 a ton for North American producers and almost
$240 in  Europe , according to a company presentation in July.  Sales Drop  Uralkali’s first-quarter sales fell 18 percent from a year
earlier to $738 million as volume tumbled 10 percent, the
company said on June 17. The average export price of $313 a ton
represents a 17 percent slump from the year-earlier period,
Uralkali said.  Goldman Sachs, in cutting the stock’s rating, cited
diminishing support from Uralkali’s $1.6 billion buyback program
as it nears its end, according to the July 24 note. Uralkali’s
purchases totaled $1.25 billion as of July 19, the company said
in a statement.  Uralkali froze the program after deciding to change the
trading policy, seeing “volatility” in potash producers’
shares, Baumgertner said. It won’t announce a tender offer for
its stock at the end of the year, he said.  Buying a Uralkali stake was a “strategic, long-term”
investment for Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva, Anna Kolonchina, chief
managing director at the investment holding company, said by e-mail. Nafta Moskva sees “fundamentally strong” characteristics
in the potash industry and is confident in the sector’s growth,
she said. The press service of Eurocement Group, where Galchev
serves as board chairman, declined to comment, as did Uralkali’s
press service.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.8 percent to 1,387.31 by
the close in Moscow today. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  fell
1.1 percent to 1,326.41. The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of
most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. slumped 0.7 percent for
its fifth day of declines today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  