-- Uralkali Breaks Potash Accord to Grab Market Share
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-07-30T21:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/uralkali-sees-potash-price-slump-after-exiting-bpc-trade-venture.html
OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s largest
potash producer, upended the $20 billion-a-year commodity market
by abandoning limits on output that underpinned prices while
halting cooperation with Belarus that controlled supplies from
the former  Soviet Union .  The announcement of the decision yesterday sent shares of
potash miners plunging as much as 27 percent from  Israel  to
 Germany  to  Canada  and the U.S. as investors speculated a flood
of supplies will lead to lower prices for the soil nutrient that
strengthens plant roots. Uralkali, part-owned by billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov, said it exited its marketing venture with
Belarus after its neighbor undermined sales accords.  “Uralkali’s announcement completely turns the global
potash market upside down,” Elena Sakhnova, a VTB Capital
analyst in Moscow, said by phone. “If previously global potash
producers were acting like an oligopoly, working with the rule
that benefited higher potash prices over shipped volumes, now
the market will be fully competitive.”  Uralkali’s venture with Belarus, and a group comprising
 Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc., Mosaic Co. and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) 
played off each other, moderating output and exports along with
demand to prevent price swings.  Uralkali shares fell 19 percent to 151.92 rubles in Moscow
yesterday, the biggest drop since November 2008. Trading was
suspended for a half hour after shares crossed the 20 percent
threshold.  Trading ‘Deadlock’  K+S AG (SDF)  shares plummeted 24 percent in  Frankfurt , the most
in 14 years, and  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  fell 18 percent in  Tel
Aviv . Potash Corp. and Mosaic both dropped 17 percent in  New
York  and Agrium declined 5.4 percent.  Uralkali plans to switch exports to its own unit, Uralkali
Trading, from Belarusian Potash Co., a joint venture with
Belaruskali set up in 2005 to bolster their market position.
Cooperation reached “a deadlock” after Belarus’s government
canceled BPC’s exclusive right to export the nation’s potash and
Belaruskali exported the fertilizer ingredient on its own, the
Berezniki, Russia-based producer said in a statement.  Filipp Gritskov, a BPC spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Olga Dolgaya, a spokeswoman for the government of Belarus.  “The potash price may fall below $300 a ton after the
change in our trading policy,” Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner said. That’s at least 25 percent below the
current contract price for  China  and the lowest since January
2010. The price will remain higher than $200 a metric ton, the
production cost level for some international producers, he said.  Price Decline  Potash in  Vancouver , an export port for the commodity,
fetched $410 a ton as of July 29, according to weekly price data
from Green Markets. The price has dropped 19 percent in the past
12 months. It reached $840 in 2009 before plunging to $325 the
following year as farmers postponed purchases.  Uralkali, which has the lowest production costs among
international peers, will run at full capacity next year,
Baumgertner told reporters by phone. Output will rise to 13
million tons in 2014 from 10.5 million tons this year, he said.
Uralkali’s production cost is $62 a ton, compared with more than
$100 a ton for North American producers and almost $240 in
 Europe , according to a company presentation in July.  Other global producers will be hurt more than Uralkali,
which will be cushioned by increasing sales volumes, Sakhnova
said. It’s the only potash producer that can ship potash by rail
directly to China, the largest consumer of the soil nutrient,
and it may hinder Belarus’s reach into the market, she said.  China Supplies  Rail deliveries to China will reach as much as 2.5 million
tons of potash annually, Baumgertner said. Uralkali forecasts
stable revenue on increased sales volumes and will keep its
dividend policy unchanged, he said.  Uralkali will extend its first-half supply contract with
China through December, meaning it will ship as much as 500,000
tons more potash to the Asian market by the end of the year,
Baumgertner said. The price may be cut from the current $400 per
ton, he said.  China’s current spot price of $350 a ton may “to some
extent” be considered a target this year, he said.  Uralkali hadn’t planned to renew the China contract this
year, hoping to sign a new agreement in October or November at a
price no lower than the current level, according to a statement
from Baumgertner on May 29. At the time, it also cut railway
shipments by about two-thirds to get a higher price.  Billionaire Sales  Uralkali said July 22 it bought back about $1.3 billion as
part of a $1.6 billion repurchase program. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. cut Uralkali to hold July 24, a day before VTB Capital
reduced its rating on the stock to sell.  Anticipating the shift in trading policy will create
volatility in the share prices of all global potash producers,
including itself, Uralkali said it has frozen the buyback
program and won’t make a tender offer for its stock by the end
of the year, according to Baumgertner. Last month, Baumgertner
said that the board in November may consider more stock
purchases so that major shareholders could participate.  Billionaire  Alexander Nesis  sold off his 5.1 percent stake
in Uralkali, the company said July 26, two weeks after the
company completed buying out shareholder Zelimkhan Mutsoev for
$1.3 billion.  Uralkali also decided against proceeding with its
Polovodovskoye greenfield development because of the potential
changes in the potash market, Baumgertner said.  “No longer does Uralkali plan to follow a price before
volume strategy,” analysts at Liberum Capital Ltd., led by
Sophie Jourdier, said yesterday in a note. “We expect global
potash prices to fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  