-- Turkey’s Basci Says Fed Tapering Fears Causing Faster Inflation
-- B y   O n u r   A n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-07-30T12:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/turkey-s-basci-says-fed-tapering-fears-causing-faster-inflation.html
Turkey’s central bank will keep
monetary policy tight as long as inflation forecasts stay high
over possible  Federal Reserve  tapering of debt purchases,
Governor Erdem Basci said today in Ankara.  Basci revised the bank’s year-end inflation forecast today
to 6.2 percent from 5.3 percent previously, citing lira
volatility and rising energy import costs. Inflation accelerated
to 8.3 percent in June, will probably peak around 9 percent this
month, then gradually decline, he said.  “I would like to say openly that we will maintain this
strong monetary stance until the inflation outlook is in line
with our targets,” Basci said.  The lira has plunged since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said May 22 that he was considering reducing monetary stimulus,
triggering a sellff in emerging-market assets, down 4.1 percent
per dollar at 1:45 p.m. today. That, together with  monthlong
anti-government protests in June, have made the lira the second
worst-performing  emerging markets  currency in  Europe ,  Africa  and
the  Middle East  after  Russia ’s ruble. Turkey will have missed
its year-end inflation target of 5 percent for a third year if
consumer prices remain above target.  The bank in Ankara increased its overnight lending rate by
75 basis points to 7.25 percent on July 23, and said
“additional monetary tightening will be implemented when
necessary.” It kept its benchmark one-week repo rate and
overnight borrowing rate unchanged at 4.5 percent and 3.5
percent respectively.  Near-Term Stability  The central bank expects the policy rate to remain
unchanged at 4.5 percent in the near term, Basci said. The
average cost of lending to banks since the July 23 rate decision
has increased 49 basis points to 5.65 percent yesterday, and
Basci said it may rise to 6.75 percent before peaking at 7.25
percent.  The central bank increased its forecast for the average
price of Brent oil in 2013 to $107 a barrel from $103 a barrel
earlier. The increased oil price expectations combined with the
weakening lira accounts for nearly all of the 0.9 percent
revision to year-end inflation forecast.  Turkey  relies on
imports for almost all of its natural gas needs and more than 90
percent of its crude oil requirements.  Higher-than-expected inflation in the services sector
accounted for the rest of the revision in the inflation
forecast.  Inflation will decline significantly starting next February
and will “approach” the 5 percent target mid-2014, Basci said.  “The lira is 5 percent below the level where it could be
called overvalued,” Basci said. “Tight monetary policy will
not be a problem since the lira is not overvalued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  