-- Valeo First-Half Profit Rises on Fuel-Saving Auto Parts
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-30T07:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/valeo-first-half-profit-rises-on-fuel-saving-auto-parts.html
Valeo SA (FR) ,  France ’s second-biggest
car-parts maker, said first-half earnings rose 3.8 percent as
demand for fuel-saving technology more than offset declining
auto production in Europe. The stock rose to a 12-year high.  Earnings before interest, taxes and other expenses, which
Valeo calls the operating margin, increased to 384 million euros
($509 million) from 370 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. Earnings beat the 353.5
million-euro average of four analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 2.8 percent to 6.17 billion euros.  “Valeo’s operating margin came to 6.2 percent of sales,
demonstrating its resilience in the context of decreased
production in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer Jacques Aschenbroich said in the statement. “Given the results of
Valeo’s efforts in innovation and expansion in  Asia  and emerging
countries, we are confident that the group will achieve its
medium-term financial objectives.”  The company, whose products span windshield wipers,
headlights and “stop-start” ignition systems, is tightening
its focus to technology promoting vehicle safety, comfort and
pollution reduction to increase profitability. Aschenbroich
pledged in March 2011 to boost annual revenue to 14 billion
euros by 2015, propelled by more than doubling sales of fuel-saving components.  Stock Jumps  Valeo  jumped  as much as 3.8 percent to 58.78 euros, the
highest intraday price since March 7, 2001, and was trading up
3.7 percent at 9:23 a.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 56
percent this year, valuing the company at 4.67 billion euros.  The company raised full-year  targets  today, saying it now
sees a “slight increase” in the operating margin as a
proportion of revenue in 2013, “assuming stabilized market
conditions in  Europe .” Valeo’s earlier forecast was for the
figure to match the level of 2012.  The French manufacturer now expects a 2 percent to 3
percent decline of auto production in Europe this year and an
advance of 2 percent globally. It reiterated its full-year
target of better sales than average in its main markets. Valeo
predicted in April that European car production would fall 4
percent, with global output increasing 1 percent.  The “worst is behind us” in the European car market,
Aschenbroich said today at a Paris press conference.  Carmaker Sales  Excluding the effects of acquisitions or disposals and
currency shifts, group original-equipment revenue increased 5.7
percent, with a 4 percent gain in Asia, pushed by a 22 percent
surge in  China , and a 14 percent jump in  North America , Valeo
said. First-half European and African original-equipment revenue
on that basis rose 3 percent.  Exchange-rate effects reduced the operating margin by 0.3
percentage point in the period, Valeo said. Currencies affecting
earnings included the yen, Brazilian real, Indian rupee and
Argentinian peso, arising from the need to import parts to  South
America , Chief Financial Officer Robert Charvier said at the
press conference.  First-half order intake fell 5 percent from a year earlier
to 7.3 billion euros. Free  cash flow  totaled 113 million euros
over the period, down from 148 million euros a year earlier, as
Valeo invested in factories and in research and development. Net
debt narrowed to 457 million at end of June from 763 million
euros at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  