-- Vodafone Begins $10.2 Billion Kabel Deutschland Tender
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-30T11:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/vodafone-says-german-financial-regulators-approve-kabel-proposal.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  began its 7.7
billion-euro ($10.2 billion) takeover of German cable company
 Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG after receiving approval from the
country’s financial regulators to publish details of the offer.  Kabel Deutschland shareholders have until Sept. 11 to
decide on the 87 euro-per-share bid, which includes a 2.50-euro
dividend, Newbury, England-based Vodafone said in a statement
today as it released the offer documents. As of today, Vodafone
has a 4.2 percent stake in Kabel Deutschland.  The purchase will give Vodafone access to the German
company’s 8.5 million connected households as well as potential
customers for offers packaging phone, Internet and TV
subscriptions. It will also intensify competition with  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , the country’s former phone monopoly, on whose
network Vodafone has so far relied for wireline services.  The deal “will create a leading integrated communications
operator in Vodafone’s largest European market,” the company
said in the offer document, published on its website today.
Kabel Deutschland “provides Vodafone with an attractive
platform for TV and fixed broadband in Germany.”  Vodafone won’t make significant divestments or cuts to
Kabel Deutschland’s workforce, according to the document.  Kabel Deutschland’s supervisory board is scheduled to meet
Aug. 1 to discuss the proposal, a person familiar with the
matter said earlier this month. The company has said it would
recommend Vodafone’s offer to shareholders.  Deal Approvals  Vodafone  shares  rose 0.4 percent to 195.2 pence at 11:26
a.m. in London. Kabel Deutschland rose 0.3 percent to 84.75
euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  Europe is experiencing a wave of consolidation attempts as
bidders take advantage of low valuations for telecommunications
assets. Vodafone sparred with  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
for control of Kabel Deutschland. Liberty bought U.K. Internet
and television provider Virgin Media Inc. in June and has been
increasing its stake in Dutch cable-TV provider  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) ,
reaching 28.5 percent, according to a July 26 regulatory filing.  A month after Vodafone announced the deal for Kabel
Deutschland, Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  of the
Netherlands agreed to combine their German phone businesses.
European telecommunications companies have been the target of
$43.9 billion in announced deals in the last 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Had Vodafone completed the Kabel Deutschland purchase by
April 2012, revenue would have been 3.5 percent higher at 46
billion pounds in the year ended in March 2013, according to the
document. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, would have been 14 billion pounds instead of the
13.3 billion pounds the company reported.  The companies aim to wrap up the transaction following
Kabel Deutschland’s Oct. 10 annual shareholder meeting, pending
antitrust approval, people familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  