-- VW Targets Second-Half Boost as Europe Threat Recedes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-07-31T15:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/vw-first-half-profit-drops-on-weak-european-car-demand.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, is counting on the rollout of the VW Golf and Audi A3
compacts to increase earnings in the second half as the threat
from the region’s auto-market contraction wanes.  VW plans to make up for a 12 percent decline in operating
profit in the first half of 2013 to match last year’s earnings
for the full year, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said
today. The optimism for the rest of this year echoes comments
from other European carmakers as cost cuts help offset the
effects of a six-year slump in vehicle sales.  “The economic drivers are moving in the direction for the
car market,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , an analyst with LMC
Automotive in Oxford,  England . The second half “will be the
beginning of the long road back for the European market from the
trough it currently finds itself in.”  After Europe’s economy contracted for a record six
quarters, the region is showing signs of a nascent recovery as
manufacturing output unexpectedly expanded in July for the first
time in two years and business confidence improved for a third
month. LMC predicts the auto market will show growth of less
than 1 percent in the final six months of 2013.  Manufacturers including  Fiat SpA (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  narrowed losses in their European operations even
as first-half car sales in the region slumped 6.7 percent to a
two-decade low.  Surprise Gain  Volkswagen today reported a surprise 1.8 percent increase
in second-quarter operating profit to 3.44 billion euros ($4.56
billion). Analysts were anticipating earnings to decline to 3.07
billion euros, according to the average of 12 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 8.5 percent to 52.1 billion euros.  Volkswagen’s shares  rose  1.4 percent to 178.65 euros in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has advanced 3.8 percent this year,
valuing the company at 80.8 billion euros.  The second-quarter gain followed a 26 percent drop in
operating profit in the first three months of 2013. Higher
demand worldwide for Audi and Porsche models has helped offset
weaker deliveries of mainstream vehicles in  Europe .  Backed by earnings from its growing luxury-car business and
new models including a sedan version of the Audi A3, Volkswagen
stuck to a forecast for full-year operating profit to be on the
same level as 2012. The company expects revenue to rise, driven
by higher auto sales. VW intends to progressively bring down
costs in the coming quarters by rolling out parts-sharing
technology among its brands.  Porsche Macan  Volkswagen is relying on the seventh generation of its top-selling Golf hatchback, introduced at the end of last year, to
help it boost sales this year. Audi, the world’s second-biggest
maker of luxury cars and VW’s main earnings contributor, expects
the A3 sedan to lure more American and Chinese buyers.  New models including the Porsche Macan compact sport-utility vehicle and the first SUV for the ultra-luxury Bentley
marque are part of the company’s goal of overtaking GM and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s largest automaker by 2018.  Reining in spending helped  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, report a narrower loss than analysts
had estimated for the first half. Demand for the new Peugeot
2008 crossover also helped trim auto losses for the company,
which has suffered more than most competitors from the region’s
slump because of its lack of major operations abroad.  “We’re at a stabilization” in the European car market,
Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said today at an
event in Paris. “We don’t foresee any major improvement in
perspectives in the near future but the situation isn’t further
deteriorating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  