-- Wacker Quarterly Profit Tops Estimates on Construction Chemicals
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-07-30T05:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/wacker-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-on-construction-chemicals.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , Europe’s largest
polysilicon maker, posted second-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates on higher demand for construction chemicals.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the quarter fell 22 percent from a year earlier
to 188.2 million euros ($249.6 million), the Munich-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated Ebitda of 171.4 million euros.  The manufacturer today reiterated a full-year forecast for
sales to drop about 3 percent to 4.5 billion euros and earnings
to fall because of lower selling prices for solar silicon and
semiconductor wafers. An agreement between the European Union
and  China  on solar products could mark an upturn for
photovoltaics, the company said today.  “Our chemical divisions performed well during the April-through-June period,” Chief Executive Officer Rudolf Staudigl
said in the statement. “In polysilicon, low price levels and
trade-policy risks remain a challenge.”  Quarterly sales declined 5.9 percent to 1.15 billion euros,
missing a 1.18 billion-euro estimate. Net income plunged 75
percent to 15.1 million euros.  Wacker, whose shares fell in November to the lowest price
since its 2006 IPO, has gained 40 percent this year in Frankfurt
trading. The manufacturer, majority-owned by the founding
family’s holding company, Dr. Alexander Wacker
Familiengesellschaft mbH, has a market value of 3.6 billion
euros.  Wacker’s profitability has suffered as manufacturing
capacity for polysilicon exceeded demand and the company faced
increased competition from low-cost Asian producers. That
prompted Wacker to delay output at a new polysilicon factory in
 Tennessee  by 18 months.  Chinese competition against European manufacturers has now
been limited after negotiators last week reached an agreement to
curb EU imports of solar panels from China in exchange for
exempting the shipments from punitive tariffs.  The accord would set a minimum price for imports of the
renewable-energy technology from China. In return, Chinese
manufacturers would be spared EU levies meant to counter below-cost sales, a practice known as dumping.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  