-- Weir Gains After Reporting an Improved Forecast for Oil Unit
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-30T14:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/weir-gains-after-reporting-improved-outlook-for-oil-gas-unit.html
Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the U.K.’s biggest
supplier of pressure pumps, gained the most in a month after
saying full-year revenue from its oil and gas division will be
better than previously forecast.  “With order momentum picking up in Oil & Gas, we think the
division is well positioned for 2014,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analysts including Alex Toms wrote in a note to clients.
“With the stock one of the cheapest in the sector we retain our
buy.”  Weir  rose  as much as 4.4 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since June 27. The stock traded 3.7 percent higher at
2,154 pence at 3:39 p.m. in  London , giving the company a market
value of 4.6 billion pounds ($7 billion).  Full-year revenue from oil and gas will probably be
“slightly better” than previous expectations, supported by
higher pressure-pumping sales, the Glasgow, Scotland-based
company said today in a statement. First-half orders at the
minerals division rose from the second-half of last year amid
more projects on underused or abandoned land.  Weir, the largest supplier of hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, equipment in the oil industry, boosted after-market
sales by 9 percent in the first half compared with the same
period a year earlier. The company’s order book grew 13 percent
compared to the second half of last year.  Revenue Blips  First-half revenue fell 10 percent to 1.2 billion pounds
compared with the same period a year earlier, the company said
in the statement. Operating profit, adjusted to exclude
exceptional items and intangibles amortization, slid 12 percent
compared with the same period a year earlier.  Whether destocking and project delays which hit first-half
revenue are “just blips or something more structural” will
determine how the company performs after the second half, said
Harry Philips, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.  Assuming a continued recovery in the oil and gas division
and no further delays in mining markets, Weir should meet
“full-year expectations and continue to expect to deliver low
single digit revenue growth and broadly stable margins on
2012,” Chief Executive Officer Keith Cochrane told reporters on
a conference call.  A U.S. federal antitrust probe into competitors  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  relating to pressure-pumping services,
which include fracking, has put the $36 billion industry under
increased regulatory pressure. The  Justice Department  confirmed
the probe, and gave no details about what it’s looking into.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  