-- WestJet Sees Greater Cost Savings as Net Beat Estimates
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-07-30T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/westjet-sees-greater-cost-savings-as-net-beat-estimates.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  reported
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said it
will achieve greater cost reductions than planned.  Net income increased 5.2 percent to C$44.7 million ($43.5
million), or 34 cents a share, from C$42.5 million, or 31 cents,
a year earlier, the Calgary-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts anticipated 33 cents a share, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4.3 percent to
C$843.7 million, short of a C$860.2 million average projection.  Chief Executive Officer Gregg Saretsky is working to reduce
costs at  Canada ’s second-largest carrier by C$100 million by the
end of 2015 with steps such as adding more efficient planes and
increasing per-plane flying. WestJet has “identified and
implemented actions” that will probably result in savings of
C$50 million to C$75 million next year, the company said today
in a filing posted on its  website .  For all of 2013, the airline said it now expects costs for
each seat flown a mile, excluding fuel and employee profit
sharing, to decline 0.5 percent to 1 percent -- mostly as a
result of expense reductions “achieved and anticipated.” On
May 7, WestJet had predicted costs on that basis would increase
by zero to 1 percent in 2013.  Excluding fuel and employee profit sharing, those costs
dropped 0.7 percent in the second quarter. WestJet sees the
costs declining as much as 1.5 percent in the third quarter.  Results in the latest period include C$8.4 million in
“transition costs” associated with the savings plan, the
company said without being more specific.  Boeing Fleet  WestJet  fell  0.1 percent to C$20.11 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have gained 1.5 percent this year, compared
with a 1.2 percent advance for Canada’s benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index. (SPTSX)   Revenue for each seat flown a mile, which slid 4.6 percent
in the second quarter, will “experience a similar level of
year-over-year percentage decline” in the third quarter, the
company said. WestJet blamed the expected drop on increased
capacity associated with higher utilization, the reconfiguration
of its  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 fleet, and the ramping up of its
Encore regional unit.  “They had a good cost performance in Q2, and their
expectation for the full year is substantially better than what
I was looking for,” Cam Doerksen, an analyst at National Bank
Financial in  Montreal , said in a telephone interview.  Offsetting the savings is WestJet’s third-quarter revenue
forecast, which is “definitely weaker than what I had in my
model,” said Doerksen, who has an outperform rating on the
stock. “We’ll probably see a similar situation in Q3. They
should still have a very good quarter, with continued
performance on the cost line.”  ‘Strong Traffic’  “Strong traffic and revenue growth” will continue this
quarter, WestJet said today. Jet fuel costs will probably range
between 90 and 92 cents per liter in the period, a year-over-year increase of as much as 2 percent.  Encore began operating June 24 in a bid for part of a
C$2 billion market for short-haul Canadian and trans-border
flights. Saretsky said today he’s “pleased” with initial
results. WestJet also introduced so-called premium economy
seating aimed at business travelers who want extra legroom.  Systemwide capacity will probably climb 4 percent to
6 percent next year, the carrier said today.  “The flexibility we have built into our fleet plan through
lease renewal options and our ability to deploy a mix of  Boeing
737  and Bombardier Q400 aircraft allows us to tailor capacity
and continue our profitable growth while aligning with market
conditions,” Saretsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  