-- Western Union Advances as Profit Beats Estimates: Denver Mover
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-07-30T14:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/western-union-advances-as-profit-beats-estimates-denver-mover.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the world’s
biggest money-transfer business, gained the most in three years
after reporting second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates.  Western Union climbed 7 percent to $18.16 at 10:12 a.m. in
 New York , the most intraday since April 2010 and the second-best
 performer  in the Standard & Poor’s Information Technology Index.
The shares have gained 33 percent this year, compared with the
10 percent advance of the 70-company index.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 was $198.6
million, or 36 cents a share, the Englewood, Colorado-based
company said today in a statement, beating by two cents the
 average estimate  of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Any time a company is progressing through a turnaround
and they can put up a solid in-line quarter, you’re generally
going to get a positive reaction,”  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst
at Jefferies Group LLC, said in a phone interview.  Western Union is on target to return to revenue and profit
growth next year, Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek, 52, said
in the statement. In February, Ersek said that both would be
reduced in 2013 as the company invested in its online business
and cut prices to stay competitive as consumers shift away from
cash.  “We’re really where we said we’d be at the second quarter,
and we’re setting up that platform to grow on a long-term
basis,” Chief Financial Officer Scott Scheirman said in a phone
interview.  Consumer-to-consumer transactions, Western Union’s biggest
revenue source, increased 3 percent in the three months ended
June 30 compared with a 2 percent drop in the first quarter,
according to the statement. The growth in transaction volume was
bolstered by price reductions and investments in online
enhancements, which contributed to a 3 percent decline in
revenue from a year earlier, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell in New York at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  