-- Twitter May Have to Testify to U.K. Lawmakers Over Sexual Abuse
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-07-30T14:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/twitter-may-have-to-testify-to-u-k-lawmakers-over-sexual-abuse.html
U.K. lawmakers may question
officials from Twitter Inc. about abusive postings on the
microblogging site directed at female members of Parliament and
a feminist, the head of a House of Commons committee said.  Lawmaker Stella Creasy reported abusive Twitter messages,
including a rape threat, to police yesterday. A second member of
the Commons, Claire Perry, and Caroline Criado-Perez, who staged
a successful campaign to have the author Jane Austen
commemorated on a banknote, also complained about sexual abuse
online. A 21-year-old man was arrested two days ago in the
Manchester area on suspicion of harassment and released on bail
yesterday, according to  London ’s Metropolitan Police.  “The committee has already decided that we will have an
inquiry into the whole issue of protecting people from harmful
content online,” John Whittingdale, the chairman of the Commons
Culture, Media and Sport Committee, told BBC Radio 4’s “World
at One” program today. “This does fall within it so I think
it’s very likely that we would want to talk to Twitter about
that as well.”  Whittingdale said companies such as Twitter need to
consider how to prevent such online abuse.  “I think the ease with which people can post on a site
like Twitter -- and it can be done in a moment and then remain
there -- has made it a bigger problem, and that is obviously
something we need to look at, and the big companies who provide
social media need to think about what more action can be
taken,” he said. “The second issue is to what extent the
companies will cooperate in identifying the people responsible
where it is plain that an offense is being committed.”  E-mails to Twitter’s press department and spokeswoman
Rachel
Bremer in London weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  