-- Wolfson Microelectronics Falls on Samsung Drop-Off: London Mover
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-07-30T15:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/wolfson-microelectronics-falls-on-samsung-drop-off-london-mover.html
Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF)  fell
2.5 percent after the Scottish semiconductor-maker said lower-than-expected orders from major customers will hurt sales.  The  shares  dropped 3.75 pence to 145.25 pence in  London .
More than 553,000 shares traded, about 2.5 times the three-month
daily average.  Second-quarter sales growth had slowed because of “lower-than-expected end product sell-through at some key customers,”
Chief Executive Officer  Mike Hickey  said in a statement today.
“We expect this to continue to impact revenue over the next few
months, as customer inventory is run down.”  Wolfson, based in Edinburgh, signed a deal with Suwon,
South-Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in April to supply
audio components for its smartphones including the Galaxy S4.
Samsung second-quarter earnings then missed analyst estimates
and the company predicted that growth in the smartphone market
would slow in the next three months.  “Even adjusting for the Samsung slowdown, the numbers came
out worse than I’d expected,” Pia Tapley, a London-based
analyst at N+1 Singer Ltd, said in a phone interview. Wolfson
may have suffered from generating more than 70 percent of its
revenue in Europe and  Asia  “where weakness has been previously
flagged in the industry,” N+1 Singer said in a note to
investors.  Wolfson said it expected third-quarter revenue to be
between $40 million and $50 million. The mid-point of that range
would mean a 15 percent decline in sales compared with the same
period last year.  “We’re expecting things to pick up towards Christmas,”
Hickey said in a conference call today. “Our business is still
very seasonal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  