-- Won Snaps Two-Day Rally After June Output Falls; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-30T01:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/won-snaps-two-day-rally-after-june-output-falls-bonds-steady.html
The won snapped a two-day gain after
South Korea’s manufacturing fell and on concern the  Federal
Reserve  may signal a reduction in stimulus that has fueled
demand for emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  were steady.  Industrial production declined 2.6 percent in June from a
year ago, Statistics Korea said today, compared with a 1.1
percent drop forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The current account
surplus narrowed to $7.24 billion last month from a record $8.64
billion in May, the Bank of Korea said. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said this month that any tapering of bond buying would
depend on the U.S. economy’s performance. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  begins a two-day meeting today.  “The current-account surplus usually supports the won, but
concern about the Fed’s tapering seem to have outweighed
domestic news,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at
Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The won’s range will be limited
ahead of the FOMC meeting.”  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,112.63 per dollar as of 9:57
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 2.6 percent this month and weakened 4.5 percent
in 2013. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.52 percent.  Unprecedented and unconventional policies taken by major
economies to cope with the global financial crisis have helped
spur a recovery but are increasingly affecting other countries,
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday in a speech
in Busan. South Korea’s economy is more sensitive to external
changes than other countries as exports account for more than
half of the nation’s gross domestic product, Kim said.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due June
2016 was unchanged at 2.91 percent, according to Korea Exchange
Inc. prices. It rose three basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  