-- Woodside May Ditch Gas Agreement in Israel, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-30T03:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/woodside-may-ditch-gas-agreement-in-israel-deutsche-bank-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-biggest oil and gas producer, may pull out of a deal to
invest in  Israel ’s largest natural gas field, freeing up as much
as $1 billion to return to investors, Deutsche Bank AG said.  “Woodside must be considering its position,”  John Hirjee ,
a Melbourne-based analyst at Deutsche Bank, said today by phone
as proposed limits to Israel’s natural gas export levels
increased speculation Woodside will quit the Leviathan project.  Perth-based Woodside agreed in December to pay as much as
$2.3 billion for a stake in Leviathan to tap both the domestic
gas and liquefied natural gas markets. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in June Israel will cap exports of its natural
gas resources at 40 percent, less than the 50 percent
recommended last year by a government committee.  “Reduced export levels from Leviathan compared to
Woodside’s initial expectations, along with uncertainty around
preferred export development concept by the joint venture,” may
see the company walk away from the deal,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  analysts Luke Smith and Lachlan Cuskelly said in a
July 26 note.  Daniel Clery, a spokesman for Perth-based Woodside,
declined to comment on Leviathan speculation.  Initial Payment  Woodside agreed to make an initial payment of $696 million
to the project partners  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , Delek Drilling LP,
Avner Oil Exploration LLP and Ratio Oil Exploration (1992) LP.
It also agreed to give the partners $200 million once laws
permitting LNG exports come into force and $350 million when a
final  investment decision  on an LNG project is made.  “Closing of these agreements has been delayed primarily
due to the uncertainty over exports,” Noble Chief Executive
Officer Charles Davidson told analysts on a call last week.
“Hopefully we are nearing closure on that issue.”  While the Israeli policy limits exports at 40 percent,
larger fields such as Leviathan would be able to export a higher
amount, Davidson said on the call.  Woodside decided in April to return about $520 million to
investors in dividends after scrapping the Browse LNG proposal.
Woodside also signaled a delay to the next stage of its Pluto
LNG project in  Australia , ending talks with companies to obtain
gas supplies needed for expansion, the company said April 18.  “One way to alleviate concern about lack of growth”
options for Woodside would be to announce a share buyback should
the Leviathan deal collapse, Deutsche Bank’s Hirjee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  