-- WTI Falls to Three-Week Low as U.S. Growth Seen Slowing
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-07-30T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/wti-crude-declines-a-third-day-brent-little-changed-in-london.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to the lowest level in three weeks, trimming its biggest monthly
advance in almost a year, before a government report that may
show U.S. economic growth slowed in the second quarter.  Futures dropped by as much as 1.1 percent. U.S. gross
domestic product probably expanded at a 1 percent annualized
rate from April through June, compared with 1.8 percent in the
previous three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before data are released tomorrow. The nation’s  crude
inventories  shrank for a fifth week, a separate survey showed.
Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood defied threats of a further crackdown
on protests, urging a march on security installations.  “There are no expectations of runaway growth,” said Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, who predicts an “exodus” among funds if Brent
crude declines to $100. U.S. economic growth “will probably
slow down as we move into the fourth,” or last quarter.  WTI for September delivery declined as much as $1.10 to
$103.45 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, the lowest price since July 9, and was at
$103.61 as of 1:20 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was 4 percent below the 100-day average. Prices are up 8
percent in July, set for a second monthly gain.  Brent for September settlement slid as much as 53 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $106.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices have risen 5 percent this month. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $3.55 to WTI. The spread
widened for a fourth day yesterday to $2.90.  Oil Supplies  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably fell by 2.2 million barrels
last week to 362 million barrels, the lowest level since
January, a Bloomberg survey shows before an Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow.  Gasoline inventories dropped by 1.1 million barrels,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts. Distillate
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel, are
expected to have increased by 500,000 barrels.  The American Petroleum Institute in  Washington  is due to
release separate inventory data after 4:30 p.m. local time
today. The industry group collects information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly
survey.  Economy Softening  The Commerce Department will release its report on second-quarter GDP tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Federal Reserve
policy makers, set to meet this week, will evaluate progress in
the economy and the job market as they consider trimming monthly
bond purchases.  “The U.S. economy looks as though it’s still softening,”
said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.
“If the GDP number does come in around consensus, the oil price
will probably continue to weaken. It’s probably only the events
that we’re seeing still rippling around the Middle East that are
perhaps keeping WTI in the three figures.”  WTI surged above $100 a barrel on July 3 for the first time
since September as  Egypt ’s political upheaval heightened concern
that unrest in the most populous Arab country will spread and
disrupt Middle Eastern oil supplies.  Supporters Killed  The call to march by Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood followed
the killing of dozens of deposed President Mohamed Mursi’s
supporters by security forces over the weekend. The military,
which toppled Mursi on July 3 after nationwide demonstrations,
dropped leaflets on Islamist protesters telling them to keep
away from the installations and “help us maintain your
safety.”  Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, visited Mursi for two hours last night and held an “in-depth discussion,” Ashton’s spokeswoman, Maja Kocijancic, said
in a Twitter message without providing additional details. Mursi
has been held at an undisclosed location by the military-backed
interim government since his removal on July 3.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
production in the first quarter of this year, according to the
International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  