-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Would Still Be Due $61 Million With MLB Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/yankees-rodriguez-would-still-be-due-61-million-with-mlb-ban.html
The New York Yankees have 61 million
reasons they wouldn’t want Alex Rodriguez back if he has to
serve a lengthy Major League Baseball ban for his connections to
a clinic accused of supplying performance-enhancing drugs -- the
money they’ll owe him.  Rodriguez, a three-time American League Most Valuable
Player, is being investigated by baseball for his ties to the
now-shuttered Biogenesis of America LLC clinic in Coral Gables,
 Florida , and may face a suspension through the 2014 season. ESPN
has reported that MLB may announce penalties against Rodriguez
and other players connected to Biogenesis this week.  Rodriguez, the active career home-run hitter in the major
leagues with 647, would still have three years and $61 million
remaining on his record 10-year, $275 million deal even if he’s
banned without pay for the rest of this season and the 2014
campaign. If Rodriguez receives the longest drug-related
suspension in the sport’s history, the Yankees may seek to void
his contract, something Rodriguez would oppose, said Michael McCann, director of the Sports and Entertainment Law Institute
at the University of New Hampshire School of Law.  “In all likelihood it would end with some kind of buyout
rather than either side entirely wining,” McCann said in a
telephone interview. “But for the Yankees, if they could buy
him out for half of the $61 million they’d owe him, without
knowing the specific impact on the luxury tax, it seems like
it’s something that would be attractive to them.”  Contract Termination  McCann said the Yankees could cite paragraph 7(b) of
baseball’s uniform player contract, which states a club can
terminate a deal if the player fails, refuses or neglects to
conform his personal conduct to the standards of “good
citizenship and good sportsmanship.”  “Teams in the past have tried to use that without success
because players immediately go to the grievance process and then
the team decides not to put up a fight,” McCann said. “They
usually work out some type of a buyout agreement.”  Rodriguez’s lawyer, David Cornwell, said yesterday on  ESPN
radio in New York  that he’s preparing for an eventual appeal if
there’s an MLB suspension handed down.  “My understanding is that the next step that’s going to be
taken is the players association and baseball will meet to
discuss the investigation and baseball’s focus on particular
players,” Cornwell said in the interview with New York’s 98.7
FM. “So we’ll see how that plays out, but at this point my
expectation is that we’re going to be working through the
process toward an appeal.”  No Settlement  Cornwell said in the interview that Rodriguez wasn’t
interested in any settlement like the one reached by 2011
National League MVP Ryan Braun, who was suspended from the
Milwaukee Brewers for the final 65 games of this season by MLB
for unspecified drug violations.  The  New York Daily News reported  yesterday that MLB was
waiting to see whether Rodriguez would accept a settlement that
would call for him to be suspended through the 2014 season. If
he rejected it, Rodriguez could receive a lifetime ban from the
sport from MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, the Daily News said,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the discussions.  MLB spokesman Pat Courtney said the league won’t comment on
possible suspensions during an active investigation.  The longest major-league drug ban is 100 games, against
pitcher Guillermo Mota for failing two doping tests. Rodriguez
never failed a test but previously acknowledged using banned
drugs in 2001-03, while with the Texas Rangers.  Yankees’ Benefit  If Rodriguez gets a ban through 2014, he’d lose his pay for
the rest of this season, when he was due to make $29 million,
plus $25 million next year.  That would provide an immediate financial benefit to the
Yankees, who are attempting to pare payroll to less than $189
million next year from what USA Today lists as a major-league
high of $228.8 million this season.  Hal Steinbrenner , the
Yankees’ managing general partner, has set that goal to save the
franchise from MLB’s luxury tax payments. Wages affected by a
suspension wouldn’t count against the luxury tax, MLB said.  Rodriguez hasn’t played in the majors this season while
recovering from left hip surgery in January. He complained of
tightness in his left thigh during a minor-league rehabilitation
stint this month and was diagnosed with a strained quadriceps
muscle, prompting the Yankees to keep him on the disabled list.  Rodriguez then retained a doctor who questioned the results
of the medical scan, after which Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said the team wasn’t trying to delay Rodriguez’s return.  Cornwell declined to comment on Rodriguez’s relationship
with the Yankees during his ESPN radio interview. Cornwell said
Rodriguez’s primary focus is playing baseball.  “It’s been nearly a year since he’s played, he’s gone
through his operation and there’s no amount of rehab games
that’s going to give him the feel of facing live bullets at a
Major League Baseball level,” Cornwell said. “That’s where
Alex’s primary focus is right now. We’ll have a chance to deal
with these later issues and they arise and as they unfold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  