-- Asian Stocks Fall for Fourth Week on China, Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-05-26T00:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/asian-stocks-fall-for-fourth-week-on-china-europe-debt-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a fourth week,
with the regional benchmark index posting its longest streak of
weekly losses in six months, on signs  China ’s economic slowdown
is deepening and on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen  The value of shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell to
levels last seen during the 2008 global credit crunch, with
 Japan ’s  Topix Index (TPX)  posting its longest streak of weekly losses
in almost 35 years.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a Hong Kong-based
clothier that counts Europe as its biggest market, sank 2.4
percent. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-
largest lender, declined 3.7 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent to 111.65 this
week. The gauge is heading for a decline of more than 10 percent
this month, the most since October 2008, as slumping loan demand
and faltering factory output in China add to signs the slowdown
in the world’s second-largest economy is deepening, and as
Europe’s leaders pressured  Greece  to honor commitments to aid
packages before next month’s elections.  “The market is right now confused and obviously worried
about whether Greece will end up leaving the euro or not,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion.
“The market is pretty convinced Greece will leave at some stage,
but the big difference is if their exit will be orderly or
disorderly, and an orderly exit has already been priced into the
market.”  ‘Lehman Shock’  The losses erased as much as $4.5 trillion in global equity
value this month. The  value  of shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index fell to 1.2 times book, a level last seen in October 2008,
a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.1 times for
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.3 times for the Stoxx Europe
600.  “The Lehman shock continues to haunt the market,” said
Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo,
which oversees about $188 billion. “Investors are vulnerable to
the unknown and they worry that if they underestimate the Greek
issue, things may fall apart. They wouldn’t feel that way if
they didn’t go through the Lehman shock.”  Companies that do business in Europe declined. Esprit
dropped 2.4 percent to HK$12.26 in Hong Kong.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,
Europe’s biggest lender, fell 1.7 percent to HK$62.70. Nikon
Corp., a camera maker that gets about 23 percent of sales from
Europe, slipped 1.3 percent to 2,095 yen in Tokyo.  Topix Losing Streak  Japan’s Topix Index declined 0.5 percent as it fell for an
eighth week, its longest losing streak since November 1977,
after the  Bank of Japan  refrained from adding more monetary
stimulus. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.4
percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.5 percent,
extending losses from its Feb. 29 peak to 19 percent, near the
20 percent decline that traders consider a  bear market .  Hong
Kong ’s benchmark Hang Seng Index slipped 1.3 percent.  Chinese lenders declined as reports showed the nation’s
manufacturing will shrink for a seventh month and the country’s
biggest banks may miss loan targets for the first time in seven
years. Agricultural Bank of China declined 3.7 percent to
HK$3.11 in Hong Kong. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
the world’s largest lender by market value, dropped 0.4 percent
to HK$4.62.  “Definitely there’s poor appetite from industrial
companies, and there’s very little demand for borrowing because
you still have this restraint on property development and then
you have export sentiment going down,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong
Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management
Co., which manages $100 billion.  Shanghai Pharma  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Ltd. slumped 19 percent to
HK$9.26, the most on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after the 21st
Century Business Herald reported the drug retailer is being
investigated for alleged financial fraud. The company said on
May 24 it hasn’t received any notice of a regulatory probe.  Taiwanese computer makers declined after bellwether Dell
Inc. forecast fiscal second-quarter sales that missed analysts’
estimates. Asustek Computer Inc. fell 3.4 percent to NT$286,
while Quanta Computer Inc. sank 2.8 percent to NT$75.50.  Sims Metal Management Ltd. slid 6.4 percent to A$11.50 in
Sydney after the scrap-metal processor forecast a decline in
full-year earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  