-- Canada Dollar Falls in Longest Loss Streak Since March on Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/canada-dollar-falls-in-longest-loss-streak-since-march-on-europe.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth
straight week, its longest losing streak since March, as
investor risk appetite faded on speculation Europe’s debt crisis
is worsening.  The currency headed for its biggest monthly loss since
September as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell to a six-
month low. Regional Spanish governments’ financial struggles
added to global demand for safety, even amid forecasts a report
next week will show expansion in the Canadian economy. Ten-year
government bond yields reached the lowest since at least 1989.  “Risk aversion has been the dominant theme and the biggest
driver of the Canadian dollar,” said  Maria Jones , a currency
trader at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto.
“We are poised to weaken further if there is no European
resolution. The risk of a disorderly euro breakup and the growth
implications that come with that have turned global sentiment
negative, and that’s dragging on the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.7 percent to
C$1.0293 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.2222 on
May 18. It reached C$1.0313, the weakest level since Jan. 9, and
was poised for a 4.1 percent loss for the month. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.15 U.S. cents.  Canada’s currency has lost 4.8 percent since reaching its
strongest level in 2012, 98 cents to the greenback, on April 27.  Reversal Signal  The 14-day relative-strength index for the loonie versus
the U.S. currency dropped to 26.7 yesterday, the lowest level
since October and its third consecutive day below 30, suggesting
the Canadian dollar is headed for a reversal of recent losses. A
reading below 30 signals that a currency is oversold and may be
poised for a correction.  The loonie will strengthen to parity with the U.S. dollar
by the end of June and gain to 99 Canadian cents by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 42 economists and analysts.  Canada’s government bonds climbed, pushing yields on the
benchmark  10-year note  down to 1.796 percent yesterday, the
lowest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989.
The yields ended the week at 1.81 percent, down seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point. Two-year note yields dropped
12 basis points to 1.09 percent.  The loonie sank this week versus its U.S. counterpart on
concern Europe’s crisis would worsen even after data showed
Canadian retail sales rose more than forecast in March. They
gained 0.4 percent after dropping 0.2 percent the prior month. A
Bloomberg News survey had forecast an increase of 0.3 percent.  GDP Report  Canada’s economy grew in March after unexpectedly shrinking
the previous month, the government may say next week.  Gross
domestic product  expanded 0.3 percent after contracting 0.2
percent in February, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
before  Statistics Canada  reports the data on June 1.  “The external picture is in the driver’s seat in Canada as
global uncertainties persist,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
said May 24. “The currency is in a tug-of-war between stronger
internal fundamentals against an investor backdrop that remains
reluctant to flood into riskier assets.”  European leaders failed to come up with a plan at a summit
May 23 to resolve their debt crisis as wagers grew that  Greece 
would abandon the euro. Greeks vote on June 17 after an
inconclusive election May 6 where an anti-austerity party placed
second. Catalan President Artur Mas repeated a call yesterday
for  Spain ’s central government to help the nation’s regions gain
access to funding, spurring concern the crisis was broadening.  The greenback rose against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except  Brazil ’s real as investors sought refuge.  ‘Very Unsettled’  “The market is still very unsettled by what’s going on in
 Europe ,”  Steve Butler , managing director in Toronto at Bank of
 Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit, said on May 24. “The
fundamentals in Canada are still OK, and are certainly less
worse than a lot of other places. In spite of all of that, the
U.S. dollar remains supreme given the flight-to-quality trade.”  Crude oil fell for a fourth week. July futures touched
$89.28 a barrel in New York on May 23, the least since November.
They slid 1.9 percent on the week. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
 CRB Index (CRY)  of  raw materials  tumbled 2.9 percent, its biggest
weekly drop this year. Raw materials including oil account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  “The theme continues to be  risk aversion ,”  Dean Popplewell ,
chief strategist in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp., said yesterday. “That continues to drag Canada down
against the dollar, despite good fundamentals.”  Interest-Rate Bets  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last month
interest-rate increases may be necessary as growth and inflation
outpace his earlier projections, and as slack disappears from
the economy. Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1
percent since September 2010.  Odds of a higher rate by policy makers’ October meeting
rose to about 85 percent on April 27 after Carney’s comments,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index
swaps. They fell to 10 percent as of yesterday.  The Canadian dollar declined 0.2 percent over the past
month against nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar strengthened 5
percent, and the yen climbed 7.5 percent, on refuge demand amid
the European crisis. The euro fell 1.1 percent.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance by the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart compared with those on a drop -- so-
called  net longs  -- was 38,555 in the week ended May 22, down
from 51,005 a week earlier, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. The total was
70,223 for the week ended May 4, the most since March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  