-- New Jersey Devils Host L.A. Kings in Game 1 of Stanley Cup Final
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-05-26T04:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/devils-beat-rangers-3-2-in-overtime-to-reach-stanley-cup-final.html
The  New Jersey Devils  defeated the
top-seeded  New York  Rangers 3-2 in overtime to advance to the
National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup Final against the Western
Conference champion Los Angeles Kings.  Adam Henrique scored early in overtime last night for the
Devils, who won the best-of-seven Eastern Conference finals four
games to two to reach the championship round for the fifth time.
Game 1 against the Kings is May 30.  “It didn’t matter how it got to overtime, we were in a
good position,” Devils captain Zach Parise said in a televised
interview. “We were at home. We just needed one shot.”  Henrique scored the series-winning goal in overtime for the
second time in the playoffs. A month ago, he got his second goal
of the game 3:47 into the second overtime period to give the
Devils a 3-2 victory that ousted the  Florida Panthers  in Game 7.  “This one was like Christmas,” said Henrique, who made
his NHL debut for the Devils on April 11, 2011. He is nominated
for the Calder Trophy given to the NHL’s top rookie.  Ryan Carter and  Ilya Kovalchuk  scored in a four-minute span
of the first period to give the Devils a 2-0 lead at the
Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey.  The Rangers tied the game in the second period with their
own outburst of two goals in a four-minute span. Ruslan Fedotenko and  Ryan Callahan  scored for New York, with Ryan McDonagh assisting on both goals.  “We had to be ready to be a little patient,” Devils
goalie  Martin Brodeur  said in a televised interview. “They
outplayed us in the second period. This is a hockey game and
we’re not going to walk through them.”  The Rangers were trying to force a decisive seventh game
tomorrow at Madison Square Garden in New York. The Rangers won
their two previous series this postseason in Game 7 showdowns at
Madison Square Garden.  The Devils won the last three games in the series by a
combined score of 12-6 after the Rangers had won two of the
first three games.  The Kings won the Western Conference finals 4-1 against the
Phoenix Coyotes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  