-- Egypt Brotherhood’s Mursi Secures Salafi Group’s Support
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-05-27T12:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/egypt-presidency-finalists-pledge-faith-to-revolt.html
The  Muslim Brotherhood ’s candidate
for the Egyptian presidency, Mohamed Mursi, won the support of
one of the country’s most influential fundamentalist Islamic
groups as he tries to make new alliances in a runoff campaign
against  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier.  Mursi, 60, secured the backing of the Dawa Salafiya, or
Salafi Call, as third-place candidate Hamdeen Sabahi vowed to
challenge initial results from the first round of voting on May
23 and 24 that narrowed the race to the two most divisive
figures from an initial field of 13.  The apparent advance of Mursi and former Prime Minister
Ahmed Shafik, 70, has rattled the youth groups and other
secularists who played key roles in the revolution that ousted
Mubarak from the presidency in February 2011. Those groups are
wary of both the Brotherhood and Shafik, a veteran politician
they see as a member of the “feloul,” a remnant of the old
regime.  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX30 index tumbled 2.2 percent today,
poised for the biggest loss in seven weeks.  The Salafi Call said in a statement on the Salafi Nour
Party’s Facebook page that it was throwing its weight behind
Mursi in the June 16 and 17 second-round election to “support
the Islamic project.” In its statement, the group called for
“preserving the integrity of the election process for the
country’s stability and to prevent chaos.”  In the first round, the Salafi Call had backed Islamist
Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, who had tried to appeal to a range of
voters, including secularists and Coptic Christians.  Political Differences  Mursi’s efforts to build alliances included hosting a
meeting of political groups and other presidential candidates
yesterday that failed to overcome their differences, according
to the official Middle East  News Agency . The groups were seeking
additional assurances from the candidate that the Muslim
Brotherhood won’t monopolize power, MENA and Al-Ahram said.
Sabahi, Aboul-Fotouh and Amre Moussa, the former Arab League
chief who finished a distant fifth in the race, didn’t attend or
send representatives, MENA said.  Youssry Hamad, a Nour spokesman, said party officials
expected to meet today with the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice party. Nour wants to ensure the participation of Egypt’s
various political forces “in running the country’s affairs
without exclusions,” he said in a phone interview, and is
working with others “to find solutions for the presidency
portfolio.”  Sabahi said he won’t “enter into bargaining or
negotiations” with the two candidates who will compete in the
runoff election next month, the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper
reported today.  Economic Slump  The closeness of the first-round result, with about 1
percentage point between Mursi and Shafik in unofficial
preliminary tallies, reflects the polarization that has
developed in Egypt since last year’s uprising. The hope for a
new start that millions had harbored after pushing Mubarak from
power has been overshadowed by an increase in crime and a sharp
slump in the economy.  In their runoff campaigns, both Mursi and Shafik have
sought to broaden their support by reaching out to supporters of
candidates such as Sabahi and Aboul-Fotouh, who were favored by
the revolutionary youth and independents.  “The revolution that you have ignited has been hijacked,”
Shafik said in a televised news conference yesterday. The
comments were directed at young people whose frequent protests
have provided him with a platform to win over Egyptians weary of
the disruption to their daily lives. Shafik pledged to restore
the revolution’s “fruits” to the youth.  ‘Equal Distance’  Preliminary figures show Mursi secured 24.8 percent of the
vote against Shafik’s 23.9 percent, according to Al-Ahram.
Others, including state-run MENA, put the candidates in the same
order. Final results for the first round are due on May 29.  Mursi looked to allay concerns that his presidency would be
tantamount to a monopolization of power by the FJP and, by
extension, the Brotherhood. He said that as president, he would
stand at an “equal distance from all,” MENA reported. Mursi
said his vice presidential appointments would not necessarily
come from the Brotherhood.  The election was billed as the freest and fairest Egypt has
had, offering more than 50 million voters a choice of candidates
after nearly 60 years of having the president drawn from the
ranks of the military.  Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter , whose Carter Center
provided observers for the election, said yesterday that the
organization hadn’t been able to follow all stages of the vote.
He cited “constraints” that he said he hoped would be removed
in the future.  Turnout Is ‘Key’  Turnout was estimated at about 45 percent, according to
preliminary results reported in several state-run and
independent newspapers.  “The key to the second round is turnout, and the key to
turnout is whether these guys can appeal to the messy coalitions
that were behind the Sabahi and Aboul-Fotouh candidacies,”  Jon Alterman , head of the Middle East program at the Washington-
based Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in a
phone interview. “A lot will depend on whether Mursi and Shafik
can extend beyond their bases and reassure others.”  Shafik had been ejected from the race after the Islamist-
led parliament passed a law barring some former top Mubarak
officials from running for office. He was reinstated after the
law was sent to the constitutional court for a ruling.  His campaign centered on restoring law and order. He also
argued that the Islamists were seeking to drag the country back
to the past, a message that may resonate with secularists and
minority  Coptic Christians .  Military Rulers              The former air force pilot, however, is also seen as the
favorite of the country’s military rulers, even as the generals
have said they aren’t backing any candidate.  The military, once celebrated as heroes in the uprising,
has come under fire for what critics maintain is their
mismanagement of the country and heavy-handed response to some
protests.  The Brotherhood has touted a social-justice platform laced
with the promise of realigning Egypt with what it says are the
nation’s Islamic roots.  Since the uprising, the economic situation has
deteriorated. The central bank has spent almost 60 percent of
Egypt’s  international reserves . Borrowing costs have risen to
record highs and the government has applied to the  International
Monetary Fund  for a $3.2 billion loan. Talks with the fund are
on hold until after the election.  Constitution Process  The Brotherhood has angered secularists and some youth
groups after what critics said was an attempt to monopolize a
now-stalled constitution-writing process. Others have criticized
the Brotherhood for going back on its promise not to field
candidates. Its first choice was booted from the race, leaving
Mursi as the backup.  For many who voted for Sabahi and other candidates, such as
Iman Soliman, an Arabic-language instructor at the American
University in Cairo, the results left them at an impasse.  “I don’t want the Brotherhood’s candidate -- to have
parliament and the presidency in the hands of one party would
mean that we’ve achieved nothing,” Soliman said by phone. At
the same time, “I don’t know how Shafik had the nerve to run,
even after he had been rejected before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Cairo at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  