-- Euro Declines Most in 2012 on Deepening Turmoil in Spain
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/euro-declines-most-in-2012-on-deepening-turmoil-in-spain-greece.html
The euro had its biggest weekly loss
since December against the dollar as  Greece ’s anti-bailout party
gained in the polls and amid a deepening crisis in Spain.  The shared currency fell for a fifth week versus the yen,
the longest stretch since October, as German manufacturing
shrank and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from adding stimulus to
the economy. Brazil’s real was the only winner against the
dollar as the central bank sold currency-swap contracts. The
dollars of  Australia  and New Zealand declined as reports showed
the Chinese economy is stalling. A report June 1 is forecast to
show U.S. employers added more jobs in May than the prior month.  “Uncertainty is high, growth is poor and a Greek exit is a
wild card,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit in New York. “It’s
unlikely that the euro finds a bottom for a while even in a good
state of the world.”  The euro declined 2.1 percent on the week to $1.2517,
touching $1.2496, the weakest since July 2010. The 17-nation
currency declined 1.2 percent to 99.75, falling below 100 for
the first time since February. The Japanese currency fell 0.8
percent to 79.68 per dollar.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers
the euro will decline versus the dollar to a record high for a
second consecutive week. So-called  net shorts  increased for a
third week, totaling 195,361 in the period ended May 22 compares
to 173,869 for the week before, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Euro Crisis  “Risk appetite itself has traced its undulation to the
movements in the euro,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  at  Western Union Co. (WU) ’s Western Union Business
Solutions unit, said May 23.  European leaders announced no new measures to stem the
bloc’s crisis at a summit in Brussels this week. The gathering
took place as Greece prepares to hold new elections on June 17
after an anti-bailout party surged to second place in balloting
on May 6. A poll on May 24 had the Syriza party with 27.2
percent support, boosting speculation that the country may exit
the currency bloc.  The euro weakened 1.2 percent against nine developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
the worst performance along with the Swiss franc. The dollar
gained 1.1 percent and the yen rose 0.2 percent.  The shared currency fell below $1.25 for the first time in
22 months after the president of Catalonia, one of 17 semi-
autonomous regions in  Spain , repeated his call for Spanish
central government to help regions access funding,  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the credit ratings of five Spanish banks and the
Bankia group said it needed 19 billion euros ($23.8 billion) of
government money.  ‘Unwelcome Development’  A German index based on a survey of  purchasing managers  in
the manufacturing industry declined to 45 this month from 46.2
in April, Markit Economics said May 24.  “It’s unwelcome development with German manufacturing,
because typically that’s where you go looking for a silver
lining in the euro,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said May 24. “The
second quarter had delivered a shock to growth expectations
globally.”  China  may have a loan shortfall which would be the first in
seven years, according an exclusive Bloomberg News report. Loan
demand is drying up as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports and
demand for new homes wanes.  Aussie, Kiwi  Australia’s dollar fell 0.9 percent to 97.58 U.S. cents.
The Aussie fell to 96.90 U.S. cents on May 23, a six-month low.  New Zealand ’s dollar declined 0.3 percent to 75.40 U.S.
cents and touched 74.57 U.S. cents, the weakest since November.
The so-called kiwi’s losses were limited as Moody’s cited the
government’s deficit and debt trajectories in affirming its AAA
rating.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and is the
second-biggest destination for New Zealand exports.  American employers added 150,000 jobs in May, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
after a 115,000 gain in April that missed forecasts. The jobless
rate held steady at 8.1 percent, according to another survey.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose 1.3 percent to 82.393, after touching
82.461, the strongest since September 2010. The gauge’s fourth
consecutive weekly gain comes as cumulative net inflows in to
U.S. Treasuries yesterday were more than double the daily
average over the past year.  Franc Tumbles  The Swiss franc was the biggest loser against the dollar
this week, falling 2.1 percent to 95.95 centimes per dollar. It
was the biggest weekly loss since Nov. 4.  Switzerland ’s currency
touched the weakest level in two months versus the euro on May
24 amid speculation the central bank may take action to
discourage investment in the nation through taxing deposits.  SNB spokeswoman Silvia Oppliger declined to comment on the
Swiss franc exchange rate. Finance Ministry spokesman Roland
Meier wouldn’t comment on the tax speculation.  Brazil ’s real rose 1.8 percent against the dollar to 1.9874
after the central bank sold currency swaps through auction for
four consecutive days to stem the largest year-to-date decline
against the greenback. The real is the worst performing major
currency this year and has declined 6.1 percent against the
dollar. It touched a three-year low on May 18.  The nation also completely removed a tax on currency
derivatives for exporters on May 23, said Alexandre Andrade, an
official at the tax agency.  The yen had its biggest weekly decline against the dollar
since March 16 as  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s credit ranking,
saying it isn’t acting quickly enough to tackle its public-debt
burden.  Losses were limited as the BOJ kept its asset-purchase fund
at 40 trillion yen ($502 billion) at a meeting May 23, after
expanding it by 10 trillion yen last month. The central bank
also left a credit-lending program at 30 trillion yen, it said
in a statement in  Tokyo . The policy board kept the key overnight
lending rate between zero and 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  