-- France, U.K. Urge Support for Syrian Opposition
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-26T19:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/france-u-k-urge-support-for-syrian-opposition.html
France  and the U.K. are urging
increased international support for opponents of Syrian leader
Bashar al-Assad after reports that government forces killed more
than 90 civilians yesterday, many of them children.  The international community must stop the “martyrdom of
the Syrian people,” French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said
today in an emailed statement. British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  called the killings “an appalling crime” and said the
U.K. would be calling for an “urgent” meeting of the UN
Security Council. The U.S. had no immediate comment.  More than 32 children under the age of 10 and more than 60
adults were killed in Houla, a town in Homs province, according
to UN mission head General Robert Mood, who cited United Nations
military and civilian observers. The observers confirmed the use
of artillery and tank shells fired at a residential neighborhood
in an attack that Mood called a “brutal tragedy.”  “This indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force is
unacceptable and unforgiveable,” Mood said. “The killing of
innocent children and civilians needs to stop.”  The killing hasn’t stopped since Assad and opposition
forces accepted a peace plan by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan  two
months ago. Assad’s forces have killed more than 9,000 people
since March 2011 when protests began as part of the wave of
uprisings in the  Middle East , according to a UN estimate in late
March.  While there has been “some reduction in the intensity of
fighting” in areas of Syria where there are UN observers, “the
overall level of violence in the country remains quite high”
and the Syrian government isn’t implementing the UN peace plan,
Ban said in a report yesterday.  ‘Brutal Crime’  Annan and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon issued a
statement condemning “this appalling and brutal crime” and
demanding that Syria’s government “immediately cease the use of
heavy weapons in population centers.”  The UN now has 271 unarmed military observers for  Syria  and
expects to have a full contingent of 300 there by the end of
this month, according to Ban.  Ban cited fears expressed by opposition figures about
regime reprisals for cooperating with UN monitors. There are
continuing reports of “massive violations of human rights,”
including torture and summary executions, he said.  Some Syrians in Homs said authorities threatened to kill
them and their family members if they demonstrated or spoke with
UN monitors, he said. In Deraa on May 9, a bomb detonated next
to a house where five minutes earlier a UN patrol had met with
representatives of the Free Syria Army, Ban said.  Separately, the Yemeni army killed 62 militants in fighting
today in the southern city of Zanjibar, the country’s defense
ministry said on its website. Three government soldiers were
killed, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net 
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  