-- Greek Pro-Bailout New Democracy Party Leads in Six Opinion Polls
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-05-26T19:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/greek-pro-bailout-new-democracy-party-leads-in-six-opinion-polls.html
Greece ’s  New Democracy  party placed
first in all six opinion polls published in the country today as
its leader Antonis Samaras said the cost of leaving the euro
area would be greater than staying in the shared currency.  New Democracy, which supports Greece’s international
bailout agreements, led by a margin of as much as 5.7 percentage
points over Syriza, the main party opposed to implementing the
terms of financial aid packages, according to a poll by Kapa
Research SA for To Vima newspaper.  “Greeks are heading for the polls with different
intentions than in the May 6 elections, as a large part of the
electorate seems to be replacing its anger with concern for the
dangers of leaving the country ungoverned and of an exit from
the euro,” Athens-based To Vima said.  The country would go bankrupt, exit the euro and incur
greater suffering if it unilaterally broke its loan agreements
with international lenders instead of adhering to the deals,
Samaras said in a speech to party activists in Athens today.  While  New Democracy  came first in May 6 parliamentary
elections, ahead of Syriza, it failed to secure a parliamentary
majority. President Karolos Papoulias set June 17 as the date
for new elections after the ballot produced a hung parliament,
with parties unable to agree on forming a coalition government.  ‘Sudden Collapse’  A return to the drachma would see incomes in Greece and the
value of  bank deposits  and property fall by at least half within
a few days, Samaras said. The reintroduced currency would
quickly depreciate by at least 50 percent, prices would rise by
at least 25 percent and the country’s debt as a percentage of
gross domestic product would double, he said.  “No society, no economy and no democracy can tolerate such
a sudden collapse in so little time” and comparisons with
 Argentina ’s recovery from its 2001 financial collapse aren’t
valid, Samaras said. “Even when Argentina went bankrupt, it was
fully sufficient in food and exported meat and grain around the
world. What does Greece produce that it can export?”  One of today’s polls, by Marc SA for the Athens-based
Ethnos newspaper, gave New Democracy a 2.2 percent point lead
over Syriza and said the result would give Samaras’s party 125
seats in the 300-member parliament, enabling it to form a pro-
bailout coalition government. The Socialist Pasok party would
get 41 seats, according to the poll, enabling the two political
groups, who were partners in Greece’s interim government led by
 Lucas Papademos , to form a coalition.  Pro-Bailout Coalition  Greeks would be wrong to believe the nation could remain
within the euro region if the country chose not to respect the
bailout programs, Samaras said. While a Greek exit would cost
Europe 500 billion euros ($600 billion) to 1 trillion euros,
allowing it to stay without keeping to the terms of the deal may
prompt Portugal, Spain and  Italy  to pursue a similar path, he
said. The bill for that would be 10 times higher, he said.  The cost of Greece exiting the 17-nation euro area would be
unmanageable and probably exceed the 1 trillion euros previously
estimated by the  Institute of International Finance ,  Charles Dallara , the group’s managing director said yesterday. The
projection from earlier this year is “a bit dated now” and
“probably on the low side,” he said.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged Greeks to
adhere to the terms of the international memorandum in an
interview with the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper published today,
calling on those in the country who try to avoid taxes to help
themselves collectively by paying what they owe.  Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras didn’t have any public
campaign events today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  