-- Greece Would Worsen Suffering by Breaking Aid Deal, Samaras Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-05-26T11:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/greece-would-worsen-suffering-by-breaking-aid-deal-samaras-says.html
Greece  will go bankrupt, exit the
euro and suffer more if it unilaterally breaks its loan
agreement with international lenders instead of adhering to the
deal,  New Democracy  party leader Antonis Samaras said.  “The termination of the memorandum will lead Greece out of
the euro,” Samaras said in a speech in  Athens , broadcast live
on state-run NET TV. “Greece would be led into uncontrolled
bankruptcy, with  living standards  cut to a quarter of what they
are today.”  New Democracy, which came first in May 6 parliamentary
balloting without securing a majority, is Greece’s leading pro-
bailout party. Syriza, second in this month’s vote, is against
implementing the terms of the deal. An opinion poll by Rass
today gave the conservative  New Democracy  party a 2.2
percentage-points lead over Syriza before June 17 elections. A
VPRC poll yesterday placed Syriza first with a 2.5 percentage-
points lead.  Greeks would be wrong to believe the country could remain
within the shared currency if the country chooses not to respect
the aid program, Samaras said. While a Greek exit would cost
Europe 500 billion euros ($600 billion) to 1 trillion euros,
allowing it to stay without keeping to the terms of the deal may
prompt Portugal, Spain and  Italy  to do the same, he said. The
bill for that would be 10 times higher, he said.  A return to the drachma would see incomes in Greece and the
value of  bank deposits  and property fall by at least half within
a few days, the party leader said in today’s speech.  ‘Debt Would Double’  The former Greek currency would depreciate by at least 50
percent, prices would rise by at least 25 percent and the
country’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product would
double, he said. “No society, no economy and no democracy can
tolerate such a sudden collapse in so little time.”  Comparisons with  Argentina ’s recovery from its 2001
financial collapse aren’t valid, Samaras said. “Even when
Argentina went bankrupt, it was fully sufficient in food and
exported meat and grain around the world. What does Greece
produce that it can export?”  A New Democracy victory in the June would see the party
halt the rise in unemployment by the of 2012 and reduce jobless
levels to the same rate as in 2009 within two years by creating
“hundreds of thousands of new jobs,” Samaras said.  The party’s recovery program for the  Greek economy  would be
to absorb European funds and emphasize liquidity for small and
medium-sized companies, he said. Samaras repeated a pledge for
no further cuts in wages and pensions, and not to introduce new
taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  