-- Lindsey Manufacturing Case Appeal Dropped by U.S.
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-26T01:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/lindsey-manufacturing-case-appeal-dropped-by-u-s-.html
Federal prosecutors dropped their
appeal of the dismissal of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
indictment of Lindsey Manufacturing Co., which a judge had found
to be be marred by prosecutorial misconduct.  Lawyers for the  Justice Department  asked in a filing today
with the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco  for voluntary
dismissal of the appeal.  In December, U.S. District Judge Howard Matz in  Los Angeles 
threw out the trial convictions of Azusa, California-based
Lindsey Manufacturing, a maker of emergency electricity towers,
and two of its executives, who the government had accused of
paying bribes to officials at a state-owned Mexican utility so
that they would receive contracts.  “By filing today’s dismissal motion, the government has
dropped its prosecution of the company and its officers, and
will also end its efforts to forfeit about $24 million,” Jan
Handzlik, a lawyer for Lindsey Manufacturing, said in an e-
mailed statement. “By deciding not to pursue its appeal of
Judge Matz’s dismissal order, the government has ended the
case.”  The judge had said the government engaged in “flagrant”
misconduct, including allowing false testimony before a grand
jury, inserting falsehoods in search warrants, improperly
reviewing e-mails between a defendant and her lawyer, and making
misrepresentations to the court.  Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office in
Los Angeles, said the government had no comment at this time.  The case is U.S. v. Enrique Faustino Aguilar Noriega,
11-50507,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  