-- Qantas Looks at Splitting Licenses Amid Interest From Emirates
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-26T01:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/qantas-looks-at-splitting-licenses-amid-interest-from-emirates.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , seeking to turn
around losses on international flights, is looking at getting
separate licenses for its international and domestic businesses
amid interest from Emirates Airline in an enhanced tie-up
between the carriers.  Qantas has a group looking at whether a split license would
be the best way of running the businesses after announcing a
restructure May 22, Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce told a
media event in Sydney today.  “We’re exploring that as we speak” he said. While
Qantas’s constitution and a 1992 Australian law cap foreign
investment in the carrier at 49 percent, second-ranked  Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  recently separated its international and
domestic businesses to get around similar rules.  Qantas earlier this week said it will split its businesses
into domestic and international units, a move that could lead to
Emirates buying a stake in the Sydney-based carrier’s domestic
service, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Such cooperation may
help Qantas revive overseas operations that have lost market
share to  Middle East  carriers able to offer one-stop flights to
a larger number of European cities.  “There’s no subtext behind this” Joyce said. While the
carrier is in talks with Emirates about connections between its
international network and Qantas’s domestic business, Joyce said
he had no comment about any other talks between the carriers.  Both Benefit  Tim Clark , president of Dubai-based Emirates, the largest
international airline, this week said both carriers would
benefit from a tie-up, the Australian Financial Review reported.  “If I was a shareholder I’d love that,” Neil Hansford,
chairman of consultants Strategic Aviation Solutions, said by
phone yesterday from Salamander Bay,  Australia .  Emirates could take a stake of as much as 30 percent in a
Qantas domestic unit, with its share of debt and equity worth as
much as A$1.9 billion, Sydney-based Deutsche Bank analyst
Cameron McDonald wrote in a May 24 note. The Dubai-based carrier
has no interest in buying stakes in other airlines, Thierry Antinori, its executive vice president for passenger sales, told
reporters in Lisbon on May 24.  Qantas’s international business lost A$200 million ($195
million) in the year ended June 2011. Joyce has already pared
overseas flights and delayed the arrival of new Airbus SAS A380s
to cut costs.  Rising Fuel Prices  Airlines worldwide are also contending with  fuel prices 
that have risen about 50 percent in two years and the economic
slowdown in  Europe , which has damped demand for international
travel.  Qantas and partners, including British Airways, only fly
one-stop to five destinations in Europe and the Middle East.
Virgin Australia is able to fly one-stop to 19 destinations in
the region from Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane through a tie-up
with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways PJSC.  Qantas could potentially add more than 40 one-stop
destinations through an Emirates deal, based on the Dubai
airline’s  website .  Qantas  shares  fell 1 percent to close at A$1.455 in Sydney
yesterday, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  index. The stock is down 0.3 percent this year, in
line with index’s 0.7 percent drop.  The airline also said May 24 that it will add 25,800 seats
a week on services between some of Australia’s largest cities.
Adding capacity may harm ticket prices as carriers struggle to
fill planes amid weak consumer demand,  Russell Shaw , an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a note to clients May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  