-- Treasuries End Nine-Week Rally as Europe Seeks Compromise
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/treasuries-end-nine-week-rally-as-europe-seeks-compromise.html
Treasuries dropped, halting the
longest rally since 1998, as European leaders sought a
compromise to resolve the region’s debt crisis, crimping demand
for  U.S. government debt .  The  yield  on the 10-year note rose from almost record
levels as German Chancellor Angela Merkel left the door open to
a compromise on debt sharing as Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  said he can help bring the bloc’s biggest economy around
to acting in  Europe ’s “common good.” Two Treasury note
auctions drew record low yields before a Labor Department report
June 1 forecast to show May nonfarm payroll growth exceeded the
previous month.  “The issues going on in Europe are clearly the main driver
of the market,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “Unless nonfarm payrolls
come in extremely high, or low, away from expectations, all eyes
will be looking at the European Union and how they want to
proceed.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  rose two basis points for the week,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.74 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May
2022 fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 3/32.  The  yield  increased ended nine weeks of declines and marked
the first gain since the period ended March 16. It has dropped
17 basis points this month, as of yesterday.  Holiday Trade  Treasury trading will remain shut May 28 in observance of
Memorial Day in the U.S, after closing at 2 p.m. yesterday,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association in New York.  The yield dropped yesterday, approaching its record 1.67
percent reached Sept. 23, as  Standard & Poor’s  reduced ratings
on Spanish banks and amid concern  Greece  may exit the euro. It
reached a 2012 low of 1.69 percent on May 17 after touching a
high of 2.4 percent on March 20.  It will increase to 2.42 percent by year-end, according to
the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of financial
companies, with the most recent projections given the heaviest
weightings. The euro touched a 22-month low yesterday, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 8.7 percent from an
almost four-year high.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in bond futures in the week ending May
22, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.
Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 48,844 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the most since December 2007, the Washington-
based commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Debt Returns  Treasuries returned 1 percent this month as of May 24, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch  indexes  show. They climbed 1.5 percent
in April.  The U.S. sold $99 billion in Treasuries this week. A $29
billion sale of seven-year U.S. notes May 24 drew a record-low
yield of 1.203 percent. The Treasury sold $35 billion of five-
year debt the previous day at a record low yield of 0.748
percent, and the same amount of two-year securities on May 22 at
0.3 percent.  “There are a lot of bad things happening and people are
looking for a place to hide,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages
about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Capital Management in
 Milwaukee . “This stuff is just so unpredictable.”  Cash Raise  This week’s note offerings, combined with the May 17
auction of $13 billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, raised $52.9 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $59.1 billion.  More than $4 trillion was erased from the value of global
equities in the first three weeks of the month as concern
deepened Greece will abandon the euro. While Merkel refused to
back joint euro-area bonds at a Brussels summit on May 23,
 Germany ’s opposition parties wrung a concession from the
chancellor on her return to Berlin May 24 to reconsider a
separate proposal on common liability for sovereign debt.  Spain ’s Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
yesterday said the country’s government is analyzing “with all
caution” requests from regional governments to help them regain
access to  capital markets .  Trading Numbers  Volatility was little changed May 24 at 71.2 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which
measures Treasury price swings based on options. The gauge is
below the one-year average of 87.8 basis points.  Trading volume  closed at $142 billion yesterday after the
market shut early, down from $294 billion the previous day
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. The
figure is above the 2012 average of $242 billion. Volume reached
$439 billion on March 14, the highest since August.  “There’s a flight-to-quality bid going on,” saidIra Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the
 Federal Reserve . “People are worried about headlines that may
come out of Greece.”  Primary dealer  holdings  of U.S. government debt rose to
$108 billion, the highest ever, as of May 16, from a net bet
against the securities of $11.9 billion in September, according
to the Fed.  Banks have added Treasuries to meet revised reserve rules
from the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law and  Basel  III
regulations set by the  Bank for International Settlements  in
Basel,  Switzerland .  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in
its holdings with longer maturities by the end of June to
support the economy.  U.S. payrolls rose by 150,000 in May, according to the
median forecast of 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department releases figures next week.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices during the life of the
debt, was 2.14 percentage points yesterday, close to the average
of 2.15 percent during the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  