-- Reliance Communications Profit Beats Estimates on Phone Usage
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-05-26T15:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/reliance-communications-profit-beats-estimates-on-phone-usage.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,  India ’s
second-largest mobile-phone operator, reported fourth-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as customers spent more
time using their phones.  Net income  rose to 3.32 billion rupees ($60 million) in the
three months ended March 31, from 1.68 billion rupees a year
 earlier , the Mumbai-based company said in a statement today.
That exceeded the 1.69 billion-rupee median of 22 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance, the flagship company of billionaire-Chairman Anil Ambani, joined competitors  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  in raising call rates for the first time in more than two
years in 2011. Reliance, which spent 85.9 billion rupees buying
airwave permits for third-generation services two years ago, is
evaluating an initial public offering of its submarine-cable
unit to reduce its debt load.  The company is seeking to sell its tower unit, Reliance
Infratel Ltd., in a bid to reduce its debt. Reliance may also
sell 75 percent of FLAG Telecom, the submarine cable assets held
by its unit Reliance Globalcom, in the first half of this year
and is seeking a valuation of as much as $2 billion, a person
with knowledge of the matter said in January. The person
declined to be identified as the process is private.  “Everybody on the street is definitely waiting for them to
either get the Singapore listing done, or do the tower stake
sale,” said Ankita Somani, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in
Mumbai. “If we get a clear-cut direction, that’s going to be
positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  