-- Roger Federer Says He’s Third Favorite at Start of French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-26T22:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/roger-federer-says-he-s-third-choice-at-2012-french-open.html
Roger Federer , the holder of a men’s
record 16 major singles titles, says he’s not even second
favorite to win the  French Open .  Federer’s victory in 2009 is the last man other than
defending champion Rafael Nadal to win at Roland Garros. World
No. 1 Novak Djokovic is trying to become the first man since Rod Laver of Australia in 1969 to hold all four tennis majors at the
same time. The Serb is the reigning Wimbledon, U.S. Open and
Australian Open champion, yet he hasn’t made the finals in
Paris. Second-ranked Nadal is vying for a record seventh French
Open men’s title. The Spaniard is tied with Sweden Bjorn Borg.  “It would be Rafa, Novak, and me in third position,”
Federer said at pre-tournament press conference in Paris. The
Swiss plays Germany’s Tobias Kamke in his opening round.  The season’s second Grand Slam tennis tournament starts
today, with sixth-seeded Samantha Stosur of Australia the
highest ranked player in action. The  U.S. Open  champion and 2010
French Open finalist plays Britain’s Elena Baltacha.  Venus Williams  of the U.S. faces Argentina’s Paula Ormaechea.
Williams, ranked 52nd, is playing her first Grand Slam since she
pulled out of the U.S. Open last year, announcing she has
Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune disease.  Andy Roddick , the last American man to have won a major title at the
2003 U.S. Open, plays France’s Nicolas Mahut, while 2009 U.S.
Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina meets Spain’s
 Albert Montanes .  Favorites  “Rafael playing for his seventh title is the favorite,”
said Federer, who beat Djokovic in last year’s semifinals to end
the Serb’s 43-match win streak. “I think he lost only two sets
between Rome, Monte Carlo, and Barcelona, so that’s a pretty
good start.”  Bookmakers agree with Federer, who could play Djokovic once
again in the semifinals.  Nadal is the 8-11 favorite at U.K. bookmaker  William Hill .
That means a successful $11 bet brings in $8 plus the original
wager. Djokovic is 9-4 and third-ranked Federer is 8-1.  In the women’s draw,  Serena Williams  is the 5-2 favorite to
win her second  French Open . Australian Open winner and women’s
top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus follows Williams at 7-2.
Second-seeded Russian Maria Sharapova is at 7-1 to win her first
Roland Garros title. Defending women’s champion Li Na of China,
the first Asian to have won a Grand Slam singles title, is at
10-1 to win her second major.  “It would be really intense and really crazy, but I’m just
ready to get out there and start playing,” Williams, who is 17-
0 on clay this season, said in a news conference. “Obviously
there are several people here that want to win. I think I’m one
of those people. I’m just going to focus on doing my best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 