-- Saudi Shares Drop on Concerns About Europe, Oil Prices
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-26T13:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/saudi-shares-advance-on-u-s-confidence-china-pledge.html
Saudi Arabian shares fell for the
second day, led by banks and petrochemical companies, on concern
that the euro-area debt crisis may deepen and oil demand
subside.  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA)  slid to the lowest level since Feb.
1, while  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest bank by market
value, dropped the most in a week.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) ,
known as Sabic, the world’s biggest petrochemical maker,
declined 0.5 percent, the most since May 19.  The Tadawul All Share Index retreated 0.7 percent to
7,013.91 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The 152-member index
has rallied 9.3 percent this year.  “We expected a weak opening this morning with
petrochemicals and banking shares under pressure,” Asim Bukhtiar, a head of research at Riyad Capital, said in response
to e-mailed questions. “The euro is expected to further weaken
against the  U.S. dollar . Combined with neutral to bearish demand
outlook, this could mean further declines in crude prices over
the week.”  The euro had its biggest weekly loss since December against
the dollar as Greek leaders opposed to spending cuts gained in
the polls and amid a deepening crisis in Spain. The shared
currency fell for a fifth week versus the yen, the longest
stretch since October, as German manufacturing shrank and the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from adding stimulus to the economy.  European leaders failed to come up with a plan at a summit
May 23 to resolve their debt crisis as wagers grew that Greece
would abandon the euro. Crude oil fell for a fourth week. July
futures touched $89.28 a barrel in  New York  on May 23, the least
since November.  Samba dropped 2.1 percent to 46.7 riyals. Al Rajhi declined
1 percent to 72.5 riyals. Sabic fell 0.5 percent to  94.5
riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  