-- Singapore’s PAP Fails to Regain Support in By-Election
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-05-28T06:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/singapore-opposition-wins-by-election-to-retain-parliament-seat.html
(Corrects last paragraph of story published on May 28 to
say Tan has limited  voting rights .)  Singapore ’s ruling party lost a by-
election in the opposition-controlled Hougang district, with
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong signaling more measures are
needed to regain support after its worst vote result last year.  Png Eng Huat, a 50-year-old businessman from the  Workers’
Party , defeated ruling  People’s Action Party  candidate Desmond
Choo, 34, a trade union official, at the May 26 polls. Png won
62.1 percent of valid votes in northeastern suburb for the seat
left vacant after Yaw Shin Leong. Yaw, who won 64.8 percent of
votes in 2011, was expelled by the Workers’ Party in February
for “indiscretions in his private life.”  Lee’s People’s  Action Party , or PAP, has struggled to
reinvent itself since returning to power in May last year with
the smallest victory since independence in 1965. After the vote
over the weekend, Lee reiterated a pledge to change the way the
party governs a population that opinion surveys show is most
concerned with issues such as high living costs and an influx of
foreign residents.  The election outcome shows the opposition’s “ability to
participate in constructive debates over issues like immigration
and the cost of living,” said  Michael Montesano , a visiting
research fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in
Singapore. “One of the things about by-elections is that they
sometimes send signals that are relevant to general elections
and they often assist parties in preparing for them.”  Key Concerns  While candidates campaigned for the by-election on local
issues such as improving public housing, a survey of 50
residents by Today newspaper this month showed a majority of
them are concerned with national policies, including the  cost of
living  and the influx of foreigners.  Of the 122,600 jobs created in Singapore last year, about
70 percent, or 84,800 positions, went to foreigners, according
to data from the Ministry of Manpower.  “The PAP government has done its best to address important
national issues like housing and transportation, immigration and
population, economic upgrading and workers’ incomes,” Lee said
in a statement after the election. “We have made progress, but
there is much more to be done.”  About 23,000 people, or 1 percent of the electorate, were
eligible to vote in the Hougang district. Png got 13,447 out of
21,951 ballots cast, of which 294 were considered spoiled votes,
Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee said in a national broadcast. Choo
received 8,210 votes.  ‘Good Result’  “It is a very good result given the circumstances,”
Workers’ Party Secretary-General Low Thia Khiang said at a press
conference that was broadcast nationally, referring to the drop
in the victory margin. “We value every vote.”  While the poll was a barometer of support for government
policies, Lee’s party still controls  Parliament  with 81 of the
87 seats. The PAP has governed the country since 1959.  The government is under pressure to placate voters without
disrupting the arrival of talent and labor that helped forge the
only advanced economy in  Southeast Asia . In the past year, Lee’s
government has implemented stricter immigration policies and cut
ministerial pay.  The administration has raised property taxes for non-
Singaporeans and accelerated construction of housing. Lee also
made permanent a program to provide cash, utility rebates and
medical funds for the elderly and low-income households. The
government is subsidizing bus companies’ purchases of new
vehicles to reduce crowding on public transport and adding
hospital beds.  Revisiting Issues  More than a third of Singapore’s 5.2 million population is
made up of foreigners and expatriate permanent residents, and
efforts to reduce the inflow of workers since 2010 have had
little effect. The foreign workforce has grown 7.5 percent
annually over the last two years, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in February as he imposed new rules on the
percentage of overseas labor that companies are allowed.  “There may be a need to revisit issues and policies with
an out-of-the-box approach,” Eugene Tan, an assistant law
professor at the  Singapore Management University  and a member of
Parliament who has limited voting rights, said yesterday of the
PAP. “The Hougang voters, the way they voted may indicate that
policy tweaks are not enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  