-- SNB Sees ‘Considerable Upward Pressure on Franc,’ SZ Reports
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-27T13:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/snb-sees-considerable-upward-pressure-on-franc-jordan-tells-sz.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan said pressure on the franc ceiling has increased since
recent renewed turmoil in the euro area,  SonntagsZeitung 
reported, citing an interview.  “The situation over the past few weeks has worsened and
has become a lot more uncertain,” Jordan told the Zurich-based
newspaper in an interview published today. “At the same time,
we are observing a considerable upward pressure on the franc.
Investors are looking for a safe haven. For many, the franc is
part of that.”  The euro region’s fiscal crisis deepened after Greece’s
inconclusive elections on May 6 fueled concerns about a breakup
of the 17-member area. The single currency dropped to the lowest
in almost two years versus the dollar last week. The  Swiss
National Bank  introduced a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro
in September to protect its economy after investors piled into
the currency, pushing it to a record.  While the Swiss economy will avoid a recession, 2012 will
be a “difficult” year, the newspaper cited Jordan as saying.  “I understand demands for an increase” in the franc
ceiling, he also said, adding that the situation is “very
difficult” for many companies, SZ reported.  “Still, we can’t manipulate our currency
indiscriminately,” Jordan said, according to the newspaper.
“That would be fatal and counter-productive in an even worse
crisis situation. The minimum  exchange rate  needs to be
legitimized. The current minimum exchange rate is realistic.”  Capital Controls  The central bank may introduce capital control measures and
precautions that would directly affect the inflow of money into
 Switzerland  in addition to the franc ceiling of 1.20 if it comes
to further shocks on the  currency markets , Jordan told 
SonntagsZeitung.  The central banker declined to specify how this might be
implemented and said the measures would be spelled out in the
event they are needed, according to the interview. Swiss Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in December that a central
bank-government task-force is examining options such as capital
controls and negative  interest rates  to curb the franc’s
strength.  Jordan, who took the helm of the SNB last month, said the
central bank will continue to defend its minimum exchange rate
“with the utmost determination even under the most difficult
conditions,” the newspaper reported. Asked whether the SNB is
purchasing euros to weaken the franc, Jordan told
SonntagsZeitung “we never give details about our activities in
the market.”  The SNB doesn’t expect  Greece  to leave the euro, according
to the interview. Still, Jordan said “we’re bracing ourselves
for very turbulent times,” SZ reported. The SNB plans to hold
its next monetary assessment on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  