-- SpaceX’s Supply Ship Hooks Up With International Space Station
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-05-26T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/spacex-s-supply-ship-hooks-up-with-international-space-station.html
Space Exploration Technologies Corp.
docked its cargo ship at the International  Space Station ,
marking a new era in for-profit spaceflight.  Closely held SpaceX, controlled by billionaire Elon Musk,
is the first company to park a vehicle at the station. Its
unmanned Dragon capsule made the connection yesterday at 12:02
p.m.  New York  time, according to Kyle Herring, a spokesman for
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Even after a successful launch on May 22, there were no
guarantees the craft would dock. The vehicle had to carefully
maneuver close to the station before berthing with what the
company described as “extreme precision.” Both the ship and
station were traveling at about 17,500 miles per hour, orbiting
Earth once every 90 minutes.  “There’s so much that could have gone wrong, and it went
right,” Musk, 40, said in a press conference from SpaceX’s
headquarters in Hawthorne,  California . “This really is I think
going to be recognized as a significantly historic step forward
in space travel.”  He said the timing of an initial public offering of SpaceX
shares wouldn’t be affected by the successful docking. He told
Bloomberg last month that an IPO was likely in 2013.  The U.S. is on its way to having a cost-effective space
transportation system, Michael Lopez-Alegria, president of the
Washington-based Commercial Spaceflight Federation, said in a
statement.  SpaceX, he said, should be thanked for “restoring U.S.
access to the space station.”  Shuttle Decision  NASA retired its shuttle fleet last year and wants the
private sector to take over the job of carrying supplies and
eventually astronauts to the station. The U.S. currently relies
on the governments of  Europe , Japan and Russia for that work.  After almost three years of delays in the mission, SpaceX
launched its Falcon 9 rocket, carrying the Dragon ship, on May
22 from  Cape Canaveral , Florida. A previously scheduled attempt
on May 19 was called off with a half-second left in the
countdown because of a faulty engine valve.  Astronaut Don Pettit, with help from colleague Andrew
Kuipers, grabbed the craft with the 60-foot-long robotic arm at
9:56 a.m. New York time. Actual docking, or berthing, was
completed at 12:02 p.m.  The Obama administration in 2010 canceled a program to
develop a shuttle successor, betting the private sector would
offer lower costs.  ‘Lion’s Share’  SpaceX is among several companies that have won a total of
more than $1 billion in  NASA  contracts to develop the technology
to transport cargo and crew into space.  SpaceX will begin regular supply to the station in
September, NASA Station program manager Mike Suffredini told
reporters at the press briefing. The company and  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)  will do the “lion’s share” of the station
supply work,  he said.  The group includes Orbital, based in Dulles, Virginia; Blue
Origin LLC, based in Kent, Washington;  Boeing Co. (BA) , based in
Chicago; and Paragon Space Development Corp., based in Tucson,
 Arizona .  The others are Sierra Nevada Corp., based in Sparks,
Nevada; and United Launch Alliance LLC, a joint venture of
Boeing and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , based in Arlington, Virginia, has
teamed up with Lockheed and Astrium, part of Leiden,
Netherlands-based European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., in
offering the Liberty rocket to compete for NASA business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  