-- U.S. Joins Condemnation of ‘Massacre’ of Syrian Civilians
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-05-26T23:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-26/u-s-joins-condemnation-of-massacre-of-syrian-civilians.html
The U.S. condemned acts by government
forces of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad after “credible”
reports of the killing of more than 90 people in Houla,
“including stabbing and ax attacks on women and children,”
according to a White House statement.  France  and the U.K. urged increased international support
after the May 25 violence in Houla, a town in Homs province.
Government forces killed more than 32 children under the age of
10 and more than 60 adults, according to UN mission head General
Robert Mood, who cited United Nations military and civilian
observers who viewed the bodies. The observers confirmed the use
of artillery and tank shells fired at a residential neighborhood
in an attack that Mood called a “brutal tragedy.”  “These acts serve as a vile testament to an illegitimate
regime that responds to peaceful political protest with
unspeakable and inhuman brutality,” said Erin Pelton, a
spokeswoman for the White House National Security Council. The
U.S. is “horrified” by the killings, she said.  A further 56 people were killed in Syria yesterday,  Al
Jazeera  television reported, citing activists. Al Jazeera showed
street demonstrations in Syria yesterday protesting the
killings, which also were condemned by the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council. The  United Arab Emirates  called for a
meeting of the  Arab League  to discuss the attack, the state-run
news agency WAM reported, citing foreign Minister Abdullah Bin
Zayed Al Nahyan.  “We stand in solidarity with the Syrian people and the
peaceful marchers in cities across Syria who have taken to the
streets to denounce the massacre,” U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in an e-mailed statement.  Syrian Martyrdom  The international community must stop the “martyrdom of
the Syrian people,” French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. British Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  called Syria’s acts “an appalling crime” and
said the U.K. would be calling for an “urgent” meeting of the
UN Security Council.  The killing hasn’t stopped since Assad agreed to a peace
plan by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan  two months ago. His forces
have killed more than 9,000 people since March 2011 when
protests began as part of the wave of uprisings in the  Middle
East , according to a UN estimate in late March.  Indiscriminate Killing  “This indiscriminate and disproportionate use of force is
unacceptable and unforgiveable,” UN’s Mood said. “The killing
of innocent children and civilians needs to stop.”  While there has been “some reduction in the intensity of
fighting” in areas of  Syria  where there are UN observers, “the
overall level of violence in the country remains quite high”
and the Syrian government isn’t implementing the UN peace plan,
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in a report last week.  Annan and Ban issued a statement yesterday condemning
“this appalling and brutal crime” and demanding that Syria’s
government “immediately cease the use of heavy weapons in
population centers.”  The UN now has 271 unarmed military observers for Syria and
expects to have a full contingent of 300 there by the end of
this month, according to Ban.  Ban cited fears expressed by opposition figures about
regime reprisals for cooperating with UN monitors. There are
continuing reports of “massive violations of human rights,”
including torture and summary executions, he said.  Some Syrians in Homs said authorities threatened to kill
them and their family members if they demonstrated or spoke with
UN monitors, he said. In Deraa on May 9, a bomb detonated next
to a house where five minutes earlier a UN patrol had met with
representatives of the Free Syria Army, Ban said.  Separately, the Yemeni army killed 62 militants in fighting
yesterday in the southern city of Zanjibar, the country’s
defense ministry said on its website. Three government soldiers
were killed, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  