-- ‘Avengers’ Breaks Record With $200.3 Million in Receipts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-07T21:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/-avengers-breaks-record-with-200-3-million-in-receipts-1-.html
“Marvel’s The Avengers” crushed U.S.
box-office records with $207.4 million in weekend ticket sales,
opening the summer movie season with a huge win for  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  following the mega-flop “ John Carter .”  “The Avengers” blew past the previous-best opening
weekend of $169.2 million in the U.S. and  Canada , set last year
by “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,” researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in a statement, after
yesterday’s $200.3 million preliminary figure. Forecasts had
ranged from $150 million to $170 million.  “Two hundred million is a staggering number,” said  Jeff Bock , box-office analyst at researcher Exhibitor Relations Co.
“This is definitely the kind of momentum that’s going to carry
over and ride the wave through summer.”  The movie’s performance validates Chief Executive Officer
Robert Iger’s strategy of focusing on fewer, more-expensive
films with characters that can be marketed by Disney’s
merchandise, cable-television and theme-park arms. Iger paid
$4.2 billion for Marvel Entertainment in 2009, gaining comic-
book characters such as Thor, the Hulk and  Captain America , and
$7.01 billion for Pixar Animation Studio in 2006.  “The Avengers” is the first Marvel film Disney has
distributed since buying the comic-book company. The numbers
underscore Marvel’s staying power and Disney’s ability to
capitalize on the brand, said Dave Hollis, executive vice
president for distribution at  Walt Disney Studios .  Beyond the box office, there is a “ton of enterprise-wide
value for ancillary business, whether it be consumer products or
the networks,” Hollis said in an interview.  Merchandise Opportunities  Each $60 million in additional ticket sales exceeding
forecasts for “The Avengers” generates 1 cent a share in
profit for Burbank, California-based Disney, Todd Juenger, an
analyst with Bernstein Research in  New York , wrote in a May 4
research report. That figure doesn’t include the lift to home-
video sales such as DVDs and cable television, consumer-product
sales or other tie-ins with Disney properties.  A hit “is usually a bigger deal for Disney than it would
be for the other major studios,” Juenger wrote, citing the
company’s “unparalleled ability to wring additional value.”  Disney bore the risks of its bet-big strategy with the
March release “John Carter,” which cost $250 million,
according to Box Office Mojo, and failed to resonate with
audiences.  Rich Ross , the head of Disney’s film unit, resigned
the following month, and the company hasn’t yet hired a
replacement.  ‘Shot in Arm’  Disney, which is scheduled to report fiscal second-quarter
results tomorrow, has said it lost $200 million on the movie and
as much as $120 million at the film unit in the period.  “This was a needed shot in the arm for Disney and its
live-action business,” said  Paul Sweeney , senior analyst with
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey. “This really
validates the acquisition of Marvel Entertainment.”  Disney advanced 2.1 percent to $43.82 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 17 percent this year. The company
releases Pixar’s “Brave” on June 22.  For other film studios, “The Avengers” raises the
competitive bar at the start the all-important summer season,
which made up more than 40 percent of domestic sales last year.  Films scheduled in coming weeks include Warner Bros.’ “The
Dark Knight Rises,” directed by Christopher Nolan, and  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s “Men in Black 3,” a sequel that reunites Will Smith
and Tommy Lee Jones as government agents managing Earth’s secret
alien population.  Summer Sales  Summer ticket sales in the U.S. and Canada are forecast by
Bock to surpass the record of $4.4 billion set last year. For
all of 2011, sales were $10.2 billion. The full-year mark of
$10.6 billion was set in 2009.  “The Avengers” helped push domestic box-office receipts
to a 16 percent gain year-to-date, to $3.58 billion, according
to Hollywood.com. Attendance is up 19 percent.  The movie brings together Marvel heroes featured singly in
previous films. The Hulk,  Iron Man , Thor and Captain America
must overcome egos and discord to band together to fight an army
led by Loki, the unscrupulous god of Norse mythology. The film
stars Robert Downey Jr.,  Chris Evans ,  Mark Ruffalo  and  Scarlett Johansson .  The movie, which has generated $654.8 million in sales
worldwide, according to Hollywood.com, was the only new picture
opening in wide release in the U.S. this weekend.  Crowd Mix  Disney’s Hollis credited director Joss Whedon and the
actors, as well as Marvel President Kevin Feige for weaving
together the narratives of the multiple Marvel films leading up
to this one, including the two “Iron Man” movies, and last
year’s “Captain America” and “Thor.”  The international opening, as well as a Marvel record of
$100 million in sponsorships, including  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura
and  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , helped generate interest and draw a
diverse audience that was half over age 25 and 60 percent male,
he said. Fifty-two percent of the gross was in 3-D theaters such
as those using  RealD Inc. (RLD)  systems, and 8 percent was in theaters
equipped by  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , which ran out of tickets.  “You hope for a mix like this,” Hollis said. “This is
what you shoot for.”  RealD, based in Beverly Hills, California, added 2.2
percent to $11.38 in New York trading. Mississauga, Ontario-
based Imax gained 3.3 percent to $24.70.  The huge opening leaves Disney well-positioned for three
more films based on Avengers characters over the next two years.  Future Releases  “Iron Man 3” is scheduled for release in May 2013, “Thor
2” in November 2013, and “Captain America 2” is planned for
April 2014, according to the website Imdb.com.  For “The Avengers,” the company hasn’t made any decisions
regarding changes to the DVD or pay-per-view release schedule,
Hollis said.  “We’re too busy picking our jaws up off the ground,”
Hollis said.  While there were no other new releases, among returning
films Sony Corp.’s “Think Like a Man” dropped to second place
with $8.1 million after two weeks in first. “The Hunger Games”
was third with $5.6 million. The movie has generated $380.6
million in domestic ticket sales for  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  since it was released on March 23.  Sony’s animated “The Pirates! Band of Misfits” was
fourth, down from second place, with $5.5 million. The romantic
drama “The Lucky One” dropped to fifth with $5.4 million for
Warner Bros.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films surged 61 percent to
$249.7 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. The
amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May 4-6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  