-- ‘The Avengers’ Has Record-Setting $200.3 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-06T15:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/-the-avengers-has-record-setting-200-3-million-in-sales.html
“Marvel’s The Avengers” opened as
the top film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, kicking off the
summer movie season with a record $200.3 million in sales this
weekend for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Revenue topped the previous best of $169.2 million set by
“Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2” last year,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Analysts had forecast sales of $150 million to $170
million for “The Avengers.”  Summer ticket sales are expected to surpass the record of
$4.4 billion set last year, according to Jeff Bock, box-office
analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co. Other films scheduled in the
coming weeks include Warner Bros.’ “The Dark Knight Rises,”
directed by Christopher Nolan, and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Men in Black
3,” a sequel that reunites Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones as
government agents managing Earth’s secret alien population.  “The Avengers” is the first Marvel movie Disney is
distributing since buying the comic-book company for $4.2
billion in 2009. The movie provides Burbank, California-based
Disney with a hit after the box-office failure of “John
Carter,” the science-fiction film released in March that
resulted in a $200 million loss for the company.  Rich Ross , the head of Disney’s film unit, resigned in
April, and the company hasn’t yet hired a replacement.
Disney is scheduled to report fiscal second-quarter results on
May 8.  Marvel Heroes  “The Avengers” brings together several Marvel heroes,
including  Iron Man , Thor and  Captain America , who were featured
singly in previous films. They must overcome egos and discord to
band together to fight an army led by Loki, the unscrupulous god
of Norse mythology. The movie stars Robert Downey Jr.,  Chris
Evans  and  Scarlett Johansson .  The film took in $80.5 million in first-day ticket sales on
May 4, according to Hollywood.com. The revenue was the second-
best single-day performance after “Deathly Hallows: Part 2,”
which took in $91.1 million.  “The Avengers,” directed by Joss Whedon, was the only
movie opening in wide release this weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  