-- Manchester City on Track for League Title After Win at Newcastle
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/manchester-city-beats-newcastle-to-close-on-league-title-1-.html
Manchester City  remains on course for
a first English soccer championship in 44 years after a 2-0
victory at Newcastle that keeps it atop the Premier League on
goal difference from  Manchester United  with one match to play.  Yaya Toure got both goals in Newcastle yesterday to lift
City to 86 points. Paul Scholes and  Ashley Young  scored for
United as it beat Swansea City 2-0 to maintain the pressure on
its rival ahead of the final round of matches on May 13.  City’s goal difference is plus 63, while United is on plus
55. City will host Queens Park Rangers in its final match, while
United is at Sunderland.  “If we beat QPR, we will be the champions,” City manager
 Roberto Mancini  told reporters. “But at this moment, we can’t
think about this. We need to prepare very well for the next
game, only this.”  City has now won five straight matches, including a 1-0
victory against United on April 30 that took it to the top of
the standings. The 1937 and 1968 league champion had a number of
first-half chances yesterday, with Newcastle also a threat on
the breakaway.  Sergio Aguero  had a low shot saved by  Tim Krul  on 17
minutes, while a few minutes later the Newcastle defense cleared
after the goalkeeper was stranded away from his net.  Newcastle’s Demba Ba fired just over on 29 minutes and had
a shot block by  Gael Clichy  five minutes later, with goalkeeper
Joe Hart stopping the follow-up from Hatem  Ben Arfa .  Opening Goal  Ba also headed over before halftime, while City came close
to taking a lead in the 41st minute. Gareth Barry had a shot
blocked by Fabricio Coloccini and then a second effort cleared
off the line by Davide Santon.  Mancini introduced Nigel de Jong and Edin Dzeko during the
second half and both were involved in the build-up for Toure’s
opening goal after 70 minutes. Aguero touched the ball to Toure,
who struck a low shot into the bottom corner of the net from 20
yards.  Aguero should have doubled the advantage five minutes later
when  David Silva  slipped the ball through the defense and left
the striker with only Krul to beat. He was only able to slide
his shot wide of the post.  Toure had a header over the bar in the 82nd minute and then
two minutes later slipped over in the penalty area as he surged
forward in search of another goal.  ‘One Week More’  Newcastle, still competing for Champions League
qualification, also had chances. Shola Ameobi had a shot blocked
by Micah Richards and Hart saved from Ba.  The second goal arrived on 89 minutes from a quick City
breakaway. Clichy collected the ball on the left side of the
penalty area and slipped the ball through to Toure, who lifted
it over Krul.  “I am excited because we are on the top, but it’s not
enough,” Mancini said. “One week more and if we play like we
did today, we have a lot of chance to win.”  United, the defending champion, can still clinch a record-
extending 20th championship after it also won 2-0.  Both goals came in the first half at Old Trafford, with the
opener from Scholes on 28 minutes.  Michael Carrick  had a shot at
goal and his teammate flicked the ball into the net from close
range.  Young got the second goal four minutes before the interval
with a low effort into the corner of the net.  “We take the three points and hope for next week,”
Carrick told  Sky Sports .  QPR Boost  In yesterday’s other games, QPR boosted its chances of
avoiding relegation with a 1-0 home victory against Stoke City,
as Bolton gave up a two-goal lead to tie 2-2 against West
Bromwich Albion. QPR striker Djibril Cisse got the only goal at
Loftus Road, in the 89th minute, maintaining his record of
either scoring or being red-carded in every match since joining
in January.  Aston Villa  and Tottenham drew 1-1, Fulham beat Sunderland
2-1, while the match between  Wolverhampton Wanderers  and Everton
was scoreless.  Arsenal was held to a 3-3 tie by Norwich City two days ago,
while Chelsea defeated Liverpool 2-1 to win the F.A. Cup final.  Arsenal is third on 67 points, with Tottenham on 66 and
Newcastle on 65.  Blackburn hosts Wigan in today’s game and must win to have
a chance of avoiding relegation.  Blackburn will remain in the three-team demotion positions
even if it wins that match. Already relegated Wolves have 25
points, Blackburn has 31 points, Bolton 35, Wigan and QPR on 37,
with Villa on 38.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 