-- Apathy Prevails as Algeria Readies for Parliamentary Elections
-- B y   S a l a h   S l i m a n i
-- 2012-05-06T12:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/apathy-prevails-as-algeria-readies-for-parliamentary-elections.html
Algeria wrapped up campaigning today
for the May 10 parliamentary vote, with officials calling for
calm even as the election threatened to be marred by voter
apathy.  Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia cautioned against protests or
unrest during the elections, telling a crowd of voters a day
before the monthlong campaign ended that the uprisings that led
to the ouster of leaders in Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt  have
brought nothing but chaos to the region.  Ouyahia said it was increasingly clear from the unrest that
has gripped those countries that the wave of mass protests “was
not an Arab Spring sweeping the region, but a deluge,” the
state-run APS news agency quoted him as saying yesterday.  While the ruling National Liberation Front is facing
challenges from the Islamist Ennahda Party and the Socialist
Forces Front, among others, Algerian officials say they worry
that voter apathy will undermine the results of the vote.  “The real threat in these elections is abstention,”
Interior Minister Daho Ouled Kablia said in an April 21
interview on state radio.  Officials say they are concerned the vote will see a repeat
of the record low turnout of 35 percent in 2007. To shore up
trust in the system, Algeria invited 500 foreign observers to
monitor the election, including from the European Union, the
 Arab League  and the  United Nations . It also set up two
commissions to monitor the race for the parliament, where the
number of seats was expanded to 462 from the current level of
382. An additional 21 new political parties were also allowed to
run.  Black Decade  The lack of voter interest has been linked to what
Algerians describe as a fear of reliving the bloodshed that
erupted shortly after the military intervened in 1991 as
Islamists were poised to sweep elections. The decade of fighting
that followed left more than 200,000 dead.  “Algerians still have, in their collective memory, the
images of the black decade and are ready to give up their rights
in order to not relive these painful moments,” Nacer Djabi, a
sociologist at Algiers University, said in an interview.  Many argue that their current focus is to improve their
lives, though they have little confidence in pledges by parties
to boost the economy or create jobs in a nation where
unemployment stood at about 10 percent, according to the latest
figures from the  National Statistics Office .  “I won’t vote because I don’t trust the system and the
promises of transparency,” said Agbdelmoutalib Mohamed, a 39-
year-old pharmaceutical company executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salah Slimani via Cairo at 
 sslimani2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  