-- Aquino Open to China Sea Oil Deal Separate From Territory Spat
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e ,   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-05-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/aquino-open-to-china-sea-oil-deal-separate-from-territory-spat.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said he’s open to an agreement with China that would allow
companies to exploit oil and gas resources while the governments
separately resolve South China Sea border disputes.  Aquino said his administration may split the issues to
“have a political discussion on one side” and “have
commercial issues on another side,” speaking in a May 4
interview at Malacanang Palace in Manila. “So long as our
sovereignty is respected, we are open to partner with them.”  The U.S. ally has resisted joint exploration in some
offshore areas claimed by China, increasing tensions as the
countries compete for energy resources. The exploration unit of
 Philex Mining Corp. (PX) , the Philippines’s biggest metals producer,
last month said the dispute will probably delay plans to exploit
what may be the country’s biggest gas field.  Aquino, 52, has championed the Philippine territorial
claims even while saying the country can’t compete militarily
with China, which trails only the U.S. in defense spending. A
war over the resources would leave the  Philippines  in tatters
and ordinary people would suffer, he said.  “We now have an energy source within the region, not
subject to the current turmoil that is being experienced and has
to be completed in the  Middle East ,” Aquino said. “Doesn’t it
redound to everybody to get these resources online at the
soonest possible time?”  Energy Need  Estimates of oil and gas reserves in the South China Sea
vary, with some Chinese studies suggesting it contains more oil
than  Iran  and more natural gas than  Saudi Arabia , according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration. China surpassed the
U.S. as the world’s largest energy user in 2010, while the
Philippines wants to reduce its near-total reliance on imports.  Ships from the two nations have been locked in a monthlong
standoff over a land feature in the  South China Sea  claimed by
both countries, the latest among incidents in the waters that
have “increased dramatically” in the past several years, the
 International Crisis Group  said in an April  report . Last year, a
Chinese surveillance vessel chased away a survey ship doing work
for Forum Energy Pcl, the U.K.-based unit of Philex Mining.  The U.S. will transfer a second Coast Guard cutter to the
Philippines this year, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in
 Washington  on April 30 during talks with Philippine
counterparts. Coastal patrol vessels and maritime radar will be
supplied under a long-term modernization plan, according to two
U.S. officials who spoke with reporters in Washington last week
on condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic matters.  Zero Fighters  In the interview at the palace’s Ramos Room, Aquino said
the military’s capabilities have been “very, very severely
diminished,” noting that the Philippines has zero fighter jets
and that most ships are older than he. The room was named after
Fidel Ramos, who in 1986 as armed forces vice chief of staff
withdrew support from dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  and backed
Aquino’s mother, Corazon, for the presidency. Ramos succeeded
 Corazon Aquino  as president, serving from 1992 to 1998.  “We have no capability,” Aquino said. “We have minimum
responsibilities to protect the endangered species, protect our
coasts, protect our exclusive economic zone. We need the
wherewithal to do that.”  The president flagged Philippine success in other areas in
the interview, with economic growth likely surpassing 5.2
percent in the first quarter, the most since 2010. He said a
forthcoming mining-policy overhaul may also resuscitate a
stalled  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  gold-copper project valued at $5.9 billion.  Rejecting Cooperation  Aquino didn’t elaborate on how an agreement with China on
developing would work. Last year, his government submitted a
 proposal  for joint development near the disputed Spratly and
Paracel islands, while rejecting cooperation in waters closer to
its shores. China has repeatedly called for shelving disputes in
favor of joint development, with the latest appeal coming from
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  in March.  Aquino’s assertiveness in the South China Sea has rankled
some neighbors in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
that are concerned about maintaining good ties with China,
Ernest Bower and Gregory Poling, analysts at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said in a May
4 report. The 10-member bloc has resisted Philippine calls to
take a common stand on territorial disputes.  “Some countries in the region worry that the Philippines
may be rolling the dice with  China  and pulling the  United States 
into territorial disputes,” Bower and Poling  wrote . “Asean
unity on the South China Sea remains uncertain.”  Contrast With Arroyo  Aquino has taken a more aggressive stand than his
predecessor,  Gloria Arroyo , who had signed an agreement on joint
seismic surveys in disputed waters between the Philippines,
China and  Vietnam . That accord was abandoned on concerns over
corruption and whether it complied with the constitution.  Aquino has sought bids to develop two areas in the South
China Sea claimed by China, though has yet to receive any ahead
of the July 31 deadline, Energy Secretary Jose Almendras said.
The Philippines has pushed China to clarify how its so-called
 nine-dash map  of the sea complies with the United Nation’s law
of the sea, while China says the law has no jurisdiction over
its claims.  “We recognize the fact that it’s difficult for the Chinese
government having stated the nine-dash position of theirs in
2009, to suddenly come to an agreement that says they’re
relinquishing any portion of the area,” Aquino said. “The
issue of loss of face to an Asian is very, very important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  