-- Arabtec-TAV Group Is Preferred Bidder for Abu Dhabi Deal
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-05-06T10:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/arabtec-tav-group-is-preferred-bidder-for-abu-dhabi-deal.html
A group including  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) ,
TAV Insaat and Consolidated Contractors Co. is the preferred
bidder for the construction of the new terminal building at Abu
Dhabi airport.  “Abu Dhabi Airports Co. is currently in discussions with
the preferred bidder to finalize all details of the contract
prior to its signing, and before officially announcing the
winning contractor of the midfield terminal building at the
capital’s airport in June this year,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Abu Dhabi Airports today.  Abu Dhabi is expanding the international airport to meet
the growth of  Etihad Airways , among the fastest-growing Middle
Eastern carriers. The airline ordered 100 jets at the 2008
Farnborough Air Show and is on the acquisitions trail, with
stakes in Air Berlin Plc, Air Seychelles Ltd. and  Aer Lingus. (AERL) 
The United Arab Emirates’ capital city and holder of about seven
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves plans to spend $500
billion on industry, tourism and culture through 2030 to reduce
its reliance on hydrocarbons.  The re-development and expansion plan will increase the
airport’s capacity to more than 40 million passengers a year,
the statement added. The 700,000-square-meter building will have
piers that can accommodate as many as 65 aircraft at one time,
including the wide-body Airbus SAS A380 and Boeing 747-800
planes, Abu Dhabi Airports said. The project is scheduled for
completion in 2017.  Arabtec Gains  Etihad vies for transfer traffic with Gulf rivals Emirates,
based in Dubai and the world’s largest carrier by international
traffic, and  Qatar Airways . All three are seeking to attract
long-haul passengers away from traditional hubs in locations
such as London, Paris and  Frankfurt .  Arabtec’s Chief Executive Officer Riad Kamal didn’t answer
calls to his mobile seeking comment.  Arabtec has an order backlog of around 14 billion dirhams,
a level similar to this time last year, Chief Financial Officer
 Ziad Makhzoumi  said on April 25.  Arabtec shares gained 1.7 percent to 3.50 dirhams in Dubai
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai The stock has more than doubled in
the past year compared with a 2 percent decline for the
benchmark DFM General Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi   at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  