-- Armenia’s Ruling Party Poised to Win Parliamentary Elections
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-05-06T08:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/armenia-s-ruling-party-poised-to-win-parliamentary-elections.html
Armenia ’s ruling party is poised to win
parliamentary elections today as the country votes in the first
balloting for the legislature since a 2008 presidential vote
that triggered deadly protests.  President Serzh Sargsyan’s Republican Party may receive 41
percent of the votes today, compared with 33 percent for the
junior coalition party Prosperous Armenia, according to
Brussels-based European Friends of Armenia. Exit polls are due
after voting ends at 8 p.m. in Yerevan, the capital. The two
parties haven’t said if they would renew their alliance.  Ten people died in clashes between police and protesters
after Sargsyan defeated Levon Ter-Petrosyan, a former president,
in the 2008 vote that the opposition claimed was rigged. Ter-
Petrosyan’s Armenian National Congress opposition bloc
threatened to protest again if there is election fraud. The
 Republican party  being forced to form a new coalition may help
foster democracy, according to Lilit Gevorgyan, an analyst at
IHS Global Insight in  London .  The election “is likely to bring an end to the absolute
parliamentary majority of the presidential party,” Gevorgyan
wrote in an e-mail. “The vote could serve as a model for the
wider region for peaceful transition from the highly centralized
political system to a more pluralistic political landscape.”  Rule of Law, a third coalition party, had 5.4 percent
support, the opposition Heritage party was at 6.5 percent,
Armenian Revolutionary Federation at 6 percent and Armenian
National Congress had 4.3 percent support, according to the
April 17-22 poll by European Friends of Armenia, which surveyed
1,600 voting-age adults. The margin of error is 2.4 percentage
points.  Limiting Demonstrations  Ter-Petrosyan returning to parliament may help quell
discontent, limiting potential demonstrations, Richard
Giragosyan, the director of the Yerevan-based Regional Studies
Center, said in a phone interview.  Armenia, which borders Iran and Turkey, is embroiled in a
20-year territorial dispute with neighboring  Azerbaijan  that
threatens to provoke renewed conflict in the South Caucasus,
risking oil supplies from the region. Sargsyan, 57, was born in
the Nagorno-Karabakh region that’s at the center of the feud.  Tensions are rising over Nagorno-Karabakh, an Armenian-
majority territory previously under Azeri control, prompting a
“spiraling arms race” between the two former Soviet states,
the  International Crisis Group  in Brussels said in February.  Potential Flashpoint  Oil-exporting Azerbaijan and landlocked Armenia fought a
war over Nagorno-Karabakh after the breakup of the  Soviet Union 
in 1991 that left tens of thousands of people dead and more than
1 million displaced. The territory remains a potential
flashpoint in a region where  Russia  in 2008 fought a five-day
war with  Georgia  after separatist tensions flared up.  Surging  oil prices  allowed Azerbaijan to double military
spending to more than $2 billion last year and emboldened Aliyev
to threaten the use of military force to regain Nagorno-
Karabakh. Russia, which brokered a cease-fire in 1994, last year
failed to bridge the divide when President  Dmitry Medvedev  met
Sargsyan and Azeri leader  Ilham Aliyev  to persuade them to agree
on a roadmap for resolving the status of the disputed territory.  Armenia, a former Soviet nation of 3.3 million, became
independent in 1991. The economy is expected to expand 4.2
percent in 2012, Finance Minister Vache Gabrielyan said last
month. Inflation slowed to 1.9 percent in April, after
accelerating to 7.7 percent in 2011, mainly on higher costs on
food.  The government expects a boost to the economy from the
possible reopening of its border with  Turkey , which closed it in
1993 to protest Armenia’s occupation of Nagorno-Karabakh. The
two nations have yet to ratify a 2009 U.S.-supported agreement
to re-establish ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  