-- Harvard Study Swaps Bad Fat for Good in Effort on Obesity
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-05-06T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/harvard-study-swaps-bad-fat-for-good-in-effort-on-obesity.html
Harvard University scientists gave
white fat, which stores energy, the calorie-burning properties
of brown fat, which keeps hibernating bears warm in the winter,
in a development that may lead to new therapies for obesity.  Brown fat  was thought to exist in humans only in babies
until 2009, when three research groups found it in adults. In
the study released today, scientists manipulated white fat cells
in mice by blocking an enzyme used to control the cells’
creation and activity. The process gave them the energy-
expending characteristics of brown fat cells.  The findings in the journal  Nature Medicine  were the most
dramatic in visceral fat in the belly that contributes to heart
disease and diabetes, said Jorge Plutzky, a senior study author
and director of the Vascular Disease Prevention Program at
Brigham and Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical School  in
 Boston . Natural variations in the level of the enzyme may help
explain why some people are naturally leaner than others, he
said.  “We have discovered a pathway that controls whether fat
will be white or brown, and it can be manipulated, especially in
the visceral fat,” Plutzky said in a telephone interview.
“It’s proof of concept. It’s conceivable that this might be a
way to target visceral fat in humans.”  Mice that were bred without the enzyme or treated with an
experimental approach to squelch it had less weight gain and
lower blood sugar levels than normal mice.  Obesity in U.S.  Two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight, according to the
Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . No new
drug has been approved in more than a decade to help reign in
what public health officials call an epidemic of obesity, while
more effective surgical procedures carry additional risks and
are offered only to the heaviest patients.  The Harvard researchers homed in on an enzyme called
Aldh1a1, which is produced when the body breaks down vitamin A.
It was found at high levels in abdominal fat that surrounds the
liver, kidneys and other organs. When the enzyme was blocked,
mice put into cold rooms were able to maintain their body
temperature, a defining characteristic of heat-generating brown
fat and another sign of the cell transformation.  “We have conferred upon the mice protection against
cold,” Plutzky said. “If you manipulate this target, you can
make white fat more brown-like.”  This isn’t the first time scientists have changed the
characteristics of white fat. A January study found that a
hormone called irisin, which is released during exercise, makes
mice lose weight and improved their blood sugar levels. That
compound has been licensed by  Ember Therapeutics Inc. , a closely
held Boston-based company. Brown fat can also be stimulated with
cold exposure and exercise.  The  National Institutes of Health , the Mary K. Iacocca
Professorship and the Austrian Science Fund funded the Harvard
study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  