-- Aussie, Kiwi Fall as Europe Elections Damp Risk Appetite
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-05-07T06:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/aussie-kiwi-dollars-fall-as-europe-elections-damp-risk.html
The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars
dropped amid concern election results in France and Greece will
derail efforts to resolve Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie slid to the weakest this year versus
the greenback after Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  was
elected France’s president while Greek anti-bailout parties
gained momentum. Australia’s currency was on track for its
longest stretch of losses in nine months even after domestic
reports showed gains in retail sales and building approvals. New
Zealand’s dollar fell against its U.S. and Japanese peers as
Asian stocks extended a global rout.  “We’ve got what may well prove to be the next wave of
instability from Europe,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist in Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “There’s a clear
voter rejection of austerity evident. We’d expect the Aussie and
kiwi to remain under pressure.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.0142 as of
4:03 p.m. in Sydney, and touched $1.0110, the lowest since Dec.
29. The currency is set to weaken for a sixth day, the longest
series of daily declines since Aug. 8. It lost 0.4 percent to
80.95 yen, after trading at 80.57, the weakest since Jan. 30.  The New Zealand dollar declined to 79.07 U.S. cents, the
least since Jan. 13, before trading at 79.25 cents, 0.4 percent
lower than the close on May 4. The so-called kiwi retreated 0.5
percent to 63.24 yen.  Record-Low Yields  The yield on  Australia ’s 10-year note tumbled as much as 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to a record 3.393
percent. Three-year yields reached an all-time low of 2.676
percent. The rate on the 15-year security dropped to 3.721
percent, the  lowest recorded  for Australia’s longest-maturity
issue, according to Bloomberg data going back to 1991.  New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell to as low as 2.46 percent, also a
record and below the central bank’s official cash rate of 2.50
percent. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares slumped 2.5
percent.  The weekend elections in Europe occurred as 386 billion
euros ($501.6 billion) of emergency loan packages for  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal and a focus on  deficit reduction  failed to
stem the region’s fiscal crisis.  French, Greek Elections  France’s successful presidential challenger Hollande got
about 52 percent of the vote against about 48 percent for
incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy , according to estimates by four
pollsters. Hollande has called for a re-negotiation of a budget-
discipline pact crafted by European leaders in March, saying it
needs to place more emphasis on growth.  In Greece, official projections predicted that  New
Democracy  and Socialist Pasok, the two parties that secured a
second rescue package for the indebted country, would fall one
short of the 151 seats needed to win a majority following
yesterday’s parliamentary election.  Europe ’s economic and political turmoil is infecting
economies including Australia and Sweden, regarded as havens,
prompting policy makers in those countries to cut  interest
rates , weakening their currencies.  “In a weakening global environment, countries that can cut
rates will do so and their currencies can fall,” Kit Juckes,
head of foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said in a telephone interview on May 1. “Europe is an
economy with a currency that isn’t expensive, with not much
scope or appetite for cuts.”  The Aussie has lost 1.9 percent this year, the worst
performance after the Japanese yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Budget Surplus  Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government
intends to deliver its first surplus when announcing the budget
to parliament in Canberra tomorrow. Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  is expected to reduce the bank’s overnight cash rate
target to at least a record low 2.75 percent by November,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The credibility of a surplus and the expectations for
easier monetary policy will exert an influence” on the Aussie,
Andrew Salter, a foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney, wrote in a report today.
“The effect on the currency cannot be ignored.”  ANZ sees the Australian dollar at $1.07 by December, down
from a previous forecast of $1.10, Salter wrote. The currency
will end 2012 at $1.04, according to median forecast of
financial companies polled by Bloomberg.  Retail Sales  Australia’s  retail sales  climbed 0.9 percent in March after
a revised 0.3 percent gain in the previous month, the country’s
statistics office said in Sydney today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent advance. A separate
report showed the number of  permits  granted to build or renovate
houses and apartments rose 7.4 percent in March from February,
when they dropped a revised 8.8 percent.  “I think the data was actually very strong, so it’s more
like it’s putting a floor on the Aussie weakness that we’re
seeing,” said  Thomas Harr , the Singapore-based head of Asian
foreign-exchange strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “It’s
difficult to see the Aussie bouncing in this environment where
risk sentiment is pretty weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  