-- Gillard Dealt Blow as Australian Lawmaker Crook Joins Opposition
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-05-06T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/australian-opposition-gets-boost-as-lawmaker-dumps-gillard.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , suffering from approval rating slumps, saw her grip on
parliament loosened after a lawmaker joined the opposition just
as her government prepares to deliver the budget tomorrow.  Tony Crook, a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, will sit with
 Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition when parliament
reconvenes on May 8, Nationals Leader Warren Truss said in a
 statement  on his website.  Crook has voted with Labor more than 30 times since the
last federal election in 2010, according to the Australian
newspaper. He has criticized Gillard’s Labor government over its
carbon and mining tax policies, the newspaper reported yesterday.  Crook’s participation will boost the coalition to 72 seats
in the  House of Representatives . Labor, which has 71 seats,
remains in control of the house through its deals with
independents and the Greens party. The switch came as support
for Labor fell to a near-record low in a Newspoll published in
the Australian newspaper on May 1 amid lawmaker scandals.  After fending off a leadership challenge by predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  in February, Gillard is concentrating on delivering
on her pledge to end four years of deficits in the next fiscal
year to win back support. She reiterated her promise yesterday
to return the budget to surplus, saying the new budget will
create “a buffer” if the global economy worsens in the future.  Best Interests  “Tony has made a decision that I am certain is in the best
interests of his electorate of O’Connor and the nation,” Truss
said in the statement published last week, referring to Crook,
who had been sitting on the crossbenches since the 2010 election.  Gillard’s control of the 150-seat lower house became more
tenuous when she told Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson  this month to
quit her party. Thomson has denied claims he used a labor union
credit card to pay for prostitutes while working for the Health
Services Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007. Thomson says
he will continue to vote with the government.  Gillard lost another vote when a Labor lawmaker replaced
Parliamentary Speaker Peter Slipper, who stepped aside in April
to deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims that he denies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  