-- Biden Questions Republican Romney’s National Security Focus
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-06T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/biden-questions-republican-romney-s-national-security-focus.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said
President  Barack Obama  has bolstered national security and
suggested Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
approach would weaken the U.S. position in the world.  In an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Biden said
he didn’t know if Romney would have given the go-ahead to the
Navy Seal team that killed  Osama bin Laden , though he “wouldn’t
have gotten the same information,” because he wouldn’t have
made targeting bin Laden as high a priority, Biden said.  Obama at the beginning of his presidency said “he would
turn heaven and earth upside down” in order “to get bin
Laden,” Biden said. Obama told  Leon Panetta , then head of the
Central Intelligence Agency, “I have one priority, the
priority, find and get bin Laden,” Biden said on NBC.  Questioning Romney’s national security credentials has been
an early theme in Democrat Obama’s re-election campaign, which
officially opened yesterday with speeches in Columbus, Ohio and
Richmond, Virginia.  A political ad the Obama campaign produced suggested that
the former Republican governor of  Massachusetts  might not have
given the order to kill bin Laden. On April 26, Biden said a
“bumper sticker” slogan for the Obama campaign might be
“Osama bin Laden is dead and General Motors is alive,” a
reference to the auto bailout that Romney opposed.  ‘Even  Jimmy Carter ’  Romney responded to the Obama campaign ad by saying the
decision to go after bin Laden was an easy call that “even
Jimmy Carter” would have made, a reference to the U.S. 39th
president, a Democrat Republicans say struggled with foreign
policy during his one term in office.  Biden also defended the administration’s economic record,
saying the slowing of job  growth  in April doesn’t indicate the
economy is stagnating. U.S. employers added 115,000 workers, the
smallest gain in six months.  “There’s still a lot of people in trouble,” Biden said.
“But there’s no stagnation.”  The administration’s economic policies have created a
“steady path” for recovery that would be quicker had
Republicans not blocked some stimulus proposals, Biden said.  Romney’s plan to cut taxes “for the very wealthy” would
be a return to the policies of the George W. Bush
administration, and force cuts in spending on education,
infrastructure and Medicare and Medicaid, Biden said.  Biden also said Chinese activist  Chen Guangcheng ’s future
“is in America.” China has said the blind Chinese activist
could seek permission to study in the U.S.  “The Chinese have told us that if he files the papers” he
would be “able to go abroad,” Biden said. “And we’re prepared
to give a visa right away.  He’s gonna be able to take his
family. We expect the Chinese to stick to that commitment.”  To contact the reporters on this story::
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 