-- Buffett’s Son Hated Dealing With Irate Investors
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-06T21:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/buffett-s-son-hated-dealing-with-irate-investors.html
Howard Buffett , the  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  director and potential successor to his father Warren
Buffett as chairman, said a previous job where he dealt with
angry investors helped inform his advice for shareholders.  “If you don’t like Berkshire, don’t buy it,” Howard
Buffett said today in Omaha,  Nebraska , during an interview for
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” program with  Betty Liu .  Howard Buffett, 57, was addressing investor concerns about
his father’s political activism. Berkshire hasn’t been hurt, he
said, by Warren Buffett’s support of President  Barack Obama  and
his push for higher taxes on the wealthy. The younger Buffett
cited his experience in the early 1990s as head of  investor
relations  for Archer Daniels Midland Co. and his distaste for
speaking with unhappy shareholders.  “I hated that, but it was part of my job,” he said. “You
get these guys calling, they’re mad at you, they want answers
and you know you can’t answer it.”  Berkshire, which  Warren Buffett  has led for 42 years,
doesn’t have an investor-relations department and executives
don’t court Wall Street analysts with quarterly conference calls
and presentations. Shareholders rely on the annual meeting,
which draws tens of thousands of people to Omaha each year, to
express their views and get feedback from management.  At ADM, the world’s largest grain processor, Howard Buffett
said he was troubled by repeat calls from critical investors.  ‘Don’t Call Me Again’  After one investor called about 15 times over a year and a
half, Buffett said he asked the man how many shares he owned.
According to Buffett, whose father is the world’s third-richest
person, the investor said he owned 20 shares.  “I’ll tell you what,” Buffett said, recalling what he
told the investor. “Take the market price today, add 5 percent,
and I’ll buy your shares, and don’t call me again.” The
investor never called back.  Warren Buffett was asked repeatedly to explain his stance
on different facets of  tax policy  during yesterday’s meeting.
One investor posed the question of whether the billionaire, who
has traded barbs with Republicans on taxes over the past year,
might be discouraging investors who disagree with his personal
views from buying Berkshire stock. The question drew applause.  Buffett, 81, replied that his responsibilities at
Berkshire, which include chief executive officer and head of
investments, don’t require him to put his “citizenship in a
blind trust.”  Natural Disasters  Berkshire has  underperformed  the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in six of the last seven quarters. The company has faced
insurance claims tied to natural disasters and investor concerns
about management succession. Berkshire has said it identified
the next CEO without specifying who it is or setting a timeline
for the transition. Warren Buffett has said his son would make a
good non-executive chairman.  Buffett, the father, has attracted investors to Berkshire
by expanding the company from textiles to industries spanning
insurance,  consumer goods  and utilities. In addition to the
meetings, Buffett communicates with investors through annual
letters and a statement of principles he calls the Berkshire
“owner’s manual.” In his 1999 letter, Buffett set out his
leadership approach after welcoming new investors.  “We hope also that these new holders find that our owner’s
manual and annual reports offer them more insights and
information about Berkshire than they garner about other
companies from the investor-relations departments that these
corporations typically maintain,” Warren Buffett said. “But if
it is ‘earnings guidance’ or the like that shareholders or
analysts seek, we will simply guide them to our public
documents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in Omaha at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  