-- Buffett Targets Asia for Reinsurance, Ice Cream Expansion
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-06T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/buffett-targets-asia-for-reinsurance-ice-cream-expansion.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he’s pursuing more
opportunities in Asia after boosting reinsurance sales and
expanding the Iscar Metalworking Cos. unit on the continent.  “ Korea ,  Japan  and you name it,” Buffett, 81, said May 5
at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s annual meeting.  Buffett visited South Korea, Japan and India last year, and
 China  in 2010. Berkshire owned almost 4 million shares of South
Korean steelmaker Posco and a stake in Chinese carmaker  BYD Co. (1211) 
as of Dec. 31, according to regulatory filings. Japan,
rebounding from a March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and
 Thailand , which suffered record floods last year, are among
countries where Berkshire has increased sales.  The reinsurance unit has done “far more business in  Asia ”
in recent months that it did a few years ago, he said at the
meeting. Berkshire’s International Dairy Queen Inc. ice-cream
unit, led by CEO John Gainor, recently opened its 500th store in
China, where the Green Tea Blizzard dessert is the No. 1 seller.
The subsidiary has more than 270 outlets in Thailand and
expanded into  Singapore  last year.  China “is far and away our fastest-growing market,”
Gainor said yesterday in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” program with Betty Liu.  Asia, a region with the world’s two-fastest-growing major
economies, has become a focus for Berkshire as subsidiaries seek
new markets. China’s gross domestic product expanded by 9.2
percent last year and India’s by 7.1 percent as U.S. GDP growth
slowed to 1.7 percent from 3 percent a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Huge Companies’  “China’s got some huge companies,” Buffett said. “They
may eclipse in market value some of the ones such as Coca-Cola
that we’re talking about.”  Berkshire is Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s biggest owner,
with 200 million shares on Dec. 31, a stake of almost 9 percent
that was valued at $15.4 billion at the end of last week.  A shareholder at the meeting asked Buffett and Berkshire
Vice Chairman Charles Munger what advice they might give China’s
political and business leaders.  “We’re not spending much time giving advice,” Munger
said. “China’s been doing very well from a tough start. In some
ways we should seek advice,” he said.  Demand for electric cars such as those produced by
Shenzhen-based BYD will grow and the automaker’s products will
take market share in the U.S., Munger said.  “The car market in China is a huge market,” he said. “I
think the first cars they start to bring here will be fleets to
 California .”  Neck Breakers  Berkshire announced its entry into  India ’s insurance market
last year by selling motor coverage after striking a deal with
Pune-based Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.  The company is expanding in  Europe , too. CTB Inc., the
farm-products firm that Buffett bought in 2002, agreed to
acquire Oostzaan, Netherlands-based Meyn Holding BV to expand
into neck breakers and eviscerators for chickens.  Buffett, who’s also Berkshire’s chief executive officer,
visited Japan in November to tour a factory run by Iscar’s
Tungaloy unit, which makes tools for the automobile and aviation
industries. He had canceled a trip in March 2011 after the
earthquake and tsunami triggered a nuclear meltdown. Buffett
said the event created a “buying opportunity” for investors
because it wouldn’t change the country’s economic future even as
it would take time to rebuild.  Cutting Tools  Buffett paid $4 billion in 2006 for an 80 percent stake in
Tefen, Israel-based Iscar, which also has invested in TaeguTec
Ltd., a cutting-tools maker based in Daegu,  South Korea .  “The products they sell are going to be sold around the
world,” Buffett said of Iscar at the meeting.  Lubrizol Corp., the chemical maker Berkshire acquired in
September, is building a manufacturing plant on a 400,000-
square-meter property within the Zhuhai Gaolan Port Economic
Zone in southern China at a cost exceeding $200 million,
Berkshire said in its annual report.  Berkshire units related to aircraft also are expanding in
Asia. NetJets Inc., the private-plane operator based in
Columbus,  Ohio , said in March that it will form a venture in
China as rising wealth and trade spurs demand for luxury
flights. Millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region outnumbered
those in Europe for the first time in 2010, Capgemini SA and
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management said last year.  The China operations will be part-owned by investors
including Hony Capital Ltd. and Fung Investments, and based in
Zhuhai, which is an hour from  Hong Kong  by ferry, NetJets said
in a March 26 statement.  Learning Center  Berkshire’s FlightSafety International Inc., which provides
flight simulators and aviation-safety training to commercial
pilots and the U.S. military, has bolstered its Asia presence.
The New York-based firm, along with Gulfstream Aerospace, opened
a Hong Kong learning center as the number of training events
that FlightSafety has provided to operators of Gulfstream
aircraft in the Asia-Pacific region rose 230 percent in the past
five years, according to a Feb. 14  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  