-- Camargo Says Votorantim to Likely Exchange Cimpor Stake
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-06T13:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/camargo-says-votorantim-to-likely-exchange-cimpor-stake-1-.html
Camargo Correa  SA said Votorantim
Cimentos SA will probably accept some of Cimpor- Cimentos de
Portugal SGPS SA ’s assets in exchange for its shares in the
Portuguese company after rejecting a cash bid.  “There is a very strong probability that Votorantim
Cimentos SA will accept this offer,” Camargo Correa’s
Intercement unit said in an e-mailed statement. Votorantim has
decided not to accept Camargo’s 5.5 euro-a-share cash bid for
Cimpor, it said.  By splitting up some of Cimpor’s assets, Camargo Correa,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest construction company, and Votorantim,
the country’s largest cement producer, will avoid problems with
Brazil’s competition regulator, Camargo Correa said.  This solution “will enable us to overcome the competition
problems in Brazil and promote, at the same time, the stability
and sustainable growth of Cimpor,” said Camargo Correa.  Under the terms of the offer, Camargo Correa plans to
transfer its cement, concrete and aggregate assets in  South
America  and Angola to Cimpor in exchange for Cimpor’s assets in
 China , Spain,  India , Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey and Peru.  Votorantim would then receive Cimpor’s assets in China,
India, Marroco, Tunisia, Turkey, Peru and Spain -- excluding
Cimpor Inversiones SA and Cimpor Sagesta SA -- in exchange for
its shares in Cimpor, Camargo said.  Camargo Correa on March 30 offered 2.48 billion euros ($3.2
billion) to buy full control of Cimpor. Camargo already holds 33
percent of Cimpor while Votorantim owns a 21 percent stake.  Camargo said it maintained its original share offer for
Cimpor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  