-- China Gamblers Spurring Echo Deal for Sydney Monopoly
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g ,   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-05-07T09:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/china-gamblers-spurring-echo-deal-for-sydney-monopoly-real-m-a.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  is
poised to become the target of the largest casino takeover in
more than five years, thanks to its monopoly in Sydney and 16
million potential Chinese gamblers.  As allegations of sexual harassment at Echo’s showpiece
Sydney casino The Star pushed its shares to an  all-time low  this
year, Melbourne-based rival Crown Ltd. doubled its  stake  in Echo
to 10 percent and asked for regulatory approval to buy more.
Even after the move sparked a record rebound in Echo’s shares,
the Brisbane-based company is still trading at 1.9 times sales,
less than one-third the average for Asian gaming companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With the only casino in Sydney, Echo offers suitors a
chance to tap so-called VIP gamblers from  China . As they venture
beyond  Macau , VIP wagers at Echo’s and Crown’s tables may rise
to $100 billion by 2014, UBS AG estimates. Crown, backed by
billionaire  James Packer , may be joined by  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) 
and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  in seeking to acquire Echo, UBS said.
Genting could pay A$4.5 billion ($4.6 billion) in a takeover,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd., which would be 44 percent
above Echo’s current market value and the largest offer for a
gaming company since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “These kinds of licenses don’t come up every day,” said
Sacha Krien, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney.
“They provide exposure to Chinese casino tourism. We believe a
bid from Crown is imminent.”  Momofuku  The board of Echo “would be supportive of any
transactional initiative” that boosts  shareholder value ,
spokesman Brad Schmitt said by e-mail.  Echo, spun out of  Australia ’s largest sports betting group
 Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH)  last June, has spent A$870 million since
2008 renovating The Star on the shores of Sydney Harbour. The
complex now features a new five-star hotel, invitation-only
gaming rooms, the first branch of David Chang’s Momofuku
restaurant chain outside of  New York , and two leased private
jets to fly in high-rolling gamblers.  While that has improved the ambiance of the property, the
spending is not yet factoring into Echo’s valuation, according
to Sam Theodore, an analyst at UBS.  At last week’s closing price of A$4.55 a share, Echo traded
at 1.9 times its sales of  A$1.65 billion  for the fiscal year
ended in June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Echo was still part of Tabcorp for most of that period. That
compared with an average ratio of 6.4 for casino and gaming
companies in  Asia  with a market value of more than $1 billion.  Echo  fell  0.9 percent to A$4.51 a share in Sydney today.
The S&P/ASX 200 Index closed down 2.2 percent, its biggest loss
since December. Crown  dropped  2.6 percent to A$8.95 per share.  Relative Value  Echo is valued at  13.9 times  its A$226 million in profit
for the last fiscal year, while its Asian rivals current trade
at an average of 20.8 times earnings, the data show.  “Echo’s undervalued,” Theodore said in an interview in
Sydney. “It’s opportunistic to buy it now because someone’s
spent the money without the market giving them credit.”  Echo’s shares plunged to a closing low of A$3.48 on Feb. 16
after the New South  Wales  state Independent Liquor and Gaming
Authority said it appointed an investigator to look into
allegations that Sid Vaikunta, former managing director of The
Star, made “unwelcome sexual advances” to a staff member.
Vaikunta left Echo “after his behavior in a social work
setting,” Echo said Feb. 2.  The company “welcomes the opportunity for an independent
investigation,” Echo said Feb. 16. Vaikunta couldn’t be located
to comment on the allegations and Echo and the casino’s
regulator said they had no contact details for him.  ‘Negative Allegations’  The share-price drop may have created an opportunity for
Crown, which on Feb. 24 said it became Echo’s  largest
shareholder  with a 10 percent stake, triggering a one-day, 13
percent gain in the stock. Crown said it was seeking a seat on
Echo’s board and government permission -- a requirement of
Echo’s constitution -- to raise its holding beyond 10 percent.  “Any negative allegations and claims made against Echo
management could be used to highlight  Crown’s (CWN)  own management
credentials in a bid to win investor support for a takeover
bid,” CLSA’s Krien wrote in an April 12 note to clients.  Ken Barton, Crown’s chief financial officer, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the company’s intentions regarding
Echo. Genting  Singapore , in an e-mailed response to questions,
declined to comment on a potential acquisition.  For potential buyers, Echo’s refurbished Sydney casino may
offer a way to profit as gamblers from mainland China venture
beyond Macau, the world’s biggest gambling market and the only
place in China where casinos are legal.  Macau Tourists  The former Portuguese colony last year  attracted  16.2
million mainland Chinese tourists. The 11-square mile
territory’s total gambling revenue of  $34 billion  in 2011 was
nearly six times the $6.1 billion of the Las Vegas Strip.  With Macau’s hotels running out of rooms, companies in
Singapore and Australia are looking for ways to capture some of
the gambling money from mainland China, said UBS’s Theodore.  “Macau just doesn’t have the capacity for all the money
that Asia’s gamblers are prepared to spend, and Singapore and
Australia are ways of tapping that overflow,” he said.  The most prized customers are VIPs, who are treated to all-
expense paid holidays to casinos because of the large sums they
wager at the gaming tables, said Gary Pinge, an analyst at
Macquarie in  Hong Kong . Macau’s high rollers generated $25
billion of revenue in 2011 from the  baccarat  tables alone.  As these gamblers are lured to Australia, bets by the VIPs
at Echo and Crown’s casinos could rise to $100 billion by 2014,
from $60 billion last year, UBS estimates. Gambling revenue for
casino operators -- the house’s net winnings on all bets -- is
typically only a small proportion of the amount wagered.  Sydney Ambition  “The main asset in a casino VIP business is its database
of customers,” Pinge said in a telephone interview. “The more
properties you have the more synergies you can get.”  Genting Singapore, the only large Asian casino operator
without a stake in Macau, needs to add to its Resorts World
complex in Singapore, according to Pinge. Australia’s mature
casino industry is well-placed to fulfill that role, he said.
Crown has a 33 percent share in  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) ,
which holds one of Macau’s six casino resort licenses.  About 542,000 short-term visitors came to Australia from
China last year, a 76 percent increase from 2006, according to
the country’s  statistics bureau .  “Eighty percent of travelers out of China end up going to
a gaming venue on their first trip,” said  David Wiadrowski , an
entertainment and media partner at PwC in Sydney. “With the
renovations at The Star, they’re trying to do as much as they
can to attract as many as they can.”  Sydney’s Opera House  Echo would have its own attraction to  Crown’s chairman  and
largest shareholder Packer, giving him control of Echo’s casino
license in Sydney, which grants it a monopoly there until 2019,
as well as licenses for three other casinos in Australia.  Packer, 44, wants to build a 350-room casino-hotel with
views of Sydney’s Harbour Bridge and Opera House at the
Barangaroo development site near the city’s central business
district. To do that, he would need to convince Echo and the New
South Wales’s state government to grant a separate permit, or
take over Echo altogether.  Steve Wynn’s Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts or its majority
owned  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  are also potential suitors for Echo,
according to UBS’s Theodore. Wynn would like a toehold in
Australia for the same reason as Genting Singapore -- to find a
new destination for its high-rolling clients, he said.  “Genting’s in Singapore but it’s not in Macau. Wynn’s in
Macau but it’s not in Singapore. It’s about adding another
geographic option for their VIP customers,” Theodore said.  ‘Virtually Impossible’  In an e-mail, a spokesman for Wynn said he was unaware of
any discussions between Echo and Wynn Resorts.  If Packer wins permission to raise his holding, Crown’s
stake could make it difficult for a rival to complete an
acquisition, according to Adam Alexander, an analyst with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “If Crown moves to 20 percent it makes it virtually
impossible for those guys to come in and take it over,” he said
by phone from  Melbourne . “Trying to go head to head with Packer
in his own market would not make sense.”  Crown may have less capacity to finance a deal than Genting
Singapore or Wynn. With only $194 million in  cash , Crown’s $577
million of operating cash flow in the 12 months through December
compared with Wynn’s $1.5 billion and Genting Singapore’s $1.1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If Crown funded 60 percent of a A$3.5 billion offer with
its own shares, the remaining A$1.4 billion of debt would put
Crown’s credit ratings under pressure, Deutsche Bank AG’s credit
strategists said in a March 12 note to clients. The company is
the only gaming stock to be judged  investment grade  by all three
major credit rating companies.  ‘Change of Control’  Genting Singapore, with $2.5 billion in cash at the end of
December, raised another S$1.8 billion ($1.5 billion) by selling
bonds in March, to finance “capital expenditure and the
expansion of its business.”  Packer may be able to help fund a bid by selling other
stakes.  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ) , 50 percent owned by
the billionaire, said last week it held talks for a “change of
control.”  Officials at Consolidated Media, which has a market
value of A$1.8 billion, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Genting Singapore, controlled by Malaysia’s  Genting Bhd. (GENT) ,
which opened a casino at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, New
York, last year, could “comfortably” afford to pay A$6.50 per
Echo share and still boost its earnings, Macquarie’s Pinge said.  “If there was a bidding war, Genting would be hard to
beat,” said CLSA’s Krien. “They are cashed up.”  Casino Deals  A bid at that level would value Echo at a multiple of 20
times its fiscal 2011 earnings. That compares with a median of
26 times profit paid in 41 acquisitions of gambling companies in
the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An offer of as much as A$5.30 a share, or 16 percent above
Echo’s current price, would still be “value accretive,” to
Crown, said CLSA’s Krien. A takeover at either price would be
the largest of a gaming company since the buyout of Las Vegas-
based Station Casinos Inc. announced in December 2006 for $8.5
billion, including net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “To get into this market you have to have a license,”
said UBS’s Theodore. “And it’s unlikely that governments in
Australia will issue any more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 