-- Congressional Elections Will Define Next Presidency
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-05-06T15:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/congressional-elections-will-define-next-presidency.html
Several presidential candidates have
called the 2012 U.S. elections the most important ever. That
seems a reach: more important than 1860 or 1932? Yet there is no
doubt that the stakes are high this year, not just in the
contest for the White House, but also in the most crucial
congressional elections in memory.  The U.S. faces a potential fiscal train wreck at the end of
the year, when the tax cuts passed under President  George W. Bush  expire. This is compounded by the sunset of the extension
of the debt-ceiling agreement, which mandates huge, automatic,
and largely indiscriminate, spending cuts with a major focus on
defense if a  deficit-reduction  deal isn’t reached.  The outcome of the congressional elections will play a
major role in the ability of a President Barack Obama or  Mitt Romney  to work through this morass. Hope for any deficit deal in
a so-called lame duck session after the November contests
probably would vanish if either party scores a convincing
victory.  Congress is divided: Democrats have a 53-to-47 advantage in
the Senate, Republicans have a 25-seat margin in the larger
 House of Representatives .  The battle for the House will reveal most about the mood of
the electorate; the Senate contests feature higher-profile
candidates.  Republican Advantage  In the Senate, about half of each party’s seats that are up
for election are in play. Those numbers give Republicans an
advantage, since they have only 10 seats up, while Democrats
have 23. (Senators serve six-year terms.)  The two leading U.S. election analysts,  Charlie Cook  and
Stu Rothenberg, both suppose, as of today, control of the next
Senate is about a 50-50 proposition.  With such little margin, all eyes are on the Republican
primary in  Indiana  on May 8. If six-term Republican Senator
 Richard Lugar  wins, he’s almost a shoo-in for the general
election. If he’s defeated by a conservative challenger, Richard Mourdock, the Democrats believe their candidate, Congressman Joe Donnelly, has a real chance to win the Senate seat in November.  This would confirm movement that has tilted slightly more
Democratic in recent months. The unexpected retirement of
Republican Senator Olympia Snowe of  Maine  probably means former
Governor Angus King, an independent who likely would caucus with
the Democrats, will take that seat.  The presidential contest will affect some congressional
races. In  Virginia , two former governors, Democrat Tim Kaine and
Republican George Allen, are competing for an open Senate seat;
polls consistently show this tight race closely tracking the
presidential one.  Yet few doubt that Obama will clobber Romney in the
Republican’s home state of  Massachusetts . At the same time,
Republicans are cautiously optimistic that their incumbent
senator there,  Scott Brown , will edge the Democratic challenger,
the consumer-advocate  Elizabeth Warren . Conversely, Democrats in
 Montana , which has only voted Democratic once in the last 11
presidential elections, don’t expect Obama to carry the state,
but say they believe that their incumbent, Senator Jon Tester,
will squeak out re-election.  In the House, both Cook and Rothenberg see Republicans
holding on, as of now. Both note that these races become more
fluid as the election nears.  Redistricting Math  Calculations for the House, as is the case every decade
after the census, start with drawing new districts. With the
2010 sweep, Republicans controlled most state houses and
initially it was thought they could pick up as many as a dozen
House seats through redistricting.  Instead, says Mark Gersh, a Democratic analyst who is the
foremost expert on House races, redistricting “ended up a dead
heat.” This wash, he believes, means that a Democratic takeover
of the House remains “uphill but doable.”  The Republican assessment of redistricting isn’t much
different, though the conclusions are. They argue that, even
though they didn’t add seats, the party firmly protected at-risk
incumbents in states such as Ohio and  Pennsylvania . “We were
able to shrink the battlefield,” says  Paul Lindsay , a spokesman
for the National Republican Congressional Committee.  In addition to those incumbents, Republicans figure they
need to win a half-dozen or more Democratic seats to provide a
cushion. The best opportunity is North Carolina, where
Republicans dominated the redistricting and believe that three
Democratic seats are very vulnerable in November.  Democrats controlled redistricting in  California ,  Illinois 
and  New York . They acknowledge that they need to capture almost
half the necessary gains in those three big states to win
control of the House. Although, in a good year, strategists
argue, they could take over four or five Republican seats in
each of the three.  Some of the more appetizing takeover targets, the Democrats
say, are seats Republicans won two years ago when they had a
strong political wind to their back.  Some rematches look particularly good. For example in
Syracuse, Representative Ann Marie Buerkle defeated Democratic
Congressman Dan Maffei by 648 votes in a district Obama easily
carried two years earlier. This time, Democrats like Maffei’s
odds of victory.  There may not be a more intriguing or unlikely race than in
the district centered in  Salt Lake City , a bastion of
conservative Mormonism. The Democrat is the six-term incumbent
Jim Matheson, son of a popular Democratic governor and a Harvard
graduate. Since first winning a House seat 12 years ago, he has
survived Republican landslides in Utah year after year,
including the 2010 Democratic debacle.  His Republican opponent is even more implausible. Mia Love,
a 37-year-old small-town mayor who electrified the state
Republican convention with a hard-right speech that secured her
a shot at an upset victory against Matheson. She is African-
American, raised Catholic and who converted to Mormonism.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules  and
 force-placed insurance ; William D. Cohan on  e-mails from the
fall of Lehman ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  accusations against the Indian
military ; Michael Ross on  Vladimir Putin’s oil-money
machinations .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 