-- Egypt Shares Gain After EFG-Hermes Agrees on QInvest Partnership
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-06T13:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/egypt-shares-gain-after-efg-hermes-agrees-on-qinvest-partnership.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index rose to
the highest level in more than a month after  EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE (HRHO)  and Qatar’s QInvest LLC said they plan to create an
investment bank in Egypt.  EFG-Hermes shares  were suspended by the bourse pending the
release of more information.  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH) , the
country’s biggest publicly traded real estate developer, climbed
4.8 percent.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , also known
as CIB, rose for the first time in three days. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
gained 0.9 percent to 4,973.62 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo,
the highest level since March 29.  EFG-Hermes, the biggest publicly traded Arab investment
bank, said May 4 it agreed to start an investment bank that will
be 60 percent owned by the Qatari company. QInvest, a unit of
 Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , will invest $250 million in the venture. The
bourse canceled all March 3 trades in EFG-Hermes, without giving
a reason. The stock is up 31 percent this year, compared with a
37 percent gain for the EGX 30.  “The EFG-Hermes agreement is positive from the perspective
of locals because it reaffirms, after the Mobinil deal with
France Telecom, that foreigners are still interested in Egyptian
companies,” said Teymour El-Derini, head of Middle East sales
at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage.  Egypt’s market regulator approved last month an offer by
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  to raise its stake in Egyptian Co. for Mobile
Services, the country’s second-biggest mobile network operator
also known as Mobinil. The deal is valued at $2 billion.  Talaat Moustafa rose the most in two weeks to 4.16 pounds.
CIB, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded lender, advanced 0.6
percent to 25.53 pounds.  EFG-Hermes’ agreement with QInvest is expected to be
completed in the third quarter and the Cairo-based company will
recommend paying an exceptional  dividend  of 4 Egyptian pounds a
share once the transaction is finalized.  The deal, to some institutional investors, “may indicate
the end of EFG, that sooner or later QInvest will swallow EFG-
Hermes” El-Derini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  