-- Lehman E-Mails Show Wall Street Arrogance Led to the Fall
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-05-06T22:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/lehman-e-mails-show-wall-street-arrogance-led-to-the-fall.html
If one wants to understand the full
complicity of  Wall Street  in the Great Recession, look no
further than the voluminous package of pre-collapse  Lehman
Brothers documents  that have been made available by the law firm
Jenner & Block LLP, which has acted as the coroner in the Lehman
post-mortem.  Most important, the cache dispels the myth that  Dick Fuld ,
chief executive officer of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., and
his close associates were unaware of the risks their business
faced in 2007 and 2008. That would be bad enough, but the more
devastating reality is that Fuld and his sycophants were warned
repeatedly but were blinded by their hubris.  The records confirm, yet again, that the “forces-out-of-
our-control” argument we hear from Wall Street leaders is bunk.
It is the ill-advised behavior of one banker after another, day
in and day out, that leads to the sort of devastating financial
crisis we are only now emerging from.  For instance, at a Lehman board meeting in September 2007,
according to a copy of the presentation in the data cache,
Lehman executives presented a clear summary of the brewing
crisis. “The initial tremors were felt at the end of 2006,”
the board was told, “when the poor loan performance of sub-
prime borrowers began to be a cause for concern in the
marketplace. This was evidenced by a gradual spread widening in
the asset backed index.” The presentation continued: “The
market continued to widen as it became apparent that the
performance problems in  mortgage loans  was not going to abate
and was no longer limited to the sub-prime market but also
affecting the Alt-A product.”  Dumping Assets  Then the board heard about the problems at two Bear Stearns
Asset Management  hedge funds  that “ran out of liquidity” in
June and July 2007 and were forced to shut down, leading to
other hedge funds dumping assets into the market “adding
additional stress to the market.” By August 2007, the
commercial paper market was “facing challenging conditions,
with very little liquidity” and “funding for almost any type
of mortgage or ABS” -- asset-backed security -- “product dried
up.” You can’t say the top Lehman management didn’t understand
what was happening in the market.  So did other firms: At  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , these
“initial tremors” in December 2006 were sufficient to get the
firm to make a huge proprietary bet -- referred internally at
Goldman as the “Big Short” -- that paid off big-time in 2007
and helped to put the firm in a position to weather the
financial crisis a year later.  At Lehman, though, it was business as usual. Management
chose to ignore the rising concerns. By Labor Day weekend 2007,
Lehman, like Bear Stearns and Citigroup, had been in talks with
Citic Group, the leading Chinese investment bank, which wanted
to make an investment in a Wall Street firm, a potential
lifeline in a crisis. Lehman’s top executives -- Fuld and David Goldfarb, the firm’s chief financial officer -- weren’t
interested, at least on the terms that Citic was proposing. If
Lehman were to do a deal with Citic, Goldfarb wrote Fuld and
others in  an e-mail , “This will signal a major sign (which
obviously isn’t true and will feed into rimors, etc) and put us
in a category of those who needed an infusion to help them out
of this market mess.”  Fuld responded with his usual misguided bravado: “Sounds
to me like another non-starter. If it’s just about price [and]
who is the right partner then tell them NFI.” Goldfarb couldn’t
resist piling on. “Agreed 1000 percent,” he wrote back to
Fuld. “How do you spell stupidity in Chinese!!!”  Will and Skill  Then the conversation descended into a pathetic display of
macho arrogance. “What happened,” Fuld asked Goldfarb, “u
didn’t like my sumdum spelling?” Responded Goldfarb, “I love
it, better said then I could have. I think Mizuho is the best
option for strategic partner. Any potential investor that would
consider BS” -- Bear Stearns -- “in the same breath as LB
should go fungoo themselves!!!” Fuld replied, “I agree we need
some help -- but the Bros always wins!!” Goldfarb agreed.
“Absolutely, will and skill always win, and that be us!!!!”
Concluded Fuld: “Got it so do u.”  Fuld was well-paid for these insights. Between 2000 and
2007, according to various documents released as part of Fuld’s
testimony before Congress, he took out of Lehman some $500
million in cash.  The Jenner & Block trove shows that instead of seeking the
capital they so desperately needed, Fuld and Goldfarb believed
Lehman was an impenetrable fortress. “During the last
downturn” -- 2001-02 -- “the firm outperformed its competitors
and established a platform for further growth,” Lehman
management told the board in January 2008. “The firm pursued a
counter-cyclical strategy, investing in talent while its
competitors were in retrenchment mode” and then outperformed
the peer group.  The clear message: Lehman would use a similar approach
through the 2008 downturn. At the board meeting in January,
Lehman management explained that while other Wall Street firms
were raising “significant capital” in the “past three
months,” for Lehman “aggressive capital raising is not
necessary” because the firm “remains strongly capitalized”
thanks to capital “generated by earnings.”  Knowing that Lehman would be belly up by the end of
September 2008, reading these e-mails and documents is cringe-
inducing. Unfortunately, given the lack of leadership we still
see on much of Wall Street, they will hardly be the last of
their kind.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules  and
 force-placed insurance ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  accusations against the
Indian military ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  congressional elections ;
 Michael Ross  on  Vladimir Putin’s oil-money machinations .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 