-- Telefonica Trapped With Telecom Italia Faces Writedown
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-05-07T09:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/telefonica-ceo-trapped-with-telecom-italia-stake-faces-writedown.html
When  Telefonica SA (TEF)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Cesar Alierta told investors in April last
year that an alliance with  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  would generate 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) in cost savings, shareholders in the
Spanish telephone operator weren’t warned of the downside.  With  consumer spending  falling and the two countries among
the worst hit by Europe’s debt crisis, Telecom Italia’s stock
has since slumped 21 percent, while Telefonica is down 40
percent. Telefonica, set to release earnings this week, may say
first-quarter profit was cut by a 400 million-euro charge as the
value of its 10.5 percent indirect Telecom Italia holding fell,
said  Banco de Sabadell  analyst Andres Bolumburu.  “The problem with the stake in Telecom Italia is that
investors expected the Italian operator to reverse the negative
trend in its domestic market and this hasn’t happened,” said
Bolumburu. “It could continue to lose value.”  The outlook raises questions as to whether Madrid-based
Telefonica, which paid 2.3 billion euros for Telecom Italia
shares in 2007, will ever recoup the investment and whether the
holding is proving to be a distraction for Alierta as  Spain ’s
largest phone company seeks to halt a slowdown in its domestic
business.  Then and Now  Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , which together own 22.4 percent of Milan-
based Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA, last
week agreed on a 3.4 billion-euro financing package via a
combination of bonds, bank loans and capital increase to help
repay debt they took out in 2007 for the investment.  Telco now values Telecom Italia at 1.50 euros a share. The
stock has been trading below the level since 2008.  Telefonica dropped as much as 2.4 percent and was down 1.5
percent to 10.69 euros at 10:55 a.m. in  Madrid . It’s the biggest
contributor by  index points  to the 1 percent decline of the  IBEX
35 Index. (IBEX)  Telecom Italia slipped 0.8 percent to 83.2 cents on
the Milan exchange.  A Telefonica spokesman declined to comment on the valuation
of Telecom Italia and whether a writedown is planned this week.
In July, Telefonica said first-half profit was hit by a 353
million-euro charge as a result of the declining value of its
stake in the Italian operator.  Earnings Estimates  Telefonica’s first-quarter  net income  probably fell 31
percent to 1.11 billion euros while sales were little changed at
15.4 billion euros, a Bloomberg survey of analysts shows.
Telecom Italia may say profit rose 0.5 percent to 552 million
euros, according to the average estimate of analysts in a
separate survey. Telecom Italia plans to hold a conference call
on May 10 to discuss earnings. Telefonica reports the next day.  Telefonica  values  the Italian holding at 2.15 euros a
share, of which 1.80 euros are for the asset and 35 cents for
synergies between the two companies, according to Bolumburu. His
estimate for the 400 million-euro charge is based on Telefonica
cutting the value in line with the other Italian investors, or
to 1.50 euros for the asset, plus 35 cents for the synergies.  Speculation about a combination with Telecom Italia has
recurred since the 2007 investment, when Alierta beat Mexican
rival  Carlos Slim  to secure a stake in the Italian phone company
as was part of Telefonica’s expansion in  Europe  and Latin
America. Alierta has repeatedly said he’s comfortable with the
Telco holding, and that Telefonica is focused on wringing
 savings  such as from joint purchasing of handsets and phone-
 network equipment .  ‘Trapped’  Speaking at an investor conference in  London  on April 13
last year, Alierta forecast 1.5 billion euros in synergies for
the three years through 2013, compared with 1.3 billion euros
for the previous three years.  “Telefonica is trapped with its Telecom Italia stake as
there’s a lot of political involvement and it’s tough to sell it
at a decent price,” said Alexandra Delgado, a Lisbon-based
analyst at  BCP Investimento , who also predicts a writedown.
“Both operators still have to deal with problems such as higher
competition at their home market, lower profitability and high
debt.”  Telefonica reported  net financial debt  of 56.3 billion
euros at the end of 2011. Telefonica will likely increase debt
by 277 million euros as it takes part in the capital increase at
Telco, Bolumburu said.  Alierta in December cut Telefonica’s  dividend  forecasts by
14 percent, the first reduction in a decade. He announced 6,500
job cuts last year and has halted major acquisitions. At the
same time he has sold non-core assets including a stake in
satellite company Hispasat.  Latin America  The weakening business in Spain will continue to drag on
earnings and counter gains from  Latin America , a region that is
now crucial for the operator, Nuno Matias, a Lisbon-based
analyst at Espirito Santo said.  In the final quarter of 2011, Telefonica’s operating income
before depreciation and amortization climbed 7.9 percent to 3.17
billion euros for Latin America, or 53 percent of the company’s
Oibda. Sales advanced 2.5 percent to 7.7 billion euros.  “I expect Latin American growth to be in line with the
fourth quarter, although it’s becoming a big concern as well,”
BCP’s Delgado said. “If it loses steam the company won’t be
able to offset declines in Spain and a slowdown in Europe.”  The operator cut its 2012 dividend forecast to 1.50 euros a
share, including 1.30 euros in cash and the rest via buybacks.
That compared with a previous forecast for at least 1.75 euros.
Telefonica’s 2011 dividend was 1.60 euros.  “Next year, the company is going to be forced to
aggressively cut the dividend by 30 percent or 35 percent,”
said Saeed Baradar, a London-based analyst at  Societe Generale. (GLE) 
“You have a company with a big pile of debt and facing
increasing cash pressure not only from its domestic market but
also in Latin American countries including the fixed business in
 Brazil , and its operations in Argentina and  Venezuela .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  