-- Merkozy End Means Franco-German Gulf; Greek Voters Rebel
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-05-07T14:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/end-of-merkozy-forces-germany-to-deal-with-hollande-on-crisis.html
Voters in Greece and France challenged
austerity as Europe’s sole prescription for the financial
crisis, adding pressure on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
broaden her focus from debt reduction to save the euro region.  Greek elections left the two biggest parties short of the
clear majority to keep bailout efforts there on track. In
France, Socialist Francois Hollande defeated President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Merkel’s preferred partner for enforcing fiscal rigor.  “Europe is watching us,” Hollande, 57, told supporters in
the central town of Tulle 90 minutes after his victory was
announced. “The mission is now mine, to give European
construction a growth dimension. That’s what I’ll tell our
partners as soon as possible.”  Germany and France, whose leadership in fighting the crisis
that began in Greece in 2009 gave rise to the partnership known
as “Merkozy,” don’t have much time to patch up rifts between
Merkel and Hollande.  “To get anything done in Europe, Germany and France have
to agree,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London .  ‘Uncertainty Premium’  The euro fell to a three-month low in Asian trading after
the elections, declining to $1.2955, the weakest since Jan. 25,
before trading at $1.3048 as of 3:51 p.m. in Berlin. French
 government bonds  reversed earlier declines, pushing the 10-year
yield two basis points lower to 2.79 percent.  “What worries me is the initial negative reaction in the
Asian market,” said  David Kotok , chief investment officer at
Cumberland Advisors. “Political turmoil raises the uncertainty
premium.”  Hollande’s platform calls for policies Merkel opposes,
including higher taxes, increased spending and a delayed
deficit-reduction effort. He used his campaign to call for an
activist  European Central Bank , defying  Germany . He also sniped
at Merkel’s policies by calling for watering down a European
Union accord that she pushed to cut debt.  The fiscal pact “is not up for debate,” Merkel said in
Berlin in her first response to Hollande’s election, while
rejecting debt-financed government stimulus programs in favor of
“sustainable” means to bolster growth.  Spain, Netherlands  As Europe’s economy stagnates and unemployment climbs, an
opposing view is gaining momentum. Unemployment in the 17-nation
euro region rose in March to 10.9 percent, the highest in almost
15 years.  Spain  is struggling to convince investors it can avoid
a bailout and the government of the AAA-rated Netherlands fell
last month amid the effort to deepen deficit cuts and meet
European targets.  Underscoring the shift, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  indicated on May 5 the bloc would show
flexibility in enforcing its deficit rules.  For much of the electorate in  Greece , in a recession since
2008, tweaks to the rules don’t go far enough. Projections early
today showed the two main parties, which would form a coalition
to enact agreements with international creditors, falling short
of a majority in the 300-seat parliament.  ‘Worst Possible Scenario’  That’s the “worst possible scenario,” Athanasios Vamvakidis, head European currency strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London, said in an e-mail. “Political
paralysis is now a clear risk in Greece, with very negative
implications for the rest of the  euro zone  if Greece is
threatened by an exit from the euro.”  For Greece’s paymasters, bond yields suggest investors
expect Hollande and Merkel to do what’s necessary to maintain
market confidence. Ten-year French debt yields 124 basis points
more than comparable German securities. That’s down from 145
basis points after Hollande won the first round on April 22 and
lower than the 133 basis points at the start of the year.  Merkel doesn’t need to compromise because Hollande “is
going to be forced to climb down due to  France ’s weak economy,”
said Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels.  France lost its AAA credit rating at Standard & Poor’s this
year. The German jobless rate of 6.8 percent, a two-decade low,
compares with almost 10 percent for France. French gross
domestic product grew 1.7 percent last year while German GDP
expanded 3 percent.  Quick Lesson  “Merkel is just going to lean back and watch Hollande jump
into the icy water and try to swim,” Erixon said by telephone.
“He’ll soon realize his predicament, because financial markets
are going to do to France what the French electorate didn’t do.
Investors can handle good or bad news, but they hate
uncertainty.”  For all their differences, German and French leaders of
opposing political camps have a history of cooperation. The two
nations, former enemies that fought three wars between 1870 and
1945, were founding members of the EU that was created to make
military conflict between them impossible.  Social Democrat Helmut Schmidt and Valery Giscard d’Estaing
gave impetus to the Group of Seven in response to the 1973 oil
crisis. Christian Democrat Helmut Kohl and Socialist  Francois Mitterrand  clasped hands at the World War I battlefield cemetery
of Verdun in a gesture of reconciliation. Social Democratic
 Gerhard Schroeder  and Gaullist Jacques Chirac found common cause
in opposing the U.S.-led invasion of  Iraq .  More Reliable  It took the threat to the euro for Merkel and Sarkozy to
form a  united front .  “French and German leaders from different political poles
have always been a good match,” said Carl Graf von Hohenthal, a
management adviser at the Brunswick Group in Berlin. “Merkel
and Sarkozy were from the same political family and it was no
love fest. Hollande will be 100 percent more reliable for Merkel
than Sarkozy was.”  Merkel called Hollande last night after his victory and
invited him for talks in Berlin as soon as possible, saying that
he “will be received in Germany with open arms.” It was the
first time she could recall them having spoken, she said.  “Both are pragmatists,” said Volker Perthes, head of the
Berlin-based German Institute for International and Security
Affairs, which advises the government. “They will find
consensus.”  Hubert Vedrine, a former French Socialist foreign minister,
said there won’t be any “honeymoon” for both leaders and that
he expects Hollande to moderate his demands.  Compromises  “There will be compromises,” he said in an interview.
“We can expect a serious dispute, because their positions are
very different, but by fall we can expect an accord.”  Even before the vote, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signaled a willingness to avoid a head-on clash, while
he drew a red line for Hollande.  “We’ve told Mr. Hollande that the fiscal pact has been
signed and that  Europe  works along the principle of pacta sunt
servanda,” meaning agreements must be kept, Schaeuble said in a
May 4 speech in the western German city of Cologne.  “I’ve said that everybody who gets freshly elected into
office must be able to save face,” Schaeuble said. “So we will
discuss this with Hollande in a very friendly way. But we won’t
change our principles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  