-- Merkel’s CDU Sees Worst Schleswig-Holstein Result Since 1950
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-07T15:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/merkel-s-cdu-has-worst-result-since-1950-in-schleswig-holstein.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party had
its worst result in more than half a century in the northern
German state of Schleswig-Holstein after an election that put
the Social Democrats within reach of forming a coalition.  The result, in which the weakness of Merkel’s federal
coalition partner once more hobbled her party’s ability to build
a government, sets the tone for a bigger contest on May 13 in
North Rhine-Westphalia. While polls suggest the SPD, the main
opposition party nationally, will retain Germany’s most populous
state, Merkel won’t be swayed by the party’s success at regional
level to heed its national calls to spend more to end  Europe ’s
debt crisis, said Manfred Guellner of pollster Forsa.  “The pendulum of support can go one way in the regions and
another in national government, we’ve seen it often enough,”
Guellner said in a telephone interview. “German policy in
managing this crisis is made in Berlin and not in Schleswig-
Holstein or North-Rhine Westphalia.”  The ballot in the northernmost of  Germany ’s 16 states was
overshadowed by the election as French president of Socialist
candidate  Francois Hollande , an SPD ally, who has said he will
press Merkel to reopen Europe’s budget treaty to add measures to
spur growth. Anti-bailout parties meanwhile gained in  Greece ’s
vote, casting doubt over the country’s adherence to the terms of
its international rescue.  Preliminary Results  While the chancellor’s  Christian Democratic Union  took 30.8
percent in Schleswig-Holstein to place first yesterday, that was
its  lowest share  of the vote since 1950. Her Free Democratic
Party coalition partner slumped to 8.2 percent, almost half its
score at the last ballot in 2009 and not enough for a rerun of
their CDU-FDP coalition, preliminary results showed.  The  Social Democrats , with 30.4 percent, may have the
better chance of forming a government amid four possible
coalition constellations. SPD officials said the party will
attempt to form a government with its traditional Green Party
ally, which came third with 13.2 percent, and the SSW Danish
minority party, which took 4.6 percent and doesn’t need to meet
the 5 percent threshold to win seats in the state capital Kiel.  “If it’s possible, we’ll try it,” said Torsten Albig, the
SPD’s lead candidate in the state and a former chief spokesman
in the federal  Finance Ministry  under  Peer Steinbrueck . “We had
hoped for a more stable majority,” he said. “But a majority is
a majority.”  Merkel’s Campaign  Merkel made six campaign appearances in Schleswig-Holstein
in recent weeks, bringing her message of fiscal discipline to
the region wedged between the North and the Baltic Seas. The CDU
has held power in the country’s northernmost region since 2005,
the year Merkel became chancellor.  Even though the FDP lost support compared with the previous
state election in September 2009, the party defied predictions
that it would struggle to meet the threshold to retain its
position in state parliament. That may grant a respite to party
leader Philipp Roesler, the federal economy minister, amid a
Spiegel magazine report today that some in the party are working
to replace him before next year’s national election.  The Schleswig-Holstein election also underscored the
strength of the Pirate Party, which took 8.2 percent to enter
its third state parliament after Berlin and Saarland. The Left
Party took 2.2 percent and failed to gain seats.  Bundesrat Passage  For Merkel, the loss of another region ruled by the parties
in her coalition further undermines her influence in the federal
upper house of parliament, the Bundesrat, where states are
represented. That may make her more likely to accede to SPD
calls for more measures to boost economic growth, said Eckart Tuchtfeld, an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  After losing Schleswig-Holstein’s four votes, Merkel can
rely on just 21 of 69 votes in the  Bundesrat , he said in a note
today. While the opposition has so far backed her crisis-
fighting measures in parliament, she needs 35 votes to pass most
important economic policy legislation, and therefore the need to
“enter compromises” has increased.  “This supports the view that in the process of stabilizing
the monetary union, growth-oriented measures will gain more
weight over budget consolidation in future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  