-- Euro Drops to 3-Month Low After Greek, French Elections
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-07T21:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/euro-falls-to-three-week-low-after-hollande-wins-french-election.html
The euro weakened to a more than
three-month low after  Francois Hollande  was elected president of
 France  and as Greek voters flocked to anti-bailout parties,
stoking concern austerity efforts in  Europe  may be derailed.  The 17-nation currency slid for a sixth day, its longest
series of declines since September, dropping as much as 1
percent before paring losses. Hollande, who becomes the first
Socialist in 17 years to control Europe’s second-biggest
economy, pledged to push for less austerity and more growth in
the region. The yen weakened against most of its major
counterparts as stocks gained, boosting demand for risky assets.  “The outcomes in both France and Greece are decidedly
negative for the euro,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst
in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage. “There’s still a risk that we see this result in
some kind of clashes between France and  Germany  going forward,
based on their views on growth versus austerity. That is a key
risk for the euro.”  The euro declined to $1.2955, the weakest since Jan. 25,
before trading 0.3 percent lower at $1.3051 at 5 p.m. New York
time. It dropped 0.2 percent to 104.28 yen. The  U.S. dollar 
advanced 0.1 percent to 79.92 yen.  South Africa’s rand led gains among the most-traded
currencies, rising 0.4 percent to 7.7979 per U.S. dollar, and
Canada’s dollar added 0.3 percent to 99.31 cents per U.S.
dollar.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was little changed after
earlier dropping as much as 0.4 percent.  France, Germany  Hollande’s platform calls for policies German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  opposes, including increased spending and delayed
deficit cuts. He used his campaign to call for an activist
European Central Bank, defying Germany. Merkel telephoned
Hollande to congratulate him and to invite him for talks in
Berlin “as soon as possible,” according to a statement from
her government.  Greek elections left the two biggest parties short of the
clear majority to keep bailout efforts on track. With the nation
dependent on rescue funds to stay in the euro, the next
government will need to find cuts worth 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 and 2014.  New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said today he failed
to forge agreement to form a new government. The attempt to form
a government will now pass to Alexis Tsipras, the head of
Syriza, the second biggest party, which has vowed to cancel the
bailout terms.  ‘Lack of Dovishness’  “It’s something that’s going to hang over the euro and
prevent it from seeing any material recovery over the course of
this week,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online-trading firm GFT Forex in New York. “For the  European
Central Bank , this is going to be yet another reason for them to
consider their lack of dovishness.”  Measures aimed at stemming Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
have driven economies from the Netherlands to Spain back into
recession, emboldening politicians campaigning for growth.  The ECB kept its main refinancing rate at 1 percent after a
meeting last week. While it still expects a gradual economic
recovery this year, the outlook has become “more uncertain,”
President  Mario Draghi  said.  “The election results in France aren’t unexpected, but
they certainly put that element of caution into the market
because of Hollande winning and some of the principles he stands
for,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency
sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “The euro being
down there around $1.30 and trading below it today is certainly
reflective of the caution and the unease that the market has at
the moment.”  Bear Trend  The common currency needs to close below $1.30 to confirm a
resumption of its bear trend,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-
exchange and interest-rates technical strategy at Bank of
America Corp. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  With a daily close below that level, the euro could
ultimately drop to $1.2520, a level not seen since July 2010,
Curry wrote.  The euro has declined 0.2 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes tracking 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar has risen 0.2 percent
and the yen has advanced 2.6 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  