-- Most U.S. Stocks Climb, Led by Banks, While Euro Weakens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-07T20:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/euro-drops-equity-futures-fall-on-french-election-jobs.html
     May 7 (Bloomberg) -- Most U.S. stocks rose, led by banks,
after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said American lenders
are in “fine shape.” The euro slid for a sixth day and
commodities fell after French Socialist Francois Hollande was
elected president and Greek voters picked anti-bailout parties.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added less than 0.1 percent
to 1,369.58 at 4 p.m. in New York as six stocks gained for every
five that fell on U.S. exchanges. The euro lost 0.3 percent to
$1.3051 as the shared currency extended its longest losing
streak since September. Ten-year French yields slipped three
points to 2.80 percent and the CAC-40 Index of stocks rallied
1.7 percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities fell for a fourth
day, declining 0.2 percent. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields were
little changed at 1.88 percent.  Financial shares  rose 0.7 percent as a group to lead gains
among the  10 main industries  in the S&P 500 after Buffett said
U.S. lenders have “liquidity coming out of their ears.”
Speculation that European austerity measures will be curbed grew
after Hollande’s victory made him the first Socialist to take
the helm of Europe’s second-biggest economy in 17 years. The
Greek parliament will have three new anti-bailout parties
represented.  “Every time Buffett gives the seal of approval, it helps
certain stocks or segments of stocks,” Bruce McCain, who helps
oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment strategist at
the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a
telephone interview. “As for Europe, we’ve priced in some
of what’s happened. Yet investors are not really quite sure of
what to make of those trends.”  Retreat From April High  U.S. stocks rebounded from early losses, including a 1.5
percent drop in  S&P 500 futures  before exchanges opened in New
York. The  S&P 500  halted a three-day slump. The index tumbled
2.4 percent  last week , its biggest drop of the year, as data on
American and European labor markets boosted concern the global
economy is weakening. The benchmark gauge of U.S. stocks has
retreated 3.5 percent from an almost four-year high on April 2.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  rallied 2.1 percent after “Marvel’s The
Avengers” set box-office records with $200.3 million in ticket
sales over the weekend. Fifth Third Bancorp and Bank of America
Corp. rose almost 3 percent each, pacing gains in  financial 
shares, after Buffett said U.S. lenders have “liquidity coming
out of their ears.”  “I would put European banks and American banks in two very
different categories,” Buffett,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said May 5 at the firm’s
annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska . “The American banking system
is in fine shape. The European system was gasping for air a few
months back” before getting assistance from the  European
Central Bank .  Dow Average Retreats  Hewlett-Packard Co. and Caterpillar Inc. lost more than 1.2
percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  down 29.74
points to 13,008.53. The Dow and S&P 500 drifted between gains
and losses for much for much of the day.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  dropped 3 percent as the U.S. Treasury Department
agreed to sell $5 billion of shares, with the bailed-out insurer
buying $2 billion of the total.  Risk perceptions among U.S. equity and credit investors are
diverging by the most since 2009 as signs of an economic
slowdown spur bigger increases in prices to protect against
losses in bonds than stocks. The VIX, the benchmark gauge of
U.S. equity derivatives that usually rises when shares fall,
closed last week at 0.032 times the level of the Markit CDX
North America High Yield Index, which increases when confidence
in debt issuers deteriorates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s near the 2 1/2-year low of 0.027 times reached
in March.  European Markets  European stocks rose the most in more than a week as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she will receive French president-
elect Hollande with “open arms” as they work together to
tackle the debt crisis. Hollande’s platform calls for policies
Merkel opposes, including increased spending and a delayed
deficit-reduction effort  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  reversed early losses to climb
0.7 percent, even as  Greece ’s  ASE Index (ASE)  plunged 6.7 percent in
its worst drop since November. National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA
tumbled 8.3 percent.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  fell 3.5 percent, the most
since November, after abandoning development of an experimental
cholesterol drug. CSM NV, the world’s biggest maker of bakery
ingredients, jumped 19 percent after saying it will sell its
U.S. and European bakery-supply units.  Benchmark stock indexes in  Italy  and  Spain  led gains,
rallying more than 2.5 percent each. Among European bond
markets, Italy’s 10-year yield lost three basis points to 5.40
percent and Spain’s increased two points to 5.76 percent.  Euro Weakens  The euro weakened against 14 of 16 major peers. The shared
pared losses after dipping below $1.30 for the first time since
April 16, and slid 0.5 percent versus the pound. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six
trading partners, advanced 0.1 percent, rising for a sixth day
in the longest streak since September  “Incumbents took a beating across  Europe  this weekend in
what has been widely interpreted as a backlash against
austerity,” Michala Marcussen, global head of economics at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a report today. “Failure
to secure a political majority to meet the terms of the second
Greek program could see the country inch towards euro exit. This
would in our opinion be seen as a negative event, even beyond
Greece’s borders.”  Euro Bets  The euro is confounding bears who predicted a meltdown as
it gets an unexpected boost from the economic and political
turmoil gripping Europe. The 17-nation currency has risen about
1 percent against nine peers from this year’s low on Jan. 16,
while the dollar slid 2.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Futures traders are trimming bets that it will fall
against the dollar, while options show investors are less
bearish.  In other European elections, Merkel’s party had its worst
election result in more than half a century in the state of
Schleswig-Holstein. Austerity measures aimed at stemming
Europe’s turmoil have driven economies from the Netherlands to
Spain back into recession, emboldening politicians campaigning
for growth.  A reduction in austerity could put more pressure on the
European Central Bank to act, according to David R. Kotok,
Cumberland Advisors’ chairman and chief investment officer.  “Political momentum moves toward more monetary ease,”
Kotok wrote in a note to clients. “We expect some form of
balance sheet expansion before the end of this year. We expect
credit spreads of weaker sovereigns to widen until the ECB
enters the market or discusses that it may do so.”  Cotton, silver and soybeans dropped at least 0.9 percent to
lead the S&P GSCI index lower. Crude oil slipped 0.6 percent to
$97.94 a barrel, the lowest settlement price in three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  