-- Lexus Claiming No. 1 Lost to BMW in U.S. Riding on New GS
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-05-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/lexus-claiming-no-1-lost-to-bmw-in-u-s-riding-on-new-gs.html
Lexus wants  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and Mercedes-Benz car buyers to know it can be more than just
dependable.  To promote the revamped GS series, Lexus said that Sports
Illustrated model Tori Praver helped to inspire a track
challenged by American car-racing ace Scott Pruett, while
armchair drivers keen to join in the action can get the Tori 500
app for the iPhone and iPad. The publicity helped Lexus sell
more than 4,900 GS cars in the U.S. within two months of its
introduction, exceeding sales for all of 2011.  It’s part of an effort by Lexus to separate itself from
parent  Toyota Motors Corp. (7203) ’s stable -- at least a little -- and
come up with a global strategy that gives BMW and Mercedes-Benz
owners a reason to switch.  “To conquer BMW and Mercedes drivers, we can’t just be
looked at as an upgraded version of Toyota,” said Kiyotaka Ise,
who took the helm of  Lexus  in 2007. “We want our brand to be
chosen for its character and handling.”  It’s also larger than Lexus itself. Toyota is stressing
bolder style and what it calls “emotional designs” under a
companywide revamp to foster creativity, streamline decision-
making and get cars faster to market. The success of the Lexus
strategy will signal whether Toyota can revive sales growth
marred by output disruptions from natural disasters, a stronger
yen and laggard introductions of new cars.  Hourglass-Like Grill  “Lexus is leading the way in how the entire Toyota Motor
Corporation should operate,” Toyota President Akio Toyoda said
at the world premier of the GS in August last year at  Pebble
Beach , Los Angel  In an early sign of Lexus’s shift from the parent, Toyota’s
headquarters rearranged desks so engineers and designers of the
luxury marque founded in 1989 were separated from their Toyota-
brand peers four years ago. The team’s independent brainstorming
on the redevelopment of the GS led to an hourglass-like  spindle
grill  becoming the common design element for new Lexus models.  “What was missing for Lexus was a centralized brand
image,” said Takashi Aoki, a senior  fund manager  at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “If you compared an entry-level
Lexus car to that of BMW, the impression that Lexus gave was
nowhere near the luxury image BMW’s car had.”  The revamped GS will test whether greater autonomy can help
Lexus reclaim the crown it held for 11 years and lost to BMW in
2011 as the top-selling luxury car in the U.S.  Unified Branding  Under a Toyota development plan unveiled last month, Lexus
cars will be promoted based on “unified global branding.” That
contrasts with Toyota-brand models, for which the parent company
will group managers into three regions to better cater to local
demand.  “When BMW or Mercedes owners talk about their cars, what
matters to them is that they own a BMW, a car that’s a part of
that brand, not which model,” Lexus’s Ise said in an interview
from Miyazaki, south of Tokyo, after a test drive for the GS.  The BMW brand and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz marque are
each about 10 times more valuable than the $2.55 billion
estimated for the Lexus name, according to  research  by
Interbrand. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, the highest ranking
car brand with a value of $27.8 billion, placed 11th on the
consultancy’s top 100 list, which was led by Coca-Cola Co.  “For any successful brand, you need to make sure there’s
some distance,” said Karl Schlicht, general manager for product
and marketing planning at Lexus. “We don’t want to be known as
a Toyota plus; that’s not what people pay for premium.”  Weaker Retention  Lexus topped a survey on dependable automakers issued by
J.D. Power & Associates in February. Toyota, maker of the fuel-
efficient Prius, led the overall industry with the fewest
problems reported by car owners, the survey showed.  Still, Lexus’s ability to retain customers when they buy a
new vehicle trails that for BMW and Mercedes-Benz,  Westlake
Village , California-based  J.D. Power   said  in January.  About 30 percent of Lexus owners typically leave for
Mercedes-Benz or BMW cars, according to Toshio Bando, manager of
the brand support group for Lexus. With the push for a more
unified brand image, Lexus expects stronger loyalty, he said.  “The GS now has the moves to compete with those two German
brands, and it hasn’t lost the quiet refinement we’ve come to
expect of Lexus,” Tony Quiroga wrote in  Car and Driver . The GS
“is more aggressive than Lexuses of the past,” Quiroga said.  The GS 350 F Sport, in particular, “is an impressive
redesign” that’s “actually  fun to drive ,” according to car
researcher Edmunds.com.  ‘No Pleasure’  Toyoda rejected at least three prototypes before giving the
green light to the new GS, said Kazuo Ohara, a senior managing
officer at Lexus. Had the current design not materialized, the
president would have killed the entire series because “there
was no pleasure in them,” he said.  Under Toyoda, the automaker also rolled out the first Lexus
supercar, the $375,000  LFA , targeted at drivers of high-end
sports models from Porsche AG, Ferrari SpA and Lamborghini SpA.  In the outline of the April 9 plan, Toyota said it has
reduced the number of people who review new designs to speed up
decision-making. The team screening Lexus designs has been cut
by half, Ise said, without providing a figure.  “We used to depend on Toyota’s scoring system and the
opinions of  executives  who had nothing to do with the brand,”
the Lexus chief said. “When you try to please many people, you
end up with a bland product with no character.”  Prepared for Haters  Even so, Toyota’s engineering helped Lexus reign as the
best-selling U.S. luxury car for more than a decade and won’t be
entirely removed from Lexus’s make up, Ohara said. Lexus will
continue to use Toyota’s hybrid-engine technology as that
remains one of the biggest selling points for the luxury marque,
he said.  The brand plans to boost  U.S. sales  by more than 25 percent
this year after the revamp, Ohara said.  Lexus sold 6,960 GS cars in the U.S. as of April 30,
following the introduction of the redesigned series in February,
based on monthly figures provided by Toyota.  Among middle-luxury models, the brand sold 3,443 GS cars in
the U.S. last year, compared with 51,491 for the BMW 5 series,
according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata Corp.  The push to strengthen loyalty among Lexus owners may drive
away some customers like Tetsuji Inamoto, a 45-year-old
entrepreneur living in Tokyo, who considered switching from his
 BMW 5 series  to Lexus’s IS 350 sedan.  “The new design wasn’t what I’d imagined,” said Inamoto,
who said he spent several weekends visiting Lexus dealerships.
“My image of the brand went from being a sophisticated one to
one geared toward a younger audience.”  Still, Lexus said it would rather be shunned by some buyers
than be without a distinct identity.  “There will be lovers and there will be haters, but we are
prepared for that,” Ohara said.  “What we want more than anything in this rebirth is for
unity among our  Lexus lineup ,” he said. “A design that anyone
and everyone likes is boring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  