-- French Voters Comment on Hollande's Victory Over Sarkozy
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-06T20:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/french-voters-comment-on-hollande-s-victory-over-sarkozy.html
Below are comments about the French
presidential election, in which Socialist Francois Hollande
defeated incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  of the Union for a  Popular
Movement :  “I voted Hollande, although my vote wasn’t one of
support,” said Eric Boullerot, 22, who works at a Paris
elementary school. “But Hollande is less bad than Sarkozy. At
least he tried to unite people. He isn’t as divisive as
Sarkozy.” Boullerot was part of a wave of thousands of people
marching through the streets of Paris to the Bastille monument
to celebrate Hollande’s victory.  “Sarkozy did some good things for entrepreneurs and
innovative companies,” Andre Choulika, the founder and chief
executive officer of Paris-based Cellectis SA, a DNA researcher,
said in a telephone interview today. “At the same time, there
are positive things in Hollande’s program, such as the plan to
restructure tax breaks for corporate-research expenses in a way
that is favorable to small and medium-sized businesses.  “What I find unsettling is that the success of
entrepreneurs is coming under attack. I am concerned that we may
be pushing out people who succeeded. Confiscatory taxes on
people who have been successful, this worries me.”  “If there are reforms, it’s the economy as a whole that’s
going to benefit,” said  Charlotte  Le Renard, 27, a public
servant at the  finance ministry , speaking at La Bastille square,
where thousands of people converged to celebrate. “There won’t
be reforms if they’re not accepted by everybody, and Hollande
did exactly what he had to do, a campaign based on values, in
which he has been able to speak to everyone.  “Sarkozy’s policies were right-wing and even very right-
wing” like on national identity or the ban on voting for
foreigners. “It’s going to be different, it’s going to be
better,” she said.  “I voted Hollande and I am proud of it,” said Bechir
Chekir, a 23-year-old French taxi driver of Tunisian origin. “I
don’t like Sarkozy. I never liked Sarkozy. He was always a
racist with Arabs. I watched the debate” on May 2. “Sarkozy
made racist comments to win votes” from National Front Party
leader Marine Le Pen. “Sarkozy only cares about rich people. I
am young, and people like me have trouble making a living. Life
will get better with Hollande.”  “I am disappointed,” said Mireille Gaudon, a 62-year-old
retiree living in Saint-Cyr-au-Mont-d’Or, near Lyon, who voted
for Sarkozy. “I don’t think Hollande will do the right thing to
guarantee our economic independence. The first thing we need to
do is to repay our debts. Hollande is demagogic, he won’t know
how to say no, and he will end up raising spending. He said by
how much he wanted to rein in spending, and he never explained
exactly how he would do it. All this worries me.  “Sarkozy made tactical mistakes, and he made errors when
it came to political finesse. He was too sincere, too naive in
his behavior, at a time when all eyes were on him. He lacked the
reserve that a president should have. These are details that the
French always criticized him for. I also believe that the French
who voted for him five years ago would have wanted him to go
further with reform.”  “The French wanted a change but the impression is that
this vote is more of a rejection of Sarkozy than a real adhesion
to Hollande,” said Aurelie Barnier, a 35-year-old art teacher
in Paris. “That said, people both on the right and on the left
were positively surprised by the second part of Hollande’s
campaign, in which he came through as less unassuming and
neutral than many would have thought.  “I am not expecting any political ardor going forward. I
expect he will be serious, do what he said he would do, do his
job with more or less difficulty, given the situation we are
in.”  On Sarkozy: “People today aren’t giving him credit for his
achievements on the economic front. The thing is, the moment he
could have brought them into prominence, the tide started
changing and people started saying there has been too much
austerity in  Europe . So the one positive element of his record
turned against him toward the end. He wasn’t lucky, just as
Hollande got lucky with the Strauss-Kahn case. Without that, he
never would have won the primaries.”  “I am here to support him until the last second,” said
Bahija Abdaoui, 25, who was on the main square in Tulle, the
town in south-central  France  that Hollande represents in
Parliament. “I feel positive vibes for the future. He isn’t
here by coincidence, he is here because he likes the people and
they like him in return. It’s good to have a new face. Sarkozy
was divisive and negative; he created segregation. We Muslims
and immigrants will have a better life, I want to believe.”  “Sarkozy and his predecessors have crushed the middle
class,” said Philippe Terraco, 51, who works in insurance in
Tulle. “They did nothing for us. Hollande is talking to almost
everyone, he isn’t trying to break us apart. He will bring
together the workers, the unions and whoever wants a better
future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  