-- Geneva Private Bank Pictet Says Not U.S. Tax Probe Target
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-06T19:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/geneva-private-bank-pictet-says-not-u-s-tax-probe-target.html
Pictet & Cie, Switzerland’s largest
closely held private bank, said it’s not a target of a U.S. tax-
evasion probe after Swiss media suggested the firm may be under
investigation.  The company “vigorously” rebuts any allegation it is
being targeted by U.S. tax authorities, including the  Internal
Revenue Service , Pictet said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Pictet confirms that no accusation has been levelled against
it by the U.S. authorities, including the IRS.”  Switzerland and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve a
 Department of Justice  investigation involving 11 Swiss financial
firms including Credit Suisse Group AG, the nation’s second-
biggest bank,  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Geneva-based wealth unit.  Credit Suisse set aside 295 million Swiss francs ($321
million) for U.S. tax matters in the third quarter of last year.
Julius Baer, the wealth manager established in 1890, said the
cost of the investigation isn’t “reliably assessable” after
the DoJ indicted two employees of the Zurich-based firm. HSBC
said last week fines and penalties related to the probe “could
be significant.”  Newspaper Report  Pictet, which wasn’t on the original list of 11, took on
millions of dollars of undeclared money from Americans including
former clients of UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, between
2007 and 2009,  SonntagsZeitung  reported May 6, citing documents
from an  Arizona  court.  Pictet may now be in the DoJ’s sights after a prosecutor in
the U.S. state began investigating two businessmen and a
California-based lawyer suspected of hiding money with Swiss
firms, the Zurich-based newspaper said.  Pictet said it supplied a “complete file” on the issue
referred to in the newspaper in full compliance with U.S. and
Swiss authorities in 2010. The matter concerns relationships
started in 2007 by an external asset manager, Pictet said.  Pictet isn’t under investigation by the DoJ, Frank Renggli,
a spokesman for the bank, confirmed separately by e-mail.  The firm was overseeing 247 billion Swiss francs for
private and institutional clients at the end of 2011, making it
 Switzerland ’s third-largest wealth manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  