-- Gillard Touts Budget Surplus to Reverse Leadership Slump
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-07T01:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/gillard-touts-budget-surplus-in-bid-to-reverse-leadership-slump.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , beset by political scandals and near-record low polls,
will seek to win back disgruntled voters by delivering a  federal
budget  tomorrow that ends four years of deficits.  Gillard, whose  Labor party  trails the opposition by 18
points in the latest opinion survey, says a return to budget
surpluses gives the central bank the flexibility to lower
borrowing costs. The potential political payoff: voter
discontent diminishes as household finances improve in a nation
where almost 90 percent of mortgages are at variable rates.  Australia’s first female prime minister is touting her
government’s handling of the economy as she plans what may be
the biggest cut in spending as a proportion of  gross domestic
product  in six decades. The budget may be the last opportunity
for Gillard, who faced a party leadership challenge this year,
to reverse her poll slump, said political analyst  John Warhurst .  “It almost seems too late for Gillard to get her message
out to voters but the budget is perhaps her only opportunity to
break the cycle of bad news that’s enveloped her government,”
said Warhurst, a professor at the  Australian National University 
in Canberra. “One of the few things Gillard has got going for
her is the relatively healthy state of the economy, so this is a
chance for her to publicize that.”  Fighters Postponed  To reach its target, the government may have to cut
spending by the equivalent of about 2.5 percent of GDP as it
battles lower-than-expected  tax revenue , according to Treasury
data. In a sign of how it plans to do that, Defense Minister
 Stephen Smith  announced May 3 the government will save A$1.6
billion ($1.6 billion) by delaying the purchase of 12  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets by two years.  Gillard, 50, is banking on two pieces of signature
legislation she passed adding billions to state coffers. A
mining tax, which won Senate approval in March, will reap about
$11 billion in taxes within three years from companies including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, government estimates
show.  Gillard is hoping she’ll be able to soften public
disapproval of a separate carbon-emissions tax that passed in
November by redistributing some of the revenue from the measure.
Both pieces of legislation take effect on July 1.  “The scheme has been designed with assistance to families
as part of it, and people will see that assistance flow as soon
as in the next few weeks,” Gillard told reporters May 3 in
Canberra. “Supporting working people every step of the way is
already in the scheme, already designed, and people will see the
cold hard cash very, very soon.”  Rate Cut  Gillard received a fillip on May 1, when the central bank
lowered its benchmark rate, the highest among major economies,
by half a percentage point, to 3.75 percent. She said last month
that a rate cut “could deliver widespread benefits for
households and business.”  The budget will include a payment to families of up to
A$820 for each child in high school, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
in an interview with Nine Network yesterday. More than 110,000
businesses will also be eligible for a  tax refund  that allows
companies to claim current losses against tax paid in previous
years, Swan said.  Politically Gillard, a former labor lawyer whose party
lacks a majority in parliament, is fighting to overcome setbacks
that have weakened her control of the 150-seat lower house.  Tony Crook  Tony Crook, a National party member of parliament for
Western  Australia  who voted as an independent, announced
yesterday he will join the opposition coalition when parliament
reconvenes tomorrow.  Gillard on April 29 asked Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson  to
quit the party in the wake of allegations he used a union credit
card to pay for prostitutes while working for the Health
Services Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007. Thomson, who
has denied the claims, said he will continue to vote with the
government.  Peter Slipper, the parliamentary speaker on whom Gillard
had relied to solidify her control of the house, last month
stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims
that he denies.  Gillard’s minority government has needed the support of
independent lawmakers and the Green party to pass legislation
following the closest election in seven decades in 2010. She has
battled charges by the opposition that she’s beholden to the
Greens and broke a campaign pledge to oppose a carbon levy. In
February, she saw off a challenge by  Kevin Rudd , whom she ousted
as Labor leader and prime minister two years ago.  Wheels ‘Spinning’  “Labor is like a car bogged in the mud,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Monash University  in
 Melbourne . “The engine is running, but the wheels are spinning
instead of going forward, and it just can’t get any traction.”  The slope of the mountain Gillard needs to climb highlights
the challenge. The opposition Liberal-National coalition
increased its lead over Labor in a April 27-29 Newspoll survey
to 18 points, on a two-party preferred basis that takes into
account the country’s preferential voting system. The survey of
1,148 people had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  Election Disaster  If the Newspoll result were replicated at the election
that’s due by November 2013, Labor would lose more than half of
the 72 seats it won last time, according to  Malcolm Mackerras , a
political analyst at the Australian Catholic University in
Canberra.  “It doesn’t really matter what Labor does in the budget --
the voters have stopped listening to Gillard and are just
waiting for a chance to get rid of her,” Mackerras said.
“Economic conditions in Australia are pretty good but people
want to punish the government anyway.”  Gillard’s administration has pointed to the decision in
November by Fitch Ratings to upgrade Australia to a AAA credit
rating as evidence of its sound stewardship of the economy.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service also give the
sovereign borrower their top grades.  Australia’s government bonds handed investors a 2.2 percent
return in April, the most among 18 nations holding a AAA credit
score, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
U.S. Treasuries were the second-best performers, having gained
1.5 percent.  “The impact of Australia’s return to surplus is already
clear to those in financial markets,” Commonwealth Bank of
Australia economists led by  James McIntyre  wrote in a May 4
budget preview. “A surplus is of some benefit to perceptions of
Australian borrowers trying to access currently fickle global
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  