-- Greek Projection Casts Doubt on New Democracy, Pasok Government
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-06T20:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/greek-exit-poll-casts-doubt-on-new-democracy-pasok-majority.html
Greek voters flocked to anti-bailout
parties, projections showed, throwing doubt on whether the two
main parties can put together a government strong enough to
implement spending cuts to ensure the flow of bailout funds.  New Democracy  led in the election today with 18.9 percent
of the vote, according to projections based on partially counted
ballots on state-run NET TV. Pro-bailout socialist  Pasok  got
13.4 percent. On the other side of the debate, anti-bailout
party Syriza got 16.6 percent and Independent Greeks got 10.5
percent. Based on those figures, Pasok and New Democracy would
fall one short of the 151 seats needed to win a majority.  “Greece needed this election like it needed a hole in the
head,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “There’s no
political consensus for the kind of reforms that Greece must
implement if it wants to remain in the euro zone.”  As voters across  Europe  punish governments for failing to
control a debt crisis triggered by Greece, New Democracy leader
Antonis Samaras said he wants to put together a coalition
government that will keep the country in the euro area.  “The fact that New Democracy came in first increases the
responsibility,” Samaras said in remarks on NET TV. “We
decided to take over an initiative to form a coalition
government on two main pillars: the country remaining within the
euro and the change of the economic policies of the bailout.”  Euro Falls  The euro dropped to a three-week low against the dollar
after elections in Greece and  France  where Socialist candidate
 Francois Hollande  defeated  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the presidential
election. The 17-nation shared currency traded at $1.3047 at
8:11 p.m. London time, from $1.3084 on May 4.  The Communist Party won 8.5 percent, according to the
latest projections, and will get 22 seats. Anti-immigrant  Golden
Dawn  got 7 percent of the vote, entering Parliament for the
first time.  As projections fluctuated, the head of Syriza said voters
had given him a mandate to renege on bailout agreements
negotiated with the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Greeks want “to cancel the memorandum of barbarity,”
Alexis Tsipras said in statements televised in Athens on NET TV.
He said he would begin talks with parties of the Greek left
tomorrow to achieve that goal. The head of the Communist Party,
Aleka Papariga, said she won’t team up with Syriza.  More Cuts Needed  Greece must continue spending cuts to keep disbursements
flowing from the EU and the IMF and failure to do that may
determine whether the country has a future in the euro area.  New Democracy and Pasok, which have alternated in power
since 1974, were partners in the outgoing caretaker government
of Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos , which secured a second rescue
package earlier this year, saving  Greece  from financial
collapse.  Under the terms of that 130 billion-euro package, which was
accompanied by the biggest debt restructuring ever,
international lenders expect to hear in June how Greece will
achieve 11.6 billion euros of savings for 2013 and 2014.  The vote projection today said at least seven and as many
as 10 parties may enter Parliament, underscoring fatigue over
austerity and frustration with the politicians responsible for
implementing it. Unemployment is almost 22 percent and for those
under the age of 24 it’s almost 51 percent.  A total of 9.85 million Greeks, including 360,000 new
voters, were eligible to cast ballots today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  