-- Jealous Lust Drives Hunk Warrior Orlando to Madness
-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 2012-05-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/jealous-lust-drives-hunk-warrior-orlando-to-madness-in-brussels.html
Bejun Mehta triumphs as the mad, love-
torn hero of “ Orlando ” at La Monnaie/De Munt in Brussels.  The U.S. countertenor propels the new production of
Handel’s 1732 work with his stirring interpretation of the epic
warrior crazed by desire and jealousy. Mehta deftly navigates
the rollercoaster airs in this daunting role.  An opera seria, “Orlando” consists of a succession of
luscious -- though seemingly endless -- arias. There’s scant
narrative structure, and the director, Pierre Audi, wisely opts
to focus on the lead character’s inner torment.  “Better to serve love than to win victory!” declares
Orlando when the magician Zoroastro (Konstantin Wolff) urges him
to prize duty over desire. Orlando proceeds to whip himself into
a fiery jealous rage over the haughty Angelica (Sophie
Karthauser), who has fallen for Medoro (Kristina Hammarstrom),
another battle-scarred hunk. He, in turn, has roused the
attention of lonely Dorinda (Sunhae Im), and on it goes.  The roles are well cast. Karthauser has the proper bearing
and the vocal power for her role, though I suspect she’d be more
at ease in, say, Mozart’s “Cosi fan Tutte.” Hammarstrom has a
fluid mezzosoprano voice, just right for this trouser role,
though I would have appreciated a bit more swagger. Sunhae Im
excelled in the florid Baroque curls and dips of the score.  Psychic Turmoil  A curved, gray wall provides a confining backdrop to the
psychic turmoil taking place stagefront. A charred, smoking ruin
of a house in the first act evolves into the light framework of
a new home in the last, tracking the progression from torment to
a happy end, engineered by deus ex machina Zoroastro.  Rene Jacobs elicits a lively sound, rich in ornate Baroque
flourishes, from the period-instrument ensemble B’Rock, driven
by a basso continuo rumbling like a tight soul rhythm section.  On off nights, the opera’s stage has been occupied by the
house orchestra and chorus conducted with finesse by Evelino
Pido in concert performances of another stormy drama about
jealous revenge, Rossini’s “Otello” (1816).  The virtuoso soloists drew bravissimos from the audience
with a festive demonstration of bel canto vocal prowess. Gregory Kunde was credible and moving in the lead role, his powerful,
somber tenor conveying the character’s wrenching anguish. Anna Caterina Antonacci gave a subtle, emotionally acute performance
as Desdemona, easily mastering the role’s challenging tessitura.
Dmitry Korchak (Rodrigo) and Dario Schmunck (Iago) impressed.  Rating: ***.  “Orlando” runs through May 11 at La Monnaie/De Munt,
Brussels. Information:  http://www.demunt.be .  (Jim Ruane is an editor-at-large for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  John Mariani  on  wine ,
Jeremy Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane, in Brussels, at   jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 