-- Juventus Wins Italian Soccer Championship; PSG Leads in France
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-06T23:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/juventus-wins-italian-soccer-championship-psg-leads-in-france.html
Juventus won the Italian league soccer
title for a record-extending 28th time as it beat Cagliari 2-0
and AC Milan lost 4-2 to city rival Inter. Paris Saint-Germain
took the lead in  France ’s Ligue 1.  Mirko Vucinic’s sixth-minute strike and an own goal by
Michele Canini last night secured the win that lifted Juventus
four points clear of AC Milan with one game remaining.  Turin-based Juventus, which was stripped of the 2005 and
2006 titles for its part in a match-fixing scandal, can cap its
first Serie A championship since 2003 with an unbeaten season by
avoiding defeat against Atalanta on May 13.  “It’s a fantastic feeling, a great joy after a wonderful
year and an extraordinary season,” Juventus coach Antonio Conte
said on his team’s website. “We have not lost in 37 games and
we hope to finish the season undefeated because it will be
something historical.”  Defending champion AC Milan lost to Inter for the second
time in the league this season. Diego Milito scored three goals
as Inter rallied from 2-1 down following Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s
double. Maicon added Inter’s fourth.  Udinese is favorite to clinch third spot and Champions
League qualification after a 2-0 win over Genoa which keeps the
club two points ahead of Lazio, a 2-0 winner at Atalanta. Napoli
lost 2-0 at Bologna and is another point back.  Lecce lost 1-0 against Fiorentina two days ago and must win
its final game to have a chance of overhauling Genoa in the
standings to avoid relegation.  PSG Rallies  In France, PSG rallied from 2-0 down to beat Valenciennes
4-3 last night and move ahead of Montpellier at the top because
it has a superior goal difference.  Nene, Maxwell, Blaise Matuidi and Jeremy Menez scored for
PSG, which is seeking its first title since 1994. Montpellier,
which has played one game fewer, is at Rennes today.  “It was difficult at the start, but we came back quickly
and never let go,” Nene said. “This was a huge win.”  Two days ago,  Lionel Messi  scored all the goals as
Barcelona routed Espanyol 4-0 to push his season total to 72 --
including 50 in  Spain ’s La Liga.  Real  Madrid , which last week clinched its record-extending
32nd league title and first since 2008, beat Granada 2-1.
Valencia is now assured of third spot with one round of matches
to play after it defeated Villarreal 1-0 and Malaga lost 2-1 at
 Atletico Madrid .  Champion  Borussia Dortmund  set a record for points in a
German Bundesliga season after a 4-0 win against Freiburg lifted
its final tally to 81.  Cologne was relegated after a 4-1 home defeat by second-
place  Bayern Munich . Hertha Berlin moved ahead of Cologne with a
3-1 win against Hoffenheim and will playoff against a second-
division team to stay in the top flight.  Dutch champion Ajax completed its league campaign yesterday
with a 3-1 win at  Vitesse Arnhem  to finish six points ahead of
second-place Feyenoord, which beat Heerenveen 3-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  