-- Kashmir Is Killing India’s Military and Democracy
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-05-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/kashmir-is-killing-india-s-military-and-democracy.html
In July 1995, an Islamic
fundamentalist group called Al Faran kidnapped six foreign
tourists, including two Americans, in Kashmir. For a few weeks,
the world’s attention was fixed on the Himalayan valley as the
allegedly Pakistan-backed militants negotiated with Indian
security officials and foreign diplomats.  Eventually, one of the Americans escaped. Another hostage,
a Norwegian, was beheaded. The other four were never found.  “ The Meadow: Kashmir 1995 -- Where the Terror Began ,” a
staggeringly well-researched new book by two respected
journalists, Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark,  concludes  that
the hostages were killed by local mercenaries funded and
controlled by Indian army and intelligence.  The authors argue that the drawn-out negotiation, during
which Indian intelligence allegedly knew the hostages’
whereabouts, was a charade, part of  India ’s larger effort to
portray Pakistan as a sponsor of Islamist terror, thereby
delegitimizing the Kashmiri struggle for freedom.  Certainly, India today no longer needs to highlight the
role of the Pakistani army and intelligence in sponsoring
extremist groups. It has also succeeded in shifting
international attention away from the appalling facts of its
counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir -- tens of thousands
killed, and innumerable many tortured, mutilated and orphaned.
The  tallying  in 2009 of 2,700 unmarked graves containing the
remains of people (often buried in groups) killed by security
forces barely provoked any comment in the international media,
let alone expressions of concern by Western leaders.  Killers in Khaki  But India’s diplomatic and public relations success has
been achieved at considerable costs: the rise of militaristic
nationalism, the assault on civil liberties, and a dangerously
enhanced role in politics for men in uniform.  Most of the million-plus men and women in the Indian
military still manifest what  Shashi Tharoor  once  described  as
“increasingly rare” qualities in India: “high standards of
performance, honesty, hard work, self-sacrifice,
incorruptibility, respect for tradition, discipline, team
spirit.” As a child, I had myself wanted, like many Indians of
my generation and class, to acquire the virtuous glow of an army
officer’s uniform, and even attended a military school.  It was therefore shocking and demoralizing to encounter,
during a visit to Kashmir in 2000, accounts of extrajudicial
killings and torture and rape by Indian soldiers -- stories
that, though commonplace in Kashmir, were largely kept hidden
from the Indian public by a patriotic media.  But to those who reported from Kashmir in the past decade
and a half -- as opposed to the many more who were content to
disseminate briefings from Indian army and intelligence
officials -- “The Meadow” presents a disturbingly familiar
picture.  I was there when, during  Bill Clinton ’s visit to  South Asia 
in March 2000, Indian army officers allegedly kidnapped and
killed five Kashmiri villagers and presented their mutilated
corpses to the international news media as the Pakistani killers
of the 35 Sikhs who had been murdered by unidentified gunmen
just hours before Clinton’s scheduled arrival in India. It has
taken 12 years for India’s legal system even to acknowledge this
well-documented atrocity: Last week, the  Supreme Court  gingerly
 asked  the army how it wishes to prosecute the officers suspected
of the coldblooded murder.  Since 2000, the number of armed militants has steadily
decreased in Kashmir. But the human rights situation has not
improved. Under the  Armed Forces Special Powers Act  in effect in
Kashmir and the northeastern states (where the Indian army was
first deployed in counter-insurgency), soldiers can kill on the
basis of mere suspicion while continuing to enjoy near-total
legal immunity.  Regime of Impunity  The result is a regime of impunity. A coalition of Indian
human rights groups in a  report  to the  United Nations  this year
documented 789 extrajudicial killings in the northeastern state
of Manipur alone between 2007 and 2010.  In recent years, the army has also been dragged into
Operation Green Hunt, the Indian state’s extraordinarily big,
armed offensive against Maoist insurgents in central India.
Predictably, the use of scorched-earth tactics once deployed in
border areas has undermined the general rule of law in the
states of Jharkhand, Chattisgarh and West Bengal.  The widened powers of the military against the new
electronic media’s background chorus of hypernationalism have
given army officers a public role they never had. Breaking with
old protocols, the previous army chief openly speculated about a
“limited” war under a “nuclear overhang” with  Pakistan .  It is also not at all clear if there is any proper
governmental oversight of the Indian intelligence agencies,
which, mimicking the doomed Pakistani quest for “strategic
depth,” have been trying out potentially useful proxies in
Pakistan’s Balochistan province as well as  Afghanistan . These
adventurist spies and the perennially belligerent men in uniform
now seem to constitute as formidable a lobby against peace
between India and Pakistan as the Islamic zealots on the other
side of the border.  Backed by Hindu nationalist leaders, they even dare to
overrule elected politicians such as Omar Abdullah, Kashmir’s
chief minister, who has been  pleading  in vain for a withdrawal
of the much-despised special powers act.  Their jingoism, echoed by hawkish think tanks and websites
(India’s own military-intellectual complex), goes necessarily
together with dubious arms purchases. India is now the world’s
 biggest  arms market; a series of scandals have not stopped
spending sprees that, as the recent outbursts of the outgoing
army chief reveal, do little to prepare India for any
conceivable war.  No Banana Republic  Things are about to get worse. The next Indian army chief
comes into office later this month, trailed by  allegations  of
his involvement in an extrajudicial killing in Kashmir. He was
also in charge of Indian peacekeeping soldiers accused in 2008
of sexual misconduct in the Congo.  Unlike its Pakistani rival, the Indian army remains firmly
under civilian control. A sensationalist recent story in a major
Indian newspaper claimed that unauthorized movements of soldiers
near  New Delhi  earlier this year had “spooked” the government.
But it is hard to imagine the foolhardy army officers who would
attempt a coup in India. Although beset by internal wars and
draconian laws and chaotic governance, India is very far from
degenerating into, as an exasperated Ratan Tata feared last
year, a “ banana republic .”  Yet there are plenty of reasons for alarm and dismay over a
process that, starting in obscure battles in the northeastern
states in the 1960s, was accelerated during the two previous
decades in the valley of Kashmir. Levy and Scott-Clark’s book
mainly excavates one of the many murky incidents of the 1990s.
But its revised draft of history also sheds light on the present
-- how a democratic state’s addiction to colonial-style dirty
wars has damaged not so much the Kashmiri cause of freedom as
India’s frail democracy and one of its last uncompromised
institutions.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules  and
 force-placed insurance ; William D. Cohan on  e-mails from the
fall of Lehman ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  congressional elections ;
 Michael Ross  on  Vladimir Putin’s oil-money machinations .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 