-- Kings Advance in NHL Playoffs With Sweep as Devils Beat Flyers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/kings-defeat-blues-3-1-to-sweep-nhl-second-round-playoff-series.html
The  Los Angeles Kings  completed a
four-game sweep of the second-seeded  St. Louis Blues  to return
to the National Hockey League’s Western Conference finals for
the first time since the Wayne Gretzky-led 1993 team.  The  New Jersey Devils  are one win away from reaching the
Eastern Conference finals after beating the Philadelphia Flyers
4-2 last night for a three-games-to-one lead in their Eastern
Conference second-round playoff series.  The Kings are the first eighth-seeded team in NHL history
to defeat their conference’s top two seeds in the postseason
after beating the Blues 3-1 yesterday. The victory by Los
Angeles followed up a five-game, opening-round upset of the top-
seeded  Vancouver Canucks .  “We’re only halfway done,” said Kings right wing  Dustin Brown , who scored two goals. “It’s been a grind so far and now
we have a chance to not only rest physically, but maybe get a
day or two to not think about it and regroup mentally.”  The Kings are the third No. 8 seed to reach the NHL’s final
four since the formation of the Eastern and Western Conferences
in 1994. They’ll face the Phoenix Coyotes or Nashville Predators
for a spot in the  Stanley Cup  finals. Phoenix hosts Game 5
tonight and has a 3-1 lead in the series.  The New York Rangers host the Washington Capitals in
tonight’s other game, with their Eastern Conference series tied
at two games apiece.  Second Time  The Kings reached the conference finals for the second time
in team history as Jordan Nolan and Brown scored first-period
goals last night at the Staples Center in  Los Angeles . Brown
added an empty-net goal with 26 seconds remaining and Kings
goaltender Jonathan Quick made 23 saves.  The only eighth seed to play for the Stanley Cup was the
2005-06 Edmonton Oilers, who lost in seven games to the  Carolina
Hurricanes .  This was the first time the Kings won a best-of-seven NHL
playoff series in four games. The only other time Los Angeles
had a postseason sweep was in 1976, when it won a best-of-three
preliminary round matchup with the Atlanta Flames 2-0.  Kevin Shattenkirk scored the lone goal for the Blues.  The Devils erased a 2-0 first-period deficit in Newark, New
Jersey, as Dainius Zubrus scored two goals and goaltender Martin Brodeur won on his 40th birthday.  “It wasn’t the way we wanted to start, but we had to bear
down afterwards and we dominated the game pretty good,” Brodeur
said after the Devils outshot the Flyers 43-22.  Petr Sykora and Marek Zidlicky also scored goals for the
Devils, who have won three straight and can close out the series
with a Game 5 victory tomorrow in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  