-- Knicks End NBA Playoff Losing Run at 13 as 76ers, Lakers Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-07T12:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/knicks-defeat-heat-to-avoid-elimination-76ers-lead-bulls-3-1.html
The  New York  Knicks extended their
season at least one more game after beating the  Miami Heat  89-87
to avoid a sweep and halt a National Basketball Association
playoff losing streak that stretched back to 2001.  Carmelo Anthony  scored 41 points last night at New York’s
Madison Square Garden and Amar’e Stoudemire, who missed Game 3
after cutting his left hand when he punched a fire extinguisher,
had 20 points and 10 rebounds while playing with padding and
bandages to protect the injury.  “We were a little bit more focused, maybe because our
backs were against the wall,” Anthony said at a news
conference. “We came out and stepped up to the challenge.”  In yesterday’s other Eastern Conference first-round series,
the  Philadelphia 76ers  defeated the Chicago Bulls 89-82 and the
 Boston Celtics  routed the Atlanta Hawks 101-79. The 76ers and
Celtics now both hold 3-1 series leads.  The  Los Angeles  Lakers also have a 3-1 advantage and need
one more win to reach the second round after beating the Denver
Nuggets 92-88 last night behind 22 points from  Kobe Bryant .  Two other Western Conference series continue tonight.  The  San Antonio Spurs  visit the Utah Jazz, looking to
complete a four-game sweep, while the Los Angeles Clippers host
the Memphis Grizzlies with a 2-1 series lead.  In New York, the Knicks pulled out the win to end their
NBA-record run of 13 postseason losses in a row.  The Heat, the second seed in the East, lead the best-of-
seven series 3-1 and host Game 5 in Miami on May 9.  “It’s definitely a challenge, but we’ll take it one game
at a time, have fun and see what we can do,” said Stoudemire,
whose left arm was in a sling after the game.  Losing Davis  While the Knicks got Stoudemire back, they lost point guard
Baron Davis yesterday to a dislocated right kneecap. Knicks
interim coach  Mike Woodson  said Davis, who took over as the
starter when Jeremy Lin went down with a knee injury, probably
won’t play again in the postseason.  “Another one of our soldiers is down,” Anthony said.
“I’m just glad that we came together after that, kept our
composure and won the basketball game.”  Anthony hit a 3-pointer with 54.5 seconds left to snap an
84-84 tie and the Knicks held on as Miami’s  Dwyane Wade  missed a
3-pointer in the final seconds.  Wade finished with 22 points for the Heat, which led by as
much as 11, while  LeBron James  scored 27 and  Chris Bosh  had 17
points and nine rebounds.  “The Knicks made enough big plays there at the end,” Heat
coach Erik Spoelstra said. “We had many opportunities,
particularly when we had double-digit leads, but we weren’t able
to do it.”  Ousting a No. 1 Seed  The 76ers, who haven’t won a postseason series since 2003,
are one win away from becoming the fifth No. 8 seed to beat a
No. 1 seed in the NBA playoffs.  Spencer Hawes scored a team-high 22 points yesterday in
Philadelphia, while Jrue Holliday had 20, including a pair of
fourth-quarter 3-pointers that pushed the 76ers’ lead to seven.
The teams now return to  Chicago  for Game 5 tomorrow.  “Game 5 has to be as important to us as it is to the
Bulls,” 76ers coach Doug Collins said. “You’ve got to take
care of your business. The close-out game is the hardest to win
in sports.”  The Bulls, who finished the regular season tied with the
Spurs for the best record in the league, have lost three
straight games since winning the series opener, a game in which
NBA Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  suffered a season-ending
knee injury.  In Boston, Rajon Rondo had 20 points and 16 rebounds to
lead the Celtics, who opened a 23-point halftime lead in winning
their third straight game in the series.  Paul Pierce added 24 points for  Boston , which travels to
Atlanta for Game 5 tomorrow.  The Lakers outscored the Nuggets 22-17 in the final quarter
last night in Denver as Steve Blake came off the bench to score
eight of his 10 points.  Los Angeles will host Game 5 tomorrow and with a win can
advance to a second-round matchup against Oklahoma City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  