-- Netanyahu Proposes Early September Elections in Israel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-05-07T18:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/netanyahu-cites-economic-gains-in-first-campaign-speech.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  proposed holding early elections on Sept. 4, saying he
needs to form a new government because of differences between
the parties in his coalition.  The Knesset, Israel’s 120-seat parliament, today started
debating a bill submitted by Netanyahu’s Cabinet that would set
the election more than a year earlier than required by law,
Knesset spokesman Yotam Yakir said by telephone.  “I would have been very happy had we been able to complete
the full term,” Netanyahu told Cabinet members at a meeting in
Jerusalem, according to a text message from his office.
“Unfortunately, this instability put a question mark on that
goal so it seems to me the best option is to set up a short
campaign” and “form the widest possible government.”  Netanyahu, 62, enjoys a lead over his rivals though he will
still need coalition partners, according to polls published over
the last few days. His Likud party would win 31 of the 120 seats
in parliament, ahead of the second-placed Labor party with 18,
according to a poll published in the Maariv newspaper on May 3.  Settlement Setback  He suffered a political setback today when  Israel ’s High
Court of Justice ordered the destruction of five apartment
houses in the  West Bank  Jewish settlement of Beit-El,
criticizing the administration for trying to stop demolition
orders. The Jerusalem-based court said in a decision  on its
website  that the homes in Beit-El’s Ulpana section were built on
Palestinian-owned land and must be demolished by July 1.  Netanyahu had asked Attorney-General Yehuda Weinstein to
find a legal way to avoid demolition of the Ulpana site. “The
principle that has guided me is to strengthen Jewish communities
in Judea and Samaria,” the prime minister said in an April 4
statement, using the biblical names for the area comprising the
West Bank.  The premier kicked off his re-election campaign last night
with a speech that highlighted his economic and security
achievements.  “We returned the economy of Israel to robust growth, more
robust than  Europe  and the  United States ,” Netanyahu told
members of Likud in Tel Aviv. “At a time when unemployment has
reached drastic dimensions in many countries, we created a
quarter-million new jobs.”  Growth Advantage  The Israeli economy grew 4.8 percent in 2011 and is
expected to expand 3.1 percent this year, in comparison with
growth last year in Europe of 1.4 percent and the U.S. of 1.7
percent.  A short campaign that leads to a September vote may be good
news for investors, according to Boaz Schwartz, Deutsche Bank
AG’s country manager in Israel.  “Normally in Israel the pre-election period is very
lengthy, where there is a lot of uncertainty and demands on the
budget,” Schwartz said at a Bloomberg panel discussion in  Tel
Aviv  yesterday before the speech. “The fact that it will be
only four months before elections with the summer in the middle
is positive.”  Netanyahu will campaign “on the fact that we have the
lowest unemployment in three decades and one of the highest
growth rates in the Western world,” said Avraham Diskin,
professor of political science at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem . Israeli unemployment was 6.9 percent in March,
compared with 8.2 percent in the U.S.  Opposition’s Case  Challengers from Labor, Kadima and other parties will cite
 income inequality  and the relatively high cost of housing,
Diskin said. Those issues will be especially prominent if this
summer sees a repeat of last year’s social justice protests in
Tel Aviv and other cities, he said  The decision to call early elections was hastened by
disagreements within Netanyahu’s coalition over the budget and
military draft exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews, said  Zalman Shoval , a former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. who advises
Netanyahu on politics and foreign policy.  “From Netanyahu’s point of view, riding high in the public
opinion polls and not really having a serious opposition to his
probable re-election, this is as good a time as any,” Shoval
said. “This will send a message to Israel’s friends, and its
enemies, that they will have to deal with the same prime
minister for the next four years, and they should be prepared
for that.”  Netanyahu said his government has been “strong and
judicious” in its handling of diplomatic and security
challenges, including success in “enlisting the international
community against  Iran’s nuclear program .”  First elected premier in 1996, Netanyahu lost the next
election in 1999 to Labor’s  Ehud Barak  -- now defense minister
and head of the Atzmaut party. He returned to office in 2009 by
bringing five other parties into a coalition, even though Likud
had one less seat than Kadima, its main rival in that vote.  No Israeli party has achieved a parliamentary majority,
meaning that elections lead to negotiations in which the winner
must work with smaller parties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  