-- Netanyahu Highlights Economic Gains in Campaign Speech
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-05-06T19:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/netanyahu-highlights-economic-gains-in-campaign-speech.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  kicked off his campaign for elections set for
September with a speech that highlighted his government’s
economic achievements and claimed credit for improving security.  “We returned the economy of Israel to robust growth, more
robust than Europe and the  United States ,” Netanyahu told
members of his Likud party in Tel Aviv late today. “At a time
when unemployment has reached drastic dimensions in many
countries, we created a quarter-million new jobs.”  Likud introduced legislation last week to dissolve the
Knesset, Israel’s 120-seat parliament, and schedule elections
for Sept. 4. Netanyahu, 62, enjoys a commanding lead over his
rivals, according to polls published over the last few days.  The Israeli economy grew 4.8 percent in 2011 and is
expected to expand by 3.1 percent this year, in comparison with
growth last year in  Europe  of 1.4 percent and the U.S. of 1.7
percent.  Netanyahu will campaign “on the fact that we have the
lowest unemployment in three decades and one of the highest
growth rates in the Western world,” said Avraham Diskin,
professor of political science at the Hebrew University of
 Jerusalem . Israeli unemployment was 6.9 percent in March,
compared with U.S. joblessness of 8.2 percent.  Economic Issues  Challengers from Labor, Kadima and other parties will cite
 income inequality  and the relatively high cost of housing,
Diskin said, adding these will be especially prominent issues if
this summer sees a repeat of last year’s social justice protests
in Tel Aviv and other cities.  While by law Netanyahu could have waited another year until
having to call elections, the need for a shake-up now became
apparent with disagreements in his coalition over the budget and
draft exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews, said Zalman Shoval, a
former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. who counsels Netanyahu on
politics and foreign policy.  “From Netanyahu’s point of view, riding high in the public
opinion polls and not really having a serious opposition to his
probable re-election, this is as good a time as any,” said
Shoval.  “This will send a message to  Israel ’s friends, and its
enemies, that they will have to deal with the same prime
minister for the next four years, and they should be prepared
for that,” Shoval said.  Social Inequality  “While economic issues will be important, especially if we
see a repeat of last summer’s protests against social
inequality, peace and security issues will, as always, be
paramount in the minds of Israeli voters,” Diskin said.  Netanyahu said his government has been “strong and
judicious” in its handling of diplomatic and security
challenges, including success in “enlisting the international
community against  Iran’s nuclear program .”  Netanyahu has more than three times the support of his
closest competitor, drawing 48 percent in a poll published in
the Haaretz newspaper May 3. He was trailed by Labor Party chief
Shelly Yacimovich with 15 percent and Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, chairman of the Yisrael Beytenu party, with 9 percent.
Kadima Party leader Shaul Mofaz had 6 percent.  The Haaretz poll, conducted on May 1 by the Tel Aviv-based
Dialog organization, asked 513 likely voters whom they would
choose for prime minister. The survey had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.3 percentage points.  While the poll measured the popularity of the top
candidates, Israel’s electoral system requires voters to select
a party rather than a politician. As no party has achieved a
parliamentary majority in recent history by itself, elections
lead to negotiations in which the winner must work with smaller
parties to build a coalition that has at least 61 seats.  Netanyahu won in 2009 by bringing five other parties into
his coalition even though Likud had one less seat in the Knesset
than Kadima. First elected premier in 1996, Netanyahu lost the
next election in 1999 to Labor’s  Ehud Barak  -- now defense
minister and head of the Atzmaut party -- before returning to
office in 2009.  “With God’s help we will establish a government as wide as
possible, and will continue to lead Israel with strength,”
Netanyahu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  