-- Mohammed Appears in Courtroom With Security, Not Grandeur
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/mohammed-appears-in-courtroom-with-security-not-grandeur.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed sported a long
beard in a reddish hue that appeared to be dyed and a white
tunic when he entered a courtroom yesterday at the U.S. naval
base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  The accused mastermind of the Sept. 11 terror
attacks bore little resemblance to the disheveled figure in
stubble and a black mustache in the famous photo released after
his capture in Pakistan nine years ago.  The close-up look at Mohammed, who last appeared in court
in 2008, was afforded to a few dozen journalists and other
guests. They were permitted to witness the arraignment of
Mohammed and his codefendants from a small room separated from
the courtroom by a glass wall. Family members of victims of the
attacks also sat in the viewing room, their privacy protected
from other guests by a blue curtain.  Mohammed was the last of the five accused terrorists to be
brought into the courtroom in Guantanamo Bay, ushered to his
seat by three guards. Minutes later, he wrapped a white cloth
around his black skullcap to form a turban. He looked thinner
than his capture photo and was now wearing glasses. A large
callus showed at the center of his forehead, a mark that
sometimes results from hitting the face against the floor during
fervent Muslim prayer.  The defendants yesterday deferred entering pleas, and the
military judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, said he is
planning to hold the next court sessions June 12 to June 15.  Metal Shed  The setting for the arraignment offered little hint of the
importance of a case involving attacks that killed almost 3,000
people at the World Trade Center in  New York , the Pentagon
outside  Washington  and in a plane that crashed near Shanksville,
 Pennsylvania . The proceedings promise to test both the
government’s ability to prosecute alleged terrorists and the
fairness of military tribunals.  Courtroom II of the Office of Military Commissions on the
island of Cuba looks more like a metal shed from the outside
than it does a columned courthouse.  Inside, the courtroom has gray carpet, plain white walls,
and fluorescent lighting in a white ceiling.  While all five men declined to answer questions from the
judge, their lawyers spent hours challenging Pohl and
questioning his qualifications. The defendants used their joint
public appearance to confer privately with one another.  During a break, several of them passed around a copy of the
Economist magazine, which they leafed through briefly.  Prosthetic Leg  Ramzi bin al Shibh, one of the accused, had a prayer rug
and what appeared to be a copy of the Koran. The proceedings
paused when al Shibh stood to pray and then knelt on the floor.
Mohammed prayed during a recess.  One of the accused, Walid Bin Attash, was wheeled into the
courtroom in a chair with restraints. Pohl said he assumed the
restraints were needed because bin Attash had refused to come to
court voluntarily.  Guards brought bin Attash’s prosthetic leg into the
courtroom and attached it. The judge later approved removing the
restraints.  Rows of long tables in the center of the room were reserved
for the defendants, their attorneys and prosecutors. An empty
jury box filled one side of the courtroom, and folding chairs
were aligned along the opposite wall.  “Austere locations are nothing new to justice, and
particularly to military courts, and I am confident that this
one will achieve fairness and justice despite the modest
setting,” Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, the chief
prosecutor, said at a press conference May 4.  Security Checks  There was nothing modest about the security system
surrounding the courtroom.  Approved visitors had to pass a series of checks. They
first filed through a tent, where they went through a metal
detector and had their passports examined.  They then walked down a concrete sidewalk lined on either
side with chain-link fencing and barbed wire before arriving at
a second screening station.  After another identification check and metal detector,
visitors were led onto the outdoor grounds of the court
building. A third identification check was conducted in the
entrance to the building before visitors were assigned seats in
the viewing gallery.  Reporters let into the viewing room weren’t allowed to
bring their own pens. Approved pens were provided by the staff
inside.  While the visitors could watch the proceedings live, the
audio was piped in on a 40-second delay to ensure that any
mention of classified information wasn’t made public. The delay
had the effect of watching a badly dubbed movie, where the audio
is out of sync with the pictures.  Sound Turned Off  At one point, sound in the courtroom was turned off for
about a minute, blocking outsiders from hearing an exchange
involving one defendant.  As many as 20 guards lined a wall inside the courtroom at
times. The defendants were brought into the room one at a time,
each accompanied by three guards, with a few wearing plastic
shields over their faces.  The first defendant to arrive was bin al Shibh, in a white
skull cap, a thick black beard, and a long beige tunic. He sat
stroking his beard as he thumbed through an Arabic book that
appeared to be a Koran, and began to pray.  Next came Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, also known as Ammar al
Baluchi, wearing a black beard and sunglasses. Then came bin
Attash, strapped into a chair and wheeled to his spot.  He was followed by Mustafa al Hawsawi, who looked
strikingly thin in his white tunic and large glasses. He sported
white socks and blue slip-on shoes resembling sneakers.  Finally came Mohammed, about four minutes before the judge
arrived. The man who once bragged he was “responsible for the
9/11 operations from A to Z” said nothing yesterday.  “I believe Mr. Mohammed will decline to address the
court,” said his civilian lawyer, David Nevin. “He’s deeply
concerned about the fairness of the court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  