-- Oil Falls to Four-Month Low on European Votes, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-05-07T12:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/oil-slumps-to-four-month-low-on-u-s-jobs-european-elections.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in more
than four months after European election results fed speculation
that austerity efforts will be derailed and weaker-than-expected
jobs data underscored concern the  U.S. economy  may falter.  Futures pared losses after slumping as much as 3.2 percent
to the lowest intraday price since Dec. 20. The euro declined to
a three-month low after France elected Socialist Francois Hollande as president and Greek voters backed anti-bailout
parties. Crude extended a 4 percent drop on May 4 after U.S.
payrolls rose by the least in six months.  “Elections in France and Greece brought euro-zone fears
back to the fore,” Nam Truong, a dealer at London Capital Group
Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed note. Investors are concerned
that European austerity measures will weaken and additional
stimulus will be needed to “prop up ailing euro-zone
economies,” he said.  Crude for June delivery plunged as much as $3.15 to $95.34
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $97.81 at 1:15 p.m. London time. The
contract tumbled $4.05 to $98.49 on May 4, the lowest close
since Feb. 7. Prices slumped 6.1 percent last week, the biggest
weekly drop since September.  Brent oil for June settlement narrowed earlier losses to
fall 23 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $112.95 on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading volumes dropped amid a U.K.
public holiday. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $15.14, up from $14.69 on May 4.  Markets ‘Rattled’  “It’s a confluence of factors dragging oil markets
lower,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “Weaker-than-expected
jobless numbers and weak services PMI clearly rattled markets,
as did the Greek and French election results.”  In  France ’s election, Hollande received about 52 percent of
the votes against about 48 percent for  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
according to estimates by four pollsters. Hollande’s platform
calls for policies German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes,
including higher taxes, increased spending and delayed  deficit
reduction .  “It remains to be seen whether higher fiscal spending will
translate into the hoped-for economic growth and subsequently
into higher oil demand,” analysts at researcher JBC Energy GmbH
in Vienna said in a note.  Greece Doubts  Greece’s poll casts doubt on whether that country’s two
main parties can form a government strong enough to implement
spending cuts to ensure the flow of bailout funds. Official
projections predicted the two parties that partnered to secure a
second rescue package for  Greece , Pasok and  New Democracy , would
fall one short of the 151 seats needed to win a majority.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing dropped to 46.7 from 49.1
in March, London-based Markit Economics said May 4. That’s the
fastest rate of decline since October. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The euro declined to the lowest level in three months
today. That makes oil, denominated in U.S. dollars, more
expensive for investors holding the European currency.  A Hollande win would be “bearish for the euro and that
would be bearish for oil,”  Glen Ward , the Dubai-based business
development manager at online commodities trading platform
provider ICM Capital, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The
economy is still seen to be struggling. It’ll be hard to find
people coming in to buy at this point.”  Higher Inventories  Crude may fall further on “lackluster” macroeconomic
conditions and bearish fundamentals, said  Hussein Allidina , head
of commodities research at Morgan Stanley, in a research note
dated yesterday. If OPEC production continues unchanged, global
oil inventories will rise to levels that are “above normal” in
the third quarter, and crude supply this year will average
813,000 barrels a day more than demand, he said.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are currently producing 32.3 million barrels a day,
the group’s Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri told reporters in
Paris on May 3. That exceeds the 30 million barrels a day OPEC
agreed to pump at its last ministerial meeting.  “We maintain that the path of least resistance for oil is
lower, particularly with bearish catalysts continuing to
emerge,” Allidina said in the report.  Lower Unemployment  In the U.S., payrolls rose 115,000 in April, Labor
Department data showed. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 160,000 advance. Unemployment fell to a
three-year low of 8.1 percent as people left the  labor force .  Hedge funds  raised net-long positions, or wagers that
prices will rise, by 12 percent in the seven days ended May 1,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on May 4. It was the largest
increase since the week ended Feb. 14.  Money managers and hedge funds increased bullish bets on
ICE Brent crude by 13,165 contracts in the week ended May 1,
according to data from ICE Futures  Europe .  Long positions, or speculative bets that prices will rise,
in futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
127,081 lots, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  