-- Hollande Signals Return of France as Complicated Ally for West
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/hollande-signals-return-of-france-as-complicated-ally-for-west.html
Following a president once nicknamed
“Sarko the American,”  Francois Hollande  is set to resume the
traditional role of French leaders: annoying their allies.  Hollande, who made  Nicolas Sarkozy  a one-term president
yesterday, has promised to speed France’s withdrawal from
Afghanistan and questioned the return to NATO’s command
structure engineered by Sarkozy. He is picking fights with
Germany’s  Angela Merkel  over debt-crisis politics.  “He’ll be a classic French president: ally of the U.S. but
not emotionally involved like Sarkozy, whose attitude toward the
U.S. was like a hiccup in French foreign-policy history,” said
Francois Heisbourg, chairman of London-based  Institute for
Strategic Studies . “More classic, therefore, means more
complicated.”  The president-elect’s agenda will be dominated by foreign
policy in his first days in office. He plans a visit to Merkel
following his inauguration next week. Immediately after that, he
steps onto the world stage at a Group of Eight summit at Camp
David, near  Washington , and a  NATO summit  in Chicago.  France’s seventh president since the founding of the Fifth
Republic in 1958, Hollande has said he’d order the  withdrawal 
from  Afghanistan  of all combat troops by the end of 2012, one
year ahead of Sarkozy’s schedule and two years before the U.S.
He warned in March that he was also “reticent” about a U.S.-
advocated European missile-defense shield. The views may not be
set in stone.  Time for Compromises  “As an opposition candidate to Sarkozy he had to take
these stances,” Hubert Vedrine, a former Socialist foreign
minister, said in an interview. “His foreign-policy positions
have responded to domestic demands. Now begins the time for
discussions and compromises.”  Hollande the candidate sought to strike a balance that
sometimes eluded his predecessors in managing trans-Atlantic
relations that date to Louis XVI’s support for the colonists
against the British Empire. They reached a low point when
 Jacques Chirac  opposed the invasion of Iraq -- introducing
“freedom fries” into the American lexicon -- and warmed under
Sarkozy, who called then-candidate  Barack Obama  his ‘‘buddy’’ in
2008.  “We will try to avoid being an element of trouble” at the
Chicago meeting, Hollande told a group of reporters in February.
“Even if we may have diverging analyses on NATO and
Afghanistan, we are fully conscious that we are allies and thus
partners,” he said at an April 25 press conference.  Hollande supported the 2001 decision to join the U.S. in
Afghanistan. He voted against Sarkozy’s decision to add troops
in 2008, saying the French mission there was “over.” While he
promised to withdraw the remaining 3,600 soldiers still involved
in the NATO mission there, he said in March he would “not
impose our rhythm on others.”  Picking Parliament  The political stakes in  Chicago  remain high for Hollande.
“Don’t forget he has a major legislative election in June and
he must win an absolute majority,” Heisbourg said. The two-
round vote for parliament is set for June 10 and June 17.  While Hollande promised he wouldn’t overturn Sarkozy’s 2009
decision to rejoin the NATO command structure -- which  Charles de Gaulle  exited -- he questioned its  “tangible benefits”  and
said in the March speech, “We preserve our independence.”  Hollande’s personal style also contrasts with his
predecessor, who is known for his volatile temperament. “Just
being in a room with Sarkozy is enough to make anyone’s stress
levels increase,” according to a Dec. 14, 2007, U.S.  cable 
published by Wikileaks.  Hollande’s Career  Hollande, nicknamed after a pudding, has spent his career
behind the scenes negotiating compromises. He has never held a
government post. Hollande, 57, has represented the central town
of Correze for 24 years in parliament and was the Socialist
Party chief for 11 years until 2008.  As party leader, he met Socialist counterparts around the
world. He met one head of state during his campaign, Poland’s
Bronislaw Komorowski, in March. In an  October visit  to  Madrid  he
met with  Brazil ’s former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.  At the same time, he has fashioned a persona that may be
familiar to the U.S. leader. “No drama, no surprise: the Obama
recipe,” Justin Vaisse, an analyst at Washington-based
 Brookings Institution  wrote on April 13.  Relations with  Germany  may be the biggest hurdle in
Hollande’s start. Merkel, the leader of France’s biggest trading
partner, officially supported Sarkozy in the campaign and
opposed Hollande’s rejectionist view toward tighter European
budget-deficit rules. Talks will be ’’firm and friendly,’’ he
said on April 25.  The multiple meetings with Obama in his U.S. visit may also
enable Hollande to reveal positions on  Iran , Syria and
consequences of the Arab spring. The new president’s repeated in
his campaign he wouldn’t depart from Sarkozy’s policies.  ‘Unknown Quantity’  “He is a totally unknown quantity,” said Ezra Suleiman, a
political-science professor at  Princeton University .  Laurent Fabius, a former prime minister and a possible
candidate for the foreign ministry post said in a Bloomberg
Television interview April 20 that Hollande was “strongly
against the possession by Iran of nuclear arms and there is the
need to apply sanctions, possibly much harder, but at the same
time keep open the channels -- so there would be no shift.”  One last hurdle for Hollande may be his marital status. He
and his partner, Valerie Trierweiler, a journalist for Paris
Match magazine, are not married. That’s unprecedented for
 France ’s presidency. When Sarkozy wanted to bring girlfriend
 Carla Bruni  to  India  and to meet  Queen Elizabeth II  in 2008, he
had to marry her to avoid breaches of protocol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  