-- Hollande Vows to Fight Austerity After Beating Sarkozy
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-07T08:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/hollande-defeats-sarkozy-in-shift-of-power-to-french-socialists.html
Francois Hollande , who defeated French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to become the first Socialist in 17
years to control Europe’s second-biggest economy, pledged to
push for less austerity and more growth in the region.  “Europe is watching us,” he told supporters in Tulle,
France, last night after he won about 52 percent of the vote.
“Austerity isn’t inevitable. My mission now is to give European
construction a growth dimension.”  Hollande inherits an economy that is barely growing, with
jobless claims at their highest in 12 years and a rising debt
load that makes France vulnerable to the financial crisis that
has rocked the euro region the past two years. Sarkozy became
the ninth euro leader to fall in that time and the first French
president in more than 30 years to fail to win re-election.  Hollande’s comments were echoed in  Greece , where voters
flocked to anti-bailout groups, leaving the two main parties,
New Democracy and Pasok, a seat short of a majority if they
govern together, an Interior Ministry projection showed. His
victory may sharpen tensions with key allies with Hollande
advocating a more aggressive European Central Bank role in
spurring growth -- a measure opposed by Germany.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.5 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures fell 0.9 percent at 9:01 in
Paris. The euro weakened to a three-month low, falling to
$1.2982 at 7:20 a.m. in Paris.  Parliamentary Election  The campaigning in France isn’t over. The country elects
its lower house of parliament in five weeks, prompting calls
from all political leaders to keep fighting. If Sarkozy’s Union
for a  Popular Movement  keeps its majority, Hollande would have
to work with a Cabinet controlled by the opposition,
constraining his ability to deliver on his pledges.  The most likely outcome is a Socialist win that puts
Hollande in a more “left-leaning stance,” according to
Alastair Newton, political analyst at Nomura International in
London. Hollande takes office next week before heading to
summits of the Group of Eight and NATO in the U.S.  While Socialists stand ready to dominate policy making for
the first time since 1993 -- holding both the presidency and the
Cabinet -- bond yields were steady today. Ten-year French debt
yields 124 basis points more than comparable German securities.
That’s down from 145 basis points after he won the first round
on April 22 and lower than the 133 basis points at the start of
the year.  Credit Rating  Still, “we like being short” -- betting against -- French
bonds, said  Harvinder Sian , a senior interest-rate strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  “Medium term, we think the absence of real reform and a
lukewarm commitment to balanced budgets augurs ratings cuts for
France and wider spreads,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s , which in January stripped France of its
AAA credit rating, said today that Hollande’s election will have
“no immediate impact” on France’s sovereign rating.  Hollande faces the task of increasing competitiveness,
cutting the  budget deficit  and spurring growth while keeping the
region’s financial woes at bay. Campaigning against the most
unpopular president in postwar France, he avoided specifics.  “We expect resistance to change and proposals to preserve
France’s social model to prevail once Parliament reconvenes
after June 26,”  Natacha Valla , a Paris-based economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote on May 4.  ‘Normal’ Guy  Hollande supporters gathered yesterday to celebrate with
music, tears of joy and impossibly clotted crowds. After
speaking in the district he represents, the president-elect flew
to Paris and addressed thousands in the early hours today at
Bastille square.  Conceding defeat yesterday, Sarkozy said, “after 35 years
of politics, after 10 years at the highest levels of government,
after five years as head of state, I will become a Frenchman
among the French.”  Hollande sought to portray himself as the anti-Sarkozy
leader, calling himself “normal” to contrast with the
incumbent known in the media as “President bling-bling.”  Hollande is the second Socialist president of the Fifth
Republic, established in 1958.  Francois Mitterrand  was first.  His path to power followed a traditional French route. He
graduated from the Institute for Political Sciences in Paris and
the National School of Administration, schools that trained all
post-war presidents, except Sarkozy and  Charles de Gaulle .  ‘Fall Into Line’  He was educated at HEC-Paris, a business school where he
befriended some who were to become corporate leaders, such as
 Axa SA (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries. His social
circle includes  Jean-Bernard Levy , CEO of Vivendi SA, and Jean- Louis Beffa, former CEO of Cie. de Saint-Gobain.  In the early 1980s, Hollande went to work for Mitterrand,
helping him nationalize companies. A decade later, he helped
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin sell them to help the Socialist
government cut its debts to join the euro.  “The pressure to clarify the position after a change in
government will be high and it will be immediate,” said  Steven Major , head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. Investors are “looking through the election and
reasoning that the government will fall into line.”  Hollande has proposed higher taxes for big companies and
cuts for small and medium-sized businesses; a 75 percent levy on
incomes above 1 million euros a year and special taxes on banks
and oil companies.  More Spending  His platform would raise spending by 20 billion euros
($26.3 billion) over his five-year term and the  retirement age 
for those who started working at 18 years old pushed back to 60
from 62. He said he would discuss with  France ’s banks the split
of their retail and investment activities.  Tax increases and eliminating loopholes would seek to raise
29 billion euros. The budget plan aims to eliminate the deficit
in 2017, one year later than under Sarkozy’s plan, with a 3
percent of gross domestic product deficit target for 2013.  Minutes after Hollande’s victory was announced, political
leaders were already fighting over the legislative elections set
for June 10 and June 17.  “We need a majority in parliament,” Jean-Marc Ayrault,
who heads the Socialist Party in the National Assembly, said on
France 2 television. Former Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin
said, “What’s very important now is to put together a great
opposition force.”  Outside of France, Hollande has called for re-negotiating
the German-inspired deficit rules that leaders agreed upon in
December. At the same time, he reached out to France’s neighbor
and biggest trade partner.  Franco-German Cleavage  A German government spokesman said diplomatic contacts had
been made with the Hollande camp.  Pierre Moscovici , his campaign
chief and a possible key member of the future government, told
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper on May 5 that the new
government would not create a “crisis” with its main partner.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  indicated May 4
enough flexibility to allow Hollande to “save face.”  “I’ve said that everybody who gets freshly elected into
office must be able to save face,” Schaeuble said. “So we will
discuss this with Hollande in a very friendly way. But we won’t
change our principles.”  Concern of a Franco-German cleavage undermining economic
policy making in the euro region is “exaggerated,” Morgan
Stanley chief economist  Joachim Fels  wrote in a note yesterday.  A native of Rouen, the Norman city where Joan of Arc was
burned at the stake by the English in the 15th century, Hollande
has spent his career mainly behind the scenes and kept his
position as party leader even after two humiliating Socialist
losses under his watch -- in 2002 and 2007.  In 2007,  Segolene Royal , the mother of his four children,
lost to Sarkozy. In the subsequent months, she announced their
separation. Hollande now lives with Valerie Trierweiler, a
journalist for Paris Match magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  