-- Hollande’s Top Ministers May Include Ayrault, Aubry, Moscovici
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/hollande-s-top-ministers-may-include-ayrault-aubry-moscovici.html
Francois Hollande ,  France ’s first
Socialist president since 1995, will consider party stalwarts
including parliamentary leader Jean-Marc Ayrault and  Martine Aubry , author of the 35-hour work week, as top ministers.  “We have to get away from austerity in  Europe ,” Ayrault
said today in television interviews. “The election of Francois
Hollande will allow the reordering of Europe.”  Hollande has said he’ll choose as prime minister a
“uniter, who knows lawmakers well, knows the Socialist Party
well and knows me well.”  That describes Ayrault, 62, who has headed the Socialist
group in parliament since 1997 and is the mayor of the western
city of Nantes. Ayrault is also a member of the defense
commission at the National Assembly.  “The next important signpost in France will be the
selection of a prime minister,” said  Antonio Barroso , an
analyst at Eurasia Group in  London . “Whomever Hollande selects
will set the whole tone for his government.”  The French return to the polls June 10 and 17 for two-round
legislative elections for lawmakers at the National Assembly,
where the defeated Nicolas Sarkozy’s party currently holds a
majority.  “We can’t set things right if we don’t change the
method,” Ayrault said today. “We know the situation is
difficult. We will start with an audit of the state finances.”  Among Hollande’s economic advisers and candidates for
cabinet posts are former Finance Minister Michel Sapin and
Jerome Cahuzac, a surgeon and lawmaker who heads the National
Assembly finance committee.  Aubry’s Future  One question mark is over the future role of Aubry, mayor
of the northern city of Lille and Socialist Party chief. Aubry
is best known for having served as labor minister twice, putting
in place the country’s 35-hour work week, which has been
criticized for hurting French industrial competitiveness.  Running against Hollande in the Socialist primaries, Aubry
suggested he would represent the “soft left” and accused him
of having a right-wing bent.  Former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius may be a favorite for
the foreign ministry, according to the Journal du Dimanche
newspaper.  Other advisers to Hollande during the campaign were  Manuel Valls  and  Pierre Moscovici , who could be potential cabinet
members, while Jean-Yves le Drian, a regional representative in
Brittany, is a possible defense minister, according to the JDD.  Hollande has pledged his cabinet will have gender parity so
women who could be included are Socialist lawmakers Delphine Batho, who was a Hollande spokeswoman during the campaign,
Aurelie Filippetti and Marisol Touraine as well as Najat
Vallaud-Belkacem, another one of his spokeswomen who is deputy
to the mayor of Lyon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  