-- Look Who’s Pushing Homeowners Off the Foreclosure Cliff
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-06T22:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/look-who-s-pushing-homeowners-off-the-foreclosure-cliff.html
One of the more confounding aspects of
the U.S. housing crisis has been the reluctance of lenders to do
more to assist troubled borrowers. After all, when homes go into
foreclosure, banks lose money.  Now it turns out some lenders haven’t merely been
unhelpful; their actions have pushed some borrowers over the
foreclosure cliff. Lenders have been imposing exorbitant
insurance policies on homeowners whose regular coverage lapses
or is deemed insufficient. The policies, standard homeowner’s
insurance or extra coverage for wind damage, say, for Florida
residents, typically cost five to 10 times what owners were
previously paying, tipping many into foreclosure.  The situation has caught the attention of state regulators
and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is
considering  rules  to help homeowners avoid unwarranted “force-
placed insurance.” The U.S. ought to go further and limit
commissions, fine any company that knowingly overcharges a
homeowner and require banks to seek competitive bids for force-
placed insurance policies. Because insurance is not regulated at
the federal level, states also need to play a stronger role in
bringing down rates.  All mortgages require homeowners to maintain insurance on
their property. Most mortgages also allow the lender to purchase
insurance for the home and “force-place” it if a policy lapses
or is deemed insufficient. These standard provisions are meant
to protect the lender’s collateral -- the property -- if a
calamity occurs.  High-Priced Policies  Here’s how it generally works: Banks and their mortgage
servicers strike arrangements -- often exclusive -- with
insurance companies in which the banks agree to buy high-priced
policies on behalf of homeowners whose coverage has lapsed. The
bank advances the premium to the insurer, and the insurer pays
the bank a commission, which is priced into the premium.
(Insurers say the commissions compensate banks for expenses like
 “advancing premiums, billing and collections .”) The homeowner
is then billed for the premium, commissions and all.  It’s a lucrative business. Premiums on force-placed
insurance exceeded $5.5 billion in 2010, according to the  Center
for Economic Justice , a group that advocates on behalf of low-
income consumers. An investigation by  Benjamin Lawsky , who heads
 New York  State’s Department of Financial Services, has found
nearly 15 percent of the premiums flow back to the banks.  It doesn’t end there. Lenders often get an additional cut
of the profits by reinsuring the force-placed policy through the
bank’s insurance subsidiary. That puts the lender in the
conflicted position of requiring insurance to protect its
collateral but with a financial incentive to never pay out a
claim.  Both New York and  California  regulators have found the loss
ratio on these policies -- the percentage of premiums paid on
claims -- to be significantly lower than what insurers told the
state they expected to pay out, suggesting that premiums are too
high. For instance, most insurers estimate a loss ratio of 55
percent, meaning they’ll have to pay out about 55 cents on the
dollar. But actual loss ratios have averaged about 20 percent
over the last six years.  It’s worth noting that force-placed policies often provide
less protection than cheaper policies available on the open
market, a fact often not clearly disclosed. The policies
generally protect the lender’s financial interest, not the
homeowner’s. If a fire wipes out a house, most force-placed
policies would pay only to repair the structure and nothing
else.  Lack of Clarity  Homeowners can obviously avoid force-placed insurance by
keeping their coverage current. Banks are required to remove the
insurance as soon as a homeowner offers proof of other coverage.
But the system, as the New York state investigation and
countless lawsuits have demonstrated, is defined by a woeful
lack of clarity, so much so that  Fannie Mae  has issued a
 directive  to loan servicers to lower insurance costs and speed
up removal times. And it said it would no longer reimburse
commissions. The recent  settlement  with five financial firms
over foreclosure abuses also requires banks to limit excessive
coverage and ensure policies are purchased “for a commercially
reasonable price.”  That’s not enough. Tougher standards should be applied
uniformly, regardless of the loan source.  Freddie Mac  should
follow Fannie Mae’s lead and require competitive pricing on the
loans it backs. The consumer bureau should require mortgage
servicers to reinstate a homeowner’s previous policy whenever
possible, or to obtain competitive bids when not.  The bureau should also prevent loan servicers from
accepting commissions or, at the very least, prohibit
commissions from inflating the premium. It should require
servicers to better communicate to borrowers that their policy
has lapsed, explain clearly what force-placed insurance will
cost and extend a grace period to secure new coverage. Finally,
states should follow the example of  California , which recently
told force-placed insurers to submit lower rates that reflect
actual loss ratios.  Many homeowners who experience coverage gaps have severe
financial problems that lead them to stop paying their insurance
bills. They are already at great risk of foreclosure. Banks and
insurers shouldn’t be allowed to add to the likelihood of
default by artificially inflating the cost of insurance.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules ;
William D. Cohan on  e-mails from the fall of Lehman ;  Pankaj
Mishra  on  accusations against the Indian military ;  Albert R.
Hunt  on  congressional elections ;  Michael Ross  on  Vladimir
Putin’s oil-money machinations .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 