-- Malaysian Palm-Oil Output Probably Rose Most in Seven Months
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-05-07T10:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/palm-oil-output-in-malaysia-probably-increased-6-6-in-april.html
Palm-oil  production in  Malaysia , the
second-biggest supplier after  Indonesia , probably gained the
most in seven months in April, after recovering from seasonally
low-output months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Output advanced 6.6 percent to 1.29 million metric tons,
the biggest gain since September, from 1.21 million tons in
March, according to the median estimate in the survey of three
plantation companies and two analysts. That’s still 16 percent
lower than the 1.53 million tons a year earlier. The Palm Oil
Board is scheduled to release the official data on May 10.  Prices gained 5.8 percent this year after soybean harvests
in  South America  declined as drought wilted crops, draining
cooking-oil supplies. Lower production on a year-on-year basis
and smaller stockpiles may help palm-oil prices rally even
higher, potentially raising profits for Malaysian companies
including  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and IOI Corp.  “We’re probably going to see more subdued numbers coming
out of Malaysia in terms of production,” compared with a year
ago,  Ben Santoso , an analyst with DBS Vickers Securities
(Singapore) Pte., said by phone. Monthly output growth may be
higher from May onwards as yields recover after the lagged
effects of the 2010 El Nino weather pattern, he said.  Output in Malaysia will drop in the first half from a year
earlier,  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd.,
said March 27. From March, production each month will be less on
a year-on-year comparison, and the low cycle may end in
November, he said March 7. Production for the first four months
of the year will be 2.4 percent lower than the same period in
2011, according to the survey.  Low Cycle  The low cycle may last even longer than estimated due to
the “decoupling between weather events and crude palm oil
output, a phenomenon that has been exacerbated by the sub-
optimal profile of some plantations in  Southeast Asia ,”
Standard Chartered Plc analysts including Abah Ofon said in a
report dated April 30. The La Nina weather, which brings
heavier-than-usual rainfall, will not spur higher palm oil
output as it did in the past, according to the report.  Stockpiles fell 2 percent to 1.92 million tons, from 1.96
million tons in March, the survey showed. That’s still 15
percent higher than a year earlier. Exports gained 3 percent to
1.38 million tons in April from 1.34 million tons in March.
Shipments climbed to 1.35 million tons last month, surveyor
Intertek said on April 30.  Inventories should decline further as exports pick up in
coming months after the end of winter, said Santoso. Winter
demand for palm oil slows as the oil clouds in cooler climes.  Cheaper Options  “Right now prices are down because buyers, especially
 China , have just imported loads of soybeans so they have a lot
to digest,” said Santoso. “U.S. soybean prices have already
gone up. I think they will start to look for cheaper
alternatives; especially now that winter is over, they should be
able to employ more palm oil at this time of the year, so we do
expect some spillover demand.”  Prices have dropped 7.4 percent from a 13-month high of
3,628 ringgit ($1,185) on April 10 on expectations that
production may increase. The July-delivery contract ended little
changed at 3,360 ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange today after dropping to 3,311 ringgit, the lowest level
for the most-active contract since March 12.  Soybeans in  Chicago  surged to the highest level since 2008
this year after dry weather in South America curbed supplies,
boosting overseas demand for shipments from the U.S. Global
soybean production may be smaller than forecast last month, and
high prices resulting from reduced output are starting to crimp
demand, Oil World said May 1.  World soybean production may be 238.1 million tons, 2.3
million less than estimated April 5 and down from 265.8 million
tons a year earlier, after crops in South America deteriorated,
the Hamburg-based researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  