-- Philippine Growth Likely Passed 5.2%, Aquino Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y ,   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-05-07T05:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/philippine-first-quarter-growth-likely-passed-5-2-aquino-says.html
The Philippine economy likely grew at
least 5.2 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in more
than a year, according to the nation’s president.  “First quarter excluding agriculture, I was told already”
indicates a 5.2 percent  expansion , President  Benigno Aquino  said
in an interview at Malacanang Palace in Manila May 4. “So far
agricultural figures that have been sent my way, the prognosis
is it has expanded also -- so it will not serve to bring down
the 5.2 but it will probably enhance it.” The official gross
domestic product report is scheduled for May 31.  The acceleration would bring the Southeast Asian nation
nearer to Aquino’s 7 percent target for sustained growth, and
underscores forecasts for the central bank to be done cutting
 interest rates . Aquino, 52, plans to strengthen the economy by
stepping up investment, which is currently the second-lowest in
 Asia  relative to GDP, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Manila has been the place to be in early 2012,”  Edward Teather , a senior economist in  Singapore  at UBS AG, wrote in an
April 26 research note. “The improved growth data supports our
call that the BSP is done easing policy rates,” he wrote,
referring to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas. UBS analysts last
month boosted their projection for the increase in the country’s
GDP this year to 4.5 percent, from 3.3 percent previously.  Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, expanded 6.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the country’s
statistics bureau said today, compared with a 6.49 percent pace
reported earlier for the previous three months.  Stocks Outperform  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index (PCOMP)  has climbed
almost 20 percent this year, outpacing the benchmarks of
neighbors including  Malaysia , which is up nearly 4 percent, and
Indonesia, which has advanced 8 percent. With gains in exports
in January and February, optimism on the outlook for growth has
helped stoke the Philippine peso, which closed last week at
42.32 per dollar, about 1 percent from its strongest since 2008.  The main  stock index  fell 1.5 percent to 5,216.35 and the
peso declined 0.2 percent to 42.39 per dollar as of the midday
trading break today. The benchmark 10-year bond yield rose eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.917 percent, a
five-week high, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Philippine businesses need to prepare for further
appreciation in the  exchange rate , Aquino said, reiterating a
“comfort” zone for the currency of 41 to 45 per dollar. He
said the nation needs to build on success in setting up  call
centers  by moving up the “value chain,” to so-called backroom
services, which typically include accounting and legal support.
Insurance applications and medical transcriptions are other
areas, he said.  “It has been in the range we are comfortable with, which
is 41 to 45,” the president said of the exchange rate. “There
are days, though, when one has to look forward to the day when
it breaches that. We are hoping we still have time to be able to
address that situation before it does.”  Market Decides  Aquino, who began his six-year term in June 2010, declined
to specify when the peso might strengthen past 41. He said that
the policy is to “let the market forces decide.”  The government plans to award eight to 10 infrastructure
projects this year, Aquino said in the interview in the palace’s
Ramos Room, named after Fidel Ramos, who as armed forces vice
chief of staff in 1986 withdrew support from dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  to back Aquino’s mother, Corazon. Ramos succeeded  Corazon Aquino  as president, serving 1992-1998.  A planned infrastructure initiative in excess of $16
billion has been delayed in part by efforts to get better terms
on the projects, Aquino said. An improving sovereign credit
rating means borrowing costs are dropping, giving a better
position from which to negotiate terms and conditions.  The  Philippines ’s foreign-currency sovereign rating has
been raised to two steps below investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , and to one level below
by  Fitch Ratings , since Aquino took office. Neighbor  Indonesia 
won the status from Moody’s in January and from Fitch in
December, with S&P keeping it one step below.  Credit Rating  “If it comes, we expect it to happen within our term
obviously,” Aquino said of investment-grade status. Aquino
cannot by law run again after his term is up in 2016. “Let the
market speak for us,” he said, citing the country winning
cheaper borrowing costs than some higher-rated nations.  The Philippines sold 10-year peso-denominated securities at
an average yield of 5.16 percent on March 13, compared with 7.64
percent in an  auction  in June 2010, the month Aquino took office,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ratings companies want to see a consistent reduction in the
nation’s fiscal deficit, Aquino said. The government is focused
on making potential tax cheaters “scared” of being caught out,
after  tax revenue  as a share of GDP tumbled since the Ramos
years. International Monetary Fund data show the ratio slumped
to 17 percent in 2011, from 21 percent in 1997, Ramos’s last
full year in office. He reiterated his stance that new taxes
would be considered only after boosting collection rates.  ‘Sin Tax’  Aquino predicted that proposed changes to liquor and
tobacco taxes will be approved by lawmakers this year. The
government has estimated the so-called sin-tax levies could
raise 60 billion pesos ($1.4 billion) a year. “I’ll be
surprised if the tax measure doesn’t pass this Congress,” he
said.  Another measure Aquino said is coming “soon” is a
revamped mining-extraction policy that may help revive a stalled
Xstrata Plc gold-copper project valued at $5.9 billion.
Xstrata’s plans were stymied by a ban by local authorities on
open-pit mining.  The guidelines will cordon off 78 areas for eco-tourism,
and the state’s share of revenue from resource contracts will be
raised from the current 2 percent ratio, Aquino said. Asked
whether the new national policy would allow the Xstrata project
to proceed, he said “I think so.”  He also said he’s open to the idea of joint development of
oil and gas in waters that are disputed with  China , “so long as
our sovereignty is respected.”  The president highlighted plans by two shipbuilders and a
steelmaker to invest in the Philippines, with operations so
large that a combined 700 hectares (1,730 acres) have been set
aside. An electronics manufacturer plans to invest 20 billion
pesos more in operations that will add 5,000 jobs, Aquino said.
He declined to name any of the companies.  “The dream was manufacturing -- how do you get
manufacturing back in this country,” said Aquino, whose father
was a senator assassinated in 1983 and grandfather a government
official during the 1940s Japanese occupation. “The dream is
happening now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  