-- Putin Victory Shows How Oil Supports Autocrats
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L .   R o s s
-- 2012-05-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/putin-victory-shows-how-oil-supports-autocrats.html
Vladimir Putin ’s inauguration to a
third term as Russia’s president today, after a first-round
victory in March elections, shows he is both shrewd and
skillful. He is also very lucky, in a way that should worry us.  Putin’s great luck comes from his timing. The fate of the
Russian economy -- and the popularity of its leaders -- is
closely tied to the  price of petroleum . Oil and gas account for
almost two-thirds of Russia’s exports, and about half of the
federal government’s revenue.  Putin first took office as then President  Boris Yeltsin ’s
prime minister in August 1999, when global oil prices had just
passed their lowest point since the early 1970s. During his
first two terms as president, global oil and gas prices more
than tripled. Thanks to a flood of petroleum revenue, the
Russian economy boomed, incomes soared, and budget deficits were
replaced with surpluses. When Putin stepped down in 2008 and
transferred the presidency to Dmitry Medvedev, he held a
remarkable 85 percent approval rating. Small wonder that so many
Russian voters have fond memories of his previous terms as
president.  The decade-long boom in oil and gas prices may have been
good for the Russian economy, but it was bad for Russian
democracy. Putin used his popularity to roll back freedom of the
press, keep opposition parties off the ballot, and render the
parliament and regional governments toothless.  Repelling Democracy  Oil tends to repel democracy in other regions, too. From
 Venezuela  to  Angola , and  Iran  to Myanmar, a decade of high  oil
prices  has helped dozens of autocrats cling to power. Last
year’s Arab Spring led to popular movements in virtually every
Middle Eastern country. But they made a difference only in
countries such as Tunisia and  Egypt , which have little or no
oil. In fact, the turmoil in the  Middle East  probably helped
Putin by boosting oil prices and giving the Russian economy an
injection of cash in the months leading up to the vote.  Petroleum is not always bad for democracy. Much depends on
a ruler’s ability to keep the flow of oil riches hidden.
Treasure turns to trouble when rulers quietly siphon off money
for friends and allies.  In April 2010, Putin signed a  decree  that suspended the
publication of information about the assets, revenue and
expenditure of  Russia ’s two oil funds. This allowed him to
conceal the health of the government’s finances, while launching
a pre-election spending spree. He boosted military and police
spending by 33 percent, and promised future pay and pension
increases for the armed forces, teachers and doctors. To this
day, few Russians realize they have been fleeced.  Other oil-funded autocrats have used the same strategy.
Since the early 2000s, President  Hugo Chavez  has sharply reduced
the transparency of Venezuela’s state-owned oil company, while
using it to finance his movement’s slush fund. Last week, a
report from the  Revenue Watch Institute , a New York-based
nonprofit group, noted that beginning in 2008 Iran’s central
bank stopped disclosing information about deposits into, and
withdrawals from, the country’s oil funds. Since then, tens of
billions of dollars have apparently gone missing from the funds.  In  Washington , the link between covert oil payments and
dirty politics has not gone unnoticed. In fact, a provision in
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act seeks to address the problem. Buried in the depths of the
legislation is a provision --  Section 1504  -- that would require
U.S.-based oil, gas and mineral companies to disclose the
payments they make to governments around the world.  Demanding Accountability  The logic is straightforward: When the citizenry knows how
much money a government is collecting, it will disarm an
autocrat by demanding more accountability. Yet the  American
Petroleum Institute , the oil industry’s lobbying arm, has
threatened to sue the Securities and Exchange Commission if it
issues the rules that will put the new law into effect. One year
after its original deadline, the SEC has yet to act.  The SEC should insist that companies report their payments
on a project-by-project basis, instead of merely at the country
level.  Oil companies  that claim to support transparency -- such
as Exxon, Chevron and ConocoPhillips -- should embrace this
approach instead of blocking it. There is little evidence that
greater openness would put U.S. companies at a disadvantage; in
fact, the European Union has proposed a similar measure, and
investment firms say they would gain valuable information from
the new disclosures.  Putin’s election should remind us that oil revenue can be a
force for both good and evil. The more transparent that oil
companies become, the more likely that citizens -- and not
dictators -- will benefit from their countries’ natural-resource
wealth.  (Michael L. Ross is a professor of political science at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , and the director of the
UCLA International Institute’s Center for Southeast Asian
Studies. He is the author of “The Oil Curse: How Petroleum
Wealth Shapes the Development of Nations.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  bank-capital rules  and
 force-placed insurance ; William D. Cohan on  e-mails from the
fall of Lehman ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  accusations against the Indian
military ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  congressional elections .  To contact the writer of this article: Michael L. Ross at
 mlross@polisci.ucla.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  