-- Putin Protesters Clash With Moscow Police in Kremlin Return
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-05-06T15:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/putin-opponents-gather-8-000-for-moscow-rally-in-kremlin-return.html
Vladimir Putin ’s opponents clashed
with police in central Moscow at a rally for fair elections,
less than 24 hours before the prime minister returns to the
Kremlin as president for a third term.  Dozens of opposition leaders including the Left Front’s
Sergei Udaltsov, anti-corruption blogger Alexey Navalny and
former deputy premier  Boris Nemtsov  were detained during a rally
at Bolotnaya Square, organizers said. Police said in a statement
that 8,000 people attended, while estimates from organizers
ranged from 20,000 to 100,000 -- more than the 5,000 they and
city officials agreed to after the last major rally in February.  Putin, who has been premier or president since 1999, won a
third term in March with 64 percent of the vote, three months
after his United Russia party maintained its parliamentary
majority in elections that were criticized as unfair by
international observers.  At least four officers were injured in sporadic clashes,
Moscow police said in an e-mailed statement. Officials urged
those protesters remaining at Bolotnaya after 7 p.m. to go home.
By 7:45 p.m. about 250 people had been detained in total, mainly
on Bolotnaya.  Putin ‘Illegitimate’  A police statement accused organizers of provoking the
crowd by calling on people to move outside the sanctioned rally
area. Udaltsov urged the crowd to stage a “sit-in” strike at
the nearby Udarnik cinema, where police were concentrated.
Putin’s inauguration, scheduled for noon tomorrow, is
“illegitimate,” Udaltsov said in calling for new elections.
Criminal cases may be opened against the organizers of the
event, according to the police statement.  Between 30,000 to 120,000 people thronged Sakharov
Prospect, a wide avenue in Moscow named after Soviet-era
dissident  Andrei Sakharov , to rally against election fraud after
December’s parliamentary elections. At least 120,000 gathered in
subzero temperatures for a march to Bolotnaya Square, an island
south of the Kremlin, in February, according to opposition
estimates. The city police put the number at 36,000 at the time.  A rival rally by the pro-Putin People’s Front, held at a
different location in central Moscow to celebrate its one-year
anniversary, drew 30,000 people and passed peacefully, according
to police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  