-- Putin Returns to Power Amid Street Protests
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-05-08T07:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/putin-walks-oil-price-tightrope-in-return-to-russia-s-presidency.html
Vladimir Putin  said his return to the
presidency heralded a “new stage” for Russia, reclaiming the
pinnacle of the country’s politics as police detained hundreds
of anti-government protesters.  “Today we begin a new stage in the nation’s development,”
Putin said. “The coming years will determine Russia’s fate in
the decades ahead.”  The Russian leader signed at least a dozen decrees
yesterday within hours of being sworn in for his third term,
assigning deadlines for priorities including state asset sales,
improving the investment climate and  job creation . Putin also
nominated former President  Dmitry Medvedev  to be prime minister.  Putin, 59, inherits an economy with more difficult
prospects than when he left the Kremlin in 2008, making it
harder to soothe the domestic tension that brought tens of
thousands onto the streets of Russian cities starting in
December. Hundreds of opposition activists spent last night at a
square in central Moscow to protest the formation of the new
government, with police detaining the Left Front’s Sergei
Udaltsov and anti-corruption blogger Alexey Navalny.  By signing the decrees yesterday, Putin “sends the message
of ‘I am the president and I have a plan that I came with and I
know what to do,’”  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a sociologist at the
Russian Academy of Sciences, and a ruling-party member. “The
second message is that ‘while some people are out on Bolotnaya’’
square ‘‘messing around, I’m getting down to business.’”  Crisis Impact  The European Union, Russia’s largest export market, is
grappling with its worst crisis in decades just as the
struggling world economy puts a cap on crude prices. That
threatens his ambition of turning Russia into one of the world’s
five largest economies by purchasing power by 2015.  The Russian leader benefited from an almost fivefold jump
in Urals crude during his first stint as president, from 2000 to
2008. The surge swelled state coffers, allowing Russia to
recover from its 1998 default and spend more on military,
infrastructure and social programs. The main  stock index  soared
more than 1,000 percent.  “Putin’s ability to provide stability thanks to high  oil
prices  is drained,” Yulia Bushueva, who helps oversee $500
million at Moscow-based Arbat Capital Management, said by phone.  Prokhorov, Schroeder, Berlusconi  Putin took the oath of office in a ceremony attended by
politicians and corporate executives. Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who challenged Putin for the presidency, was in the
audience, along with former world leaders including German
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , now the chairman of the Russian-
led Nord Stream gas pipeline, and Italian ex-Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi .  State television showed helicopter footage of Putin’s
motorcade passing through downtown Moscow’s deserted streets,
blocked off by police. He marched through the Kremlin’s ornate
ballrooms to Andreyevsky Hall, a tsarist-era throne room, before
taking the stage.  Outside, about 120 people were detained for attempting to
hold an unsanctioned rally yesterday, city police said. Twenty-
nine officers were injured in clashes with anti-Putin protesters
on May 6. More than 400 people were held after protesters began
throwing rocks and flares, police said. Pro-Putin supporters
gathered about 30,000 people on May 6, police said.  Opposition organizers said protest leaders were detained,
including former Deputy Premier  Boris Nemtsov . Police said 8,000
attended the rally, while organizers offered figures ranging
from 20,000 to 100,000. Nemtsov was among those detained again
yesterday.  Trust in Putin  Fifty-three percent of Russians say they trust Putin, with
another 24 percent saying they partially do, the Public Opinion
Foundation, a Moscow-based pollster, said May 3. That was up 8
percentage points from December and 17 percentage points lower
than in 2008. The  poll  of 3,000 people was conducted April 28-29
and didn’t give a margin of error.  Putin’s ability to deliver on election pledges, reassert
 Russia ’s dominance among neighbors and compete with the U.S. for
global influence may depend on him finding the cash to pay for
programs including a 23 trillion-ruble ($766 billion) military
upgrade.  About half of Russia’s budget revenue comes from oil and
gas, and Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  estimated last
month that the industry contributed 4 percentage points to the
average 7 percent growth over the past decade.  $24 Oil  The price of crude rose from $24 the day Putin took charge
to $117 when he left office, helping the country expand by an
average 7.1 percent per year from 2000 to 2008 before the global
financial crisis triggered a 7.8 percent contraction in 2009.  The  Micex Index (VTBMICX) , a ruble-denominated equities benchmark,
surged 1,045 percent from 1999 through the end of Putin’s first
two terms. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 4.9 percent over
the same period.  The Micex fell 0.5 percent to 1,377.93 at 11:11 a.m. in
Moscow after erasing this year’s gain with a 5.9 percent loss
last week.  Putin targets economic growth of at least 6 percent per
year after GDP rose 4.3 percent each in 2011 and 2010. Boosting
the economy to 5 percent or 6 percent per year will be one of
the new government’s biggest tasks, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters before the ceremony.  Jobs, Investment Ranking  Putin’s orders signed yesterday included a long-term
economic program. The measures call on the government to help
the economy boost labor productivity by half through 2018, add
25 million new high-quality jobs and push Russia to 50th in the
 World Bank ’s Doing Business ranking by 2015, from 120th now.  Putin also told the government to develop a plan by Nov. 1
to sell off state holdings in non-commodities companies by 2016.
The measure excludes the defense industry and natural
monopolies. Companies controlled by the state must also plan to
sell off “non-core” assets, according to the order.  With the budget slipping into a deficit and the current-
account balance likely to turn negative in 2014 or 2015, Putin
will face “a much more difficult time in his third term,” said
 Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia at  Renaissance
Capital  in Moscow. “The economy remains his biggest
challenge,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  