-- Trade Gap Probably Grew as Imports Rose: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-06T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/trade-gap-probably-grew-as-imports-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
The U.S.  trade  deficit probably
widened in March as imports rebounded from the biggest setback
in three years, economists said before a report this week.  The gap grew to $50 billion from $46 billion in February,
according to the  median forecast  of 62 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey taken ahead of a Commerce Department report set for
May 10. Other data may show wholesale prices, the cost of
imports and consumer sentiment were little changed.  Companies probably bought more goods from abroad,
reflecting higher fuel prices and a bounce back in shipments
from China following the Lunar New Year holidays. At the same
time, exports may fail to keep pace as a slower global expansion
hurts sales at companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , indicating the  U.S. economy  won’t be able to
count on an improving trade account to boost growth.  “We expect the oil-import bill to soar,” said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at IHS Global Insight
in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “We expect foreign trade to be a
drag on growth for the year.”  Purchases of foreign goods decreased by 2.7 percent in
February, the biggest drop since February 2009, Commerce
Department figures showed last month. Imports from China plunged
18 percent as the week-long Lunar New Year holiday extended into
early February. That slump was probably reversed in March,
Edelstein said, widening the  trade gap .  More-expensive petroleum may also have contributed to the
gains. The price of foreign  crude oil  climbed 3.5 percent in
March, according to figures from the Labor Department.  Import Prices  Fuel prices probably retreated last month, helping to
restrain inflation from overseas. The cost of imported goods
dropped 0.2 percent in April after jumping 1.3 percent the prior
month, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
before the Labor Department’s update on May 10.  A slowdown in hiring may restrain the wage growth needed to
fuel U.S. consumer spending, which means imports may keep
slowing this quarter. Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in
April, the smallest increase in six months, Labor Department
figures showed last week. The  jobless rate  fell to a three-year
low of 8.1 percent as people left the  labor force , adding to
worries that the economic expansion is cooling.  After reaching a record in February, U.S. exports may also
slow as economies from  Europe , to  China  and  Brazil  decelerate.  Global Slowdown  In Europe, the debt crisis is curbing demand for goods as
governments from  Spain  to  Italy  are forced to step up spending
cuts. Euro-region unemployment rose to a 15-year high in March
and manufacturing contracted in April for a ninth month, reports
showed last week.  “The negative for trade is that Europe is pretty weak, so
it’s hard for exports to get traction,” said Joshua Feinman,
global chief economist for Deutsche Bank AG’s asset management
unit in  New York .  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, on April 25 reported a gain in first-quarter revenue
that was smaller than analysts estimated after sales fell in
China and Brazil. The Peoria, Illinois-based company said demand
in developing nations this year will be lower than anticipated,
a reversal after 2011 growth in  Latin America  and the Asia-
Pacific region outpaced  North America .  A day earlier, United Technologies said orders from China
dropped, while  3M Co. (MMM)  forecast below-trend growth in the
country.  Equipment Maker Shares  Slowing global growth has hurt shares of equipment makers.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which
includes companies like Caterpillar, Deere & Co. and Eaton
Corp., is down 3.8 in the two months through April. That
compares with a 2.4 percent gain for the broader  S&P 500  Index
over the same period. The S&P 500 dropped 1.6 percent to 1,369.1
at the May 4 close in New York, capping its worst week this year
on the disappointing payroll figures.  In other reports this week, producer prices were little
changed in April for a second month, economists surveyed project
Labor Department data will show on May 11.  The same day, data from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan will show the preliminary  consumer sentiment  index for
May eased to 76.2 from a one-year high of 76.4 the prior month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  