-- Record Gas Use by U.S. Utilities Fails to Drive Up Price: Energy
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-05-07T16:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/record-gas-use-by-u-s-utilities-fails-to-drive-up-price-energy.html
U.S. utilities led by  Southern Co. (SO)  are
burning a record amount of natural gas for generating
electricity without triggering a forecasted boost to the fuel’s
price from near 10-year lows.  The power companies used 34 percent more gas in February
than a year earlier, Energy Department data show. Even Atlanta-
based Southern, historically one of the largest U.S. coal-plant
operators, is on pace to consume more of the cleaner-burning
fuel than coal in 2012 for the first time in its  100-year
history . Utilities are the nation’s biggest gas consumers.  The historic switch to gas is set to peak this year without
fulfilling industry predictions that it would eat up inventory
and drive up gas prices. That’s because unparalleled output from
new shale fields is  oversupplying  the $95 billion U.S. gas
market, postponing relief for hundreds of producers.  Record gas use “may not be the panacea that people think”
it will be, Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC,
based in Austin,  Texas , said in a telephone interview. Schenker
was the fourth-best predictor of  gas prices  in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difficulty of forecasting fuel prices led managers of
two energy funds to close in the last four weeks, including  John Arnold ’s Centaurus Energy Master Fund.  While benchmark U.S. gas prices have gained 42 cents, as of
10:53 a.m. in New York, from an intraday low of $1.902 per
million British thermal units on April 19, most analysts are not
calling the bottom of the price cycle for a fuel that traded
above $13 in 2008.  No Bottom Yet  “I’m not expecting a lot of upside through summer” for
gas prices,  Tim Evans , energy analyst with Citi Futures
Perspective, said in a phone interview. “We’re still sitting on
a massive inventory of storage.”  Bulging gas stocks are also being sustained by a
combination of unusual weather that’s depressing electricity
sales, as well as decisions by power company executives to avoid
becoming over-reliant on the historically volatile fuel.  Marketed gas production reached a record 66.22 billion
cubic feet a day in 2011 and may rise another 4.5 percent this
year, according to Energy Department estimates. Inventories rose
to 2.576 trillion cubic feet the week ended April 27, 50 percent
above the five-year average for the week, the agency reported
May 3.  Cheap gas, rather than helping power producers like
Southern and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , undercuts their revenue because it
drives down wholesale electricity prices, squeezing margins for
plants that run on nuclear, renewable and coal power. The
utilities, for many reasons, are close to their limit of
shifting the mix toward gas.  Elasticity Limits  “You have stretched the rubber band in terms of coal-to-
gas switching as much as you can,” Arun Jayaram, an analyst
with Credit Suisse in New York, said in an interview.  Meteorologists say the fourth-warmest winter on record that
just ended will be followed by a cooler summer for much of the
U.S. compared with a year ago. If weather remains mild, total
power consumption will be 1.8 percent lower from July through
September from a year earlier, the Energy Department said.  Gas consumption  averaged 5 billion cubic feet higher at
 power plants  this year through April 10 compared to year-ago
levels, Credit Suisse’s Jayaram said. He predicts increases will
ultimately slow to an average of 3 billion cubic feet a day this
year as generators manage abundant inventories of both coal and
natural gas.  Unprecedented Burn  To make a dent in gas inventories, the power industry will
need to burn at least 4.5 billion cubic feet more per day on
average for the year above 2011 levels, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  That is “absolutely unprecedented, but not out of the
question,” Charles Blanchard, fossil fuels analyst for
Bloomberg’s New Energy Finance unit, said in an e-mail.  Such consumption would shatter the all-time monthly gas
generation record of 121 terawatt-hours, set in August 2010.
Blanchard thinks the sector could reach around 130 terawatt-
hours during the summer months, but cautioned recent forecasts
of cooler, El Nino-influenced weather “would be terrible for
gas.”  The power sector is predicted to account for 35 percent of
total U.S. gas demand this year, up from 31 percent last year,
Energy Department data show. The trend has accelerated as gas
prices fell in much of the country below coal, traditionally the
second-cheapest source of power behind nuclear energy.  Coal’s Declining Role  Gas at the  Henry Hub  in  Louisiana , the delivery point for
 New York  futures, averaged $2.60 per million British thermal
units in February, while Central Appalachian coal averaged $3.06
per million Btu, Energy Department data show.  Coal remains the leading source of power in the U.S., but
has fallen to 37 percent of U.S. electricity generated during
January and February, combined, from 46 percent a year ago,
Energy Department show.  “For the first time since the 1970s, we’ve seen coal’s
share of energy production fall below 40 percent,” David Herr,
leader of  Duff & Phelps (DUF) ’ energy and mining practice, said during
a March 28 webcast. In 2010, “coal was sitting at 50 percent,
where it had been for the last decade.”  Companies such as  Duke (DUK) , Dominion and Southern already had
been increasing their reliance on natural gas in anticipation of
tougher federal pollution standards and as gas prices began
falling from a three-year peak on July 2, 2008 of $13.69 per
million British thermal units.  Using Spare Capacity  Falling wholesale electricity prices also spurred the
switch by making it uneconomical for power producers to retrofit
older, smaller coal-fired plants to comply with tougher federal
emissions standards, Herr said.  As gas became the preferred fuel source, Southern and other
power producers fired up generation capacity built after the
last gas-price plunge a decade ago.  Southern ran its combined-cycle gas turbine fleet at a
near-record 70 percent of capacity during the first quarter,
doubling the plants typical use, Thomas Fanning, Southern’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in an April 25 phone
interview.  Southern, whose energy production is nearly as great as the
country of  Australia , expects to derive 47 percent of its power
from gas this year and 35 percent from coal. Five years ago, the
company produced 70 percent of its power from coal and 16
percent from natural gas, Fanning said.  Balancing The Mix  Southern has tried to balance its power-plant fleet with a
mix of nuclear energy, coal, gas and plants that can run on
either fuel “so we can respond to the changing fuel market,”
Fanning said. “That’s exactly what we’re doing.”  Gas output in the lower 48 states has grown greatly because
of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other improved
drilling techniques that make it economic to extract fossil
fuels from shale rock like the Marcellus in the U.S. Northeast.
Drilling in oil-rich reserves, such as in  North Dakota  and
Texas, often also yield gas.  Some of the factors affecting prices, excluding swelling
supplies, are difficult to gauge. Blanchard said examples
include the lingering effects of record winter warmth and the
maximum use utilities will be able to derive from combined-cycle
gas plants that infrequently ran at greater than 40 percent
capacity.  If weather patterns return to the norm this fall,  PPL Corp. (PPL) 
expects to run its coal-fired plants longer than during the
first quarter, when its gas units ran at up to 92 percent of
capacity, William Spence, CEO of the Allentown, Pennsylvania-
based utility owner, told analysts during a May 4 conference
call.  Embracing Instability?  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) ,  New Jersey ’s largest
utility owner, ran its New Jersey and Connecticut coal-fired
plants at just two percent of capacity during the first quarter
as nuclear plants and a combined-cycle gas fleet handled the
weather-diminished power load.  Executives worry their industry’s headlong embrace of a
notoriously unstable commodity could contribute to a price spike
later in the decade when the U.S. begins exporting liquefied
natural gas, William Levis, president and chief operating
officer of PSEG Power LLC, the  Newark , New Jersey-based
company’s merchant power unit, said in a phone interview.  “We like to keep as many options available for us as we
can,” said Levis, “It wasn’t that long ago that the price of
gas was high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  