-- S. Korea Suspends Four Savings Bank Over Financial Weakness
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-05-06T00:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/s-korea-suspends-four-savings-bank-over-financial-weakness-1-.html
South Korea ’s  Financial Services
Commission  said it ordered four mutual savings banks to halt
operations for six months because they failed to meet the
regulator’s financial strength criteria.  The regulator told the lenders to improve their finances
within next 45 days by boosting capital and may mandate sales of
the banks if they fail to do so, the commission said in an e-
mailed statement today.  South Korea shuttered 16 savings banks last year after a
sluggish real estate market caused developers to default on
loans for construction projects. The shutdowns sparked
nationwide probes into savings banks, their management, the role
of regulators and the part played by lobbyists, leading to the
indictment of more than 100 people.  “With this, we’ve completed restructuring on the savings
banks industry that started last year,” Kim Joo Hyun, the
commission’s secretary general told reporters today. “In the
future, such restructuring will be done through the market
system.”  Affiliates of the suspended savings banks will operate
normally unless there are excessive deposit withdrawals, the
regulator said.  Government Aid  South Korea has been tightening supervision of small
lenders and reviewed the nation’s 85 savings banks in July to
determine if they were sound enough to receive  government aid  or
should be sold.  Last year’s closures prompted stricter lending rules and
the regulator urged savings bank to return to providing
financial services to low-credit individuals and small business
owners rather than extending loans for risky construction
projects.  The combined assets at South Korean savings banks totaled
60.2 trillion won ($53 billion) as of December, down 31 percent
from the end of 2010, according to Financial Supervisory Service
 data .  Deposits at the banks dropped 28 percent to 55.7 trillion
won as of February, from 76.8 trillion won at the end of 2010,
according to Bank of Korea data. That compares with 8.8 percent
deposit growth to 950.6 trillion won at national commercial
lenders in the same period, the data show.  The South Korean regulator first began suspending savings
banks in January last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  