-- S&P 500 Halts 3-Day Slump After Europe Vote as Banks Rise
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-07T20:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/s-p-500-futures-fall-as-france-s-hollande-wins-election.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
advanced, halting a three-day decline, as bank shares rallied
after  Warren Buffett  said American lenders are in “fine shape”
and investors weighed elections in France and Greece.  Banks had the  biggest gain  among 24 groups in the S&P 500
as Buffett said the nation’s lenders have “liquidity coming out
of their ears” and are in better shape than European rivals.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  rose 2.1 percent as the movie “Marvel’s The
Avengers” earned a record $200.3 million in its opening
weekend. American International Group Inc. retreated 3 percent
as the U.S. Treasury Department sold  $5 billion  of shares.  The S&P 500 advanced less than 0.1 percent to 1,369.58 at 4
p.m. New York time, following a 2.6 percent drop in three days.
The measure fell as much as 0.4 percent earlier today. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slid 29.74 points, or 0.2 percent, to
13,008.53. About  6.3 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges today, or 5.1 percent below the three-month average.  “U.S. banks are in pretty good shape,” said Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management. His firm oversees $160 billion. “In addition, the
perception is that European governments are not going to do
anything stupid. We’re not talking about a wholesale change in
fiscal policy. There was a big reaction to well-telegraphed
news. It’s good to see a bounce from the lows.”  Stocks swung between gains and losses after  Francois Hollande ’s election as France’s president and as Greek voters
flocked to anti-bailout parties. Hollande, who defeated Nicolas
Sarkozy, pledged to push for less austerity. European stocks
 rebounded  as German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she will
receive Hollande with “open arms” as they work together to
tackle the debt crisis.  ‘On Surviving’  Barton Biggs , founder of the Traxis Partners LP hedge fund,
said he isn’t adding to bearish equity bets in Europe. Biggs
said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu
today that he continues to short German and French benchmark
equity indexes, while being 70 percent net long on U.S. stocks.
The region’s shared currency is “50/50 on surviving,” he said.  Voters are “signaling to their politicians that they want
more stimulus and less austerity,” Biggs said today in a
telephone interview. “If they don’t get it, they’re going to
vote in new leaders. That’s a big deal, and I happen to think
stimulus combined with reforms is the way to go.”  The  S&P 500  dropped the most since December last week as a
report showed employers added fewer jobs than forecast. The
gauge was still up 8.9 percent in 2012 on better-than-estimated
earnings. About  70 percent  of S&P 500 companies that reported
results since the start of the earnings season have topped
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks Rally  A measure of banks in the S&P 500 rose 1.2 percent. All 24
stocks in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  advanced as the gauge rose 1
percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added 2.8 percent, the most in
the Dow average, to $7.96.  Wells Fargo & Co . gained 1.4 percent
to $33.50.  “I would put European banks and American banks in two very
different categories,” Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive
officer, said May 5 at the firm’s annual meeting in Omaha,
Nebraska. “The American banking system is in fine shape. The
European system was gasping for air a few months back” until
getting assistance from the  European Central Bank , he said.  Wall Street firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank
of America, emboldened after raising capital levels ahead of
stricter international guidelines, are contesting efforts by
U.S. policy makers to limit trading and risk. European banks
have struggled amid the continent’s sovereign debt crisis and
turned to the ECB for 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in three-
year loans at a 1 percent interest rate.  ‘The Avengers’  Walt Disney  rose 2.1 percent to $43.82. “The Avengers”
surpassed the previous-best opening weekend of $169.2 million in
the U.S. and Canada, set last year by “Harry Potter and the
Deathly Hallows: Part 2,” researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office
said yesterday in a statement.  Tyson Foods Inc. climbed 3.3 percent to $18.63. The largest
U.S. meat processor reported second-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates and said it will boost stock buybacks by 35
million shares.  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  surged 55 percent to $58.12.
The maker of the first medicine to target the underlying cause
of cystic fibrosis said a combination of the drug and a second
therapy improved some patients’ ability to breathe in a mid-
stage study.  AIG (AIG)  lost 3 percent to $31.84. The Treasury is selling 163.9
million shares at $30.50 each, compared with the May 4 closing
price of $32.83, the department said yesterday. The transaction
reduces the Treasury’s stake in the insurer to 63 percent from
70 percent.  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH)  tumbled 19 percent to
$56.30. The provider of consulting and outsourcing services cut
its full-year sales and earnings  forecasts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  