-- Serbian Voters Go to Polls Amid EU-Inspired Austerity Anger
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-06T18:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/serbian-voters-go-to-polls-amid-anger-over-eu-inspired-austerity.html
Serbian voters went to the polls to
choose between a further march toward the European Union and
fiscal austerity or economic and political ties to the east.  More than 8,000 polling stations opened at 7 a.m. in
Belgrade in parliamentary, presidential and local elections that
pit the ruling  Democratic Party  led by President  Boris Tadic ,
who is seeking a third term, against the opposition Serbian
Progressive Party, led by  Tomislav Nikolic . Both men probably
will face off in a May 20 presidential runoff, while general
election results will begin to be counted tonight.  As governments from Ireland to Italy fall in a wave of
anger over austerity, Tadic’s strategy to link a presidential
vote to general elections to help his party, may have fizzled.
Voters are drawn to nationalist rhetoric about Serbia’s claim on
Kosovo two decades after  Yugoslavia  began its collapse, accuse
Tadic of ceding sovereignty to the EU and call for more spending
to ease unemployment of 24 percent.  “The results of  Serbia ’s ‘big bang’ election day will be
crucial for shaping future policy on EU membership, Kosovo, IMF
austerity and other vital issues facing the country,” said Joan Hoey, a London-based senior analyst in the Eastern Europe team
of the Economist Intelligence Unit.  Early Turnout  By 7 p.m., 53.6 percent of voters cast ballots, said Marko
Blagojevic, the program director of the Center for Free
Elections and Democracy, which traditionally monitors elections
in Serbia, told a news conference in Belgrade tonight.  The past four years have coincided with the global economic
and European debt crises. The dinar has lost 30 percent,
unemployment rose 10 percentage points, public debt increased 16
percentage points to 14.4 billion euros and the average take-
home wage is now 360 euros ($476) per month.  In a nation where fewer than one in four of its 7.2 million
inhabitants have formal employment, job prospects, higher wages
and the fight against corruption are likely to be a bigger
factor for voters than future EU membership, said analysts
including Milan Nikolic, the director of the Belgrade-based
Centre for Policy Studies.  While Tadic and his party “have concrete results,”
Nikolic said, the Progressives “are banking on anger and
discontent resulting from lost jobs, benefits and declining
wages.”  Balkan, European Security  The Serbian election outcome is “important for the future
of the whole region and for stability in  Europe ,” Tadic told
reporters after casting his ballot in central Belgrade.  His political opponent, Nikolic, said “Europe is our goal
if they want us.”  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership on March 1
after fulfilling a series of conditions, including the capture
and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic ,
the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects from the civil wars
that accompanied the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, to the
Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia.  The Democrats would garner 25.1 percent, compared with 24
percent for the Progressive Party, according to a phone survey
of 1,400 respondents conducted by Partner Consulting pollster on
April 24-28. The poll, for which the margin of error was not
disclosed, also showed the Socialist Party, once led by former
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , rated third with 11.4 percent.  Other Party Support  Other parties expected to cross the 5 percent threshold for
the 250-seat legislature include the  Liberal Democratic Party  of
Cedomir Jovanovic, with an expected 9.4 percent backing; the
ultranationalist Serbian Radical Party, led by Vojislav Seselj,
with 8.4 percent; the United Regions of Serbia of the former
deputy prime minister  Mladjan Dinkic , with 6.7 percent; and the
nationalist-conservative Democratic Party of Serbia of former
prime minister Vojislav Kostunica, backed by 6.2 percent.  A total of 18 political groups, including six representing
ethnic minorities, are competing for Parliament.  The Democratic Party’s “credibility has been battered by
the economic downturn and undermined by popular perceptions of
increased corruption under its rule,” Hoey said in e-mailed
comments. At the same time, the Progressives have “done little
to project a positive alternative to the ruling coalition” with
“little distinctive to say on domestic or foreign policies.”  Socialist Key  Nikolic said his aim is to get a majority in Parliament
with more than 126 lawmakers. If not, Serbia will “go to polls
in a few months again,” he said.  The makeup of the new government may be in the hands of
Milosevic’s Socialists, whose leader Ivica Dacic is also running
for president, Hoey said.  “So many options are open in forming the future Cabinet
that the winner may be the group most flexible about
partnerships,” said Miroslav Sutic, the director of pollster
Partner Consulting, in a May 4 phone interview. “The Democrats
seem to have more room to maneuver.”  Whichever path voters choose, there will be no quick fix to
expanding unemployment, the main source of popular discontent
after the jobless rate reached 24.4 percent at the end of 2011.
The government will need to mix a leaner budget with more public
investment to jump-start the economy, which contracted by 1.3
percent in the first three months of the year.  More Investments  “Austerity is a priority and it should be combined with
more public investments now that the private sector is on the
verge of collapse,” said Ivan Nikolic, an analyst at the
Belgrade-based Economics Institute. The government will need to
initially turn to “major public works and big infrastructure
projects” to halt a further rise in unemployment before
creating new jobs.  The Cabinet emerging from today’s polls will need to revise
the budget and reduce the fiscal deficit to 4.25 percent of
economic output, convincing the  International Monetary Fund  of
its commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stability. Measures
to curb the gap will help the central bank stop spending
foreign-currency reserves on supporting the dinar, which has
weakened 10 percent on year to the lowest in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  