-- Severed Head Joins Ground Zero, Holocaust Images
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-05-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/severed-head-joins-ground-zero-holocaust-images-in-israel-show.html
A gigantic severed head wearing a ski
mask lies on the floor of a concrete room where old gun slits
from Jewish-Arab battles of years gone by are enclosed in glass
as reminders of bloodshed past.  That’s what curator Raphie Etgar tries to do in the
 “Beyond Memory”  exhibition at the Museum on the Seam in
 Jerusalem . He wants to force you to remember: Sept. 11, the
Holocaust, and even the Lisbon earthquake of 1755 that killed as
many as 100,000 of the city’s 250,000 inhabitants.  “Take notes from the history of the world. These things
have happened and we need to use this knowledge to prevent the
catastrophe of the future,” he says while looking around the
displays.  Museum on the Seam, which is located where the Israeli and
Jordanian checkpoint between west and east Jerusalem used to
exist, is a sociopolitical, contemporary-art museum whose goal
is to raise controversial social issues for public discussion.  “Beyond Memory” has opened as tension mounts in the
Mideast over  Iran’s nuclear program .  Iran , at loggerheads with
the U.S. and its allies over the issue, faces growing pressure
as international economic, financial and energy measures pile up
against the country. A European ban on Iranian crude-oil imports
is set to begin on July 1.  Spaceship Home  The exhibition opens with a large panoramic photograph of
 Ground Zero  by Wim Wenders, “ New York , November 8, 2001, IV.”
It’s displayed alongside Samuel Rousseau’s multimedia “Brave
Old New World (No. 3),” which creates what appears to be a
three-dimensional spaceship as a future home for a mankind whose
traditional world may be destroyed. The show also features works
by artists including Christian Boltanski, Bill Viola, Shilpa
Gupta, Tacita Dean, Thomas Ruff and Cyprien Gaillard.  The concrete head was created by Erez Israeli to
demonstrate bereavement resulting from terror, wars of survival,
religious battles and extreme nationalism. It lies at the end of
a corridor, which opens with an installation of photographs of
children that hover over piles of closed drawers representing
their memories. “These children, of course, were killed in the
Holocaust,” says Etgar.  “The exhibition hopes to prick your subconscious, to make
you think, ‘I’ve been there and am not scared to say I’ve seen
these things and maybe this is a warning for me and the
future,’” he says.  “Beyond Memory” runs through Sept. 1 at Museum on the
Seam, 4 Chel Handasa St., Jerusalem. Information:
 http://www.mots.org.il/Eng/Index.asp .  Today’s Muse highlights include:  John Mariani  on  wine ,
Jeremy Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 