-- Syrians Vote for Parliament in Polls Opposition Rejects
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-05-07T12:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/syrians-vote-for-parliament-in-polls-opposition-rejects.html
Kadri Jamil took a deep puff of his
cigarette before waving his hand dismissively when asked why he
was a candidate for  Syria ’s parliamentary elections.  “I have no illusions about the role or the powers of the
parliament,” Jamil said in a May 5 interview in his cramped
Damascus office. Still, he said, “the elections could be the
start of a comprehensive political process that will end the
conflict in the country, which is why I’m running.”  Jamil, head of the communist Popular Will Party, is one of
about 7,000 candidates contesting 250 seats today, even as the
14-month uprising rages on and large swaths of the country are
beyond government control. At least 18 people were killed
yesterday, Al Arabiya television said, citing activists.  Armed groups set fire to buses belonging to a private
company in Zibdeen on the outskirts of Damascus, the state-run
SANA news agency reported today. It said authorities freed 14
people, including seven women, kidnapped four days ago by armed
groups in Madaya outside Damascus.  Polls opened at 7 a.m. local time and voting is due to
continue until 10 p.m.  ‘Interests of the People’  “I’m voting because it’s my right, I voted for those who
would serve my country and defend my rights,” said Bana al-
Bateh, a housewife, after casting her ballot in the capital. “I
do hope that the new parliament would serve the interests of the
people and not its own interests.”  The government is promoting the vote as part of a series of
political changes President Bashar al-Assad has introduced in
response to the uprising. Assad -- part of the minority Alawite
sect -- has portrayed the unrest as an Arab-Western conspiracy
and the rebels as radical Islamists. Opposition groups have
dismissed the vote as a sham and are largely boycotting it.  Pictures of the candidates for the 29 seats in Damascus are
tacked to palm trees, lampposts and buildings. Banners promising
change, greater participation for women and the eradication of
terrorism -- the term the government uses to refer to the
uprising -- span the streets.  The  United Nations  estimates more than 9,000 people have
been killed since the uprising began. Violence persists even
after the UN sent a team of monitors to the country and pledged
to send more. The observers aim to calm the fighting so that
talks can begin on implementing a peace plan drafted by envoy
 Kofi Annan .  Election ‘Illusion’  “The elections are an illusion, and participation will be
weak,” Mahmoud Merei, a lawyer who heads the Arab Organization
for Human Rights, said in a Damascus interview. “You have
candidates representing conflict areas they cannot go to and
areas where it’s not possible to have ballot boxes.”  The unrest has hurt the country’s economy. Output shrank by
3.4 percent last year according to a March report by the
 Economist Intelligence Unit , and will contract another 5.9
percent this year. The country’s budget deficit will probably
widen to 18 percent of gross domestic product, the EIU forecast.  Used-car salesman Mohammed al-Sharif, 38, says he hopes the
elections stabilize the situation enough for the economy to
recover. For months now, he says he’s hardly had any sales as
banks tighten lending.  Deposits fell by an average of 35 percent in 2011 at  Bank
of Syria and Overseas SA ,  Bank Audi Syria (BASY)  and  Banque Bemo Saudi
Fransi (BBSF) , according to April filings to the Damascus Securities
Exchange. Lending plunged 22 percent last year, the filings by
the three banks show.  Vote ‘Crucial’  “The elections are crucial,” al-Sharif, whose wife was
dressed in the long robe and scarf favored by conservative
Sunnis, said in a May 4 interview as they walked with their
three children to a Damascus restaurant for lunch.  More than 14 million Syrians are eligible to vote. Eleven
newly registered parties have been allowed in addition to an
umbrella group largely made up of the Baath Party, which has had
a monopoly on politics since seizing power in a 1963 coup.  “Your future is in your hand” is the slogan the
government has chosen for the vote, the first since a new
constitution providing for political plurality was approved in a
February referendum. Assad promised constitutional changes last
year as he sought to placate opponents by freeing some political
prisoners, changing the Cabinet and lifting a 48-year-old
emergency law.  The candidates include Baath party loyalists, businessmen
who have thrived under Assad and political activists who
identify themselves as being part of the opposition.  ‘Love and Purity’  “I’m a nationalist opposition candidate,” Omar Ossi, a
Kurdish candidate, said in an interview at a Damascus café on
May 5. “It means I’m critical of the government but I am for
dialogue with the regime and I reject foreign intervention in
Syria’s internal affairs.”  That suspicion of external actors resonated among some
voters.  “I wanted to choose a group of young candidates because
they stood against foreign intervention in Syria, and because
they have new ideas that are different from those of the older
generations,” said Sumar Abu-Fadel, a 30-year-old businessman,
after voting in Damascus.  The elections were announced on March 13, giving the
candidates, many with no political experience in a country where
freedoms are limited, little time to prepare. Some of the
promises being made are vague -- a candidate from Homs is
running on a platform of “tenderness, love and purity.” Others
champion causes that have no bearing on the conflict: The No. 2
priority for Mohammed al-Khani, who’s running in Damascus, is
making Aug. 10 a day for celebrating Arabic.  Georges Ghossen, a 60-year-old ophthalmologist on a saunter
through the streets of Damascus with his wife, Margherita, said
he still believes in the legitimacy of the Assad regime.  “The Arab Spring has not been a good model,” Ghossen
said. “It showed that when the head is cut, there’s chaos,
while changes are possible when the head is still there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  