-- Hysteresis Undermining Labor Pattern Becomes Bernanke Fed Focus
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-06T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-06/hysteresis-undermining-labor-pattern-becomes-bernanke-fed-focus.html
After looking for work since May 2009,
Raquel Barron, 40, hears the same thing when she interviews: We
don’t want to hire someone who’s been  jobless  for so long.  “They still put me at the bottom of the list when I tell
them I’ve been unemployed for three years,” said Barron, who
moved into her parents’ home in El Sobrante,  California , after
losing her administrative job at a construction company. “Every
single day, I go on Craigslist to look at their listings. But I
feel like my chances are only getting worse.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  agrees. If the
labor market heals too slowly, the  5.1 million  Americans out of
work for at least six months may face declining odds of ever
finding a job -- leading to permanently higher unemployment, a
phenomenon known as hysteresis. Bernanke says while this hasn’t
happened yet -- as weak growth is mainly responsible for the
“elevated” jobless rate -- the risk that it could bolsters his
case to keep record monetary stimulus in place.  Never before in postwar America has finding work taken as
long. The average duration of unemployment soared to a record 41
weeks in November and remains at  39 weeks , more than double the
15-week average since the U.S. began collecting the information
in 1948, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data compiled
by Bloomberg. Those jobless for six months or longer made up 41
percent of the total.  “People are less likely to find work the longer they’re
unemployed for various reasons, including contacts and skills
deteriorating over time, and the more that happens, the more
structural unemployment increases,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Plc in New York.  No Evidence Yet  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said April 11 that continued
monetary accommodation is warranted because of the risk that
high unemployment may cause “more persistent structural
problems” if temporary joblessness becomes more permanent.
While she, like Bernanke, doesn’t see any “substantial”
evidence of hysteresis yet, it might occur if the labor market
doesn’t heal fast enough,  she said  in New York.  The term hysteresis, meaning that which comes later, was
used in classical physics before gaining popularity among
economists to describe disenfranchised workers in periods of
high unemployment, according to an entry in “An Encyclopedia of
Macroeconomics” by economist Rod Cross. Referenced
“occasionally” since the 1940s by Paul Samuelson,  Edmund Phelps  and others, it became more widely  used  in the 1980s,
including by Olivier Blanchard and Larry Summers, Cross wrote.  Falling Unemployment  Unemployment fell to  8.1 percent  in April from a 26-year
high of 10 percent in October 2009. That’s still far from Fed
officials’ April  projections  of a longer-run  unemployment rate 
of 4.9 percent to 6 percent.  “The longer this goes on, the more people will just retire
or take part-time jobs,” said  Quincy Krosby , a market
strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees $943 billion. “The Fed believes it needs
to take more action because it has a jobs mandate.”  Some people joining the ranks of the long-term unemployed
are only just starting their careers. David Sternesky, 26, lost
his job at a public-relations company in November and has since
lived on  unemployment benefits . He said he tries to stay
optimistic even as most of his applications are met with
“silence,” sharing networking and interview tips with friends
who also are struggling to find work.  ‘A Little Crazy’  “It’s a little crazy that even with a four-year bachelor’s
degree at a good college and a year and a half of experience, it
still feels like there aren’t many jobs I’m going to be hired
for,” said Sternesky, who lives in  San Francisco . “But what am
I supposed to do? Go to grad school and get buried in debt? It’s
disheartening, but I’ve just had to dig myself out of the
negative thoughts and plow through.”  Not all economists agree with Bernanke and Yellen’s view
that the rise in unemployment has been caused largely by
economic weakness, not structural change.  Ian Shepherdson , chief
U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd., said the number
of openings relative to unemployment suggests that employers
view the labor market as smaller than official figures suggest.
That may drive wage costs higher and ultimately boost inflation
as soon as next year, he said.  “The rise in job vacancies is consistent with the labor
market being tighter than the headline unemployment number
suggests, and if that’s right, then wages are likely to increase
sooner and faster than the Fed expects,” said Shepherdson,
whose company is based in Valhalla,  New York . If policy makers
maintain a “very bearish view of the data for longer than it’s
justified by the facts, then eventually they’ll end up
tightening too late and running an inflation risk.”  Inflation Target  The Fed has an inflation target of 2 percent. The personal
consumption expenditures index increased 2.1 percent in March
from a year earlier.  Borrowing costs probably will stay “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014, the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  repeated after its April 24-25 meeting in  Washington .  Phelps, the 2006 Nobel-Prize winning economist, puts the
natural rate of unemployment -- the level that neither
accelerates nor decelerates inflation -- at about 7 percent. He
said the U.S. central bank, which has a dual mandate of full
employment and price stability, risks an inflation surge if it
aims for joblessness of 5 percent.  “That could kind of explode in the laboratory on us,”
said Phelps, director of the Center on Capitalism and Society at
 Columbia University  in New York. It may be “hard to get
expectations of inflation back down.”  Need Skills  Some policy makers within the Fed also argue that monetary
stimulus is ineffective at creating jobs for the long-term
unemployed, arguing that people who lost work during the
recession don’t have the skills to qualify for positions being
created in the economic expansion.  “Solutions to this problem are not amenable to monetary-
policy fixes,”  Charles Plosser , president of the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , told reporters May 1 in San Diego.
It is neither a “precise tool” nor a “silver bullet,” and
“central bankers need to be a little more humble about what it
is that we can do.”  The central bank should be ready to raise  interest rates 
even if joblessness still is higher than 7 percent, Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said May 1 at the Bloomberg Washington
Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link.  So far, inflation expectations have remained in check. The
break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, the yield difference between the inflation-linked
debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was  1.96 percentage 
points on May 4. The rate, a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices over the life of the securities, has climbed from 1.53
points on Dec. 16.  Three-Year Low  Unemployment has dropped to a three-year low after the Fed
held its benchmark rate  near zero  since December 2008 and
purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing. Employers added 115,000 workers in April,
the smallest gain in six months, and the jobless rate fell from
8.2 percent as people left the  labor force , the Labor Department
said May 4. The participation rate, the share of working-age
people who have a job or are seeking one, fell to  63.6 percent ,
the lowest since December 1981, from 63.8 percent.  Fed officials raised their forecasts for growth at their
April meeting. They now predict the U.S. will expand by 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent in 2012, up from a January projection of
2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, based on the so-called central
tendency of 17 policy makers, which excludes the three highest
and lowest estimates. Gross domestic product grew 2.2 percent in
the first quarter.  ‘Prepared to do More’  The FOMC voted at the April meeting to keep its policy
unchanged, and Bernanke signaled further easing isn’t likely
unless the outlook unexpectedly deteriorates. Even so, he said
April 25 he’s “prepared to do more” if conditions worsen.  The economic recovery reached San Lorenzo, California,
resident Ken Morrison last month, after he’d almost lost hope,
he said. Morrison was laid off from his job as an operations
manager selling camera equipment on  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  in 2007; he got a
position April 30 selling jewelry and cosmetics on EBay’s online
auctions.  “I did some looking initially, but since there was really
nothing out there, I just gave up and semi-retired,” said
Morrison, 57, who served as a volunteer assisting special-needs
children until he resumed his search in January after running
through his savings. “I’ve been putting off buying so many
things. I’ve been living on the down-low.”  Skills Atrophy  The longer the unemployment rate stays elevated, the more
likely “the long-term unemployed will see their skills and
labor-force attachment atrophy further, possibly converting a
cyclical problem into a structural one,” Bernanke said in a
March 26 speech in Arlington, Virginia.  He added that even if he’s wrong, and the problem is
already structural, “we should not conclude that nothing can be
done,” as it will be “even more important” to give workers
the skills they need.  Barron said she recognizes the need for new skills after
losing her administrative job in construction and hopes to go
back to school to become a paralegal.  “That’s only once I get a full-time job” to save up for
tuition, said Barron, who started working straight out of high
school and never went to college. “The goal for now is to get
back on my feet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  