-- 
Acer Falls to Lowest in 2 Years After Cutting Sales Guidance

-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-20T01:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/acer-falls-to-lowest-in-2-years-after-cutting-sales-guidance-1-.html
Acer Inc. (2353)  fell to the lowest in
more than two years in Taipei trading after the world’s second-
largest maker of personal computers cut its forecast for second-
quarter shipments.  Acer dropped 4.6 percent to NT$50.1 as of 9:39 a.m. local
time, the lowest intraday price since March 31, 2009. The stock
has slumped 44 percent this year, making it the worst-performing
member in the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Information Technology Index.  Acer, based in Taipei, said yesterday that PC shipments in
the current quarter may fall 10 percent from the previous three
months, after saying in March that sales would be flat quarter-
on-quarter. JPMorgan Chase & Co. today cut its recommendation
for the stock to “underweight” from “neutral,” while Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. lowered its estimates for the computer maker’s
earnings.  “We believe it could take some time for investors to
regain confidence in the operating outlook and earnings
visibility given the succession of downward guidance issued by
the company over the past few weeks,” JPMorgan analysts
including Gokul Hariharan wrote in a report today.  The latest cut in sales guidance by Acer came after the
company lowered its forecast for first-quarter PC revenue on
March 25. Gianfranco Lanci resigned as chief executive officer
and president of the PC maker on March 31, as the company said
the executive disagreed with the board on future strategy.  Acer yesterday appointed  Jim Wong , who headed the company’s
information technology products division, to take over Lanci’s
role as president. Chairman J.T. Wang previously took Lanci’s
CEO position after the Italian executive’s resignation.  The expected decline in PC shipments in the second quarter
was a result of company’s reorganization, inventory adjustment
and a seasonal slowdown in the PC industry, Acer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net 
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  