-- 
Afghanistan to Sell Kabul Bank as Cabinet Halts Law on Shareholder Loans

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-20T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/afghanistan-to-sell-kabul-bank-as-cabinet-halts-law-on-shareholder-loans.html
Afghanistan’s government will
divide and sell the country’s biggest bank, which collapsed last
year from losses on loans to its owners, including brothers of
President  Hamid Karzai  and his vice president.  A government commission will take more than $570 million in
fraudulent loans from Kabul Bank before the rest of the company
is offered for sale, central bank Governor Abdul Qadeer Fitrat
told reporters yesterday. He declined to say whether the plan
had support from the  International Monetary Fund , which has
withheld loans to Afghanistan pending a solution of the Kabul
Bank crisis.  IMF and Afghan officials reached “preliminary
understandings” last week on a plan to resolve the Kabul Bank
failure and strengthen the Afghan banking system, an IMF
spokesman, Raphael Anspach, said in an e-mail reply to questions.
The IMF has called for revisions to the existing “banking law
to improve corporate governance” among  Afghanistan ’s 17
commercial banks, an effort that Afghan officials said the
cabinet rejected in January.  After Kabul Bank’s illegal loans are handed to the
 Financial Disputes Resolution Commission , the central bank “is
going to privatize Kabul Bank in the next three months by
seeking expressions of interest from foreign or Afghan
investors,” Fitrat said yesterday.  The government took over Kabul Bank in September as
thousands of depositors rushed to withdraw their money upon
learning that the bank’s owners had lost funds that a U.S.
 government report  says may total $850 million, or 94 percent of
its loans. Some lending paid for luxury homes in Dubai for
shareholders, including Mahmoud Karzai, the president’s brother,
the Washington Post cited him as saying.  Stricter Law  A stricter law to prevent further  bank failures  “is still
being studied” for reconsideration by a panel named by the
cabinet, central bank spokesman Aimal Hashoor said in a phone
interview April 18. Karzai legal adviser Nasratullah Stanekzai,
who attended a January cabinet meeting that rejected the bill,
said a panel hasn’t been named and Karzai’s office isn’t pushing
to get the law rewritten.  “We are still waiting for a new proposal from  Da
Afghanistan Bank ,” the central bank, Stanekzai said by phone in
Kabul April 19. “We don’t know if they are working on the law
and we are not going to intrude on their process.”  The government may be unwilling to slash the powers of bank
owners who have helped Karzai and other officials with election
campaign money,  Kabul University  economist Saifuddin Saihoon
said in a phone interview. Kabul Bank’s former chairman Sherkhan
Farnood organized Dubai fund-raising events for Karzai’s 2009
re-election campaign, the Washington Post reported.  Bank Pressure  The U.S.-backed government is trying to expand the economy
and create jobs to undercut the Taliban insurgency. Only 7
percent of Afghanistan’s 30 million people have bank accounts,
according to the central bank, which limits the country’s
ability to develop its own pool of investment capital.  The new legislation, drafted last year by the central bank,
would bar any shareholder from serving as a bank’s chief
executive officer or supervisory board chairman, Fitrat said in
a Feb. 26 interview. The law would restrict the ability of
shareholders to influence their banks’ CEOs or lending decisions,
said Fitrat and Justice Minister Habibullah Ghalib.  Before the cabinet committee meeting that considered the
proposed law “some shareholders of commercial banks learned
about the draft law and sent complaints” to committee members,
Ghalib said in a phone interview last month.  “The shareholders said the new law was not acceptable and
must be changed,” said Ghalib, who took part in the cabinet
debate. He declined to name the bank owners who intervened.  Political Scandals  “Our bank shareholders have money but not knowledge of how
to foresee risks and invest their capital in safe ways,” said
Saihoon. Without laws to “limit the roles of these inexpert
shareholders” other banks will also “collapse,” he said.  Like Karzai, Afghan Vice-President Mohammad Qassim Fahim
has a brother who was a shareholder in Kabul Bank and received
loans from it. The bank’s crisis has been the most prominent
political scandal of Karzai’s second term as the U.S. and its
allies seek to improve governance, reduce corruption and
strengthen the government ahead of a U.S. troop withdrawal
planned to end by 2014.  Karzai said April 12 authorities will prosecute “all
shareholders who are involved in the Kabul Bank crisis” if they
do not repay illegal loans within a month. Asked by a reporter
whether that step might include his brother, Karzai declined to
name his brother as a potential target of prosecution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter
Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  