-- 
Agriculture Secretary’s Wife Moving for Possible U.S. House Run

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-20T16:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/agriculture-secretary-s-wife-moving-for-possible-u-s-house-run.html
Christie Vilsack, the wife of U.S.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, plans to change her residency
within  Iowa  for a potential run for Congress that could pit her
against one President Barack Obama’s most vocal critics.  “Next month, I will move to Ames and continue to explore
the possibility of representing Iowa in the U.S. House of
Representatives,” Vilsack said in a statement today. “Input
from fellow Iowans will help me make the best decision and will
give our state a campaign focused on collaboration and results,
encouraging a new way to do business in Washington.”  Should she enter the race and win the Democratic
nomination, Vilsack would face incumbent Republican
Representative Steve King in a district redrawn following the
2010  U.S. census . Iowa will lose one of its five congressional
seats in 2012 because of reapportionment triggered by the census
results.  Vilsack, 60, was Iowa’s first lady when her husband was
governor from 1999 until he left office in January 2007. She
campaigned as a surrogate during her husband’s two statewide
campaigns and endorsed and campaigned for Massachusetts Senator
 John Kerry ’s presidential bid in 2004, helping him win the Iowa
caucuses.  King, 61, is an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration
and backed efforts by Republican Representative Michele Bachmann
of Minnesota to form a Tea Party caucus in Congress.  The Vilsacks currently rent homes in Washington and  Des
Moines , Iowa, according to Sally Pederson, who served as
Vilsack’s lieutenant governor and is a family friend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 