-- 
Thailand Raises Benchmark Interest Rate to 2.75% as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-04-20T09:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/thailand-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-2-75-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Thailand  raised interest rates for
the sixth time in less than a year as Asian nations step up
efforts to damp inflation stoked by surging commodity prices,
and the central bank signaled that it would do more.  The Bank of Thailand increased the benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75
percent, it said in Bangkok today. The move was predicted by all
20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Thailand joins China in tightening monetary policy this
month after economic growth and oil at more than $100 a barrel
helped drive inflation to a seven-month high. Interest rates are
on a rising trend and the central bank still needs to bring
borrowing costs to “normal” levels as the economy is expanding,
Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said today.  “Inflation is likely to further accelerate until the
middle of this year in Thailand,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“That means pressure on the central bank to keep raising rates
will continue.”  The  Thai baht  has climbed more than 7 percent against the
dollar over the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, rising along with most Asian currencies as the region
that led the recovery from the 2009 global recession attracted
foreign investment. The baht rose 0.4 percent to 29.96 per
dollar as of 3:50 p.m. and reached 29.94, the strongest level
since Dec. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest-Rate Swap  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, has increased 114.5 basis
points this year and reached the highest level since December
2008 this month, indicating growing expectations for higher
rates. The rate has added 25 basis points since the last policy
meeting on March 9. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has added price
controls, kept oil subsidies and pledged higher wages to ease
the impact of rising costs ahead of a general election he may
hold as soon as June.  “Inflation is a global phenomenon, we can’t avoid that,”
Kobsidthi Silpachai, head of capital markets research at
Kasikornbank Pcl in Bangkok, said before the decision. “The
central bank needs to be proactive, so it must act to preempt
accelerating inflation as subsidies can’t stay forever.”  The central bank said today it would take necessary action
on inflation and will monitor price pressures closely. The real
interest rate is still negative, and the benchmark rate remains
on an uptrend, it said.  Majority Support  “ Interest rates  remain on an uptrend,” Paiboon, the
assistant governor, said at a news conference in Bangkok today.
“We still see the need to adjust the rate to normal levels.”  The decision to raise rates was supported by six out of
seven board members, the central bank said. One member wanted to
hold rates to assess the impact of  Japan ’s earthquake, it said.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last
week inflation will accelerate in the second half of the year
and may climb as much as one percentage point once the
government removes oil subsidies. He signaled further rate
increases last month, saying growth is “less of a concern so
the risk balance is tilted toward inflation.”  This week’s decision by the government to cut taxes on
diesel “may help prevent inflation from shooting up,” Paiboon
said. “But the continued economic growth momentum will fuel
inflation, especially after the measure expires.”  China  Tightens  Consumer prices advanced 3.14 percent in March from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since August last year. Core prices,
which exclude fresh food and fuel, rose 1.62 percent,
accelerating from a 1.45 percent pace in February. The central
bank uses the core index to guide policy and aims to keep it
below 3 percent.  The central bank raised rates by a quarter point each in
July, August, December, January and March. Counterparts from
 India  to  South Korea  also boosted borrowing costs last month,
while China has lifted reserve ratios and increased its deposit
and one-year lending rates this month.  The Thai economy may expand 4.2 percent in 2011, less than
the 4.5 percent estimated earlier, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said April 8. The impact of Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record, domestic flooding and high crude prices
are among reasons for the slower growth, he said.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , the nation’s largest
carrier, said March 28 its total daily revenue had fallen 5
percent in the prior two weeks because of a decline in demand
from Japan.  ‘Work to Do’  “Global risk factors are unlikely to knock the country’s
expansion off track,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics, wrote in a research note yesterday. “Since interest
rates remain below the March annual inflation rate of 3.1
percent, the central bank still has plenty of work to do.”  Export growth held near an eight-month high in March, with
overseas sales increasing 30.9 percent from a year earlier,
according to data released by the commerce ministry today.  While disruption from the temblor may damp trade, Commerce
Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said March 18 Japan’s rebuilding drive
should subsequently boost Thai shipments to that nation by as
much as 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  