-- 
CIT Says Regulators Lift Cease-and-Desist Orders Against Bank, Shares Rise

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-04-20T20:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/thain-s-cit-says-regulators-removed-cease-and-desist-orders-against-bank.html
CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the business lender
run by  John Thain , said regulators lifted cease-and-desist
orders against its Utah bank unit that prevented the company
from boosting deposits or paying dividends. CIT shares rose the
most in more than 11 months.  The orders, issued in July 2009 by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the  Utah Department of Financial
Institutions , also prevented Salt Lake City-based CIT Bank from
extending credit or engaging in certain transactions without
prior approval, CIT said in a filing with regulators today.  CIT filed for bankruptcy in November 2009 after racking up
losses on home loans and being shut out of short-term capital
markets. A five-week reorganization cleared away $10.5 billion
of debt, and the government lost its $2.3 billion bailout
investment. The lifting of the cease-and-desist orders may not
immediately result in CIT taking on more deposits, said  Michael Taiano , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  “It’s more of a perception issue as opposed to an
operational issue,” Taiano said in an interview. “It’s more of
a shot of confidence that the regulators are becoming more
amiable to CIT’s transformation.”  The bank doesn’t need to increase deposits because it has
enough cash to meet current demand for loans, Taiano said. CIT
could eventually transfer its small-business lending and vendor-
finance units to the bank, which would require approval from the
Federal Reserve, he said.  Shares Surge  CIT climbed $2.81, or 7 percent, to $43.26 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since May 10, 2010. The shares fell 14 percent this year through
yesterday.  CIT is still required to submit to tighter supervision by
 Federal Reserve  Bank of New York regulators.  “This is one piece of the regulatory puzzle, the second
being the Federal Reserve’s written agreement, which is probably
more significant,” Taiano said.  Thain, the former Merrill Lynch & Co. chief executive
officer who joined CIT in February 2010, shrunk total assets by
15 percent last year, selling off non-core businesses to help
recover from bankruptcy.  “We are pleased with this decision, which serves as
another example of the progress we have made in CIT’s
restructuring efforts,” Thain said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 