-- 
Air France Black Box Search Harnesses Hollywood for Crash Clues

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/air-france-black-box-search-harnesses-hollywood-for-crash-clues.html
Investigators seeking to explain
why Air  France  flight 447 plunged into the night ocean two years
ago will rely on gear pioneered by telecommunications and oil
companies as well as a Hollywood director to unlock the mystery.  The wreckage of the Airbus SAS A330 jet was discovered this
month 3,900 meters (12,800 feet) deep in the Atlantic Ocean off
the coast of Brazil after multiple searches. Few aircraft
salvage missions have probed the same depth, where the sea is
perfectly black, temperatures approach freezing and water
pressure is equal to the weight of a car on a postage stamp.  Diving deeper than the Titanic’s final resting place, a
robot tethered to a surface ship will sift through the aircraft
debris in search of the two flight recorders bolted inside the
tail of the fuselage. Their data promises the best chance yet to
explain the crash, the deadliest in Air France’s history.
Complicating the mission is the presence of numerous bodies,
some still strapped into their seats and preserved by the cold
water and lack of oxygen or light.  “At that depth, it is pitch black, and the difficulty is
knowing where you are while keeping track of things,” said Dave
Gallo, director of special projects at the  Woods Hole
Oceanographic Research Institute  in Falmouth,  Massachusetts ,
whose robots helped locate and map the wreckage. “It’s a
question of operational skill.”  No Survivors  The Airbus disappeared en route to Paris from Rio De
Janeiro on June 1, 2009, leaving no survivors among the 228
aboard. While some fragments and bodies were recovered from the
surface of the sea, most of the jet remained missing until this
month. The data recorders are built to withstand submersion and
extreme impact, though until retrieved there is no certainty the
data they stored will be readable.  The expedition will gather at the port in Dakar in  Senegal 
tomorrow, before traversing the Atlantic on the Ile de Sein
vessel to the location of the aircraft, about 435 nautical miles
off the coast of  Brazil .  French phone-equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent SA is providing
the 140-meter ship, which normally lays deep-sea cables. Aboard
will be 70 people, including members of the French BEA air
accident authority, investigators from the U.K. and Brazil,
experts from Airbus and Air France, as well as one psychologist.
Family members of the victims were not permitted aboard.  Robot Submarines  Underwater engineering company Phoenix International
Holdings Inc. is sending one of its two “Remora” robotic
submarines, or ROVs, equipped with high-resolution cameras and
two manipulator arms. The basket on the ROV can recover as much
as 200 kilograms (440 pounds) of debris in a single mission.  “There are about six to eight ROVs in the world capable of
descending as deep” as the Remora, said Tim Janaitis, business
development manager at Phoenix, who spoke from Largo,  Maryland .
Typically, the robot’s missions include work on deep-sea oil
drilling, and a recent descent took the vehicle to the Titanic
wreck in the northern Atlantic, Janaitis said.  The search for the remains of the doomed ocean liner in the
mid 1980s, and the 1997 blockbuster movie directed by  James Cameron  helped advance deep-sea technology, spawning high-
resolution cameras and robots that can scour through wrecks.  Nazi Battleship  Following the success of the Titanic movie, which won 11
Academy Awards and cost about $200 million to make, Cameron
embarked on an underwater expedition to Nazi battleship
Bismarck, which sank in the Atlantic in 1941.  “Stuff like that is enough at times to help keep research
going,” said Robert Jensen, chief executive officer of Kenyon
International Emergency Services, a Houston-based company that
helps airlines handle disasters. “Look at what they spent on
the Cameron movies. He went down on several submersibles to look
at ships, to recreate as realistically as possible what
happened.”  The Remora robot can work as far down as 6,000 meters. To
ensure steady operation, a team of nine Phoenix experts will
operate the 900-kilogram sub from the ship using large video
monitors to track its progress. Every movement of the vessel at
the surface is translated to the Remora’s umbilical cable with a
delay, said Brennan Phillips, manager of ROV operations at the
University of  Rhode Island  in the U.S.  Delayed Reaction  “If the ship moves, it takes half an hour for the vehicle
to feel it,” he said. “You need an extremely stable ship.”  Of the almost 100,000 photos taken of the wreck and
surrounding area,  BEA publicized  several black-and-white images
of the landing gear, an engine, a wing and parts of the
fuselage. While the black boxes have not been spotted, the robot
has located the part of the tail that normally houses the
recorders. Investigators withheld images of bodies and made them
available only to researchers involved in the mission. For some,
the sight was too much to bear.  “There were many bodies, and our people initially said
they would not like to participate in any such recovery
operation,” said Peter Herzig, director of the  Leibnitz
Institute of Marine Sciences  in Kiel, northern  Germany , whose
Remus 6000 robot sub was one of three that located the wreck.  Team members later changed their minds, though in the end,
Herzig’s group wasn’t asked to participate, he said.  Should the recorders be found, they will be pried from the
wreck, lifted aboard the Ile de Sein and immediately placed
under seal, before being transported by a French Navy vessel to
a French port. From there, they will be sent by air to the BEA
under the responsibility of a judicial police officer.  Recovering Bodies  Recovering the victims is a more complex and contentious
task. Only 51 bodies, including the pilot, were recovered from
the ocean surface in the weeks after the crash.  Nelson Marinho, who leads a group of victims’ relatives,
said not all families want to see corpses brought up, though
they recognize the obligation to present forensic evidence for a
criminal probe. A French prosecutor is pursuing allegations of
manslaughter against both Airbus and Air France, and autopsies
may help answer questions such as whether passengers were still
alive when the plane sank. BEA said all decisions concerning
human remains will be made by France’s  Justice Department .  “The worst feeling, for us, is the risk of even more
damage to these corpses,” Marinho said. “French officials want
to transport them to France, but we want to bring them directly
to Brazil.” Among the victims were 58 passengers from Brazil,
61 from France, 26 from Germany, and other nationalities
including travelers from  China  and  South Korea .  TWA Crash  Past aircraft salvage missions have managed to recover the
bodies of victims. The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
brought up all the bodies from TWA flight 800, which crashed off
 Long Island  in 1996, and EgyptAir 990, which went down 60 miles
from Nantucket in 1999, former director  Jim Hall  said.  “I think as human beings, it’s the humane practice, and it
would be a disservice to family members by the airline and
regulators not to recover them,” he said.  The greatest technical challenge will remain operating at
an extreme depth. Only one past air crash has forced salvage
teams to dive deeper. The wreckage and black boxes of a South
African Airways Boeing 747 that disappeared near  Mauritius  in
1987 were located 14 months later under 14,000 feet of water.  “It’s only relatively recent that we even have the
technology to consider these kind of recoveries,” said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at London-based aviation consultant
Ascend Worldwide Ltd. “And it sounds simplistic, but I think we
tend to forget how vast the oceans are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  