-- 
U.S. Airline Passengers May Get $1,300 for Bumped Flights

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-04-20T15:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/airline-passengers-may-get-1-300-for-bumped-flights-u-s-says.html
U.S. airline passengers can collect
$1,300 when they are forced to give up their seat on an
overbooked flight, a 63 percent increase, under a federal  rule 
made final today.  Additionally, foreign carriers must release passengers from
their aircraft stuck at U.S. airports within four hours or face
fines as high as $27,500, and airlines must refund luggage fees
if bags are lost, under the regulation issued by the U.S.
Transportation Department.  “Airline passengers have a right to be treated fairly,”
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a  statement . The
rule affects foreign carriers, including  British Airways Plc (BAY)  and
 Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, and domestic airlines such as  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   The action is a victory for consumer advocates such as  Kate Hanni , executive director of Napa, California-based
FlyersRights.org, who have been pressing for more protections
after a LaHood rule last year forced U.S. carriers to let
passengers off planes stranded for more than three hours.  The rule will cost carriers $30.7 million over 10 years,
with more than two thirds coming from new requirements for fee
disclosure, advertising and extension of the tarmac-delay
provision to foreign carriers, according to the rule.  Stuck on the Tarmac  “Our member airlines will implement the new rules as
efficiently as possible,”  Nicholas Calio , chief executive
officer of the  Air Transport Association  in Washington, said in
a  statement . The trade group’s members include Delta and United.  Passengers on a  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  flight were
stuck on the tarmac at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport for almost 12 hours in December as they waited for a
gate after a snowstorm. Such delays at Kennedy by international
carriers were “an important factor” in deciding to impose the
rule, the Transportation Department said in the statement.  Airlines often  sell  more seats than available on a flight,
betting that some travelers won’t show up. When a flight is
oversold, carriers typically seek volunteers by offering
incentives including vouchers before forcing fliers to give up
their seats.  The rate of involuntarily bumping was 1.09 per 10,000
passengers last year, down from 1.23 in the same period of 2009,
according to Transportation Department statistics.  Bumping Rates  Passengers can collect $1,300, up from $800 currently, for
being bumped from a domestic flight if they arrive at their
destination more than two hours later than scheduled, according
to the new rule.  Consumers can collect at most $650, up from $400, if they
get to their destination within two hours of the scheduled time,
under the rule.  The payments were previously raised in 2008, the first
increase since 1978. LaHood’s rule adjusts bumping payments for
inflation every two years.  The rules also bar carriers from excluding government taxes
and fees from fare advertisements and requires them to
prominently disclose all potential fees on websites, according
to the statement.  LaHood’s rule also would let passengers cancel reservations
within 24 hours of booking a flight without penalty, prohibit
price increases after tickets are purchased and require airlines
to notify consumers of delays of more than 30 minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in  Washington  at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  