-- 
Baseball Chooses Ex-Rangers President Schieffer to Run Los Angeles Dodgers

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/major-league-baseball-to-take-over-operation-of-l-a-dodgers.html
Major League Baseball ’s appointment
of J. Thomas Schieffer to monitor day-to-day operations of the
Los Angeles Dodgers will not have an impact on the team’s play,
manager Don Mattingly said.  The selection of Schieffer, the former president of the
 Texas Rangers , was announced yesterday by Commissioner Bud Selig, who said last week that his office was taking over
operations of the Dodgers because of “deep concerns regarding
the finances” of the club.  The Dodgers were 8-10 before Selig announced on April 20
that he would appoint a representative to oversee the club’s
front office. Since then, they’ve won four of six games.  “The fact MLB came in doesn’t really change anything for
us,” Mattingly told reporters before last night’s 5-4 loss to
the  Florida Marlins . “It doesn’t change anything about what we
do or how we get ready, making pitches, making plays, being in
the right spot, playing baseball.”  Schieffer, 63, joined Washington-based  Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP  as a senior counsel in September and advises
clients in global energy, trade, transportation, defense and
intelligence industries, according to the law firm’s website. He
is a former  Texas  state representative and U.S. Ambassador to
 Australia  and  Japan .  “I love baseball and baseball called,” Schieffer said in
a statement posted on the firm’s website. “I look forward to
helping Major League Baseball and the Los Angeles Dodgers
through this difficult period.”  State Representative  Schieffer, a native of  Fort Worth , Texas, was elected at
the age of 25 to the Texas House of Representatives and served
three terms as a Democrat before going to law school at the
University of Texas and beginning a legal and business career
focused on oil and gas, and investment matters.  He was an early investor with  George W. Bush  and Edward
Rose in the group that bought the Texas Rangers in 1989. He
served as team president from 1991 to 1999.  In 2001, President Bush appointed Schieffer as U.S.
Ambassador to Australia, a post in which he served from 2001 to
2005. Schieffer then was appointed as U.S. Ambassador to Japan
and served in that capacity from 2005 to 2009. In 2009, he made
an unsuccessful bid for the Democratic nomination for governor
of Texas.  ‘Benefit the Dodgers’  “We are very fortunate to have someone of Tom Schieffer’s
stature monitor the operations of the  Los Angeles Dodgers  on
behalf of Major League Baseball,” Selig said in a statement.
“The many years that he spent managing the operations of a
successful franchise will benefit the Dodgers and Major League
Baseball as a whole.”  Baseball’s announcement last week that it was going to
appoint someone to run the franchise came days after the Los
Angeles Times reported that owner Frank McCourt took a $30
million loan from News Corp.’s Fox network to meet payroll.  Ownership of the team has been a focus of a fight between
McCourt and his ex-wife, Jamie, who divorced in October after
almost 31 years of marriage. The McCourts bought the team from
News Corp. in 2004 for $430 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  