-- 
Malaria Medications Suspected Stolen From Global Fund in Africa

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-04-20T21:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/malaria-medications-suspected-stolen-from-global-fund-in-africa.html
Malaria medications valued at
almost $2.3 million may have been stolen from government-run
distribution centers in  Africa  and other locations, according to
the  Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria .  The organization, founded in 2002, paid for the medicines
and is investigating whether drug thefts are increasing
worldwide as it quantifies its missing inventory, Jon Liden, a
spokesman for the Geneva-based Global Fund, said in a telephone
interview.  The Global Fund, an independent entity funded by national
governments and private entities including the  Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation  in Seattle, spent $21.7 billion in 150
countries from 2002 through 2010 to combat the three diseases.
The organization is subject to the “perennial problem” of drug
theft in developing countries, Liden said.  “Yes, there’s drug theft in Africa,” he said. “These are
not Global Fund-specific issues.”  The Global Fund suspects its malaria drugs may have been
stolen in 13 countries and that 70 percent of the thefts were by
insiders at government-distribution centers, Linden said. The
Associated Press reported the thefts today based on internal
Global Fund documents, adding that countries under scrutiny
include Tanzania, Togo,  Sierra Leone , Swaziland, Nigeria, Kenya
and Cambodia.  The Global Fund financed the purchase of $98 million in
malaria medicine in the 13 countries during the past 2 1/2 years
and is looking into how much may have been stolen, the
organization  said  in a statement today. Togo has repaid $600,000
of $850,000 in drugs the Global Fund confirmed as stolen,
according to the statement.  Prevention Plans  “The Global Fund is at the forefront of the response to
drug theft” and “has acted upon each instance of misuse of its
resources taking strong and swift action by suspending grants,
freezing cash disbursements and demanding a return of misused
funds,” the organization said.  The Global Fund  called together  other funders of medicines
for people in  developing countries  in December to devise plans
to prevent thefts of drugs in Africa and elsewhere, Liden said.
“The aim is a range of measures we mean to take to minimize
theft of drugs,” he said.  Among the options under consideration are hiring new
security companies to guard the medicines and setting up
distribution centers on a temporary basis to operate in place of
government-run systems in countries where theft is suspected, he
said.  U.S. Leading Contributor  The U.S. is the largest contributor to the Global Fund. The
U.S. has donated $5.13 billion to the organization since its
creation, accounting for 28 percent of financing from national
governments, according to Global Fund data.  Private donors have given $957.6 million, led by the Bill
and  Melinda Gates  Foundation, created by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
Chairman  Bill Gates  and his wife, Melinda Gates, which has given
$650 million to the entity.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,
California, has donated $30 million and Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. of Osaka,  Japan , has provided $1.08 million.  The  World Health Organization  reported 247 million cases of
malaria and almost 1 million deaths in 2008, most of whom were
African children. The disease is spread through mosquito bites
and causes fever, headache, chills and vomiting and can be fatal
if not treated,  according  to the World Health Organization in
Geneva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 