-- 
Alstom Says Energy-Related Project Can’t Be Finalized Today

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-20T11:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/alstom-says-energy-related-project-can-t-be-finalized-today-1-.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-
largest power-equipment maker, delayed an announcement of a
project related to its power business today, saying it hasn’t
yet completed the details.  “Alstom is involved in a project that can’t be finalized
today,” Mary Varkados, a spokeswoman for Alstom’s power unit,
said by telephone. She declined to provide a new timeframe for
an announcement.  Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said April 12 that
Alstom, which also makes power-transmission equipment and
rolling stock, is open to acquisitions and partnerships in  India 
to produce wind-power equipment and railway coaches. The
Levallois-Perret, France-based company may add capacity to its
power equipment and services business in  Asia , where it should
strengthen its wind-power offering, Philippe Joubert, the head
of Alstom’s power business, said last month.  Alstom is investing in countries such as India and  China  as
infrastructure needs increase in fast-growing nations while
demand sputters in  Europe  and the U.S. It’s building a steam
turbine facility and a car factory in India, and opened a high-
voltage research center last month in China, where it already
produces power equipment.  In a bid to limit the drop of Alstom’s operating margin to
within a range of 7 percent to 8 percent of sales for the two
fiscal years through March 2012, Kron is cutting about 4,000
jobs at sites that make coal- and gas-fired power equipment in
Europe and the U.S. He’s also planning to eliminate 1,380 jobs
at the transport unit in Europe.  Alstom rose 3.5 percent to 43.51 euros in Paris trading
as of 12:55 p.m., extending the stock’s gain this year to
21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 