-- 
Slim's America Movil Debt Is a Buy to Actinver After Fine: Mexico Credit

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-20T12:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/america-movil-debt-a-buy-to-scotia-after-fine-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s record $1 billion
antitrust fine against  America Movil  SAB may make the mobile-
phone carrier’s bonds a bargain, according to Scotia Capital and
Corp. Actinver SAB.  The company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is
likely to win a reduction of the fine or eliminate the penalty
in court appeals, making any decline in bond prices temporary,
said Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at Scotia Capital in
Mexico City. America Movil’s dollar bonds due in 2019 yield 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, more than similar-
maturity Mexican government notes, up from 21 a month ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When there’s an opportunity to buy, I definitely take
it,” said  Alonso Madero , a Mexico City-based portfolio manager
at Actinver, which oversees $5.5 billion of debt, including
America Movil bonds. “I’m starting to look at these instruments
as an alternative to government paper that happens to pay more.
It’s a no-brainer.”  America Movil’s stock sank the most in five months on April
18 after the company disclosed that the  Federal Competition
Commission  had assessed the fine for monopolistic practices in
the market, charging fees to complete calls to a wireless
network. Yields on the company’s $747 million of 5 percent bonds
were little changed this week, with yields falling two basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields are up three basis points this year to 4.47 percent,
or 182 basis points less than the average borrowing cost for
Mexican companies, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Investors
demand 48 basis points of extra yield to own America Movil bonds
instead of debt sold by global telecommunications companies,
according to a Bank of America Corp. index.  Cash Position  The company’s shares fell 51 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to
32.82 pesos yesterday in Mexico City trading, leading to the
biggest two-day decline since August.  America Movil’s $9.24 billion in cash and short-term
investments gives bondholders confidence that the fine won’t
hurt the company’s ability to pay its debt, said Nymia Almeida,
an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  “I expect that it will be worse for the shareholders than
for the creditors,” Almeida said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “With the cash they have, they’d maybe be paying
lower dividends and not affecting the quality of their credit.”  An America Movil spokeswoman declined to comment.  Other antitrust fines against large companies haven’t held
up in court,  Scotia Capital ’s Espinosa said.  Railroad Fines  The antitrust agency fined Grupo Mexico SAB and Slim’s
Grupo Carso SAB 400 million pesos ($34 million) in 2009 for
violating laws when they attempted to merge railroad units. The
agency’s effort to block the merger later was overruled by
Mexican courts.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed five basis
points to 137, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 102, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.5 percent to 11.6272 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:41 a.m. New York time.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
September rose two basis points to 5.03 percent, indicating that
traders expect a rate increase that month. In the past five
years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the overnight rate
has averaged 36 basis points.  Setbacks in Mexico  The antitrust fine is the latest in a series of setbacks
for America Movil in Mexico, its biggest market, with 28 percent
of its subscribers, 41 percent of its sales and about half of
its profits. The company offers wireless service in 17
countries, including Brazil, Argentina and the U.S.  In a ruling in March, Mexico’s  Federal Telecommunications
Commission  slashed the fees America Movil is permitted to charge
to smaller fixed-line rival Alestra SA, a decision that may set
a precedent for other carriers to reduce their payments.  Grupo Televisa SA, the broadcaster that controls three
Mexican cable carriers, and mobile-phone company Grupo Iusacell
SA filed antitrust complaints this year against America Movil
and its Telefonos de Mexico fixed-line unit and have begun an
advertising campaign linking the companies’ network connection
fees to high prices for consumers.  Reining in Power  The antitrust ruling shows that Mexico’s government is
becoming more aggressive in trying to reduce America Movil’s
power in the market, said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. The company’s 64 million Mexican
mobile-phone subscribers represent 71 percent of the market.  “The No. 1 issue the regulators are focused on is making
that level of market share a little bit more competitive,” King
said in a telephone interview. “The size of the fine suggests
the level of seriousness on the part of regulators has been
significantly raised.”  America Movil plans to appeal the antitrust ruling that it
engaged in monopolistic practices in the market for network
connection fees, the company said last week in a statement.  The regulators’ moves don’t cast doubt on America Movil’s
ability to pay debt, Actinver’s Madero said.  America Movil’s bonds are a good investment for investors
seeking high-rated debt, Scotia Capital’s Espinosa said. The
company’s A-ranking from  Standard & Poor’s  is the fourth-lowest
investment grade and two levels above the Mexican government’s
rating.  “For those investors, this could be good news,” Espinosa
said in a telephone interview. “Someone who’s not already in
the bonds could get in if there’s a reaction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  