-- 
American Apparel Board Said To Approve Financing of At Least $15 Million

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-04-21T20:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/american-apparel-is-said-to-be-near-deal-to-get-15-million-from-investors.html
American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the Los
Angeles clothier at risk of running out of money, has received
board approval to raise at least $15 million from a group of
private investors, said four people familiar with the process.  The company will sell stock to the group at 90 cents a
share, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t public. That price is a discount of about 25
percent from yesterday’s close. The agreement, which could be
announced today, includes stock warrants that could bring the
value of the investment to about $40 million, they said.  Michael Serruya, co-founder of CoolBrands International
Inc., which once operated the Chipwich and Eskimo Pie brands, is
part of the investment group, the people said. He didn’t respond
to calls seeking comment.  The cash eases the threat of insolvency after the retailer,
founded by Dov Charney, said last month that it’s at risk of
filing for protection from creditors without better liquidity or
an operational improvement. American Apparel, known for its
colorful t-shirts and provocative ads, aims to almost double
sales to $1 billion eventually by expanding its brand, improving
its distribution network and boosting wholesale revenue.  American Apparel climbed 3 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $1.24
at 4:01 p.m. in NYSE Amex trading for the highest price since
Jan. 21. The shares have dropped 25 percent this year. The stock
traded at an all-time closing high of $15.80 in December 2007.  The retailer, which had a net loss of $86.3 million in
2010, has repeatedly amended loan agreements with  Lion Capital
LLP  to avoid breaching debt covenants. Charney, also the
chairman, chief executive officer and the majority shareholder,
tried to shore up the company’s finances last month by paying
about $2 million for 1.8 million shares in a private placement,
according to regulatory filings dated March 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  