-- 
AmEx Posts Record Profit as Card Spending Rises, Defaults Ease

-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 
2011-04-21T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/american-express-profit-climbs-33-on-card-purchases-fewer-late-payments.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by customer spending, said first-quarter
profit increased 33 percent as consumer purchases surged and the
firm slashed the funds set aside to cover bad loans.  Net income was $1.18 billion, or 97 cents a share, compared
with $885 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based lender said yesterday in a statement. The average estimate
of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 92 cents.  “Record earnings this quarter reflect  credit quality  and
billed business trends that are among the best we’ve seen,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault, 59,
said in the statement. “After several years of decline, our
lending portfolio leveled off and total revenues grew at the
healthiest pace since before the recession.”  AmEx hasn’t offered debit cards, the most-used payment
method. Instead, Chenault is expanding AmEx’s reach beyond
affluent credit-card clients with a new payment system for
smartphones and computers. The system, called Serve, may draw
more transactions to AmEx’s global network, the fourth-biggest
after  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and China UnionPay Co.  American Express climbed 36 cents to $47 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday before the announcement,
and has advanced 9.5 percent this year. It declined to $46.37 at
6:56 p.m. New York time in extended trading.  The company set aside $97 million to cover future loan
losses, a 90 percent drop from the same period in 2010,
according to the statement. The firm also released $725 million
from an account to cover soured loans.  Write-offs Decline  Write-offs for loans AmEx deemed uncollectible fell in
March to 3.7 percent, the company said in an April 15 regulatory
filing. Overdue payments, a signal of future defaults, dropped
to 1.8 percent, the lowest of the six largest U.S. credit-card
issuers.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest card lender, reported
the second-lowest delinquency rate at 3.08 percent.  The company will resume share repurchases in the current
quarter and aims to return about 50 percent of earnings to
shareholders through dividends or stock buybacks, Chief
Financial Officer Daniel Henry said yesterday in a conference
call with analysts.  “We have terrific earnings power to create free  cash
flow ,” he said.  U.S. card income rose 34 percent to $555 million from the
same period a year earlier, according to AmEx. International
card income climbed 36 percent to $189 million.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, increased 17
percent to $187.9 billion, according to an  earnings supplement .
Customers spent an average of $3,438, a 14 percent increase from
a year earlier, when AmEx had fewer cards outstanding.  First-quarter revenue advanced to $7.03 billion from $6.56
billion a year earlier, the company said in the statement.  AmEx handled 3.91 percent of 120.4 billion purchase
transactions worldwide last year. The firm was supplanted as the
third-biggest card network by Shanghai-based  UnionPay , which
boosted its market share to 4.03 percent, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. Visa, based in  San
Francisco , had 66 percent of the market, compared with 25
percent for Purchase, New York-based MasterCard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  