-- 
Lancer Group's Founder Lauer Duped Investors, U.S. Prosecutor Tells Jurors

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 
2011-04-20T21:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/lancer-group-s-founder-lauer-duped-investors-u-s-prosecutor-tells-jurors.html
Lancer Group founder Michael Lauer
duped investors with a stock-pricing scheme that artificially
inflated the value of the company’s hedge funds and caused more
than $200 million in losses, a prosecutor told jurors.  Lauer and Martin Garvey, another ex-Lancer Group executive,
set out to manipulate holding companies’ stock prices so they
could pump up their funds’ investment returns, Harold Schimkat,
a federal prosecutor in Miami, said today in closing arguments
in Lauer’s and Garvey’s trial. Each faces a maximum of 25 years
in prison and $500,000 in fines if convicted on conspiracy and
wire-fraud charges.  “They were trying to pull the wool” over investors’ eyes
with “worthless” valuations of companies’ stock prices,
Schimkat said.  The government accused the pair of buying large quantities
of restricted stock of shell companies starting in 1999. Lauer
and Garvey allegedly instructed brokers to buy a smaller number
of shares of the same companies at higher, open-market prices to
drive the stock to a targeted price, prosecutors said in court
filings.  Lauer then falsely valued all of the firm’s securities at
the higher closing prices, which artificially inflated the
funds’ investment returns, prosecutors contend. That helped
Lauer and Garvey attract new investors and generated lucrative
fees for fund officials, the government contends.  Nothing ‘Illegal’  Lauer’s lawyers countered in their final argument that the
hedge fund manager was a savvy trader whose stock picks were
designed to make money for investors.  “He did not do anything illegal or commit any
wrongdoing,” Michael Caruso, a lawyer appointed as Lauer’s
federal public defender, told jurors.  During the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
investigation of Lancer Group, Lauer’s assets were frozen and he
was unable to hire private lawyers to defend him, the hedge-fund
founder said in a February 2010 court filing.  Prosecutors also allege Lauer created fake portfolios of
the securities supposedly held by Lancer Group and obtained
falsely inflated appraisals of the shell companies to cover up
the stock-manipulation scheme. Some of the funds were based in
 New York  while others were managed out of  Connecticut  and the
British Virgin Islands, according to court filings.  ‘Investors Are Losing’  “While the investors are losing hundreds of millions of
dollars, he was still pulling out $35 million in cash” from the
funds, Schimkat said of Lauer.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
said in 2003 that it had to write off an investment in Lancer of
more than $15.6 million after Lauer refused to provide a 2001
audit. The University of Montreal’s pension fund also lost about
$70 million as result of the stock-pricing scheme, Schimkat
noted.  Lauer, a former equity analyst  Wall Street  firms such as
Oppenheimer & Co. and Kidder Peabody & Co., “could have taken
everything and run” when his funds came under scrutiny, Caruso
countered. Instead, the hedge-fund manager stayed to “clean
things up and make his investors whole,” the public defender
added.  Other Lancer officials pleaded guilty to charges stemming
from the alleged stock-pricing scheme.  Eric Hauser, Lancer’s former chief trader, was sentenced to
five years in prison in 2009 after pleading guilty to stock-
manipulation charges. The sentence by U.S. District Judge
Adalberto Jordan stemmed from a plea agreement between Hauser
and prosecutors. Jordan is presiding over Lauer’s and Garvey’s
criminal trial.  A judge found Lauer liable in 2008 in a SEC lawsuit
claiming he orchestrated one of the biggest U.S. hedge-fund
frauds by overstating valuations from 1999 to 2003. He was
ordered to repay more than $62 million to investors.  Lancer Partners, one of the group’s funds, sought
bankruptcy in 2003 to protect itself from having to sell
holdings while facing investors’ lawsuits.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Michael Lauer, 08-20071, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Mort Lucoff in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 