-- 
Anglo American Must Take Blame for Sick Miners, South African Group Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-04-20T14:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/anglo-american-must-take-blame-for-sick-miners-south-african-group-says.html
Anglo American Plc (AGL)  must take
responsibility for former South African mineworkers suffering
from a respiratory disease they contracted while working in
mines the company has since sold, said lawyers representing 18
gold miners with claims against the London-based mining group.  “We hope that Anglo American will acknowledge its
responsibility and do justice by compensating these miners,”
Richard Meeran, who is assisting the Legal Resources Centre, a
body that works with Legal Aid South Africa to provide
assistance to the miners, told reporters in Johannesburg today.
Anglo American has said it is not liable for the claims.  The miners, who claim to have contracted silicosis when
they worked at the President Steyn Gold Mining Co. in  South
Africa ’s Free State province, have been involved in a High Court
battle for compensation in Johannesburg since 2004, in a test
case that seeks to set a precedent for mineworkers who
contracted the disease while working in South African mines.  “Once you’ve been thoroughly exposed to silica, you’ll
have an increased risk of contracting tuberculosis,” said Tony
Davies, a doctor who said he has examined more than 10,000
mineworkers over the past 10 years. Silicosis is a respiratory
disease that results from prolonged inhalation of silica dust,
which causes scar tissue in the lungs.  Reasonable Steps  The compensation claim against Anglo American South Africa
will go to trial in 2012. That follows a Constitutional Court
ruling on March 3 that a former worker was able to seek damages
even if he qualified for state benefits for occupational
disease.  President Steyn Gold Mining took all reasonable steps to
protect the health and safety of workers, Anglo American
spokesman Pranill Ramchander said on Sept. 30. Anglo also always
owned significantly less than 50 percent of the mine, Ramchander
said. Anglo’s position on the claim hasn’t changed since that
statement, Ramchander said when contacted today.  “We are claiming for the loss of income and for pain and
suffering,” said Meeran. Each claim would need to be argued
separately and the amount would depend on the extent of damage
to an individual’s health and how long the person was exposed to
silicosis. Of the 18 plaintiffs at the Johannesburg High Court,
four have died, two in the past four months, said Meeran.  ‘Tip of Iceberg’  Meeran said his group of 18 claimants was “merely the tip
of an iceberg,” as there was no way of knowing how many people
have contracted the disease. The gold mining sector in South
Africa, dominated by Anglo American Plc until about 2003, was
the single largest employer with more than 500,000 people at its
peak, according to Davies.  In 2003, the  Department of Health  found 18,563 people who
suffered from silicosis in the Eastern Cape province alone,
according to Nombulelo Matu, who is the general secretary of the
Ex-Mineworkers Union. “The government paid each one a once-off
compensation of 2,700 rand ($398),” said Matu.  Wilson Mafolwana, a 62-year-old from Lusikisiki in the
Eastern Cape who worked at the President Steyn mine between 1972
and 1994, said he was sent home after being asked to be
transferred to work above surface rather than underground. The
father of four was sent home with 23,000 rand compensation after
his health failed and now survives on a 1000-rand a month state
pension with his wife and three of his children.  “Our call is for everything to be speeded up,” said Dan
Mofokeng, who represents former mineworkers from neighboring
 Lesotho .  “All we want is for Anglo American to provide fair
compensation for the people,” said Mofokeng. “While we are
busy arguing about who is liable for what, people are dying and
we are busy burying them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  