-- 
Chaucer’s Biggest Shareholder Says Hanover Insurance Bid Is ‘Inadequate’

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-20T14:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/hanover-insurance-agrees-to-buy-chaucer-for-313-million-pounds.html
Chaucer Holdings Plc (CHU) ’s biggest
shareholder, Pamplona Capital Management LLP, said it won’t
accept  Hanover Insurance Group Inc. (THG) ’s 313 million-pound ($510
million) offer for the Lloyd’s of London insurer.  “We believe that the price is inadequate and have no
current intention of accepting this offer,” spokesman Peter
Hewer said by telephone today.  Chaucer’s board today accepted a bid worth 56 pence a share
from Worcester, Massachusetts-based Hanover. The company had
previously been in takeover talks with several firms including
London-based Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,  Guy Hands ’s
private-equity firm.  “This was the highest offer that was received,” Chaucer
Chief Executive Officer Robert Stuchbery, who plans to stay at
the company after Hanover completes the acquisition, said in an
interview. “The board also felt it was the offer that was in
the best interest of shareholders.”  Book Value  The offer values Chaucer at 1.3 times its estimated book
value on Dec. 31, Hanover said in a statement today. Fellow
Lloyd’s insurer Brit Insurance Holdings NV agreed to be sold for
about book value in October last year.  Shares of Chaucer rose 2.8 percent to 55.5 pence in  London 
trading at 3:23 p.m., giving the company a market value of 304
million pounds.  Pamplona, which owns 10 percent of Chaucer, bought its
stake in the firm for an average price of 46 pence a share, 18
percent below Hanover’s offer, according to Joy Ferneyhough, a
London-based analyst at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA
with a “hold” rating on the stock.  Almost 24 percent of Chaucer’s shareholders, including
Blackrock Investment Management Ltd., Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc and Moore Capital Management LLP, have agreed to support the
company’s sale to Hanover, Chaucer said in a statement today.
The company needs 75 percent of investors to approve the
transaction, according to Chaucer spokesman Justin Griffiths.  Griffiths declined to comment on the Pamplona statement.  Takeover Targets  The transaction provides a “complementary” fit for
Hanover because the company has no overlapping business outside
the U.S., said Stuchbery, who expects the purchase to close in
July. Chaucer’s net income fell 20 percent to 22.5 million
pounds in 2010 from the year earlier. The company, which insures
energy, aviation and marine assets, earned 69 million pounds in
2007.  Lloyd’s insurers have become cheaper takeover targets after
earnings fell amid increased competition. The industry built up
an abundance of capital over the last two years because of few
costly natural disasters causing prices to decline.  Apollo Global Management and CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
agreed to pay as much as 888 million pounds for Brit in October
and Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Ltd. fended off a takeover offer
from Lloyd’s rival Beazley Plc in December.  Chaucer estimated that earthquakes this year in  Japan  and
 New Zealand  and floods in  Australia  may cost the company as much
as 62 million pounds in insurance claims.  Shareholders “should take it and move on,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital
Ltd. said of Hanover’s bid. “The loss estimates for an event
like an earthquake are a little bit of putting your finger in
the air.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  