-- 
Anti-BP Activists Stage Nude Lie-In, Pour Oil at Tate Britain

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-20T13:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/anti-bp-activists-stage-nude-lie-in-pour-oil-at-tate-on-spill-anniversary.html
A naked youth had oil poured over
him inside  Tate Britain  today in an artist-led demonstration
against oil company  BP Plc (BP/) ’s sponsorship of Tate.  The performance marked the first anniversary of BP’s
Deepwater Horizon oil-rig explosion in the  Gulf of Mexico , the
U.S.’s worst-ever oil spill. BP is a longstanding sponsor of
Tate Britain, the  British Museum , the Royal Opera House and the
 National Portrait Gallery , and has said it will maintain those
London sponsorships, which cost it a total of more than 1
million pounds ($1.6 million) a year.  Today’s action was staged by Liberate Tate, a group of 15
to 20 artists who want BP’s sponsorship of Tate to end. Shortly
after Tate Britain’s 10 a.m. opening, about eight black-clad
activists entered the building to perform the strip-in.  The young man “removed his clothes carefully and slowly,
and handed it to two other people dressed in black,” said Nina
Jones, a 27-year-old painter who took part in the protest. He
was “curled in a fetal-like position.”  A man and a woman, “both with veils over their faces,
arrived from the very back of the gallery carrying two green
petrol cans with BP logos on them,” she recalled. “They
started to slowly pour the oil over his body.”  According to another Liberate Tate member, Peter McDonnell,
the substance poured over the anonymous protester was “olive
oil in a suspension of charcoal,” which can be cleaned up and
will not cause damage.  McDonnell said the morning action was “a very dramatic
statement of the impact that BP is having on human lives and
communities around the world” -- as well as an artwork.  BP Sponsor  Reacting to the protest in an e-mailed release, Tate said
BP is “one of the most important sponsors of the arts in the
U.K., supporting Tate as well as several other leading cultural
institutions.”  Tate’s board adopted a sponsorship policy in 1991 and in
2008 included it in an Ethics Policy that all donors must comply
with, it said. “BP has worked with Tate since 1990 and fits
within the guidelines of this policy,” Tate said.  In June of last year, as hundreds of guests arrived for
Tate’s summer party, black-clad protesters with veils over their
heads splattered the party entrance with cans of treacle bearing
the BP logo. They then sprinkled bird feathers over the slick.
Another group smuggled cans under their skirts and emptied them
in Tate Britain’s columned main hall -- the same one where the
young man stripped today.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 