-- 
Apple’s Reliance on Japan for Components Put Sales at Risk

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-20T14:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/apple-reliance-on-japan-puts-sales-at-risk-as-part-prices-climb.html
The Japanese earthquake and tsunami
will probably weigh on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s forecasts for third-quarter
profit, sales and gross margin because of higher component
prices and disrupted manufacturing, analysts said.  At least seven analysts expect the disaster to affect the
company’s outlook later today.  Japan  is a hub for several Apple
components, including  flash memory , batteries, touch-screen
glass and resin used to attach chips. The company, which makes
the iPhone, iPad and Macintosh computer, hasn’t yet discussed
the effects of the 9-magnitude quake on March 11.  Apple, the largest technology company by market value, was
already grappling with supply shortages when the earthquake
struck. The iPad 2, which debuted on the day of the quake, sold
out at many stores. Apple also introduced a version of its
iPhone 4 for Verizon Wireless customers last quarter, triggering
another surge in demand. Investors are looking to today’s
second-quarter earnings report and forecast for help gauging
whether the shortages are putting a dent in sales.  “People want to know how strong the supply chain is and
how much backup supplies they have,” said  Giri Cherukuri , lead
trader and portfolio manager for Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments, which manages about $2.7 billion, including Apple
shares. “You want to know if it’s temporary or how long it’s
going to affect things.”  Flash Prices  The price of flash memory, which serves as the main source
of storage for Apple’s iPhone, iPad, Macbook Air and other
devices, has climbed since the earthquake. On the  spot market ,
the cost of a 64-gigabit flash chip has risen 13 percent to
$12.92 since the day of the quake.  Apple’s leadership in mobile devices makes it the biggest
buyer of flash in the world. The Cupertino, California-based
company has been paying suppliers more to secure access to the
parts, said Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at El Segundo,
California-based IHS ISuppli.  The challenges follow what may be Apple’s biggest second-
quarter growth in years. When the company releases results
today, analysts are predicting a sales gain of 73 percent to
$23.4 billion on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts estimate that earnings will increase to
$5.39 a share in the period, which ended March 26.  The earnings report is the second since Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs  stepped aside to take medical leave in
January. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  has assumed control
over day-to-day responsibilities.  Pinching Margins  To account for rising costs of components such as flash
memory, Apple may project profit margins of 35 percent in the
third quarter, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co.
in San Francisco. In the quarter ended in December, Apple had a
gross margin of 38.5 percent.  Marshall joins analysts from Deutsche Bank AG, Piper
Jaffray Cos., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Rodman & Renshaw LLC,
Pacific Crest Securities and RBC Capital Markets in predicting
that Apple’s outlook will be affected by the quake.  Apple advanced $4.42, or 1.3 percent, to $342.28 at 9:37
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had climbed 37 percent in the past year through yesterday.  Apple is usually tight-lipped about how it obtains
components and manufactures its products, so any commentary will
be valuable to investors, Cherukuri said. It also may underscore
the challenges facing other computer makers.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  report their quarterly results next month.  Japanese Companies  The quake is crimping growth at Japanese technology
businesses. At seven of the country’s largest consumer-
electronics companies, including  Sony Corp. (SNE)  and Panasonic Corp.,
operating profit -- sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses -- will decline 31 percent in the six-
month period ending Sept. 30, according to Barclays Plc
estimates this month.  The impact of the quake is still too early to determine for
the technology industry, said Gleacher’s Marshall.  “We’ll get some answers with respect to near-term issues,
but I’m more worried about what’s going to happen a couple of
months or quarters down the road,” said Marshall, who
recommends buying Apple shares.  Even so, with $59.7 billion in cash and investments, Apple
is better positioned than other companies to pay more for parts
and handle the disruptions, Marshall said.  “There will be companies that will be worse off than
Apple,” said Marshall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  