-- 
Apple Shares Gain as Profit Almost Doubles on IPhone Demand

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-21T20:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/apple-earnings-almost-double-following-iphone-s-debut-at-verizon-wireless.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  gained after reporting
that second-quarter profit almost doubled, lifted by sales of
iPhones, and the company allayed concerns that growth will be
crimped by the earthquake in  Japan  and its aftermath.  Net income in the fiscal second quarter rose to $5.99
billion, or $6.40 a share, from $3.07 billion, or $3.33, a year
earlier, Cupertino, California-based Apple said in a statement
yesterday. Sales jumped 83 percent to $24.7 billion. Analysts
predicted profit of $5.39 a share on sales of $23.4 billion, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Verizon Wireless  started selling the iPhone in February,
helping Apple sell 18.7 million units last quarter, surpassing
the 16.3 million average of 13 predictions in a Bloomberg
survey. Apple said the earthquake isn’t having a “material”
impact on operations and its ability to crank out products.  “To say it’s extraordinary doesn’t do it justice,” Ryan Jacob, chairman of the Jacob Internet Fund, which owns Apple
shares, said of Apple’s results.  Apple climbed $8.29, or 2.4 percent, to $350.70 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
risen 8.7 percent this year.  Apple, transitioning to the new iPad 2 introduced on March
11, couldn’t make enough to meet demand. The shortfall led to
lower sales than analysts predicted. Apple is ramping up
production as it prepares to start selling the tablet computer
in 13 additional countries this month, Chief Operating Officer
 Tim Cook  said on a conference call yesterday.  IPad Prediction  “Their products are being embraced wholeheartedly by the
entire world,” Michael Walker, a  portfolio manager  at W.P.
Stewart & Co., said in an interview. “Right now the only limit
to how many products they can sell is how many they can
produce.”  Sales of the tablet in the third quarter may match those of
the  holiday shopping season , when Apple sold 7.3 million, Walker
said. Apple sold 4.69 million iPads last quarter, fewer than the
6.1 million units predicted.  “The iPad has the mother of all backlogs,” said Cook, who
has taken over day-to-day leadership of Apple while Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is out on medical leave.  Cook said Jobs continues to be involved in decision-making.  “We do see him on a regular basis,” Cook said. “I know
he wants to be back full time as soon as he can.”  Cook said Apple’s access to components hasn’t been harmed
by the earthquake in Japan and that it doesn’t expect any
material effect from the disaster this quarter.  Sales in Japan  Still, sales of products in the country may be $200 million
lower as consumers coping with the temblor and tsunami buy fewer
gadgets, he said.  For this quarter, Apple forecast profit and sales below
analysts’ predictions. Profit this quarter will be $5.03 a share
on sales of $23 billion, Apple said. Analysts predicted profit
of $5.25 a share on sales of $23.8 billion.  Apple typically reports profit that exceeds analysts’
predictions, and its forecasts are often conservative. Apple has
beaten the average estimate for earnings per share for at least
28 straight quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after deducting
production costs, will be about 38 percent this quarter, Apple
said on the conference call. Gross margin was 41.4 percent last
quarter, compared with 41.7 percent a year earlier, Apple said.  In the second quarter, Apple sold 3.76 million Mac
computers and 9.02 million iPod media players. Analysts had
predicted the sale of 3.6 million Macs and 9.8 million iPods.  IPhone, IPad Competition  Apple is fending off increased competition to the iPhone,
the company’s top-selling product, from rivals such as Samsung
Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which use
Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Android will account for 39.5 percent of global smartphone
shipments this year, compared with 15.7 percent for Apple,
according to market research firm IDC.  While Apple also faces rivalry in tablet from companies
including Samsung, Motorola Mobility and  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIMM) , it will keep 70 percent of that market for at least two
years, said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham & Co.  Last week, Apple filed an intellectual property lawsuit
against Samsung, accusing the company of copying the iPhone and
iPad. Samsung denied the accusations.  Apple also is Samsung’s largest customer for components, a
relationship that shouldn’t be disrupted by the suit against
Samsung’s mobile unit, Cook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 