-- 
Justice Department Seeks Data in Nasdaq-NYSE Antitrust Study

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-20T15:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/market-participants-said-contacted-in-antitrust-review-of-nasdaq-nyse-bid.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
querying market participants about how a takeover of the New
York Stock Exchange would affect competition in equity listings.  Officials are asking how different outcomes for NYSE
Euronext would affect companies trying to raise money in the
U.S., according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter
who declined to be named because the conversations are private.
NYSE Euronext agreed to a $9.5 billion merger with  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  in February. It’s trying to fend off an unsolicited
bid by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   Antitrust review is emerging as a key test in the battle
for the 219-year-old market, which Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Greifeld  tried to snatch away from Deutsche
Boerse with an $11.3 billion offer on April 1. Giving Nasdaq
control would create a monopoly in listings, a prospect that may
create undue risk the takeover will be blocked, according to
NYSE CEO Duncan Niederauer.  “A Department of Justice review can be quite significant
to a deal given that antitrust regulators have the legal
authority to sue to block transactions they deem
anticompetitive,” said Gregory Neppl, a Washington-based
attorney at Foley & Lardner LLP. “That can force parties to
modify the transaction in a material way, abandon it or litigate
with the government over the antitrust legality of the
transaction.”  Nasdaq OMX may consider selling the NYSE Amex business to
allay competition concerns, a person familiar with the matter
said April 15. NYSE Amex, home to more than 500 stocks, is one
of four main listing venues in the U.S., including the Big
Board, which offers all except three companies in the 30-member
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , the Nasdaq Stock Market, and NYSE
Arca, which provides exchange-traded funds.  Game Theory  “As we game-theory all the options that might be available
to us in the future, it certainly would be on the table,”
Greifeld said in a telephone interview yesterday. He added that
the exchange company’s “discussions with the DOJ will speak to
the merits of having the combined listing franchise.”  Scott Cutler, executive vice president and co-head of U.S.
listings at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said separating the Amex listings
business from a combined NYSE-Nasdaq company wouldn’t improve
competition in the listings business or give U.S. issuers more
choice about where to offer their shares.  “If the concern is antitrust, this does little to resolve
that,” he said in an interview on April 17. Most companies that
have initial public offerings in the U.S. list on Nasdaq or
NYSE, “so you’re not improving issuer choice by not having Amex
owned by either of them,” he said.  Forced Listings  Companies also can’t be forced to maintain their share
listings on venues they don’t choose, Cutler said. Competition
between Nasdaq and NYSE has led them to offer services such as
data analytics, branding, corporate-governance rules and other
products. A separate Amex would offer no such services, he said.  NYSE Euronext rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid on April 10,
saying it wouldn’t create enough long-term value for
shareholders even though it was worth 15 percent more than
 Deutsche Boerse ’s February agreement to combine with the company
at 10:45 a.m. New York time today. A Nasdaq OMX-ICE deal would
give the listings business and equities and options trading in
the U.S. and  Europe  to Nasdaq while ICE would get the  Liffe 
derivatives operations on both continents.  Breakup Fee  Nasdaq OMX and ICE offered to pay NYSE Euronext $350
million if antitrust authorities blocked the proposed takeover,
they said yesterday in a letter to NYSE Euronext’s board. The
companies have had “several meetings in the last week” with
the Justice Department in which they provided information about
the industry, data and customer contacts, Greifeld said in
yesterday’s interview. ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Sprecher said in the interview he’s been in touch with European
competition authorities about acquiring Liffe.  Nasdaq OMX needs to prove that consolidating U.S. listing
venues within one company wouldn’t give it the power to raise
annual listing fees or reduce services for issuers, Neppl said.
If a competition problem emerges, Nasdaq OMX could work with
regulators to seek a remedy to preserve the deal, he said.  Regulators will also want to know whether a combination
would give the entity more power to raise trading fees for
customers, although that’s a “smaller concern” since many
rivals vie for that business, Neppl said.  Christine Varney , head of the  Justice Department ’s
Antitrust Division, said in an April 14 interview in  Washington 
that her unit is reviewing the NYSE Euronext-Deutsche Boerse
deal. Regulators focused on competition in Europe are also
looking at that deal since it creates a monopoly in fixed-income
derivatives trading by combining NYSE Euronext’s Liffe business
and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex futures operation.  Europe Antitrust  “Competition issues in Europe are probably more
significant because it’s harder to demonstrate competition in
the listed derivatives space,” said  Niki Beattie , CEO of Market
Structure Partners Ltd., a London-based consulting firm that
advises brokers and exchanges. “Their customer base appears
very concerned about what a combination of these two
organizations will mean for them.”  Greifeld said on an April 1 conference call that acquiring
NYSE would spur more foreign companies to go public in the U.S.
Since then, he has also talked about decreasing to $450,000 the
current maximum annual listing fee the largest companies pay
NYSE, according to the person with knowledge of the matter who
spoke on April 15.  NYSE’s listing and annual fees, based on the number of
shares outstanding, are  capped  at $500,000 a year. About 80
percent of NYSE-listed companies pay between $100,000 and
$200,000 a year, according to Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman
for NYSE Euronext. Nasdaq’s highest  charge  is $99,500 annually,
according to data on the company’s website.  Overseas Competition  Competition with the  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  and other venues that list stock
has led U.S. IPOs to fall to about 11 percent last year, from 18
percent 10 years earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The U.S. accounted for 17 percent of the $286 billion
raised globally last year in IPOs, compared with 57 percent of
global IPOs in 2000.  “We have a fractured message coming out of the U.S. and
this transaction will allow us to be clearly globally
competitive for these large IPOs that we’re not currently
competing for,” Greifeld said on the April 1 conference call.
He cited the decision of executives at Italian fashion company
Prada Holding SpA to list shares in Hong Kong. Economists would
characterize the listings contest between NYSE and Nasdaq as
“non-essential competition,” he said yesterday.  More IPOs  NYSE Euronext’s Cutler said a takeover by Nasdaq OMX
wouldn’t augment the ability of U.S. exchanges to get more IPOs
from other countries since both markets already compete
“fiercely” for the business. Discussing how to win foreign
companies also doesn’t help U.S. issuers by giving them more
choice about where to list, he said.  U.S. companies are asking whether annual fees would rise
and how the cost of services they get from the markets would
change should Nasdaq OMX prevail, said Jeff Morgan, chief
executive officer of Vienna, Virginia-based National  Investor
Relations  Institute.  “If Deutsche Boerse and NYSE merge, that company’s going
to have a full complement of equities, derivatives and listings
and issuers will be a smaller part of that,” said Morgan, whose
organization represents corporate officers from about 2,000
public companies. “A Nasdaq-NYSE merger would focus mainly on
cash equities, which would put issuers in a more prominent role,
but would lose the competition and what has been built up over
the years by two very strong, very different offerings.”  Floor Future  NYSE-listed companies also want to know whether the trading
floor in lower Manhattan and the exchange’s system of individual
market makers for stocks would be maintained, according to
Morgan. Greifeld said on the April 1 conference call that he
would keep the floor open.  “Our kneejerk reaction is probably indifferent to somewhat
bad,” said Mary Jensen, vice president for investor relations
at NYSE-listed Douglas Emmett Inc., a real estate investment
trust based in  Santa Monica ,  California . “If they’re combined,
they could charge what they want. Right now there’s competition
between the two.”  Patrick Healy, a former executive at Bear Stearns Cos. who
runs  Chevy Chase , Maryland-based  Issuer Advisory Group LLC ,
which helps companies decide where to list their stock, said
he’d support the deal for NYSE Euronext that leads to lower fees
for companies that issue stock. NYSE and Nasdaq have profited
from increased trading without offering “fee relief” to
issuers, he said.  Emerging Venues  Bats Global Markets, the third-largest U.S. exchange
operator by volume traded,  said  last month it plans to start a
listings business for stocks and ETFs this year. The Kansas
City, Missouri-based company runs equities and options markets
in the U.S. and a stock-trading venue in Europe. Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, which operates two U.S. exchanges, is considering
a listings business, Chief Operating Officer Bryan Harkins said
on March 31. Direct Edge is in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  In addition to providing a stable source of revenue,
listing companies usually gives an exchange operator a bigger
share of trading in those stocks. NYSE Euronext’s portion of
stocks listed on NYSE was 35 percent last month, compared with
an average of 27 percent for all U.S. volume, according to data
compiled by Barclays Plc.  Nasdaq OMX  traded 30 percent of
Nasdaq-listed securities in its markets, while its overall
average was 20 percent.  Ideological Split  For some U.S. firms that list their shares on NYSE, support
for the two merger combinations is splitting on ideological
grounds, Healy said, citing conversations with several dozen
firms.  “Those supporting the Deutsche Boerse deal are free-market
people who believe in global markets,” he said. “They believe
this would form the beginning of a global network with,
ultimately, the ability to list and trade shares around the
globe.”  The other group is “pro-America” and doesn’t like the
idea of a takeover by a German company, he said. “They’re tired
of seeing the U.S. come in second, losing listings to foreign
markets like Prada listing in Hong Kong rather than  New York ,”
Healy said. “They think that by putting NYSE and Nasdaq
together that would be a more favorable domestic powerhouse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 