-- 
Harmony Gold Says Copper Hedging May Raise $1 Billion

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-20T15:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/harmony-gold-s-wafi-golpu-project-may-cost-more-than-3-billion-ceo-says.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co.,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer of the metal, said it may raise $1
billion by selling forward copper from the Wafi-Golpu mine in
 Papua New Guinea , and use the proceeds to fund the project.  Harmony and partner  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  plan to complete
initial studies on the $3 billion Wafi-Golpu deposit by the end
of the year and build a gold-copper mine that may reach full
production in 2018 or 2019, Harmony Chief Executive Officer
Graham Briggs said today in a speech in Johannesburg.  Harmony’s hedging proposal adds to an existing plan to sell
bonds to fund its share of Wafi-Golpu. Gold producers, facing
rising costs for labor and energy, are seeking funds to expand
as prices for the metal climb to a record.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a
gold miner in  Russia , said in March that costs at its hard-rock
mines jumped 84 percent in 2010 from a year earlier.  Hedging about 33,000 metric tons of copper in five-year
deals “can put you somewhere between $500 million and $1
billion,” Hannes Meyer, Harmony’s finance director, told
reporters in Johannesburg today. Harmony may also use cash and
debt to finance its portion of the 50:50 venture, he said,
adding that “equity is the last route we would pursue.”  The concentration of metal in Wafi-Golpu’s ore exceeds
forecasts by Harmony, which said last month that only Freeport-
McMoran Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia and
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.’s Oyu Tolgoi deposit in Mongolia contained
higher gold-equivalent ounces per ton of ore.  Higher Cost  Wafi-Golpu’s cost may exceed Harmony’s $3 billion estimate
because the development is likely to be larger than previously
planned, based on an increase in metal content, Briggs said.  Harmony rose 44 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 100.50 rand,
compared with the 2.4 percent advance of the five-member
FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index. Larger competitors  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  rose 2.7 percent and 2.9
percent, respectively.  Harmony may become a takeover candidate as assets in Papua
New Guinea boost its value,  RBC Capital Markets  said March 24.  The Johannesburg-based company hasn’t been approached by
any potential acquirer, Briggs said today. The Papua New Guinea
assets, which include half of the Hidden Valley gold mine, are
probably worth $1.5 billion to $2 billion, he said, adding that
he is also scouring neighboring Indonesia for opportunities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  