-- 
Marriott Rises After Saying Consumer Confidence Is Helping Travel Business

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-21T20:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/marriott-s-first-quarter-earnings-miss-estimates-as-travel-demand-slows.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, rose in New York
trading after saying increasing  consumer confidence  is helping
the leisure-travel business.  The shares gained 59 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $35.87 as of
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
climbed as much as 3.7 percent during the day, the biggest
intraday advance in more than two months.  Hotels are being helped by a rise in vacation bookings as
travelers start to feel better about the economy, executives at
Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott said today in a conference
call with analysts and investors. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed for a fourth straight week in the period ended
April 17 to its best reading since the end of February as
employment picked up.  “We see strength in transient business demand,” Carl Berquist, Marriott’s chief financial officer, said during
today’s call.  Earnings Rise  Net income rose to $101 million, or 26 cents a share, from
$83 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the company said
yesterday in a statement. Worldwide revenue per available room,
or revpar, rose 6.5 percent before adjustments for currency-
exchange rates. That’s below the 7 percent increase the hotelier
forecast last month, when it said weak North American demand is
holding back growth.  “New group bookings made in the first quarter for 2011
were strong,” Berquist said. “Our first-quarter group business
shortfall was an anomaly rather than the start of a trend.”  While revpar, a measure of rates and occupancies used by
the hotel industry, was less than Marriott had forecast, the
company “was adamant” during the earnings call that
competitors aren’t taking their customers, said  Patrick Scholes ,
a New York-based analyst with FBR Capital Markets.  “Investors should find comfort in Marriott’s insistence
that they did not lose market share,” he said in an e-mail.  Share Buybacks  Marriott has bought back 13.4 million shares for $493
million year this year, “which is likely to support the stock
in the near term,” David Loeb, an analyst at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a report today.  “The repurchases do not come as a surprise, but Marriott
has been more aggressive than we expected,” Loeb said.  Marriott’s earnings missed the 28-cent average estimate of
10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. First-quarter profit was hurt
by a decline in group bookings in the Washington region, where
Marriott has about 5 percent of its rooms, Laura Paugh, senior
vice president of  investor relations , said during a conference
call with reporters yesterday.  Demand in the U.S. capital was hampered by cuts in travel
spending, the threat of a federal-government shutdown and
“weakness of short-term group meetings,” she said.  Revpar Gains  Revpar rose 5.8 percent for company-operated properties in
 North America  in the first quarter, Marriott said. Outside the
region, it increased 11.2 percent.  The company expects revpar before currency adjustments to
rise 6 percent to 8 percent in North America, and 5 percent to 7
percent overseas, in both the second quarter and for the full
year, Marriott said in its statement yesterday.  Revenue rose 5.6 percent to $2.78 billion in the first
quarter, the hotelier said.  The company forecast second-quarter earnings of 34 cents to
38 cents a share, less than the 39-cent average estimate of 24
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Marriott is the first of the major U.S. hotel chains to
report quarterly earnings.  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  is scheduled
to release its results on April 27, and  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , the owner of the St. Regis and W hotel
brands, will announce earnings April 28.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  is
scheduled to report on May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  