-- 
Maserati’s Expensive Scratches May Be Fixed With Self-Repairing Material

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-04-20T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/maserati-s-expensive-scratches-may-be-fixed-with-self-repairing-material.html
Got a scratched Maserati? Soon, the
luxury automobile may not have to go to a body shop to be fixed.  Scientists at  Case Western Reserve University  in  Cleveland ,
 Ohio , Fribourg University in  Switzerland , and the U.S. Army
Research Laboratory in Aberdeen Proving Ground,  Maryland , have
made a polymer that absorbs ultraviolet light and converts it
into localized heat, which allows material made from the
molecules to flow into small scratches and dings to repair them,
according to a report today in the journal  Nature .  The polymer, initially rigid, becomes liquid-like when
ultraviolet light of a certain intensity hits it, said Andrew
Lovinger, manager of the  National Science Foundation ’s Polymer
Program, which helped fund the project, in a conference call
yesterday. Polymers are composed of large molecules strung 
together in long chains that entangle to give the material 
strength.  “You can think about different ways to realize this
technology,” including in a car wash,  Christoph Weder ,
director and chair of polymer chemistry and materials at the
University of Fribourg’s  Adolphe Merkle Institute , said on the
call. “While, or before, or after your car is being washed, the
system also screens for defects and fixes them.”  Previous research created a self-healing polymer that
required the direct application of heat to repair damage, 
the authors said. The newest technology may one day lead
to longer lifetimes in materials used in transportation,
packaging and construction, according to today’s report.  Construction of material from the polymers won’t 
necessarily be expensive because the molecules are made from
commercially available substances, the researchers said. The
discovery won’t be ready for industrial application within the
next year, they said.  The study was conducted by researchers Mark Burnworth,
Liming Tang, Justin R. Kumpfer and Stuart J. Rowan from Case
Western; Andrew J. Duncan and Frederick L. Beyer from the army
laboratory; and Weder and Gina L. Fiore from the University of
Fribourg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net , 