-- 
Massachusetts to Regulate Expert-Network Firms in Wake of Insider Cases

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-04-20T16:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/massachusetts-to-regulate-expert-network-firms-in-wake-of-insider-cases.html
Massachusetts plans to regulate
expert-network firms, the first state in the U.S. to set rules
for an industry that was caught up in the federal government’s
insider-trading investigation.  The proposed regulation will require state-registered
investment advisers that pay expert-network firms to obtain
written certification that the firms aren’t subject to any
confidentiality restrictions and won’t provide confidential
information, Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin
said today in an e-mailed statement.  “These firms tout their compliance systems but policies
are often not followed and the systems can be ineffective,”
Galvin said in the statement. “This first-in-the-nation
regulation is intended to stop or, at the very least, make more
difficult the wrongful use of this inside information obtained
through paid consultation.”  Traders seeking an edge have turned to expert networks and
other independent research firms for investment information. The
firms charge as much as $70,000 for six months’ of unlimited
consultations by clients seeking knowledge of any industry,
issue or company.  Prosecutors working on insider-trading cases last year
charged consultants at Primary Global Research LLC, a  Mountain
View , California-based networking firm, with leaking inside tips
to hedge-fund traders.  Last month, hedge-fund manager James A. Silverman was
charged by Massachusetts officials with using inside information
on clinical trials to lift returns. Silverman, who started
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based RRC Bio Fund LP in 2007, used
Guidepoint Global LLC to obtain the information, Galvin said
March 9.  Galvin said the regulations governing expert-network firms
will take effect after a public comment period and a public
hearing on June 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  