-- 
AT&T Boosts Subscriber Rolls Even as Verizon Gains IPhone

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-20T20:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/at-t-beats-estimates-by-luring-iphone-users-even-after-losing-exclusivity.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, gained contract subscribers last quarter as
promotions and new devices helped offset the loss of its
exclusivity for the top-selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone.  AT&T said today it won 62,000 wireless contract users in
the period. Tim Horan, an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst, forecast
subscribers would be unchanged and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Philip Cusick predicted a loss of 100,000. Dallas-based AT&T also
posted a 39 percent increase in first-quarter profit.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, began
offering the iPhone in February. AT&T prepared for the loss of
its exclusivity by cutting the price of the older 3GS model in
January by half for contract customers and adding devices such
as the Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. Atrix. Last month, AT&T
agreed to buy T-Mobile USA for $39 billion to add subscribers.  “AT&T was able to add 62,000 subscribers in the quarter,
which was above expectations,” David Burks, a Hilliard Lyons
Inc. analyst in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We should also caution that Verizon was
able to begin selling the product in early February, so this
doesn’t represent a full quarter of competition.”  Wireline sales fell 3.2 percent to $15 billion as customers
continued to abandon home-phone lines. That missed the estimate
of $15.1 billion by  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays
Capital Inc. AT&T added 218,000 users to its  U-verse  TV and Web
service, falling short of Ratcliffe’s 229,000 estimate.  AT&T lost 18 cents to $30.13 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has gained 2.6 percent this year.  Rising Wireless Sales  AT&T activated 3.6 million  iPhones  in the quarter, compared
with 2.7 million a year earlier.  Verizon Wireless  gaining the
iPhone ended four years of AT&T’s exclusivity for the device in
the U.S., heating up the competition between the carriers. The
iPhone 4 was the most purchased mobile phone by U.S. consumers
in the fourth quarter, according to research firm NPD Group.  First-quarter net income advanced to $3.41 billion, or 57
cents a share, from $2.45 billion, or 41 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts projected 57 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.3 percent to $31.2 billion, also
matching the average analysts’ estimate.  Wireless sales rose 10 percent to $15.3 billion, helped by
surging data revenue as users of devices such as the iPhone
spent more browsing the Web and sending e-mail.  Customer departures, known as churn, increased compared
with the previous quarter. Overall churn was 1.36 percent,
compared with 1.32 percent in the fourth quarter. AT&T lost some
users as it integrated assets it acquired from Verizon Wireless.  Churn among the more lucrative postpaid users, who spend
more each month, was 1.18 percent, compared with 1.15 percent in
last year’s fourth quarter.  The  T-Mobile USA  acquisition, announced March 20, would
combine AT&T with the fourth-largest U.S. wireless provider. The
deal needs approval from the U.S. Justice Department and Federal
Communications Commission, and is to face hearings in Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  