-- 
Atlas Copco Reshuffles Units as Industry Recovery Lifts Profit

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-20T11:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/atlas-copco-reshuffles-units-as-industry-recovery-lifts-profit.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , the world’s largest
maker of air compressors, will add a fourth division in a revamp
aimed at generating more sales, as it reported first-quarter
profit that beat estimates amid a global manufacturing recovery.  Starting July 1, Atlas Copco will put the business for
portable compressors and generators, road construction equipment
and construction tools into a division called construction
technique. The move will create a “more focused” organization
that can spur sales, the Stockholm-based company said today.  “This gives them four different platforms from which they
can grow,” said Michael Hagmann, an analyst at Nomura
International Plc in  London , who has a “reduce” rating on
Atlas Copco’s shares. “It’s rather clever.”  Atlas Copco, which cut 6,000 jobs during the financial
crisis that started in 2008, is benefiting from a rise in global
manufacturing through spending by miners on rock drills and
blast-hole rigs. The company follows  SKF AB (SKFB)  in reporting
earnings, and Atlas Copco stock rose the most in almost a year.  First-quarter net income rose to 3.02 billion kronor ($492
million), or 2.48 kronor a share, from 1.85 billion kronor, or
1.53 krona, a year earlier, the Stockholm-based company said
today in a statement.  That beat the average estimate of 2.73
billion kronor in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts. Sales
gained 19 percent to 18.2 billion kronor.  Atlas Copco rose as much as 9.2 kronor, or 5.6 percent, to
to 174.3 kronor in  Stockholm , the most since May 10, 2010. The
shares have gained 2.4 percent this year, valuing the company at
207 billion kronor.  The order intake rose 26 percent to a record 21.7 billion
kronor, Atlas Copco said. Overall near-term demand is expected
to “increase somewhat.” Atlas Copco will recruit a president
for the new division, it said. It also appointed Bob Fassl, now
head of the company’s drilling solutions division, as president
of the mining and rock excavation technique area.  “We have achieved a great result, thanks to the good
global demand situation, our improved market presence in China
and  India , investments in products and services, and the hard
work of our employees to strengthen the support for our
customers,” Chief Executive Officer Ronnie Leten said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 