-- 
Australia Won’t ‘Manipulate’ Record Currency as Yuan Stays Weak, Rudd Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   S h r a y s i   T a n d o n
-- 
2011-04-21T01:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/australia-won-t-manipulate-record-currency-as-yuan-stays-weak-rudd-says.html
Australia won’t “manipulate” its
currency, which has reached a record, and countries that do will
“pay a price,” Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd  said.  Rudd in an interview ruled out intervention in the so-
called Aussie, which has gained 15 percent in the past year
against the dollar. Spurred by revenue from shipments of coal
and iron ore to China, the currency’s surge has hurt Australian
tourism, manufacturing and education.  “We are not in the business of regulating exchange
rates,” Rudd told Bloomberg Television in his Brisbane office
yesterday, saying the government could assist industries through
tax revision and skills programs. “We don’t intend to drift
back to anything which seeks to manipulate our exchange rate and
those countries that do I think ultimately pay a price.”  Rudd was elected Labor leader in December 2006 and defeated
the  Liberal Party ’s  John Howard  to become prime minister in 2007.
He was ousted by current Labor Party Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in June after a late-night showdown within the party
over a proposed resource tax and climate change legislation.  Australia has refrained from taking steps adopted by such
countries as  Brazil  to stem currency gains, including limits on
capital inflows. The currency rose as high as $1.0751 today, the
highest level since it began trading freely in 1983. It traded
at 1.0745 at 11:36 a.m. Sydney time.  Countries including the U.S. and Brazil argue that China’s
policy of keeping its currency weak gives the world’s biggest
exporter an unfair advantage in global trade. Group of 20
finance chiefs meeting in  China  last month discussed an enlarged
global role for the yuan to encourage the government to free up
its currency.  Seeking Flexibility  Rudd, who heads this weekend to meetings in  Europe  and the
U.S., said increased flexibility of the yuan would assist
imports and help curb inflation in China.  “Exchange rates are best set by markets,” said Rudd, who
was a diplomat in China in the 1980s. “This is a matter for
Chinese sovereign decision-making but I think over time it’s a
decision which affects many other economies. I see those
concerns being mounted around the world.”  Australia, the world’s biggest iron ore and coal exporter,
sold A$90.3 billion ($96.7 billion) in goods and services to
China in the year ending June 30, 2010. Asian demand helped the
A$1.3 trillion economy avoid recession during the global
financial crisis.  “China is a very important market but it’s not the be all
and end all either,” said Rudd, 53. “Obviously the Chinese
economy suffers its own internal constraints as well.”  Employee Detentions  Relations with China soured during 2009, when Rudd was
prime minister, over the detention of former  Rio Tinto  Group
executive  Stern Hu  and as Rio Tinto rebuffed a $19.5 billion
investment from state-owned Aluminum Corp. of China.  “There’s always a bit of static in the politics of a
relationship,” Rudd said. “We have approved virtually all
Chinese foreign investment applications.”  Australia’s decision this month to reject  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s bid for ASX Ltd. was a rarity, Rudd said. The
government on April 8 rejected  Singapore ’s bid on national
interest grounds and because it would have left the local bourse
operator as a junior partner.  “Our job is to stand up for Australia’s national interest,
not for Singapore’s,” Rudd said. “Ninety-nine percent of
foreign investment applications are accepted in this country and
it is quite rare for us to reject one.”  Interest Rate Pause  Australia’s economic growth accelerated to a quarterly pace
of 0.7 percent in the final three months of last year. Gross
domestic product will increase 3 percent in 2011, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its semi-annual World
Economic Outlook released this month.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens has paused
interest-rate increases this year after raising the overnight
cash rate target seven times from October 2009 to November 2010.
The higher dollar is tempering inflation and slowing parts of
the economy, giving Stevens leeway to delay further rate
increases. The rate is now at 4.75 percent.  The son of a tenant farmer in northern Queensland, Rudd
graduated with a first-class honors degree in Asian studies from
 Australian National University  before becoming a diplomat in
Stockholm and Beijing from 1981 to 1988. He worked for the
Queensland Labor Party before entering parliament in 1998.  Labor Low  Public support for Labor fell to a 15-year low in an
opinion survey this week that showed most voters oppose
Gillard’s plan to tax  carbon emissions . The Nielsen survey,
published in the Age newspaper April 18, also showed voters
prefer Rudd over Gillard.  Rudd was chosen by 55 percent as the best choice to lead
the government, while Gillard had 38 percent support in the
survey of 1,400 people taken from April 14 to 16. The poll had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  “I am absolutely delighted to be the foreign minister of
Australia,” Rudd said when asked if he planned to contest the
party leadership again. “It’s a very full job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Sydney at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  