-- 
Australian Westpac Leading Index Advanced 0.4% in February

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-20T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/australian-westpac-leading-index-advanced-0-4-in-february.html
An Australian index of leading
economic indicators climbed in February, driven by a stronger
labor market as the nation undergoes a mining investment boom, a
private report showed.  The index, a gauge of future economic growth, rose 0.4
percent from a month earlier to 282.2,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
the Melbourne Institute said in Sydney today. The index grew at
an annual rate of 4.7 percent in February, after gaining 4.8
percent in January. Overtime worked added 1.2 percentage points.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens has held  interest rates 
at 4.75 percent for four straight meetings after seven increases
in the overnight cash rate target from October 2009 to November
last year. Inflation is consistent with the central bank’s goal
and the currency’s strength is helping ease prices pressures,
Stevens said in a statement released after the latest decision.  “The mining boom and the surge in the terms of trade have
given a huge boost to national incomes and the risk is that this
boost shows up in rising wages and employment,”  Bill Evans ,
Westpac’s chief economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “With
the  unemployment rate  already below the  Reserve Bank ’s
assessment of full employment and the lead indicators pointing
to ongoing strength in jobs growth the bank will be most
sensitive to labor market pressures.”  Australian employers added more workers than economists
forecast in March, led by hiring in the mineral- and energy-rich
states of  Western Australia  and Queensland.  The number of people employed rose by 37,800, rebounding
from a decline of 8,600 in February, a government report showed
April 7. The jobless rate fell to 4.9 percent, matching a two-
year low set in December.  Westpac’s leading index tracks eight gauges of activity,
including company profits and productivity, to give an
indication of how the economy will perform over the next three
to nine months.  The coincident index, a measure of the current state of the
economy, rose 0.2 percent to 267.4 in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  