-- 
Budget Deal Forcing More Taxes, Spending Cuts Circulates in U.S. Congress

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-04-20T14:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/lawmakers-weigh-club-in-the-closet-u-s-deficit-cutting-plan-for-targets.html
Senate and House members, seeking
to break an impasse over curbing the nation’s debt, are looking
at a “club in the closet” mechanism that would force
Republicans to agree to tax increases and Democrats to accept
cuts to entitlement programs.  Proposals being circulated among the bipartisan “Gang of
Six” Senate negotiators, and about 20 other lawmakers in both
chambers, would set deficit-cutting targets, according to people
familiar with the plan. They would impose automatic, across-the-
board spending reductions and higher taxes if Congress failed to
meet the goals.  Such plans -- dubbed save-as-you-go, or Savego in one
version -- contrast with the immediate spending cuts House
Republican freshmen are demanding.  “The enforcement mechanism is key to striking a deal,”
said  Bob Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition, a
group that promotes balanced budgets. That’s because Republicans
are worried Democrats will never accept entitlement-benefit
cuts, while Democrats doubt that Republicans would agree to tax
increases, he said.  The imperative to reach an agreement gained urgency this
week when  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on notice
that it risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers
agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the
national debt.  Debt Limit  Lawmakers are up against a more immediate deadline, with
the government projected to reach its debt limit by mid-May,
though the Treasury could use emergency measures to avoid
default until early July. To get an agreement to raise the
limit, lawmakers may have to settle for broad targets instead of
a full overhaul of entitlements and taxes.  The Obama administration has signaled general support for
the Savego concept.  Yesterday, Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  called for a
version of the plan, saying Congress and the administration need
a framework for cutting budget deficits with “enforceable
limits” on debt.  Last week, President  Barack Obama  urged Congress to pass a
“debt failsafe” that would trigger spending cuts and tax
increases if  U.S. debt  didn’t stabilize by 2014. Unlike Savego,
his proposal wouldn’t apply to Social Security, Medicare and
programs for low-income Americans.  ‘Strict Limitations’  Republicans are also speaking about setting spending
limits. While traveling today in  Riga ,  Latvia , Senator Jon Kyl
of  Arizona , the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, said it is possible
“some strict limitations on how much money we can spend in the
future, some procedural constraints” will have to be imposed on
Congress as part of the debt ceiling vote.  The Savego plan to trigger automatic cuts was written by
the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington . The co-chairwoman of
the group’s debt-reduction task force is Alice Rivlin, former
President  Bill Clinton ’s budget director who served on Obama’s
fiscal commission last year. Her co-chairman is Republican
former Senator Pete Domenici of  New Mexico , a former Senate
Budget Committee chairman.  The Gang of Six senators is considering a new set of
spending cuts, in addition to those approved for this year, on
top of deficit reduction targets, according to four people
familiar with their deliberations. The group, three Republicans
and three Democrats, is led by Democrat Mark Warner of Virginia
and Republican Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia .  Past enforcement mechanisms, including the 1985 Gramm-
Rudman-Hollings law that created deficit-reduction targets,
failed because Congress ignored them, said Donald Marron,
director of the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington.  ‘Ticking Clock’  Still, the debt ceiling vote is a “ticking clock out there
that we’re going to need things to attach to” on cutting the
deficit, Marron said.  Unlike Republican proposals that focus solely on spending
cuts, the proposals under discussion include revenue increases
that Democrats say must be part of any bipartisan effort.  The enforcement mechanism is “a club in the closet,
something that will happen if you don’t do what you’re supposed
to do” in controlling deficits, said John Spratt, a former
House member from  South Carolina  who was chairman of that
chamber’s Budget Committee.  “Otherwise, it would be too easy to abandon if it got
politically tough” to enact spending cuts and tax increases,
said Spratt, a Democrat who also served on Obama’s bipartisan
fiscal commission.  Manchin  With Republicans and some Democrats like Senator  Joe Manchin  of West  Virginia  insisting on deficit-reduction measures
in exchange for increasing the debt limit, a plan to enforce
spending and revenue targets may be the best lawmakers can do in
a short time frame, Marron said.  “It would be difficult to have large-scale budget policy
changes in place in time to tie them to a debt-limit increase,”
said Marron. “It may be more straightforward to come up with
budget process reforms like a trigger.”  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to more than $9 trillion from about $4.3
trillion in mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of about 7 percent since 1980 and the average of 5.48
percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a
budget surplus, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-Year Yields  Ten-year yields increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.40 percent at 8:18 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Overhauling  tax policy  and Medicare, and cutting defense
spending, could take two to three years, said Dave Kendall,
senior fellow for health and fiscal policy at Third Way, a
Democratic policy group.  “There’s just too much work to be done,” he said. “You
have to have a placeholder for these major reforms.”  Second-ranking Senate Democrat Richard Durbin of  Illinois ,
a member of the Gang of Six, said Republicans have the upper
hand in setting the fiscal debate terms in the Senate, where
Democrats have a 53-47 working majority.  Republicans’ strong party discipline and Tea Party strain
make it more likely that they would persuade 13 Democrats to
join them to get 60 votes on budget issues than that Democrats
would win over seven Republicans, Durbin said at an April 13
Bloomberg Breakfast.  Medicare and Medicaid  The Bipartisan Policy Center plan calls for reducing
health-care costs, including spending on Medicare and Medicaid.
If Congress fails to act, those programs would be subject to
automatic cuts. Social Security would also receive automatic
cuts unless Congress made revisions to put it on a course for
solvency.  In health care, two-fifths of any savings would come from
raising Medicare Part B premiums or other options; one-fifth by
reducing Medicaid payments to states, and two-fifths from
capping the exclusion for employer-sponsored insurance.  Tax increases would occur by raising rates across the
board, by reducing tax credits or deductions by as much as half
of their value in a given year, or by a combination of the two.  “We expect a lot of inquiries when members return” next
month from the congressional recess, said Steve Bell, a
Bipartisan Policy Center director and longtime Domenici aide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  