-- 
Tax Cut on Multiple Home Purchases May Spark Investment in U.K.

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tax-cut-on-multiple-home-purchases-may-spark-investment-in-u-k-.html
Tax changes planned by the U.K.
government may encourage investment funds to become residential
landlords, promoting development and alleviating a housing
shortage,  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)  said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month
announced plans to lower the stamp duty tax on for buyers of
multiple residential properties by basing the rate on the
average price of the properties rather than the total value of
the purchase. The government’s aim is to remove a barrier to
large-scale investment, a Treasury spokesman said.  “That would add more fat to the bone and allow investors
to take property off developers hands more easily and get the
returns they require,” said Chris Lacey, director of
residential development planning at CBRE, the world’s biggest
real-estate adviser. Lacey is advising Aviva Plc, Britain’s
largest insurer, on a 1 billion-pound ($1.63 billion) fund
focused on the private rental market.  Institutional investors own about  3.76 million apartments 
in the U.S., according to CBRE, compared with virtually none in
the 500 billion-pound U.K. residential rental market. The
financial crisis prompted British banks to curtail mortgage
lending, reducing the number of individual buyers, slowing
development and prompting more people to rent.  “The changes could make residential property in the U.K.
an international asset class, as it is in northern Europe and
the U.S.,” said Nick Jopling, property director at  Grainger
Plc (GRI) , Britain’s largest publicly traded residential landlord.  Homebuilder Boost  Britain’s homebuilders would benefit most from the tax
change because institutional investors such as pension funds and
insurers tend to prefer new properties, which can be purchased
in blocks in a single location, according to Lacey. They also
tend to be of higher quality and require less maintenance.  Homebuilding in Britain traditionally has been fueled by
companies taking on debt to build projects and then selling
properties to individuals. Institutions could fill a gap left by
the decline in mortgages with bulk purchases of properties on
new projects, Lacey said.  “We would expect the percentage that we sell to the
investor market to increase,” Mark Clare, chief executive
officer of homebuilder  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , said in an
interview in  London . “Institutional investors would buy housing
schemes and then rent them out on a very professional basis.”  Aviva’s investment arm in talks with “a number of
parties” about developing the residential investment vehicle
and has been “very encouraged” at the level of investor
interest, spokeswoman Laura Cocker said by e-mail.  Government Initiative  The U.K. government has tried to attract large funds to the
housing market for the last two years through the Homes and
Communities Agency’s  Private Rented Sector Initiative . Although
the agency hasn’t dedicated a lot of resources to the program,
the effort helped raise awareness about the potential returns to
be made, Lacey said.  The five-year average total return for residential property
is about 6.8 percent, according to research company Investment
Property Databank. That compares with 1.8 percent for commercial
property. The lower-risk financing provided by institutional
investors may persuade developers to offer discounts on bulk
property purchases, CBRE’s Lacey said.  Stamp duty is based on the price paid for a home. The tax
is zero for purchases of 125,000 pounds or lower, 1 percent
above that level to 250,000 pounds, 3 percent up to 500,000
pounds, 4 percent to 1 million pounds and 5 percent above that.  Lower Rates  Currently, the buyer  of one 150,000-pound home would pay
tax on 1 percent of the property’s value, or 1,500 pounds, while
an investor acquiring six homes at 150,000 pounds each would pay
4 percent on a 900,000 pound purchase, according to accounting
firm  KPMG  LLP. Under the planned tax change, a bulk buyer would
pay 1 percent on the six homes, or 9,000 pounds, a saving of
27,000 pounds. A minimum of 1 percent will be charged on all
bulk purchases.  The government is expected to provide more details on the
tax reduction “in the summer,” Lacey said. CBRE’s research
suggests institutions have allocated about 7.5 billion pounds
toward U.K. residential development and property investment,
including the private rental market, he said. About 73 percent
of U.K. residential investors own fewer than 10 units, with the
state accounting for most of the rest.  London-based property broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  anticipates a
shortage of 1.1 million properties in  England  by 2016 and 1.7
million by 2029, with more than a quarter of it being in London
and the southeast of England.  Institutional investment will do little to reduce the
shortfall outside London, said Mike Farley, chief executive
officer of  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the U.K.’s third-biggest homebuilder
by volume.  London Only  “It’s a specialist inner-London market,” Farley said by
telephone. “If you’re trying to look at that across the
country, the returns don’t work.”  The planned tax change is “an important step in leveling
the playing field between investors and owner-occupiers and will
remove a significant barrier to more widespread institutional
and corporate investment in let properties,” said Roger Hepher,
head of planning for Savills.  Some are not convinced. “The government’s approach has
largely been to tinker at the edges rather than to substantially
reduce or eliminate a tax which is seen as a real impediment on
the U.K.’s ability to compete in a global real estate market,”
Richard White, U.K. head of real estate at KPMG, said in March.  Fund Skeptical  “Would reducing stamp tax change the general appetite for
institutional investment in residential, where traditionally,
there hasn’t been any? I think probably not,” said Simon
Redman, head of  product management  in  Europe  for Invesco Real
Estate. He cited “extremely low” yields compared with
commercial property, leases are shorter and management fees that
are “very high.”  Dallas-based Investco Real Estate owns U.S. residential
properties including the 166-unit Elektra apartment building in
 Manhattan , which it agreed to buy in February.  More people are choosing to rent a home rather than buying
one, especially young professionals and people who prefer to be
flexible in their living arrangements, according to Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the  Royal Institute of Chartered
Surveyors . The number of renters has grown by 500,000 since 2006
and now represents about 14 percent of all households in
England, according to CBRE, the world’s biggest real estate
consultant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  