-- 
BAE Helps Bridge Future Skills Gap as Graduates Shun Science

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-04-20T15:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bae-helps-bridge-future-skills-gap-as-graduates-shun-science.html
BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, is looking to help bridge gaps in U.K. skills
as the country may face a looming shortage of workers with
training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.  While the company’s apprenticeship plan is oversubscribed,
there may not be enough job-seekers with the needed skills in
the future, Nigel Whitehead, BAE’s managing director of programs
and support, said in a presentation in London today.  “If you look at the number of people coming through
science, technology, engineering and mathematics subjects at
university, there’s probably not enough to actually meet the
needs of the economy in the long term,” Whitehead said. “We
are concerned that there will be skills gaps and as a large
company we’ve tried to fill those gaps.”  BAE has as many as 1,000 employees on its apprenticeship
plan in the U.K., according to its  website . It recruits about
300 per year at locations from Portsmouth to Glasgow. The
company accepts apprentices to train for roles such as
electrician, designer and welder at businesses from ship
building to warplane making.  The U.K. Commission for Employment and Skills said in a
2010  report  the proportion of undergraduates taking science,
technology, engineering and mathematics-related courses is
declining.  The company is “picking the very best” applicants for its
recruitment programs, Whitehead said. “I wouldn’t say there’s a
drop-off in skills. If anything, it’s going the other way.”  Security restrictions mean that British nationals are
needed to work on certain projects, he said, making it difficult
to draw workers with the required skills from abroad.  If skilled people aren’t found in the future, the London-
based company could ultimately build more sites abroad, BAE
Chief Executive Officer Ian King said at today’s event.  “I think what we could do is allocate our resources of
capital to other markets if we found there was a restriction on
our ability to get skills in the U.K.” said King. “We are a
global company and we allocate capital as appropriate to the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  