-- 
Bajaj Allianz Says Inflation ‘Key Risk’ to India Earnings Growth

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-04-20T09:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bajaj-allianz-says-inflation-key-risk-to-india-earnings-growth.html
Sampath Reddy, who manages $6.7
billion in stocks as chief investment officer for equities at
Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., comments on the outlook for
Indian stocks.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
for a second day, climbing 1.8 percent to 19.462.26, after the
weather bureau predicted normal monsoon rainfall.  Reddy spoke in an interview with Bloomberg-UTV in Mumbai.  On stocks outlook:  “The rally in March and early April was pretty sharp and
driven mainly by foreign flows. We need to give some time for
investors to adjust for valuations and the kind of rally we have
seen. In the last three to four months, earnings have been
getting downgraded. I continue to think that earnings will get
downgraded in the next three to four months also. In that
context, the markets will stabilize here before they move up
further. We need to give some time for this level to sustain and
valuations to readjust.”  On concerns:  “The immediate concern is oil. This is going to put
pressure on overall inflation and cost structure of companies
and lower earnings. The government will certainly increase the
price of petrol and diesel after the state elections get over.  ‘‘The current inflation is on the higher side. At this
level of inflation, I think  interest rates  will continue to go
up. That would be the key risk to the earnings growth and the
overall cost of capital moving up.  ‘‘Industrial production growth is not a very healthy
indicator. That needs to improve. Inflation is very high and the
IIP growth is not that exciting. So, from that perspective we
need to be a little cautious with markets.’’  On bank shares:  ‘‘We continue to be bullish on the banking sector. The
credit growth for the last year has been good at 22 percent. The
earnings numbers are telling us there’s pretty good growth and
the asset quality is improving. Banking will continue to do well
on the back of good growth. The valuations are reasonable,
especially in the public sector banks. We also like the larger
private sector banks at current levels.’’  On software shares:  ‘‘We are overweight on the technology sector, but  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  result was disappointing. We would relook at
the growth outlook for the sector.’’  On pharmaceutical and consumer shares:  ‘‘We have been overweight on these defensive sectors for
two years. The growth continues to be very good in the domestic
markets. Growth in fast-moving consumer goods is also picking up
as consumption and income levels are rising.’’  On automobile shares:  ‘‘It’s one of fastest-growing manufacturing sector. Strong
growth in rural and personal incomes is driving growth. We are
also bullish on other  consumer durables  such as manufacturers of
refrigerators and air-conditioners.’’  On infrastructure companies:  ‘‘We’re underweight on infrastructure and power companies.
There’s too much competition and margins are under pressure.
Defensive sectors are going to be our bets, both pharmaceutical
and fast-moving  consumer goods . We’re looking at the telecom
sector seriously. It’s close to a turnaround in terms of average
revenue per user and margins. Demand for cement in the current
year will be pretty good. It’s one sector we will look at in the
current financial year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  