-- 
Banks Lag S&P as Slow Loan Growth Eclipses Higher Dividends

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-04-20T14:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/banks-lag-s-p-as-slower-loan-growth-overshadows-higher-dividends.html
Bank stocks are underperforming the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, even after Federal Reserve stress
tests showed some financial institutions have regained enough
strength to boost dividends and buy back their shares.  Sluggish loan growth and increased costs from new
regulations plague the industry, according to  Paul Miller , a
former examiner for the Fed Bank of Philadelphia and a bank
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. He
maintains a “neutral-to-negative” outlook for the sector.  “I don’t think we’ll get enough economic growth to spur
strong loan demand, which is the primary revenue-driver,” he
said. “Some investors are concerned the economy will just slug
around for the next three or four more years.”  The  Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF) , an exchange-traded
fund that tracks the largest financial companies, has lagged
behind the  S&P 500  since April 14, 2010, off 15.7 percent as of
10:30 a.m. today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
hitting a new 52-week low on a relative basis.  The fund outpaced the S&P 500 by 1.2 percent on March 18,
when at least 13 lenders announced whether they had passed the
tests and disclosed about $17.7 billion in common-stock buybacks
and $5.94 billion of annualized dividend increases. The gain was
nearly reversed the following trading day, as the ETF
underperformed the S&P by 1.1 percent. Since March 18, it has
trailed by 5.6 percent as of 10:30 a.m., even though the tests
provided “generally encouraging results” for shareholders,
said  Jason Goldberg , a senior analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New
York.  ‘Positive Catalyst’  “We had expected the Fed’s review to be more of a positive
catalyst for bank stocks, but investors are more concerned with
disappointing revenue growth, driven by weak loan activity and
falling house prices,” Goldberg said.  Bank lending rose 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010
from the third quarter, below the historical average of 2
percent for October-December, based on Fed data. Goldberg
projects the total fell 3 percent in the first quarter from the
fourth; the average for the period is a 0.7 percent increase.  Prices for existing houses fell for eight consecutive
months before rising by 2.3 percent in March, according to the
National Association of Realtors in  Chicago .  These are symptoms of an economy that’s “not able to
sustain much accelerated forward momentum,” according to Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities in New York. He
forecasts the U.S. will expand at an annual rate of 2.5 percent
this year, compared with the median forecast of 2.9 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, which matches last year’s 2.9
percent pace.  ‘Need to Restructure’  “The need to restructure balance sheets by banks and
consumers leaves the economy subject to risk,” he said.  Real-estate markets for single-family homes were, “for the
most part,” either “little changed from low levels or
continued to weaken” across all the Fed’s 12 districts,
according to the central bank’s  Beige Book  report released April
13. Loan demand was “unchanged or up slightly” in most
districts, the report said.  The financial ETF has continued to underperform the S&P 500
even after better-than-expected first-quarter results from New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second
and third largest U.S. banks by assets. JPMorgan Chase said
April 13 that profits rose to a second straight record;
Citigroup announced earnings on April 18 that beat analysts’
estimates.  Fed Rejection  First-quarter net income at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
largest U.S. lender, fell 36 percent, missing analysts’
forecasts on what Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said
April 15 were “one-time” charges and as revenue from  consumer
banking  slipped. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company
didn’t receive Fed approval to increase dividend payouts. After
the rejection, it announced plans to re-apply for an increase in
the second half of this year.  Even though investors may view the industry’s results as
“mixed,” most of the financial institutions reporting so far
have beaten estimates, which supports Deutsche Bank AG’s
“overweight” rating for the sector, according to Bankim Chadha, chief U.S. equity strategist.  “Considerable growth potential exists, particularly as
loan growth eventually turns,” Chadha said.  While banks wait for loan volume to rebound, they’re
adapting to the new regulations, which include limits on
proprietary trading and on the fees they can charge customers.
These higher compliance costs exacerbate the economic pressures
they already face, Miller said.  “Banks are a macro play, so for them to outperform,
investors need more confidence that the economy can grow more
than 3 percent,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  