-- 
Banks Await Foreclosure Deal’s Financial Terms as States Split

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-20T18:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/banks-await-foreclosure-deal-s-financial-terms-as-states-split.html
Attorneys general  negotiating the
settlement of a nationwide foreclosure investigation have yet to
approach banks with a proposed dollar amount that would fund
principal reductions for borrowers, a state official said.  The states have agreed on some terms while failing so far
to reach an accord on monetary payments by lenders, a person
familiar with the talks said last week. Eight Republican
attorneys general have publicly challenged the concept of
principal reductions as part of a 50-state settlement.  Last month, state officials and federal agencies, including
the Justice Department, submitted settlement terms to five
mortgage servicers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  They called for a “substantial portion” of an
unspecified monetary amount to go toward a loan modification
program.  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli and six other
Republican attorneys general assailed the proposal as
overreaching, with four calling principal reduction a “moral
hazard.”  “You’re declaring in advance who the winners and losers
are,” Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said in an interview
yesterday. “I’m a little concerned that this process disengages
the normal market forces.”  Oklahoma  Plan  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt is seeking an
alternative settlement with banks that respects “the
appropriate role of attorneys general,” his office said in a
statement today. The settlement could be a model for other
states, Pruitt said.  The six-month probe by the states was triggered by claims
of faulty foreclosure practices following the housing collapse,
which state officials said may violate their laws. Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a
Democrat who leads the investigation, said in an interview that
the states haven’t presented a dollar figure to the banks,
declining further comment.  Another person familiar with the talks said state
negotiators are discussing what form a financial component may
take, and that there will be no settlement without a monetary
payment. The person, who declined to be identified because the
talks are private, said it may take four months to reach a deal.  Five Banks  Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial  Inc. are the five companies involved in
the talks with the 50 states.  In his March 22 letter to Miller, Cuccinelli said the
settlement proposal, or term sheet, given the five lenders
“appears to reach well beyond the scope of our enforcement
role, and, in some instances, far exceeds the scope of the
misconduct which was the subject of our original
investigation.”  The letter was also signed by  Greg Abbott  of  Texas , Pam Bondi of  Florida  and Alan Wilson of  South Carolina . The
attorneys general of Oklahoma,  Alabama  and  Nebraska  sent Miller
a letter with their objections March 16.  The proposal to reduce homebuyers’ loans “rewards those
who simply choose not to pay their mortgage,” some of the
attorneys general told Miller.  Last month, mortgage servicers agreed with U.S. banking
regulators to a series of reforms, including conducting a review
of loans that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010 and
improving procedures for modifying loans and seizing homes.  Set Requirements  The 50 states and the  Justice Department  seek to set
requirements for how banks service loans and conduct home
foreclosures.  Any state agreement with servicers or banks on principal
reductions will depend on the size of the writedowns, the
incentives for the servicers built into the settlement and other
details, which continue to be sorted out, said the first person
familiar with the negotiations.  “Our position has been that principal reductions are one
tool in the toolbox, and should only be used in appropriate
circumstances,” Iowa’s Miller said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We have never advocated broad-based principal
reductions that would pick winners and losers or trigger
strategic defaults.”  Miller has said that the states and the banks have “a long
way to go” to reach an agreement.  Not in Accord  Though not in accord on financial penalties or loan
reductions, significant progress has been made on other
settlement terms, said that person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Agreements in
principle have been reached on several issues, said the person,
who didn’t specify the areas of accord as they may change as
talks proceed.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for  New York- 
based JPMorgan, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  In a speech to a group of attorneys general earlier this
month, Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan
said “broad-based” principal reductions aren’t “a sound
policy decision for America.”  “Fairness is a major concern,” he said, according to the
prepared  text  of the speech. “It’s hard to see how we could
justify reducing principal for many delinquent customers who
represent a small portion of borrowers, but not for the vast
majority of our customers who have stayed current on their
loans.”  Regulator Agreements  In their agreements earlier this month, federal banking
regulators including the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency said the “consent decrees” entered into with the 14
banks won’t prevent them from issuing fines later.  In addition to Bank of America and JPMorgan, also taking
part in those agreements were San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
New York-based Citigroup, the GMAC unit of Detroit-based Ally
Financial, Aurora Bank FSB, EverBank Financial Corp., HSBC
Holdings Plc, OneWest, MetLife Inc.,  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign Bank, SunTrust Banks Inc., and US Bancorp.  Iowa’s Miller said earlier this month that the state effort
to reach a nationwide agreement would continue “unabated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  