-- 
Bankers Should Hold Bonus Shares for Six Months, FSA Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-21T10:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bankers-should-hold-bonus-shares-for-six-months-u-k-s-fsa-says.html
Bankers should hold on to shares
awarded upfront as part of a bonus for a minimum of six months
before selling them, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  The FSA is clarifying bonus guidelines introduced in
December and is seeking input on them from banks. The agency
applied the guidelines from the European Union to its revised
bonus rules and separated financial firms into four groups based
on their size.  “The proposed guidance provides greater clarity regarding
an appropriate retention period,” the FSA said yesterday in a
 statement  on its website. “We do not believe this will lead to
material additional costs to firms.”  EU regulators approved laws to curb incentives for
excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash payouts
and the size of bankers’ bonuses. As much as 60 percent of a
bonus payout for risk-takers and senior managers must be
deferred for three years, and half of the remaining amount must
be in the form of shares.  Tax on bonuses should be deducted before the payment is
split into cash and shares to avoid the cash part being totally
consumed by income tax, the agency said.  The clarification “will prevent the rules from operating
in a significantly more onerous way than firms may have
interpreted,” the FSA said. “Without a net of tax application,
an employee’s upfront cash bonus may be entirely exhausted in
paying the tax.”  ‘Unjustifiable Levels’  The European Union may take further action to restrict
banker bonuses, the region’s financial services commissioner
said last week, adding that measures were needed to prevent
payouts at “unjustifiable levels.”  “I am very concerned and I will be taking action about
bonuses,”  Michel Barnier  said at the European Parliament in
Brussels on April 13. “There is no justification for such
bonuses when 10 percent of Europeans are unemployed.”  Barnier will evaluate how well these measures are being
implemented across the EU and discuss possible further rules
with finance ministers from the region as well as the Group of
20 nations.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  announced last month that it was awarding its
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  a 6.5 million-pound
($10.8 million) bonus, pushing his total compensation to
10.1 million pounds and making him the U.K.’s top-paid bank CEO.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the U.K.’s biggest
government-controlled bank, gave CEO  Stephen Hester  and eight
top executives shares valued at about 28 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 