-- 
Galleon, Madoff, Berkshire Hathaway, BP in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-20T11:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/berkshire-hathaway-madoff-credit-industriel-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi
Goffer , accused of leading one of three insider-trading rings
that are the subject of a U.S. probe, pleaded not guilty to new
federal charges in an amended indictment.  Goffer and his brother Emanuel Goffer, along with Craig
Drimal and Michael Kimelman, yesterday entered not guilty pleas
to the new indictment filed by the U.S. on April 7.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in  New York  granted
defense lawyers’ request for a one-week delay in the trial,
which was originally set to begin May 9. The attorneys said they
needed time to review evidence because of the new charges.  “I’m not persuaded that a lengthy adjournment is
appropriate,” Sullivan told the lawyers, some whom asked for a
two-month delay. “It seems an awful lot of what happens in
trial preparation happens in the month before trial.”  Prosecutors filed a superseding indictment against five
defendants. All the defendants were traders, except for Jason
Goldfarb, who is a lawyer. Sullivan said Goldfarb wasn’t in
court yesterday because of a religious observance.  The indictment added new charges of securities fraud
against Zvi Goffer, who now faces two counts of conspiracy and
12 counts of securities fraud. It also removed as defendants
 David Plate , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, and
Arthur Cutillo, who was a lawyer at the firm Ropes & Gray LLP.
Plate pleaded guilty in July while Cutillo pleaded guilty Jan.
14.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Banks Await Foreclosure Deal’s Financial Terms as States Split  Attorneys general negotiating the settlement of a
nationwide foreclosure investigation have yet to approach banks
with a proposed dollar amount that would fund principal
reductions for borrowers, a state official said.  The states have agreed on some terms while failing so far
to reach an accord on monetary payments by lenders, a person
familiar with the talks said last week. Eight Republican
attorneys general have publicly challenged the concept of
principal reductions as part of a 50-state settlement.  Last month, officials representing the state probe and the
Justice Department submitted settlement terms to five mortgage
servicers, including Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  They called for a “substantial portion” of an unspecified
monetary amount to go toward a loan modification program.
Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli and six other
Republican attorneys general assailed the proposal as an
overreach of state power, with four calling principal reduction
a “moral hazard.”  “You’re declaring in advance who the winners and losers
are,” Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said in an interview
yesterday. “I’m a little concerned that this process disengages
the normal market forces.”  The six-month probe was triggered by claims of faulty
foreclosure practices following the housing collapse, which
state officials said may violate their laws. Geoff Greenwood, a
spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a Democrat who
leads the investigation, said in an interview that the states
haven’t presented a dollar figure to the banks, declining
further comment.  Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc. are the five companies involved in
the talks with the 50 states.  For more, click here.  Madoff Investors’ Lawsuit Against U.S. Dismissed by Court  Two of Bernard L. Madoff’s investors lost their bid to sue
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for allegedly gross
negligent oversight in its failure to uncover his almost $20
billion fraud scheme.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York
yesterday threw out the 2009 lawsuit by investors Phyllis
Molchatsky and Steven Schneider which claimed the SEC failed to
detect and end the scheme.  “Plaintiffs have identified no statutory or regulatory
provision that suggests the existence of prescriptive rules for
the conduct of SEC investigations,” Swain said in a 28-page
ruling, adding “there is no reason to believe that information
concerning any such duties would not be publicly available.”  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence for running the
fraud through his New York-based Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Molchatsky, a disabled retiree and single mother who claims
she lost $1.7 million in the fraud, and Schneider, a doctor who
said he lost almost $753,000, filed the lawsuit under the
Federal Tort Claims Act in October 2009 after the SEC denied
their administrative claims.  The U.S. asked the court to dismiss the case, claiming the
government are immune from suits because the SEC has discretion
in deciding who to investigate and how to conduct its queries.  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment on the court’s ruling. Plaintiffs’ lawyer Howard
Elisofon of New York-based Herrick Feinstein LLP, did not
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  The case is Molchatsky vs. U.S., 1:09-cv-08697, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Online Poker Alleged Payment Processor Pleads Not Guilty  A Las Vegas man who allegedly acted as a payment processor
for online poker companies pleaded not guilty in New York
federal court to bank fraud and illegal gambling charges.  Chad Elie, 31, entered the plea before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Frank Maas to nine counts, including conspiracy to violate
the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act and conspiracy to
commit bank fraud and wire fraud. Wire fraud alone carries a
maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine.  “Client pleads not guilty, intends to aggressively
defend,” his attorney, William Cowden of Mallon & McCool in
 Washington , told reporters after yesterday’s proceeding. Asked
why he surrendered Elie’s 500-gigabyte hard drive to
prosecutors, Cowden replied, “Don’t want to waste any time with
the government.”  Elie was one of 11 people charged on April 15 in a revised
indictment against the founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker
and Absolute Poker.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, the three companies worked around the ban to continue
operating in the U.S.  Elie is one of a group of people accused of serving as
“payment processors” for the poker companies and lying to U.S.
banks about the nature of the financial transactions they were
processing, according to the indictment.  He was released yesterday on a $250,000 bond secured by
$50,000 cash to be paid by three people, including his wife,
Destiny Davis, who was in court yesterday. He is scheduled for
his next appearance before U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan
on May 11.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett, Sokol Sued Over Lubrizol Profit  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and Chief Executive Officer  Warren
Buffett  were sued by a shareholder over trades in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) 
by former Berkshire manager  David Sokol .  Berkshire investor Mason Kirby, suing to recover damages
for the company, contends that Sokol, also a defendant, hurt the
firm by taking a stake in Lubrizol before recommending to
Buffett that Berkshire buy the company, according to papers made
public yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “Sokol knew that Buffett would closely consider and likely
take his recommendation,” Kirby said. “As a result of Sokol’s
unethical behavior, Berkshire suffered significant reputational
losses and other damages.”  Sokol bought 96,060 shares of Lubrizol in early January
before recommending that Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire acquire
the company, Buffett said in a March statement announcing
Sokol’s resignation.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Ann Thelen, a spokeswoman for Berkshire’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co., where Sokol remains  chairman  until April
21, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment from Sokol.  The case is Kirby v. Sokol, CA6392, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  BP Sued by Gulf Well Partner Moex Over Blow-Out,  Oil Spill   Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, a 10 percent partner
with  BP Plc (BP/)  in the blown-out Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
sued BP for economic losses as a result of the project’s failure
and the spill that followed.  Moex, claiming BP broke its partnership agreement, asked a
federal judge in New Orleans to declare it isn’t responsible for
damages and cleanup costs resulting from the worst off-shore oil
spill in U.S. history. Moex said London-based BP was responsible
for the blow-out and the spill.  “BP’s conduct was the proximate cause of foreseeable
damage suffered by Moex Offshore, including claims made against
it for liability for death, personal injury, cleanup costs,
economic loss, loss of investment, lost profits and any damages
or fines assessed in pending or future proceedings involving the
spill,” Moex said in a court filing yesterday.  Moex, saying it had no fault in the blow-out and spill,
also accused  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the rig that drilled
the Macondo well, of gross negligence. Switzerland-based
Transocean was responsible along with BP for the damages,
according to the unit of Tokyo-based Mitsui.  BP has said it expects its minority partners in the damaged
well to pay their share of billions of dollars in cleanup costs,
oil-spill damages and pollution fines. Moex and  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which had a 25 percent stake in the well, deny
having any decision-making role or prior knowledge of the way BP
operated the drilling project.  “No evidence exists to support a claim of gross negligence
against Transocean,” Brian Kennedy, a spokesman for the
drilling company, said in an e-mail.  “Moex’s filing contains a number of specific allegations
against BP that are not supported by fact or by law,”  Daren
Beaudo , a BP spokesman, said in an e-mail. “BP will respond to
the complaint in a timely manner.”  The case is part of In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  U.S. High Court Signals Rejection of Climate Change Suits  The U.S. Supreme Court signaled it is poised to throw out a
state lawsuit that seeks to force five companies including
American Electric Power Co. to cut their emissions of gases that
contribute to climate change.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, justices across
the ideological spectrum said the Environmental Protection
Agency was better equipped than a federal court would be to sort
through the costs and benefits of reducing carbon emissions.  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said the states are seeking to
turn a federal trial judge into a “super EPA,” questioning
whether the judge would be able to determine whether to cap
carbon output.  “That just sounds to me like what EPA does when it sets
emissions standards,” Ginsburg said.  The Obama administration is joining the power industry in
urging rejection of the suit. The other defendants include  Xcel
Energy Inc. (XEL) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Southern Co. (SO) , and the
government-owned Tennessee Valley Authority.  The case is American Electric Power v. Connecticut, 10-174,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Industriel Client Wins New Trial for Suit  Credit Industriel & Commercial’s dispute with a former
 Singapore  client over a S$6.4 million ($5.1 million) debt must
be resolved in a new trial after additional evidence came to
light, a judge  ruled .  CIC, as the unit of France’s Groupe Credit Mutuel is known,
won a judgment in May when then Judicial Commissioner Philip
Pillai ruled Teo Wai Cheong didn’t pay for investments known as
accumulators in 2008. Teo had denied he gave instructions to his
banker, Ng Su Ming, to buy the products.  Singapore’s court of appeal ordered CIC to disclose
internal communications and transcripts of phone conversations
that Ng had with Teo and other clients, who may have disputed
giving instructions to buy the accumulators, Chief Justice Chan
Sek Keong said in an April 11 ruling, made available yesterday.  “Amongst the newly disclosed documents are documents
relevant to determining whether Teo was telling the truth in
denying that he gave instructions to Ng, or what kind of
instructions he gave to Ng,” Chan wrote. “A fresh trial is the
better solution.”  Accumulators commit investors to buy stocks at preset
prices for a specified period of time.  Pillai had ruled that a private bank doesn’t act as a
trusted adviser when, as in this case, the contract specifically
states that the client is responsible for transaction risks.  The case is Teo Wai Cheong v. Credit Industriel &
Commercial CA99/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Former Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas Guilty of Conspiracy, Fraud  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was found guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and
bank, wire and securities fraud in what prosecutors said was a
$3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  A federal jury in Alexandria, Virginia, yesterday returned
the verdict after one day of deliberations. Farkas, who was free
during the trial, was taken into custody. He faces a maximum
sentence of 30 years on the conspiracy and bank-fraud charges
and 20 years or more on the wire-fraud and securities-fraud
counts when he’s sentenced on July 1.  Prosecutors said Farkas, 58, orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S. that duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Prosecutors spent eight days laying out the allegations for
jurors. The government called 23 witnesses, including officials
at Freddie Mac,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  Six
of those who testified were former colleagues or associates of
Farkas who had pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges.  Farkas used Taylor Bean as his own “personal piggy-bank”
and stole more than $30 million from the company he built to buy
homes, cars, airplanes, restaurants and other side businesses,
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly during closing
arguments.  Farkas, who denied any wrongdoing, testified on his own
behalf and called two former Taylor Bean employees and a
forensic accountant in his defense.  William Cummings, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said the defense
team is disappointed with the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  J&J Judge Defers Risperdal Penalty Ruling in South Carolina  A South Carolina judge yesterday deferred a decision on the
penalties he will impose on a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit for
violating consumer-protection laws in a case in which the
attorney general seeks billions of dollars.  Circuit Judge Roger Couch ended a two-day hearing by saying
Attorney General Alan Wilson and lawyers for J&J’s Ortho-McNeil-
Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit had two more weeks to file written
arguments.  Jurors ruled March 22 that Janssen sent doctors a
misleading letter in 2003 on the safety and effectiveness of its
antipsychotic drug Risperdal. The panel also said the letter and
the drug’s package label violated the South Carolina Unfair
Trade Practices Act.  “I obviously have received a great deal of information,”
Couch said in the Court of Common Pleas in Spartanburg. “I’ll
report to you once I have my findings.”  Lawyers for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Janssen urged
Couch to impose minimal damages. They said the letter sent to
7,194 doctors in South Carolina wasn’t untrue, and that no
company had ever faced “substantial penalty” for a package
insert approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  “The question is whether anybody was hurt,” Janssen
lawyer Edward Posner argued yesterday to the judge. “There’s no
evidence that anybody was deceived, or that a doctor, patient or
the state was harmed by the violation.”  An attorney for South Carolina, Donald Coggins, urged the
judge to impose the maximum penalty of $5,000 for each of
thousands of violations. Those violations, the state argues,
include as many as 722,000 Risperdal prescriptions written,
183,144 calls on doctors by Janssen sales representatives, and
496,565 sample boxes distributed.  The case is State of South Carolina v. Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, 2007-CP-42-1438, Circuit Court for Spartanburg
County, South Carolina (Spartanburg).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Madoff Trustee Charges $175 Million to Recover $7.6 Billion  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct
investment firm said he has recovered more than $7.6 billion for
investors in the Ponzi scheme against fees of $175.5 million
since Madoff’s arrest.  Irving Picard , who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking
money for the con man’s investors, said in February he was
halfway to recovering the $20 billion in principal lost when
Madoff was arrested in 2008. In a court filing April 18, he put
the recovery $2.4 billion lower. The difference is the amount of
forfeited funds held by the U.S. Attorney, which is being
disputed in court.  Picard gave the new numbers as part of a fee request to a
bankruptcy judge, seeking approval for $43.2 million for four
months’ work by himself and his law firm, New York-based Baker &
Hostetler LLP. Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined
to immediately comment.  Picard’s biggest recovery was a $7.2 billion settlement he
and U.S. prosecutors reached in December with the estate of
Jeffry Picower, a Madoff investor who died in 2009. Of that
amount, about $5 billion went to Picard, he said in the filing
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Recoveries could rise if Picard’s suits against feeder
funds succeed, the trustee said in March.  Picard’s law firm said it spent 7,086 hours on
investigations at a cost of $3.1 million from Oct. 1 to Jan. 31.
Administration consumed 7,033 hours, and cost $2.1 million. The
trustee’s case against JPMorgan Chase & Co. took 1,971 hours,
while a case against the owners of the New York Mets required
1,660 hours and customer claims took 4,837 hours, according to
the filing.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  