-- 
Berkshire Takes AIG Asbestos Risk in $1.65 Billion Deal

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-20T20:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/berkshire-gets-1-65-billion-in-aig-deal-as-buffett-takes-asbestos-risk.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  will get $1.65 billion from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  for assuming the risk of asbestos policies from the bailed-
out insurer.  The deal with Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s National
Indemnity will result in a deferred pretax gain of $200 million
this quarter, AIG said today in a statement.  Buffett, who oversees the largest reinsurer in the U.S.,
has assumed risks from XL Group Plc and  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA)  as
carriers have moved to simplify or limit liabilities. The deals
give Buffett, 80, funds to invest and the chance to profit if
claims are less than projected by underwriters.  “His acumen of  investment performance  is better than what
AIG could do,” said  Paul Howard , director of research at
Solstice Investment Research. “I think AIG loves to do it so
they can go to their regulators or the rating agencies and say,
‘Look how much liability we took off our books.’”  AIG, the worst performing stock in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index this year, climbed 23 cents to $32.35 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The taxpayer-owned
company is simplifying its liabilities as it prepares to replace
government capital with private investment. Berkshire advanced
1.4 percent to $122,472.  Buffett buys stocks and bonds and earns investment returns
with the accumulated premium, or float, collected by Berkshire’s
reinsurance units. National Indemnity agreed in July to assume
liabilities tied to asbestos and pollution claims from Chicago-
based CNA in exchange for a $2 billion fee.  Reducing Risk  Berkshire’s limit of liability on the Chartis deal is $3.5
billion, New York-based AIG said in a regulatory filing.
Buffett’s firm will assume responsibility for claims handling.
The transaction doesn’t cover asbestos accounts that AIG said it
believes have already been reserved to the limit of liability.  The deal “will reduce the risk of future adverse
development of U.S. asbestos exposures,” Chartis Chief
Executive Officer Peter Hancock said in the statement. Hancock
was named CEO last month after the insurer was forced to boost
reserves by more than $4 billion because it underestimated
claims costs from policies sold in prior years.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer and head of
investments, told investors in his annual letter in February
that the company’s insurance float was  $65.8 billion  at the end
of the year. That compares with $27.9 billion in 2000 and $1.63
billion in 1990, Buffett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  