-- 
Silvio Berlusconi’s Daughter Joins AC Milan Board; Club’s Loss Widens

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-04-20T16:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/berlusconi-s-daughter-joins-ac-milan-board-club-s-loss-widens.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s daughter was appointed to the board of his soccer
team AC Milan at its annual meeting today.  Barbara Berlusconi joins the 74-year-old’s son, Paolo, as a
director of the seven-time European champion, which also
announced that its annual loss widened to 69.8 million euros
($101 million) from 9.8 million euros as broadcasting revenue
and income from player sales declined.  “Barbara’s appointment should give optimism to all the
supporters,” Chief Executive Officer Adriano Galliani said
today. “It reflects a renewed commitment to  AC Milan  by the
Berlusconi family, who have always supported the team.”  AC Milan is on course for its first Serie A title since
2004. It leads second-placed Napoli by six points and is a
further two points ahead of cross-town rival Inter Milan, which
won the last five championships.  The change in fortune follows increased investment in the
squad. Milan paid a combined 42 million euros to sign forwards
Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Robinho before the season and added Italy
national team forward Antonio Cassano in the midseason transfer
window. Berlusconi had been criticized by supporters in the past
for not spending.  Around 3,000 Milan supporters protested at the club’s
training facility last July to urge Berlusconi to sell the team,
calling him an “absentee owner.” A return to the spending that
characterized the early years of his reign has revived the fans’
interest.  Revenue Declined  The revival is an echo of how Berlusconi returned the team
to glory following his acquisition of the club in 1986. It won
its first championship since 1979 in his second season before
going on to win five of its seven European Cups.  AC Milan’s revenue declined 18 percent to 253.2 million
euros in the 12 months ended Dec. 31, the team said. Galliani
said the decline was because the team sold Brazilian attacker
Kaka for a then world record 68 million euros to Real Madrid in
June 2009. He also said a change in the way Serie A sells its
television rights hurt sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  