-- 
Bing Oversees ‘Unsustainable’ Detroit: Interview by Diane Brady

-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-04-20T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bing-oversees-unsustainable-detroit-interview-by-diane-brady.html
Dave Bing, a former star on the
 National Basketball Association ’s  Detroit Pistons , talks in the
April 18 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek about his experiences
as mayor trying to reshape his city with dwindling resources and
a shrinking population.  “The only way to fix this city is to deal with reality. We
are not fiscally sound. Anybody who could get out is gone, for
the most part. In 2000 we had more than 900,000 people. In the
last census we had just over 713,000. Anytime you go under
750,000, you lose some financial support at the federal and
state level.  Detroit was built over time for 2 million people, and we
now have an infrastructure we can’t support. We can’t service
the same landscape with a third of the people. We don’t have the
taxes. We can’t pay for buses all over the city. We have to
reform the pensions and fix the schools. We don’t have the
density in certain communities to create safety.  The biggest problem is historic. There was a time when
people could go into an auto factory and get a good-paying job
with minimal education. Now you need a better education and you
don’t get the same pay. Yet expectations haven’t changed. We
have a benefit package for public employees that’s 108 percent
of their salaries. That’s totally unsustainable.  ‘Custer’s Last Stand’  This is like  Custer’s Last Stand . If we don’t make the hard
decisions, someone else will make them for us. There’s a lot of
unused housing stock. We want to tear down vacant homes that are
dangerous and attract people to quality housing. We’re focused
on building up the strongest neighborhoods and want to make them
even stronger, with incentives for people to move there. Vibrant
communities attract young professionals. They attract
restaurants and businesses. We won’t abandon the other areas,
but they won’t get the same investment. Some people won’t want
to move, and we can’t make them. But we can’t satisfy everyone
with the resources we have.  As an  athlete,  you understand the excitement of winning,
but you have to deal with losing, too. There are some days when
I wonder whether or not I made the right decision in becoming
mayor, but I am not quitting this city. Now is a chance to build
on our strengths. Out of crisis comes opportunity. The value of
our real estate is at an all-time low. There’s nowhere to go but
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Kelly at 
 jkelly101@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  