-- 
Blackstone Leads Record Property Push as Buyout Firms Diversify

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-04-20T16:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/blackstone-leads-record-property-push-as-buyout-firms-diversify.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group  are leading a record number of private-equity managers
aiming to raise real estate funds as the world’s top buyout
firms accelerate an expansion beyond corporate takeovers.  Blackstone, the biggest private-equity firm, is planning to
raise its next real estate fund, with a target of about $10
billion, later this year. Carlyle is in the process of raising a
new fund for U.S. property deals, said a person briefed on the
plan who asked not to be named because the fund is private.  The two are among 439 private-equity real estate funds
seeking a combined $160 billion, the largest number on record,
according to London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. KKR & Co. last
month hired its first head of real estate, naming former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive Ralph Rosenberg to the post. The
firms are betting they can produce profits in a still choppy
market because their capital is locked up for long periods,
usually a decade, allowing them to make improvements and wait
out short-term price swings.  “There’s a whole world of problems out there and
properties need capital to be maintained and to grow,” KKR’s
Rosenberg said in an interview. “New capital is going to have
to solve these problems, because there’s not a broad liquid
market to restructure real estate like there was in corporate
debt.”  ‘Lot of Distress’  The 35-year-old partnership has no immediate plans to raise
a standalone real estate fund, instead planning to use capital
available through its existing buyout and debt businesses,
according to a person familiar with the firm’s strategy.  Blackstone, created in 1985 by  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson , has the largest real estate business of the big
private-equity houses, with $33.2 billion under management at
the end of 2010. Real estate last year surpassed the New York-
based firm’s private-equity business, which has $29.3 billion
under management.  The company in February agreed to pay $9.4 billion to buy
the U.S. malls of Australia’s  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  in its
biggest acquisition since 2007. Its deals last year included the
purchase of 180 warehouse properties from Denver-based  ProLogis (PLD) 
and investments in hotel chain Extended Stay Inc. and mall owner
 General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)   Carlyle, based in Washington, had $10.2 billion in real
estate assets under management as of the end of last year, with
funds dedicated to investing in Asia, Europe and the U.S.
Carlyle’s fifth U.S. real estate fund, started in 2006, totaled
$3 billion, according to its website.  Wall Street’s Exit  “A lot of the private-equity guys and real estate guys are
looking at this and realizing there’s a lot of distress out
there,” said Steve Coyle, chief investment officer of Global
Realty Partners, the unit of New York-based Cohen & Steers Inc.
that invests in private real estate funds.  Blackstone rose 3.9 percent to $18.91 at 12:43 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading, bringing gains this year
to 34 percent. KKR added 1.7 percent to $17.95, for an increase
of 26 percent since the start of 2011.  Some Wall Street funds have revamped or exited their real
estate businesses in the wake of losses incurred during the
global credit crisis. Those businesses, some of which got
established in the early 1990s with the Resolution Trust Corp.’s
sale of distressed loans from the savings and loan crisis, also
face a new regulatory environment that limits some riskier
investments.  Goldman’s Losses  Goldman Sachs’s leveraged Whitehall real estate funds
suffered losses when the credit crisis halted the flow of cheap
debt financing and depressed property values starting in 2007.
 Stuart Rothenberg , the former head of property investment, left
at the end of 2008 after 21 years. In October, Goldman hired
Jeffrey A. Barclay from ING Clarion Partners to lead a new
business within asset management that will focus on lower-risk
commercial real estate, mainly in the U.S.  Goldman, also based in New York, additionally has a
mezzanine lending fund for real estate, which has gathered $2.6
billion in commitments since 2009, according to the firm’s
website.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the largest underwriter of
mortgage-backed securities at the market’s peak in 2007, filed
for bankruptcy in 2008 and is liquidating its assets. In June
2010, it sold the  management contract  for its real estate funds
to a group of former executives.  Morgan Stanley’s top real estate fund executives, including
Jay Mantz, Sonny Kalsi and John Carrafiell, left during the past
three years. John Klopp and Olivier de Poulpiquet were named
last September to run the real-estate investing business.  Diminished Competition  Greg Fleming , who runs the asset-management business, told
employees in January that the firm “remains fully committed to
the real estate investing business.”  The New York firm raised $4.7 billion for its newest global
real estate fund last June, the biggest real estate fund to
close since 2008. The amount is less than half what Morgan
Stanley had targeted initially. The fund was among bidders for
the U.S. malls of Centro Properties.  The diminished competition has helped public real estate
funds, so-called real estate investment trusts, attract $47.5
billion in capital in 2010, the second-highest amount on record.
The largest amount raised was $49 billion in 2006, according to
the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.  Private-equity backed real estate funds will have to
convince investors that they can top returns of REITS, after the
sizeable fees the firms charge investors, usually around 1.5
percent of assets and 20 percent of profits above a certain
threshold. REITs typically charge between half a percent and 1
percent of assets. They are also more transparent and more
liquid.  Competing With REITs  The Bloomberg BI NA REITs index, which tracks 124 members,
gained 30 percent in 2009 and 29 percent in 2010. Private-equity
real estate funds had an average annual loss of 16 percent for
the three years ended in September 2010, according to Preqin.
They gained 0.1 percent in the 12 months ended in September.  “Anyone who’s invested in REITs has done very well,” said
Jerome Gates, who in March joined Hamilton Lane, the Bala
Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based firm that helps institutional
investors pick managers. “For long-term investors, now is a
good time for private equity to put money to work, but investors
need to be prepared to bounce along the bottom for a while
before seeing significant improvement.”  Blackstone’s first stand-alone real estate fund, Blackstone
Real Estate Partners I, made investments from September 1994 to
October 1996. That fund returned investors 2.8 times their
invested capital, giving an annual rate of return of 40 percent,
according to Blackstone’s most recent annual report to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Hilton Worldwide  Subsequent funds haven’t been able to match those returns,
with the second, third and fourth funds delivering an annual 19
percent, 21 percent and 16 percent, respectively. The fifth and
sixth funds, which includes high-profile investments such as
Equity Office Properties Trust and Hilton Worldwide, have
average annual returns of 7 percent and 6 percent so far.  Hilton may file for an initial public offering as soon as
this year, according to people familiar with the matter, a sign
that returns for the funds may improve. After a 35 percent loss
in 2009, Blackstone’s unrealized value in real estate funds
gained 61 percent in 2010.  “We are extremely well positioned to play a major role in
this, and we expect to continue to aggressively deploy
capital,” Schwarzman said March 8 on a conference call with
investors. “I think from just talking with people in the
marketplace on a regular basis that a lot of investors are
looking for a way to take advantage of this asset class.”  ‘Looking Good’  Values of apartment complexes, office buildings, hotels and
other commercial properties are rebounding as the economy
recovers and investors look for higher yields than assets such
as corporate bonds offer. U.S. commercial property prices rose
4.2 percent from an eight-year low during the five months ended
January, according to the Moody’s/Real Commercial Property Price
Index released March 22.  “We’re well into the recovery in the prime markets in the
U.S. and that recovery has started to expand into secondary
markets around the country,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing director
at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based real estate
research firm. “Real estate is looking good versus other asset
classes.”  Some smaller, more specialized real estate investors are
shying away from raising new pools for equity real estate
investments. Santa Monica, California-based Colony Capital LLC
has no immediate plans to raise a new equity fund, Chairman
Thomas Barrack said in an interview last month. Colony has a
publicly traded real estate debt fund called  Colony Financial
Inc. (CLNY) , which has returned 1.8 percent in the past 12 months.  Barrack Has Doubts  Private-equity’s forays into real estate may be less
lucrative and more difficult in coming years for a number of
reasons, Barrack said. For one, institutional investors are
pressing for more opportunities to co-invest, circumventing fees
private-equity funds charge. Some pensions, including several
Canadian groups, have their own teams dedicated to making direct
real estate investments.  “The next couple of years will be a period of more modest
returns, harder work and more attention paid to ‘value added,’”
Barrack said.  The larger firms, all of which have either gone public
recently or are planning to do so, say real estate is an
important area of growth as they seek to diversify their sources
of income in a bid to win over public shareholders.  Going Public  Blackstone went public in 2007, just before the financial
crisis brought buyouts to a halt. KKR last year gained a listing
in New York, and Apollo Global Management LLC, the private-
equity firm run by  Leon Black , last month raised $565.4 million
in an initial public offering. Carlyle may pursue an IPO this
year.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman  and  Jim
Coulter , handles its real estate investing from its broader
buyout fund, a $19.8 billion pool raised in 2008. It may weigh
raising discrete real estate funds in the future, according to
two people familiar with TPG’s plans who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private. The firm, whose real estate
efforts are managed by Colony co-founder Kelvin Davis, has made
deals including the $955 million purchase of homebuilder Taylor
Morrison Inc. announced March 31.  Apollo  Apollo, based in New York, has created a group devoted to
real estate investing and had assets of $6.5 billion in that
unit as of the end of last year, according to filings related to
the public offering. The firm in November bought the real estate
management group of Citigroup Inc., adding $3.6 billion in
assets.  Raymond Mikulich, former co-head of Lehman’s real estate
investments, joined Apollo to run its North American property
business. Joseph Azrack, Apollo’s global head of real estate,
has been expanding the business since he joined the buyout firm
from Citigroup in 2008. Apollo also has a REIT with about $1
billion under management called  Apollo Commercial Real Estate
Finance Inc. (ARI)   Even with some of the competition diminished, raising new
funds won’t be easy after the credit crisis and plummeting
property values soured pension funds and other investors on
putting more money into real estate, particularly higher-risk
vehicles.  $10 Billion Fund  “I think the only one who has the shot at it is us,”
Blackstone President Tony James said Feb. 3, when being asked if
a competitor could raise a similar-sized fund as the $10 billion
pool Blackstone is seeking. “But I don’t think even for us it’s
going to be easy, frankly.”  Lone Star  Funds, a Dallas firm that buys nonperforming
loans backed by real estate and mortgage lenders, has had to
scale back its fundraising ambitions. The firm, led by  John
Grayken , in November asked investors for six more months to
raise two new funds.  Originally, Lone Star had hoped to gather $20 billion of
capital commitments for the two funds. Now, the firm probably
will raise about $6 billion, said Cohen & Steers’ Coyle.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star, declined to comment.  “It’s tough raising capital but it’s starting to open
up,” Coyle said in an interview. “Everyone out there will tell
you it’s tough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  