-- 
Citigroup, Nomura Change BOE Rate Forecasts After Signal on Growth Concern

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-20T12:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/boe-voted-6-3-to-hold-rate-as-majority-noted-downside-1-.html
Citigroup Inc., Nomura
International Plc and Barclays Plc economists pushed back
forecasts for a  Bank of England  interest-rate increase after
policy makers noted that recent economic data had been on the
“downside.”  All three banks now see the first increase as late as
August rather than May.  Michael Saunders  at Citigroup in London
also sees a slower tightening this year and has pencilled in two
quarter-point increases rather than three previously, according
to an e-mailed statement.  Minutes of policy makers’ April 7  meeting  published today
showed they voted 6-3 to keep the benchmark interest rate on
hold at 0.5 percent this month. The majority noted that data
over the previous month had “probably been to the downside,”
indicating they may be reluctant to change their view and join
the three officials seeking an increase.  “The risks are growing in both directions and the MPC
appears paralysed,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura.
It is “treading a fine line between being considered cautious
and dithering. Unfortunately, we think the probability of it
leaning toward the latter is increasing.”  The minutes showed  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for
an increase in the key rate to 1 percent, while  Martin Weale  and
 Spencer Dale  wanted a move to 0.75 percent. The remaining six
Monetary Policy Committee members, including Governor  Mervyn King , voted for no change.  Adam Posen  maintained his call for
more bond purchases.  Inflation Risk  While U.K. inflation eased to 4 percent in March, it’s
still twice the central bank’s target. The MPC said today it
sees a “significant risk” that price growth will accelerate to
above 5 percent in the near term.  It also said that data on “output during the month had
been mixed” and “indicators of household spending and measures
of  consumer confidence  had both remained weak.”  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after the
minutes were released, before strengthening. It traded at
$1.6389 as of 1:40 p.m. in London, up 0.5 percent on the day.  The majority of the MPC said while there is a risk of
increased inflation expectations becoming entrenched in wage
demands, there was “no evidence yet of that crystallizing.”  “The key calculation appears to be the following: will the
current high rate of inflation become entrenched,” or will a
“deteriorating demand outlook quickly reverse the recent
inflationary pressures” once temporary factors fade, Barclays
economists  Simon Hayes  and Chris Crowe said. “Here, the minutes
suggest that these members view the balance of probabilities
shifting in favour of the second view.”  Inflation Expectations  U.K. consumers’ inflation expectations for the coming year
fell to 2.9 percent in April from 3.5 percent in March,
Citigroup said today, citing a YouGov survey. Saunders sees the
first quarter-point increase in “June-August,” having
previously forecast a move in May or June.  Investors have pushed back bets on the first rate increase
to November, according to data compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc. A
quarter-point rate rise by July had been priced in as recently
as April 8, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia.  The MPC said it’s “still too early to know whether the
slowdown in growth toward the end of 2010 had been temporary or
whether the weakness in the contemporary indicators of household
spending heralded a more protracted weakness.”  ‘Spare Capacity’  The committee noted “sizable opposing risks” to the
outlook for inflation. Its central view remained that a
“substantial margin of spare capacity” would “bear down on
inflation in the medium term” as temporary factors waned.  Of the three members calling for a rate increase, two
“regarded the matter as finely balanced and favored only a
small tightening,” according to the minutes. For Sentance, the
medium-term risks around the inflation target “remained
significantly to the upside.”  While rising commodity prices may put further pressure on
inflation, the panel also has to weigh the impact of the
government’s budget squeeze and weak consumer confidence.  Tesco
Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, said yesterday it
expects the domestic market to remain “challenging.”  Officials will have the initial estimate of first-quarter
gross-domestic-product growth at their next policy meeting on
May 5. They will also have new growth and inflation forecasts,
which King will publish at a press conference six days later.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimated on April 6 that the economy grew 0.7 percent in the
first three months of the year. Taking into account the 0.5
percent GDP drop in the fourth quarter, the average growth rate
across the two quarters was 0.1 percent, according to the
institute, whose clients include the central bank.  “The majority view on the committee has long been that
ultimately weak demand would bear down on inflationary
pressures,” Hayes and Crowe at Barclays said. “With downside
risks to growth apparently strengthening, there seems little
prospect of this view shifting in the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  