-- 
Boeing Must Add 787 Line After Union Retaliation, U.S. Says

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-04-20T21:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/boeing-should-move-2nd-787-line-to-washington-u-s-board-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  should be forced to open
a Washington state assembly line after violating workers’ rights
by building a 787 Dreamliner plant in South Carolina, away from
its Seattle-area union labor force, the U.S. government said.  The  National Labor Relations Board  said in a  complaint 
today that the planemaker was “motivated by a desire to
retaliate for past strikes and chill future strike activity”
when it decided in 2009 to construct the new factory. The
company said it will “vigorously contest” the complaint.  “This is a very critical, precedent-setting situation,”
said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley. “This would have been unusual at any
moment, but it’s especially unusual with the backdrop where
collective bargaining is literally being unwound for public-
sector workers in  Wisconsin  and Ohio.”  Boeing’s choice of  South Carolina  marked its first
departure from the Puget Sound hub where it has built all its
commercial jets. Relations with the Machinists union have been
strained by four strikes since 1989, including the most recent,
two-month walkout at the end of 2008.  A hearing on the labor board’s recommendation, which was
issued by its acting general counsel, was scheduled for June 14
before an administrative law judge in Seattle.  Boeing’s Response  Boeing said it has the right to build factories outside the
Seattle area. The plant in North Charleston is almost done and
employs 1,000 workers, who will begin final assembly of their
first 787 in July, Chicago-based Boeing said in a statement.  The company’s shares gained $1.92, or 2.6 percent, to
$75.07 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, extending the gain for 2011 to 15 percent.  Boeing said in October 2009 that the new assembly line
would replicate the one in Everett,  Washington , making the
company more competitive as it tries to recover from a three-
year delay to the Dreamliner’s entry into service. The jet has
been slowed by redesigns, parts shortages and incomplete work by
suppliers who struggled with a new manufacturing system.  Politicians, Union  South Carolina politicians condemned the labor board
complaint, with Governor Nikki Haley, a Republican, denouncing
it as “an absolute assault on a great corporate citizen and on
South Carolina’s right-to-work status.”  The Machinists union, which filed the original complaint in
March 2010 that led to today’s ruling, hailed the finding.  “This is a huge victory for all American workers,” Tom
Wroblewski, president of Seattle-based  Local 751 , said in an
interview. “It’s about a worker’s legal right to be in a union
without retaliation. They broke the law.”  The NLRB cited statements by company executives and
spokesmen that the “overriding” factor in Boeing’s decision to
open the South Carolina factory was difficulty in reaching
contracts with Seattle-area union workers. The move had the
effect of “discouraging membership in a labor organization,”
which federal law forbids, the labor board said.  Washington Plant  Boeing doesn’t have to shut the South Carolina plant as
long as it opens another one in Washington, according to the
remedy outlined by the board. Such a factory should use supply
lines maintained by Machinists in the  Seattle  and  Portland ,
 Oregon , areas, according to the complaint.  In negotiations with Boeing as the planemaker considered
the South Carolina factory before its 2009 decision, the union
said it would extend its four-year contract by eight years,
ensuring no strikes through at least 2020, to keep the work.  Boeing said it wouldn’t accede to the union’s demand that
it not communicate with employees if the labor group tried to
organize in any non-union plants.  Unlike workers in Washington, those in South Carolina can’t
be forced to join unions. The state is among the least-
unionized, with 6.2 percent of workers covered by collective
bargaining in 2010, compared with 21.3 percent in Washington,
according to U.S. Census data. The national average is 11.9
percent.  Workers at a parts factory Boeing bought in South Carolina,
adjacent to where the new 787 plant is being built, dropped
their membership in the Machinists union in 2009.  “The new governor of South Carolina has made it very clear
that unions are unwelcome in the state, and the Boeing plant is
the centerpiece of a non-union industrial development strategy
for South Carolina,” said Shaiken, the professor.  Public-sector union employees have been under pressure this
year from moves by legislators in  Ohio  and Wisconsin to restrict
collective bargaining by state and municipal workers.  About 36 percent of Boeing’s 157,000-person global
workforce belongs to unions. The Machinists’ contract in the
Seattle area expires in September 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  