-- 
Cameron Responsible for Oil Well Blowout, BP Says in Suit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-20T23:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bp-sues-maker-of-macondo-well-s-blowout-preventer-cameron-for-gulf-spill.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM) ’s
blowout-prevention equipment was a cause “in whole or in part”
of the blowout of the Macondo well and the oil spill in the Gulf
of Mexico last year,  BP Plc (BP/)  said in a court filing.  Cameron’s design and manufacture of the blowout preventer
“used on the Deepwater Horizon, as well as Cameron’s
maintenance and modification of that BOP, did not meet the
standards of a reasonable manufacturer and service provider,”
BP said today in a filing in federal court in New Orleans. The
blowout preventer “failed to properly operate when needed and
was unreasonably dangerous when used as intended.”  BP is seeking damages from Cameron for providing an
allegedly defective product, as well as contributions for any
money the  oil company  has to pay for claims under the Oil
Pollution Act, the company said in the filing. BP said it has
committed to paying all legitimate claims while reserving the
right to collect from Cameron or other responsible parties.  The Macondo well blew up one year ago today, setting off
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history and leading to
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners and
contractors. Today’s filing came as part of a series of
complaints and counterclaims by plaintiffs and defendants
meeting a deadline set by the New Orleans judge overseeing the
suits.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which
owned the Deepwater Horizon rig, Halliburton Corp., which
provided cementing services, and BP’s minority partners in the
well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore
LLC unit. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  has scheduled a
nonjury trial for February 2012 to determine fault.  Oil, Gas Surge  Cameron said in court filings last week that the explosion
wasn’t its fault because oil and gas were already surging toward
the rig when workers tried to activate the blowout-prevention
equipment to seal the well. “Hydrocarbons had entered the riser
well before the crew attempted to activate the BOP, and even a
perfectly functioning BOP could not have prevented the
explosions,” Cameron said in its April 15 filing.  Plaintiffs suing the companies over the spill have claimed
Houston-based Cameron’s BOP wasn’t designed to handle the
extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found in ultra-deep
wells like the one the Deepwater Horizon was drilling for BP in
the  Gulf of Mexico . BP claims the blowout preventer was
defectively designed and incapable of working as expected.  “Today is the deadline under the relevant statue for all
parties to file claims against each other,” Rhonda Barnat, a
Cameron spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “It is not surprising
that the companies are filing to protect their indemnity
rights.”  Cameron has also filed claims “in order to protect
ourselves,” she said.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in  New Orleans  at  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  