-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise Before Decision; Real Gains on Earnings

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-04-20T22:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/brazil-s-rate-futures-rise-before-decision-real-little-changed.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts rose on speculation policy makers may not
slow the pace of borrowing cost increases at their meeting
today.  Yields on contracts due next month rose 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 11.92 percent at 5 p.m. New York time.
Yields on contracts maturing in January 2013 increased 2 basis
points to 12.65 percent.  Yields on contracts maturing in May indicate that while
more traders are still betting policy makers will raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points, wagers on a 0.5 percentage
point increase for the benchmark Selic rate are increased today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank raised
rates by 50 basis points in each of its previous two meetings to
11.75 percent. Traders are positioning themselves against “the
risk” of a 50 basis-point increase, Ures Folchini, vice-
president of fixed-income at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in  Sao
Paulo , said by phone.  “The market has already priced in an increase of 0.25, but
may have a surprise,” David Rocha, a trader at Renascenca DTVM
Ltd., said by phone from Sao Paulo. “A 0.5 percentage point
raise would be more forceful against inflation, but 0.25 would
be consistent” with what policy makers have signaled, he said.  The combination of higher borrowing costs, curbs on
 consumer lending  and government spending cuts will be enough to
bring inflation back to its target in 2012, Carlos Hamilton, the
central bank’s economic policy director, told reporters in
Brasilia on March 30. The bank raised capital and  reserve
requirements  in December as part of what policy makers call
“macro-prudential measures” to curb the expansion of credit
and quell inflation.  Inflation Target  The central bank targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Annual inflation accelerated to
6.44 percent in the year through mid-April, the fastest pace
since November 2008, the national statistics agency said in  Rio
de Janeiro  today.  Policy makers will boost borrowing costs by 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 12.25 percent at their
meeting today, according to the median estimate of 58 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The real gained 0.6 percent to 1.5662 per dollar, from
1.5763 yesterday. The currency earlier touched 1.5622, the
strongest level since Aug. 5, 2008.  Emerging Markets  Twenty four of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg gained against the dollar as investors increased
demand for higher-yielding assets as global corporate earnings
beat estimates and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  reached an
almost three-year high.  “Risk is on,” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Dollar loan rates in  Brazil  soared to the highest since
November 2008 on speculation the government’s efforts to curb
foreign borrowing have drained inflows of the U.S. currency. The
government imposed a tax on corporate loans and debt sales
abroad in March and implemented reserve requirements on short
dollar positions held by local banks in January.  “The spike of the onshore dollar rates is the combined
impact of these various foreign exchange measures that meant to
address the dollar inflows,” Cattan-Naslausky said in a
telephone interview.  The three-month cupom cambial rate, a measure of the annual
costs of borrowing dollars in Brazil, rose to 5.4 percent today,
double the level when the tax on loans was put in place on March
29. Rising dollar rates reduce the yield advantage for Brazilian
assets, reducing the allure of real.  The central bank said it twice bought dollars in the  spot
market  today, first at 1.5688 and then at 1.5700 each. The
tactic is part of an effort by policy makers to curb the
currency’s two-year 44 percent rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  