-- 
Breast Implant Removal Stops Blood Cancer Linked to Device, Doctors Say

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/breast-implant-removal-stops-device-linked-cancer-study-says.html
Breast implant-linked lymphoma can
be controlled by removing the implant and the surrounding
tissue, researchers said.  The industry-funded study by the  Rand  Corp. is based on a
review of 29 cases of a rare form of immune-system cancer in
breast-implant patients and input from a panel of experts. While
the aesthetic devices have been linked to the lymphoma for more
than a decade, there is still no evidence to prove the disease
is caused by the implant, researchers also said in the study
published online yesterday by the journal Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  issued a notice in
January linking  anaplastic large-cell lymphoma  and breast
implants. The agency didn’t recommend removal of the implants
because the cancer is rare and only associated with patients who
are experiencing pain, lumps, swelling or asymmetry.  “If the FDA were really concerned, they would have pulled
the product from the market,” said  Soeren Mattke , the study’s
senior author and a senior scientist at Rand, a  policy institute 
in  Santa Monica ,  California . “The good news here is that in
those very few cases in which this type of cancer develops it
can be successfully treated by removing the implant.”  About 60 cases of the lymphoma have been reported globally
in women with breast implants, including 34 published in studies
from January 1997 to May 2010, the FDA said in its January
notice. About three cases of these tumors in the breast are
diagnosed annually per 100 million women, the agency said.  ‘Huge Shadow’  “These results take away a huge shadow from these
implants,” Mattke, who heads Rand’s health consulting practice,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Allergan Inc. in  Irvine , California, and New Brunswick-
based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s second-largest health
products company, each control about half of the implant market,
according to Gary Nachman, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group. About 5 million to 10 million women worldwide received
implants, the FDA said.  The report identified 29 cases of the cancer involving
implant patients and found 12 had a history of cancer, including
eight who had had mastectomies, before the implants.  “We can’t rule out causality; we just can’t prove it,”
Mattke said. “The risk of developing this lymphoma is extremely
small, but this is a cosmetic procedure and you don’t die if you
don’t get” an implant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 