-- 
Bronx Fiddle Master Designed Drainage System, Made Ronstadt Cry

-- B y   D a v e   S h i f l e t t
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/bronx-fiddle-master-designed-drainage-system-made-ronstadt-cry-interview.html
Bruce Molsky grew up in New
York, studied architecture and engineering at an Ivy League
university and wears an earring. Not exactly the profile you’d
expect from one of the world’s premiere fiddlers.  Even more surprising is that Molsky didn’t start
playing the fiddle until he was 18 and didn’t become a
full-time musician until he was 41.  “Most people this good start out when they’re 5 years old,”
says Jerry Douglas, a dobro virtuoso and mainstay of
Alison Krauss’s Union Station band.  Molsky’s evocative tunes appeal to fans as far away as
 Australia , where he’ll perform at the  National Folk Festival  in
Canberra this weekend.  While roots musicians such as Doc Watson and Del
McCoury are better known and acts like Blind Boy Chocolate
and the Milk Sheiks are more cleverly named, few performers in
his field are more admired than Molsky.  So how did a guy from the Bronx become the “Rembrandt
of Appalachian fiddlers,” as violin master Darol Anger
calls him.  Molsky, 55, said it all began when he was 11 and jazz
legend Billy Taylor visited his school.  “I heard him play and thought -- man I want that,”
he said in a phone interview from his Washington, D.C. home.  Molsky bought a guitar and took lessons for a year. He
discovered old-time music while spending two years at  Cornell
University  in Ithaca,  New York .  “That was the end of Cornell for me,” he said.  Drainage Design  Still, music didn’t become his main gig for two more
decades.  He worked days as an engineer -- “designing things like
hospital wastewater drainage systems” -- until fellow fiddlers
Alasdair Fraser and Kevin Burke persuaded him to devote all his
time to music during a chat at a British pub.  “By 1996 I was planning my escape -- just a one-year
experiment to see what it would be like to live for music,”
Molsky says. “I left engineering in 1997 and never went back.”  Molsky isn’t a flashy performer, but his ability to sing
while harmonizing with his fiddle is spellbinding. He describes
his songs as “music of communities and of workers
trying to escape their grinds.”  Ronstadt Cries  In “Peg and Awl,” Molsky sings about a shoe-factory
worker who is replaced by a machine.  They’ve invented a new machine, peg and awl  They’ve invented a new machine,  I peg one shoe, it pegs fifteen,  I’m gonna lay me down my awl, my peg and awl.  “I cried when I heard that song the first time, and
I’m not a crybaby,” singer Linda Ronstadt said in a phone
interview from  San Francisco .  Douglas calls Molsky “a chameleon” who can adapt to many
musical styles with his fiddle, banjo and guitar playing. And
his influence extends beyond roots music.  “Both my String Quartet No. 3 and my Concerto for Violin
and Cello and Symphony Orchestra have inspiration from Bruce’s
playing,” composer/violinist Mark O’Connor said in an email.
“It’s his rhythmic drive and how spirited his music is.”  Having so many admirers hasn’t made Molsky rich. On his
recent Southern tour, he drove from gig to gig in a Toyota
Prius.  “I got 46.5 miles to the gallon,” he said proudly.
“The entire gas bill was $150.”  (Dave Shiflett is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Dave Shiflett  at  dshifl@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 