-- 
United Technologies CFO Plays Down Tyco Buyout Speculation

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-20T14:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/buying-a-swiss-company-tough-for-u-s-firms-united-tech-says.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  officials
played down analyst speculation that the company would seek to
buy Tyco International Ltd., the industrial conglomerate now
based in  Switzerland .  “I can’t say anything specifically about any particular
acquisition target,” Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said
today in an interview. “I will say it’s very difficult for any
U.S. multinational to acquire a company based in Switzerland
where the  tax rate  is 15 percent and our rate, the U.S.
statutory rate, is 35 percent.”  United Technologies, the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Otis elevators, has been looking for reasonably
priced acquisitions that can be folded into the company’s
existing businesses. Analysts including Jeff Sprague, co-founder
of Vertical Research Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
mentioned the company last week as a possible buyer for Tyco,
with a market value of $24.1 billion.  Tyco’s security-monitoring services might mesh well with
the equipment United Technologies manufactures in its fire and
security business, Sprague said.  United Technologies, which expanded in that industry by
buying security operations from  General Electric Co. (GE)  in 2010,
has said it has about $1.5 billion reserved for acquisitions
this year.  With $4.2 billion in cash on its balance sheet and a debt-
to-capital ratio of 31 percent, “we still have capacity to do
deals and we’re still looking,” Hayes said. “We’re just trying
to be disciplined here so that we can enrich our own shareowners
as much as their shareowners when we do these deals.”  ‘Big Deals’  United Technologies doesn’t need to do “big deals” to
reach its sales and profit goals, Hayes said on a later
conference call with analysts and investors.  Tyco emerged as a candidate for a sale or breakup this
month when Bloomberg News reported that  Schneider Electric SA (SU) ,
the French maker of electrical components, was considering a
takeover, citing three people with knowledge of the matter who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the discussions were
private. Schneider said last week it’s “not currently” in talks
to buy Tyco.  Any U.S. multinational company would be “at a significant
disadvantage” in attempting to make an acquisition involving
such a large disparity in tax rates, Hayes said in the
interview.  “You’d have to have tremendous synergies to come close to
the tax leakage,” he said. “It’s really going to be the other
foreign players out there as opposed to the U.S. multinationals.  United Technologies reported first-quarter earnings today
that topped analysts’ estimates and said 2011 sales will be at
the high end of its forecast.  Full-year revenue may be $57 billion, up from a previous
forecast of at least $56 billion, the company said in a
statement. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert 
raised the full-year profit forecast by a nickel to as much as
$5.40 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in New York at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 