-- 
Capital Controls in Chile Aren't ‘Suitable’ for Now, Central Banker Says

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-20T19:28:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/capital-controls-in-chile-aren-t-suitable-for-now-central-banker-says.html
Chile , whose currency has gained
the most among Latin America peers in the past year, has no need
to impose capital controls because asset prices are coherent
with economic growth, a central bank board member said.  Internal demand and credit also have evolved at a pace that
is in line with economic fundamentals, Sebastian Claro said
today in an interview from his Santiago office. The central bank
wouldn’t rule out using the tools at its disposal should
pressure on capital accounts increase, he said.  “If controls haven’t been implemented so far, it’s because
they haven’t been considered suitable,” Claro, 38, said. “If
this situation were to change, one would have to evaluate the
different measures that are within the bank’s power to apply.”  While the central bank is undertaking an unprecedented $12
billion dollar-buying program to limit gains in the peso,
authorities have refrained from measures used by other emerging
economies such as increased taxes on foreign inflows and reserve
requirements. Chile is the region’s highest-rated borrower after
it became a net creditor in 2007 for the first time by paying
down debt and hoarding savings in an offshore wealth fund.  Strong Peso  Chile’s government isn’t considering capital controls to
weaken the peso, which has appreciated 12 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, more than the other six major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain said last week.  There is no evidence that Chile’s peso, which has gained
5.5 percent against the dollar since the central bank started
buying $50 million a day on Jan. 5, has “detached in a
significant or evident way” from fundamentals, Claro said.  The peso rose 0.9 percent against the dollar to 469.26
today from 473.48 yesterday. The peso will continue to gain,
eventually exceeding 465, Patricio Nazal, chief executive of
VanTrust Capital Corredores de Bolsa SA, said today.  “There’s not much more the central bank can do; it’s
already buying $50 million a day,” Nazal said. “They’ll let it
float a little more. No one can now accuse the government or
central bank of not having done anything because they have, but
they can’t go against the market. They’ve done their part.”  ‘Clear Distortions’  Capital controls can create “clear distortions” by
redirecting inflows from regulated to unregulated areas of the
financial market, central bank President Jose De Gregorio said
in prepared remarks this weekend when speaking in  Washington  on
behalf of Latin America’s Southern Cone countries.  The central bank may eventually discuss capital controls
as a measure of last resort to stem inflows, Manuel Marfan, the
bank’s vice president, said in an interview published in
Santiago-based El Mercurio newspaper Sunday.  Claro, who in 2007 joined the central bank board for a 10-
year term, said Chile can take steps to help prevent capital
flows from putting pressures on assets and causing financial
intermediaries from taking on too much risk.  “If a prudential supervision and regulation of the
financial system exists, and if there is flexibility in
adjusting asset prices, it’s less probable that a situation of
excessive capital flows will be faced,” he said.  Extra Dollars  The extra dollars pumped into the world by the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s $600 billion quantitative easing program don’t
generally flow into emerging-market economies,  De Gregorio  said
in a speech in Santiago today. They are deposited back into the
U.S. by emerging markets that, like Chile, are net savers.  “It is  China , Chile to a much lesser extent, but countries
that are saving that are buying the debt of the U.S.,  Portugal ,
that are still financing countries that have demand for
financing,” De Gregorio said.  Measures designed to address excessive capital inflows, if
needed, could attempt to reduce the surge of money or prevent
the capital from distorting markets, Claro said.  “One can either evaluate the conceptual and practical
suitability of implementing controls and the limitations of the
controls versus a strategy that creates incentives for the
prudence and supervision and regulation of the financial
system,” he said.  Chile’s governments and policy makers, under current and
previous boards, have protected the bank’s right to implement
capital controls during negotiations on free trade agreements
and accords with international investment banks, Claro said.  “The discussion with regards to imposing capital control
or not should be evaluated on its own merits,” he said. “It
shouldn’t be limited by restrictions that for one reason or
another are imposed on the powers of the bank.”  Claro received his doctorate in economics from the
University of  California ,  Los Angeles , in 2001 and the next year
joined the economics department of Chile’s  Catholic University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  