-- 
Carbon Trade Exchange Moving to Sydney From London Gain From Climate Plans

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:02:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/carbon-trade-exchange-moving-to-sydney-from-london-gain-from-climate-plans.html
Carbon Trade Exchange, an online
platform for businesses to trade emission-reduction credits, is
moving its headquarters from  London  to Sydney as the Australian
government seeks to introduce a price on carbon.  Efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions are likely to turn
Sydney into a regional hub for carbon trading, the exchange said
in an e-mailed statement today. The plan will lead to at least
106 jobs in the city over five years, it said.  Australia , the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of its power from renewable
energy sources like wind and solar by 2020. To encourage
businesses to shift from fossil fuels, Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  wants to start making polluters pay a fixed price for
their emissions in July 2012 in preparation for a trading system
that may begin as early as 2015.  Carbon markets allow companies and nations to buy and sell
credits representing reductions in emissions of  greenhouse
gases , such as carbon dioxide. Some buy to comply with binding
emission limits set by governments, while others purchase the
credits voluntarily to reduce their carbon footprint.  Carbon Trade Exchange allows buyers and sellers to trade
voluntary credits, as well as those issued by a United Nations
program established under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol .  The fragmentation of that UN carbon market into domestic
alternative trading programs “may be unavoidable” because
nations haven’t been able to agree on an extension of the Kyoto
Protocol, UN chief climate negotiator Christiana Figueres said
in September.  London has traditionally been the hub of global carbon
trading because of its proximity to the European Union, home to
the world’s biggest emissions-trading market and the biggest
buyer of UN credits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:s
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 