-- 
Celtics Beat Injury-Depleted Knicks, Orlando, Dallas Win in NBA Playoffs

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-20T04:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/celtics-beat-injury-depleted-knicks-orlando-dallas-win-in-nba-playoffs.html
The injury-depleted  New York Knicks 
came within 13 seconds of recording their first National
Basketball Association postseason win in 10 years as the  Boston
Celtics  won 96-93 to lead the series by two games to none.  The Knicks played the second half at TD Garden in Boston
last night without leading scorer Amar’e Stoudemire, who left
the game with back spasms 3 minutes, 21 seconds before halftime.
 New York  was also without point guard Chauncey Billups, who has
a strained left knee. Carmelo Anthony led the Knicks with 42
points and 17 rebounds.  “I’ve probably never been more proud of a team and how
they battled, the circumstances, and how hard they played and
how tough they played,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  said.  Also last night, the  Orlando Magic  beat the Atlanta Hawks
88-82 to tie their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series
at one game each and the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Portland
Trail Blazers 101-89 to take a 2-0 advantage in their Western
Conference series.  Billups, 34, will have a scan today on the knee that he
injured with less than a minute remaining in Boston’s 87-85 win
three days ago in the first game in the best-of-seven series.  D’Antoni said before last night’s game that he didn’t know
if Billups will be ready for Game 3 on April 22 at New York’s
Madison Square Garden. Stoudemire, who had four points on 2-for-
9 shooting in 18 minutes of action last night, should be fit.  Garnett Score, Steal  The Knicks led the record 17-time NBA champion Celtics 93-
92 with 19 seconds to play last night. Kevin Garnett scored with
13 seconds left to make it 94-93 to Boston and then stole a pass
before Delonte West completed the scoring with two free throws.  “I’m happy we won,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. “But
I just know my team is better than that.”  Tonight, the defending champion Los Angeles Lakers will try
to tie their series against the New Orleans Hornets after they
lost the opening game. The  San Antonio Spurs  will also seek to
rebound from an opening-game loss, to the Memphis Grizzlies, and
the Oklahoma City Thunder will look to open a 2-0 series lead
against the  Denver Nuggets .  The Mavericks visit  Portland  for Game 3 in their series
tomorrow, while the Hawks host Orlando in Atlanta on April 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  