-- 
Gordon Ramsay Wins Order to Search Father-in-Law’s Computer

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-20T12:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chef-gordon-ramsay-wins-court-order-to-search-his-father-in-law-s-computer.html
Gordon Ramsay , the Michelin-starred
British chef, won a court order allowing him to search the
computers of his father-in-law Chris Hutcheson.  The order was needed because e-mails relating to an
employment case may have been intercepted, Ramsay’s lawyer,
Thomas Croxford, told a hearing today. Hutcheson, who was fired
as chief executive of Gordon Ramsay Holdings in October, and
Sara Stewart, the company’s former accountant, are suing the
chef.  “Privileged e-mails have been hacked into between Gordon
Ramsay and his solicitors relating to the Sara Stewart
employment claim,” Croxford said. The search “will enable us
to identify where the hacked e-mails went.”  Today’s hearing is the latest salvo in a public fight
between the celebrity chef and his wife’s family. In an
interview published in the Mail on Sunday on Oct. 31, Hutcheson
was quoted as saying Ramsay suffered from mood swings and was
warped by the world of celebrity. Ramsay hit back in a letter
published in the Evening Standard, accusing Hutcheson of driving
away his best chefs.  Ramsay’s lawyers can start their search of the computers
tomorrow, Justice Nicola Davies said today. Hutcheson’s lawyer
Ben Shaw said he wasn’t going to challenge the court order.  Annette Spencer, spokeswoman for Salans, Hutcheson’s law
firm, said he declined to comment.  The court order applies to Hutcheson, his wife Greta, his
son Adam and other members of the family, according to court
filings.  Hutcheson’s wife, who is currently living in Lyon,  France ,
hasn’t been served with court papers, Croxford said. A lawyer
and a computer engineer will make an appointment to see her in
France to make images from her computers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in  London  at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 