-- 
Chelsea Moves to Second Place as Arsenal Blows Lead to Tie 3-3 With Spurs

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-20T23:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chelsea-moves-to-second-place-as-arsenal-blows-lead-to-tie-3-3-with-spurs.html
Arsenal drew 3-3 at Tottenham after
blowing a two-goal lead to allow Chelsea to move into second
place in English soccer’s Premier League with a 3-1 defeat of
Birmingham.  Chelsea and Arsenal have 64 points, six fewer than leader
Manchester United, with the Blues in second place and Arsenal
third on goal difference. All three teams have five games left.  “We can still win the title,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told  Sky Sports . “We’ll fight like mad.”  Rafael van der Vaart  scored two goals as Tottenham rallied
against Arsenal for the second time this season. In November,
Spurs got three second-half goals in a 3-2 win at the Emirates
Stadium.  While unbeaten in 16 straight league games, Arsenal’s
championship chances have dwindled with five draws in six games.  Spurs are two points behind Manchester City in the race for
fourth place and the final spot in the Champions League.  “The season’s still going and the spirit we’ve got is
fantastic,” Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp told Sky Sports.
“We never give up.”  Early Goals  Theo Walcott opened the scoring for Arsenal in the fifth
minute at White Hart Lane when he ran free through the middle to
take a pass from Cesc Fabregas and put a low shot past Heurelho Gomes.  The lead lasted two minutes. Van der Vaart fired a shot
inside the left post before Arsenal retook the lead in the 12th
minute through a shot by Samir Nasri that took a deflection
through the legs of  Michael Dawson .  Robin  van Persie  made it 3-1 to the Gunners when he put in
the rebound after his header was saved by Gomes.  Tottenham again answered quickly as Tom Huddlestone scored
with a shot from just outside the area a minute before halftime.  Van Persie put the ball into the net in the second half,
although the goal was disallowed for offside.  Tottenham drew level in the 70th minute on Van der Vaart’s
penalty kick after Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny took
down Aaron Lennon.  “After going 3-1 down, we’ve got to be happy with that,”
Dawson told Sky Sports. “Credit to the lads for showing fire
and determination.”  Malouda, Kalou  Florent Malouda scored twice and  Salomon Kalou  got the
other goal for Chelsea at Stamford Bridge in west London as
defending champion moved ahead of Arsenal.  “Six points at this stage with five games to go will not
be easy,” Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti told Sky Sports.  Chelsea took the lead after three minutes when Malouda
drove Didier Drogba’s flicked pass beyond goalkeeper  Ben Foster .
Kalou made it 2-0 with a shot into the corner of the net from 20
yards (18.3 meters).  Malouda headed in Ryan Bertrand’s cross in the 62nd minute
for his second goal and Sebastian Larsson scored Birmingham’s
goal from the penalty spot after  David Luiz  brought down Matt Derbyshire.  Manchester United, which drew 0-0 at Newcastle two nights
ago, visits Arsenal on May 1 and hosts Chelsea seven days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 