-- 
Chicago Derivatives Trader’s $2,500 Menu at Next: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chicago-derivatives-trader-sells-2-500-french-meals-at-next-ryan-sutton.html
Next, which opened two weeks ago in
 Chicago ’s Fulton Market district, has no bar seating, offers no
choices on its menu, doesn’t accept cash (only credit cards),
doesn’t take phone reservations and allows no walk-ins.  You pay in advance. And the price of the online-only “meal
ticket” fluctuates depending on when you eat.  That means $65 on a sleepy Wednesday buys you the same
seven-course tasting menu as does $110 on date-night Saturday.  Are you a party of three? Sorry, only groups of two or four
are accepted for the dining room; a separate chef’s table for
six, which includes a longer menu and wine, runs about $2,500.  Need to cancel? Can’t do it. Tickets are non-refundable.
You’ll have to hawk them online to make your money back.  Next is shifting some of the burden of fine dining from the
restaurant to the diners. Good thing the culinary experience is
almost flawless. Right now, Next specializes in a style of time
machine cuisine that’s available just about nowhere else:
Escoffier’s cholesterol-laden dishes from the 1906 Ritz in
Paris.  Three Hour Gluttony  Our three hour repast started with oeufs Benedictine. Egg
shells filled with cod and lemon cream is a glutton’s seaside
fantasy -- it’s like getting hit by an ocean wave of brandade
and bechamel.  Hors d’oeuvres of boudin noir, boudin blanc and foie gras
are washed down with  Vincent Carre  Champagne.  This elegance is to be expected from owners Nick Kokonas, a
former derivatives trader, and Grant Achatz, a chef whose avant-
garde Alinea is ranked by San Pellegrino as the world’s sixth
best restaurant.  Next plans on changing its menu, and perhaps historical
epoch, every three months. Hong Kong 2040 has been mentioned as
a possibility. Think of it as the culinary equivalent of “ Bill
& Ted’s Excellent Adventure .”  This is why thousands of people sign up to compete for the
10-15 tables released every day. You might have better luck
applying to Harvard, though I got lucky finding four tickets on
 Craigslist . I got even luckier when Next upgraded us to the
chef’s table, where floor to ceiling windows let diners watch
the kitchen fill with a witches’ brew of liquid nitrogen.  Escoffier didn’t mention that cryogenic element in his
turn-of-the century recipe for sauternes sorbet. Resident chef
Dave Beran has taken the liberty of updating a few dishes.  He uses the super-chilled liquid to freeze dessert wine so
quickly that frosty crystals never form; the palate cleanser is
as smooth as ice cream except there’s no cream, sugar or
anything to get in the way of the unctuous late-harvest vino.  Uruguayan Osetra  Escoffier’s caviar, no doubt from Persia or  Russia , is
endangered now. So Next serves a dollop of excellent Uruguayan
osetra -- whose firm roe bests much of  California ’s farm-raised
junk -- paired with the softest potato blini.  Waiters note that the ducks are not strangled to death as
they were in Escoffier’s time. Thank you for that. The bird’s
heart, liver, lungs and kidneys are put through a press to
squeeze its bloody juices. It all makes a lovely sauce when
fortified -- and drunk -- with a 2005 Gigondas.  In our fusion era when everything’s been globalized,
modernized and served with pasta, it’s comforting to taste
something as decidedly old, French and delicious as that duck.  How about some soothing turtle soup (the creatures are not
boiled alive). Or lamb loin, tongue and sweetbreads? A modern
chef would pair the musty meat with its jus. Beran does that,
while he also adds the Escoffier-approved “choron” -- tangy
tomato puree mixed with bearnaise.  A sweet filet of sole covered in crayfish butter will make
you wonder what the Italians have been doing slathering their
fish in nothing but olive oil all these years. So finish with
beet jellies and realize that sometimes the right way is the old
way.  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Set menus are $65-$110; wine pairings extra. Service  charges are added at the time of booking.  Sound Level: Moderate, about 65-70.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Current menu doesn’t accommodate vegetarians.  Special Feature: Often, same-day tables are announced via  the restaurant’s  Twitter  or  Facebook  account.  Will I be back: Yes.  Next Restaurant is at 953 W Fulton Market, Chicago.
Information: https://www.nextrestaurant.com  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 