-- 
Chile’s $9.6 Billion Planned Stock Sales Swell as Growth Spurs Record IPOs

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-20T13:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chile-s-9-6-billion-planned-stock-sales-swell-as-growth-spurs-record-ipos.html
Chilean companies are preparing a
record number of initial public offerings as the country’s
economy grows at the fastest pace in more than a decade and its
benchmark equity index outperforms Latin American peers.  Companies may raise as much as $9.6 billion through next
year from IPOs and subsequent offerings, said Santiago Lecaros,
a  money manager  at IM Trust SA in Santiago. Of at least 12
companies to register or express interest in listing shares, IM
Trust estimates seven will do so this year. That would top the
record five IPOs in 2005, according to the Santiago exchange.  Chile’s IPO pipeline is growing along with a surge in
global offerings. There were 1,787 IPOs worldwide in the 12
months through April 19, a 58 percent increase from the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twenty-two of those were in Latin America.  “Right now, economic and regulatory conditions in emerging
markets are good for growth,” Patricio Vargas, chief financial
officer of CFR Pharmaceuticals SA, said April 11, when the
drugmaker announced plans to raise $400 million on the Santiago
bourse. “We’ve reached a stage as a company that to continue
growing as we did in the past would be too slow.”  CFR and salmon farmer AquaChile SA are turning to the stock
market after the Ipsa index jumped 37 percent in dollar terms in
the year through yesterday, the best performance among major
Latin American indexes. The Ipsa index rose 1.1 percent today at
9:02 a.m. New York time, reducing its year-to-date loss to 4.1
percent.  Chile ’s economy may grow as much as 6.5 percent this year,
which would be the fastest annual expansion in more than 10
years, the central bank said April 4.  Planned Sales  Together CFR and AquaChile plan to raise a total of $750
million next month. That would exceed the amount of all Chilean
IPOs in the previous four years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Santiago exchange has averaged 1.8 IPOs a year
since 1996.  Health services company  Cruz Blanca Salud SA , toll road
operator  Autopistas do Pacifico SA  and Australis Seafoods SA are
arranging sales, according to regulatory filings. Food company
 Agrosuper SA  also plans to go public, according to a La Tercera
newspaper article confirmed by the company’s external public
relations representatives.  Supermercados del Sur SA , controlled
by private equity firm Southern Cross Group, is likely to make
its trading debut as well, Raul Sotomayor, a Southern Cross
partner, said Jan. 11.  At the same time, Chilean companies that already trade are
seeking equity financing for expansions. Banco de Chile and
Corpbanca are working to raise about $500 million and $600
million, respectively, to fund loan growth. Retailer Cencosud SA
said April 12 it would seek approval to sell $2 billion of new
shares in the next three years to fund acquisitions.  ‘Exert Some Pressure’  “More than the number of IPOs, the larger primary and
secondary share offerings will exert some pressure on the local
market,” Katherine Boragk, director of investments at Celfin
Capital SA’s wealth management division, said by e-mail.  Banco BICE’s brokerage unit last month cut its year-end
Ipsa target to 5,200 from 5,400, citing the increase in new
share sales and the prospect of further central bank interest-
rate increases. Chile’s central bank has raised rates more than
any other tracked by Bloomberg in the last year.  “We’ve been concerned pretty much all year that this is a
large chunk of money for this market,” said Stacy Steimel, who
helps manage $800 million in Latin American stocks at PineBridge
Investments. “The market performed so well last year and the
sheer size of the money - it’s a lot to absorb.”  ‘Underweight’ Position  Steimel said she’s not considering changing her
“underweight” position in Chilean stocks, even as the Ipsa
trades at 16.9 times estimated earnings, below its historic
average of 17.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the new offerings could shave as much as 1 percentage
point from the IPSA’s return this year, there’s enough demand
from local pension funds and foreign investors, IM Trust’s
Lecaros said. Celfin sees the index gaining 10 percent this year
while IM Trust forecasts an increase of about 14 percent.
Chile’s pension funds had $148 billion under management at the
end of last month, according to the industry regulator.  Chile may face international competition to attract global
investors.  Mexico  will have about 10 IPOs this year, according
to Javier Artigas Alarcon, senior vice president for strategic
planning at Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB.  “In the long term, the sales are a great thing as the
companies are funding growth,” Steimel said. “It’s in the
short term that liquidity will be affected and investors won’t
have the ability to evaluate the number of IPOs happening
simultaneously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  