-- 
Chile Peso Rises Most in Three Weeks as Copper Gain Boosts Trade

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-20T19:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chile-peso-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-copper-gain-boosts-trade.html
Chile ’s peso climbed the most in
three weeks, closing in on the level where it ended last year,
as higher copper prices signaled an increased trade surplus for
the metal’s top-producing nation.  The currency strengthened 0.9 percent, the most since March
31, to 469.25 per U.S. dollar from 473.48 yesterday. It broke
through 470 per dollar for the first time since April 11 and
climbed as high as 468.65. It ended last year at 468.  The peso has recovered almost all the ground it lost since
the central bank announced on Jan. 3 plans to start buying $12
billion of U.S. currency. The currency has appreciated 3.7
percent since the end of January as the central bank raises
 interest rates  to fight rising inflation expectations.  “The  exchange rate  is seeking the same levels we saw in
January and the central bank can’t do much more to slow it,”
said Patricio Nazal, chief executive officer of VanTrust Capital
Corredores de Bolsa SA. “The fiscal debate in the U.S., the
question of how much the U.S. government cuts spending, implies
a decline in internal demand and a slower recovery, which means
rates in the U.S. remain lower. Meanwhile inflation in emerging-
market countries like ours is getting ever stronger. The
exchange rate is only going in one direction.”  The Chilean peso will break through 465 per dollar and may
reach 450 per dollar, he said.  Swap Yields Rise  The one-year swap rate climbed six basis points today to
5.71 percent, the highest in a week.  The peso may be 3 percent to 5 percent stronger were it not
for the bank’s $50 million a day dollar purchases, bank
President Jose De Gregorio said in a speech today in Santiago.
The bank today paid an average of 469.86 pesos per dollar for
$50 million.  While Chile’s central bank doesn’t rule out restricting
capital inflows into Chile, it would already have done so were
they needed, board member Sebastian Claro said today in an
interview. Chile is a net exporter of capital, De Gregorio said.  The  U.S. Dollar  Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, fell 0.9 percent to the lowest level since
December 2009.  Copper rose for a second day as the dollar slumped and
figures signaled manufacturing remains robust in  China , the
biggest buyer of Chilean copper. Copper for three-month delivery
climbed 2.6 percent to $9,580 a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange. Copper for July delivery gained 2.5 percent to $4.3565
a pound in  New York .  “Today’s rise is linked mostly to copper prices, which are
having a strong rebound today,” said Flavio Magnasco, an
economist at Banco Falabella in Santiago. “The euro is also
helping.”  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had a
$1.6 billion bet that the peso would fall against the U.S.
dollar as of April 18, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  