-- 
Website Supporting China Artist Ai Weiwei Says It Was Attacked by Hackers

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-20T06:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/chinese-artist-ai-weiwei-s-online-support-group-attacked-by-hackers.html
An online petition to free Chinese
artist Ai Weiwei was attacked by Internet hackers, the U.S.
operator of the website said.  Attacks against  Change.org ’s website this week originated
from Chinese Internet addresses, Ben Rattray, chief executive
officer at the U.S. company, said in an interview from
 Washington  today. Change.org has reported the incident to U.S.
government agencies including the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , according to Rattray, who said he’s not certain
about the identity of the attackers.  The reported detention of Ai, whose whereabouts have been
unknown since April 3, by Chinese authorities has prompted
protests from countries including the U.S. and  Germany .  China ,
which requires domestic websites to self-censor content deemed
unacceptable by the government and blocks overseas services
including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, has said the artist is being
investigated for suspected “economic crimes.”  The hackers are “preventing people across the world from
taking action” in support of the Ai petition, Rattray said.
Change.org’s website has been intermittently blocked in China in
the past year, and the Ai petition has been supported by more
than 92,000 users in 175 countries, he said.  Li Wufeng, chief of the Information Office Internet Affairs
Bureau of China’s State Council, or cabinet, didn’t return a
call to his office today seeking comment.  ‘Denial of Service’  Ai was taken away by Chinese officials as he was prevented
from boarding a flight to Hong Kong at Beijing’s airport on
April 3,  Hong Kong ’s South China Morning Post reported on April
4. China’s investigation of Ai is related to suspicion of
"economic crimes" and has nothing to do with human rights,
according to Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei.  Change.org’s website was targeted by a “denial of
service” interruption on April 17, Rattray said. The U.S.
company, which helps promote causes for customers including
Oxfam, is seeking to restore the service by circumventing the
attacks using alternative networks, he said.  Ai’s Twitter Inc. page, which has more than 80,000
followers, contains posts supportive of more democracy in China
and critical of Communist Party rule. The artist collaborated on
the design of the Bird’s Nest Stadium in Beijing used for the
2008 Olympic games in China.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
moved its Chinese service to Hong Kong last year after saying
the company’s systems were targeted by cyber-attacks originating
from China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  