-- 
China Mobile First-Quarter Profit Rises, Helped by Wireless Internet Usage

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T09:35:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-mobile-first-quarter-profit-rises-helped-by-wireless-internet-usage.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by users, reported an 5.4 percent increase
in first-quarter profit as sales were lifted by mobile Web users
downloading music and games on smartphones.  Net income climbed to 26.9 billion yuan ($4.1 billion),
from 25.5 billion yuan a year earlier, the carrier said in a
statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. Sales rose 8.3
percent to 118.2 billion yuan.  Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  expects the data business will be a
significant source of future revenue growth and plans to boost
 capital spending  6.5 percent this year to bolster services.
China Mobile will spend as much as 132.4 billion yuan to invest
in the network and add wireless hotspots as it aims to keep
attracting smartphone users and help maintain its lead over
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. and China Telecom Corp.  “It is data revenues that are increasing sharply,” Colin McCallum, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong,
wrote in an April 15 report. “This looks to be a very healthy
ratio of revenue to volume, which China Mobile’s management has
put down to a conscious strategy of avoiding unlimited data
packages.”  Profit in the first quarter was projected at 26.8 billion
yuan, on sales of 119 billion yuan, according to the median of
four analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  3G Service  China Mobile rose 0.8 percent to HK$72.60 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong before the earnings announcement.
The stock has fallen 6 percent this year.  China Mobile had a total of 584 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of last year, including 20.7 million
users of the high-speed, third-generation service that
smartphones use to surf the Web, the company said in February.  That outpaced China Unicom’s 311.3 million total
subscribers and 14.1 million users of its 3G service. China
Telecom was in third place with 90.5 million total subscribers.  To continue attracting high-end data users, Wang said last
month the company would boost subsidies for handsets by 15
percent to 17.5 billion yuan this year.  China Unicom and China Telecom will report earnings next
week.  --Edmond Lococo. Editor: Suresh Seshadri, Chua Kong Ho.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  