-- 
China to Overtake U.S. in Electric Vehicles Sales in 2020

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T05:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-to-overtake-u-s-in-electric-vehicles-sales-in-2020-consultant-says.html
Chinese consumers may purchase
about 47 percent more electric vehicles than the U.S. in a
decade, according to a consultant for the  World Bank .  Plug-in electric vehicles that connect to a  power grid  to
store energy in batteries will rise to 2.2 million, or 11
percent, of vehicles sold in  China  in 2020, said Oliver Hazimeh,
a partner at PRTM, which did a report on China’s $15 billion New
Energy Vehicles Program. By contrast the U.S. may have 1.5
million such new vehicles on the road that year, he said in a
phone interview yesterday.  “China’s emerging as a leader in electric vehicles,”
Hazimeh said. “There’s huge pent up demand for cars from the
middle class.”  Plug-in vehicles may comprise 10 percent of new sales
globally by 2020, creating a $250 billion market, according to
the study released today. There may be as many as 8 million
units sold that year, Hazimeh said by phone.  China has committed about $15 billion for vehicle
electrification over the next five years where it will develop
infrastructure to promote electric vehicles while the U.S. has
agreed to provide $2 billion to $3 billion to promote battery-
powered vehicles, Hazimeh said. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration aims to have 1 million electric vehicles on the
road by 2015.  Lottery System  “There’s political will at all levels of the government in
China to support development of electric vehicles,” Shomik Raj
Mendiratta, a transport specialist at the World Bank, said by
telephone from  Hong Kong  yesterday.  China is using monetary and other incentives to boost
electric car use, said Demi Zhu, a Beijing-based analyst with
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. State electricity grids are
developing the electric vehicle market by building battery-swap
stations and renting the units to lower costs, Zhu said.  Battery costs, which increases the price of a plug-in
vehicle to as much as twice as that of a gasoline vehicle, may
halve to about $300 per kilowatt-hour by 2020, Hazimeh said.  “If you buy an electric vehicle you don’t need to go
through a lottery system in Beijing to purchase cars,” Zhu
said. “And you can drive your car every day.”  Beijing introduced measures such as draws and restricted
driving to control  car ownership  and curb pollution. The
government is also encouraging car makers and battery companies
to team up and reduce costs, Zhu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  