-- 
China Tax Move Seen Failing to Slow Industrial Corn Consumption

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T08:28:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-tax-move-seen-failing-to-slow-industrial-corn-consumption.html
China ’s removal of tax benefits for
industrial corn processors won’t significantly slow growing
consumption, researchers including the China National Grain &
Oils Information Center said.  Companies had anticipated the government’s move and took
steps to mitigate the impact, analyst Li Xigui of the state-
owned researcher said today in a report. Even without tax
deductions the industry is still profitable, analyst Ding Ling
of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said.  The  Ministry of Finance  yesterday waived tax deductions for
corn costs paid by makers of starch and biochemicals, effective
through June 30. The government is concerned about food
inflation and is curbing industrial use to ensure livestock
farmers have access to supply at a lower cost, three people who
had received a government document said this week.  China is the world’s second-biggest consumer. State
reserves may have privately bought 1 million metric tons of U.S.
origin last month to bolster stockpiles, signaling policymakers
recognize that demand may outstrip production,  Wang Chen ,
research director of Wanda Futures Co. said April 18.
Speculation China may increase imports has contributed to a more
than doubling of Chicago prices in the past year.  The removal of  tax deductions  “signals a strengthening of
the government’s will to control prices, but the market believes
the impact is more psychological than substantial,” Li said.
The peak of the buying season in the northeast growing regions
is over, so the move will affect smaller producing provinces and
a two-month implementation period is short, Li said.  July-delivery corn gained 1.2 percent to $7.6625 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade. On the  Dalian Commodity Exchange ,
January corn rose as much as 0.4 percent to 2,430 yuan ($372) a
ton and last traded at 2,427 yuan. Futures gained 26 percent in
the past year on concern that supply was shrinking.  --William Bi. Editor: James Poole  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  