-- 
China Orders Banks to Do Another Round of Stress Tests on Property Loans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T01:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-orders-banks-to-do-more-stress-tests-on-property-loans-amid-measures.html
China  told banks to conduct another
round of stress tests on their real-estate loans to gauge the
impact of a decline in housing prices as the government steps up
tightening measures to prevent an asset bubble.  Lenders should strengthen management of property-related
advances and credit to local government financing vehicles,
China Banking Regulatory Commission Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said
yesterday, according to a  statement  on the agency’s website.  The order reflects concern that overheating in the real
estate market may lead to a surge in banks’ bad debts if prices
drop and property companies run out of cash. The government in
March ordered local authorities to cap new-home prices after
limits last year failed to stem what Premier  Wen Jiabao  called
“exorbitant” gains in some areas.  “Banks should prevent property loan risks and readily
apply the various policies,” Liu said in a speech yesterday
during the regulator’s internal meeting about the country’s
economic and financial situation. “The sustainable development
of China’s macro-economy faces uncertainties.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook on China’s
property industry to negative on April 14 on concern home sales
may decline as much as 30 percent as local governments enforce
limits. Fitch Ratings also reduced its outlook on China’s long-
term local-currency rating to negative, setting the stage for
the first cut to the nation’s debt rating in 12 years.  Asset Deterioration  There’s a “high likelihood of a significant
deterioration” in banks’ asset quality after a record credit
boom in the last two years,  Fitch Ratings  said April 12. More
than half of Chinese banks’ 17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion)
of new loans since 2008 were to either the property sector or
local governments, both of which have “questionable repayment
capacity,” according to the ratings company.  The regulator told banks to amend their loan contracts with
local governments by revising maturity periods and the method of
repayment to ease risks, according to yesterday’s statement,
which didn’t elaborate on the changes.  Liu told lenders in July to gauge the impact of a drop of
as much as 60 percent in residential property prices in some
areas of the country, a person with knowledge of the matter said
in August. The regulator also told banks to seek faster
repayments from local governments and start collecting funds
when projects are completed, a person said in November.  The growth in new  home prices  in Beijing and  Shanghai 
slowed last month, the statistics bureau said this week. About
40 cities said last month they will cap price gains below annual
economic and disposable per-capita income growth or keep them
steady.  Funding Gap  Banks must support the government’s plans to build
affordable homes and work out methods to ensure loans are repaid,
Liu said in yesterday’s statement.  The nation needs 1.3 trillion yuan to meet its target of
building 10 million units of such housing this year, excluding
land costs, Housing and Urban-Rural Development Vice Minister Qi
Ji said on March 9. The central and local governments will
provide 500 billion yuan, Qi said.  Wen said last month China plans to build 36 million
affordable homes over the next five years.  Liu reiterated yesterday that banks are prohibited from
raising deposit rates without authorization, according to the
statement. Lenders are also required to monitor their daily
average loan-to-deposit ratio on a monthly basis, it said.  He also repeated demands that banks ensure the growth rate
of loans to small companies exceeds the average expansion of
overall lending, while credit for the agriculture industry
should increase from last year’s level.  “The domestic and external environments are extremely
complicated,” Liu said at the meeting, according to the
statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  