-- 
China’s ‘Shattering Dreams’ Dazzle Pearl Buck Biographer: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y   a n d   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-s-shattering-dreams-dazzle-pearl-buck-biographer-books.html
We went to talk about Pearl Buck
and wound up discussing boomtowns, sea slugs and euthanasia.  Lunch with biographer Hilary Spurling is like the London
streets outside -- full of twists, turns and sudden vistas.  She has just been in  Asia  to promote the Chinese edition of
“Burying the Bones,” a mesmeric look at how Buck’s grim youth
in China shaped her classic novel, “The Good Earth.” As
Spurling hopscotched around Beijing,  Shanghai ,  Hong Kong  and up
the  Yangtze River , she was electrified by the country’s pell-
mell building and rebuilding.  “It’s like a series of dreams that keep shattering,” she
says, her dark eyes gleaming. “One minute you pass by, and
there’s nothing. The next time you come, it’s the home of half a
million people. It’s a whirlwind of destruction. It’s also one
of creation.”  With her enthusiasm, gauzy white shirt and Matisse-blue
earrings, she looks much younger than her 70 years as we talk in
the National Portrait Gallery’s  rooftop restaurant . A wall of
windows affords us views of Nelson atop his column and the
Millennium Wheel. Three menus, graced with pictures of Audrey Hepburn and novelist Aldous Huxley, lay untouched on our plates.  Spurling has helped put Buck, who won the  Nobel Prize  in
Literature in 1938, back on the map after decades of neglect.
Why did she choose Buck?  “It was my excuse to write about  China ,” she says
disarmingly.  Strangled Babies  Though the place came before the person, she couldn’t have
picked a better subject, she says. The result is a book that
indirectly measures how far China has come and what remains to
be done. Buck grew up in a missionary family that endured the
decades of upheaval that followed the Boxer uprising of 1900.
Poverty was endemic, famines common. Newborn girls were
routinely strangled, smothered or left out for the dogs, a
practice that continues in the countryside today, Spurling says.  “It’s misogynist, but it’s a policy that must have started
because of starvation,” she says. “Is it better for a woman to
watch her children die when she can’t feed them and bear another
she won’t be able to feed? It’s not as simple as we think.”  Spurling contrasts the cruelty of Buck’s days with the
unprecedented opportunities available to urban Chinese women
born in the 1980s and ‘90s: “The world is their oyster, for
now. They have social mobility, prosperity, education.”  Huxley for Lunch  About 30 minutes into our talk, we gesture at the Aldous
Huxley on her plate and suggest that perhaps we should order.
She hadn’t realized it was a menu.  “It’s a portrait gallery. Just give us a picture!” she
declares before settling on the pollock with samphire. Then her
face darkens with mischief as her thoughts turn to Chinese
banquets, where she ate what was set before her.  “So here are these sea slugs, which are as thick as a
child’s arm,” she recalls with a grimace. “The first time I
had them, they had the skins on. You know how a slug’s skin is
sort of pimply? Well, this huge slug had the same skin. Sort of
crisp. Blackish.” The second time, they were skinned and tasted
“just like you would suppose slugs would taste.”  Not that she has anything against gastropods.  “Little snails I’ve always liked,” she says. “That may
be why I don’t eat them. I kept them as pets when I was a child.
I wasn’t allowed pets, so my mother didn’t know.”  Living Forever  Though Spurling dismisses “prophesies of doom” about
China, she does foresee the day when the Chinese will face a
dilemma already confronting the West.  “They will live forever, as we all live forever,” she
says as the lunchtime din in the Portrait Restaurant subsides.
“Which is a curse -- both on the people who keep living and the
people who will have to pay for keeping and feeding them. Hitler
did the human race a bad turn because no one now can think of
any form of euthanasia, even for the old people -- and I’m
speaking for myself here -- who long for it.”  It’s a gloomy subject for a woman who radiates energy and
still savors the thrill of the chase. Reflecting on her research
into British novelist Paul Scott, Spurling likens her trade to
that of a police detective who pulls up at “a playground after
some ghastly shooting spree.”  “You arrive and you draw the conclusion that someone with
a gun has been through this place,” she says. “But you’ve
still got to prove it. Biography is governed by the rules of
evidence.”  Spurling’s next book will look at  Anthony Powell , the
English writer famed for his novels about high society and
bohemia in the mid-20th century. The person, in this case, came
before the place.  “It involves no traveling at all,” she says with a hint
of resignation. “Just Somerset and  Wales , I think.”  “Burying the Bones: Pearl Buck in China” was originally
published by  Profile  in the U.K. (340 pages, 15 pounds) and by
 Simon & Schuster  in the U.S. as “Pearl Buck in China” ($27).
To buy the book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley and Hephzibah Anderson are book critics for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are their own. This interview was condensed
from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writers on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net ;
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 