-- 
Premier Wen Says China to Increase Funding for Affordable Housing Projects

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T13:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-to-lift-affordable-homes-funding-by-18-billion-yuan-1-.html
China’s central government will
raise its allocation for affordable housing and rebuilding of
shantytowns by 18 billion yuan ($2.8 billion), Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a State Council meeting today.  An additional 12.3 billion yuan will also be allocated to
subsidize farmers’ pensions to ensure coverage of 60 percent of
those eligible from an originally planned 40 percent, according
to a statement posted on the government’s  website  after a
meeting chaired by Wen.  Central and local governments will only provide 500 billion
yuan of the 1.3 trillion yuan needed to meet the target of
building 10 million units of affordable housing this year,
excluding land costs, Housing and Urban-Rural Development Vice
Minister Qi Ji said last month. Finding the money to build the
36 million units planned over the next five years may be the
government’s biggest challenge, real-estate services firm
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said last month.  The nation’s banks must support the government’s plans for
low-cost housing and work out methods to ensure such loans are
repaid,  China  Banking Regulatory Commission Chairman  Liu
Mingkang  said in a statement posted on its website yesterday.  The government will “deepen social reforms, safeguard and
improve people’s livelihood,” Wen said in today’s statement
after the meeting held to discuss economic reforms. Taxation
policies for the real-estate industry will be adjusted and
improved, he said.  Power-Price Reform  Wen reiterated the pledge he made in his work report to the
National People’s Congress in March to push forward with
interest-rate liberalization, pricing reform of power and
refined oil products and trials of a resources tax, according to
the statement.  Central bank officials in China, home to four of the
world’s 10 biggest lenders by market value, have said the nation
aims to move towards more efficient pricing and allocation of
capital. The People’s Bank of China, which controls deposit and
lending rates, should allow lenders to raise savings rates “by
a certain degree” to help contain inflation, Sheng Songcheng,
head of the PBOC’s statistics and analysis department said in
December.  China, the world’s second-biggest energy consumer, may
expand the coverage of resource taxes to 12 provinces in central
and western areas this year, covering oil, gas and coal, Zhu
Fang, chief researcher at the government-backed China Petroleum
and Chemical Industry Association said in January.  --Xiao Yu in Beijing. With assistance from  Alfred Cang  in
 Shanghai . Editor: Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  