-- 
China ‘Shift in Rhetoric’ May Signal Yuan Gains to Counter Price Pressures

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T00:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-s-shift-in-rhetoric-may-signal-faster-yuan-gains-1-.html
A “shift in rhetoric” indicates
that China may be on the verge of allowing faster gains by the
yuan to damp import costs that may fuel inflation, Capital
Economics Ltd. said.  “Several senior policymakers have signaled in the last few
days that China will allow the renminbi to strengthen in order
to dampen imported price pressures,” said London-based
economist  Mark Williams , a former adviser on China to the U.K.
Treasury. “This would be a significant departure -- the
 exchange rate  is usually viewed narrowly as an instrument of
trade policy rather than as a monetary policy tool.”  His comments were in an e-mailed note dated yesterday.
Renminbi is another term for the currency.  Increased flexibility in the yuan may “ease imported
inflation pressures,” Hu Xiaolian, a deputy governor of the
central bank, said in a speech transcript released yesterday.
The yuan, which touched a 17-year high of 6.5276 against the
dollar on April 18, is described by the U.S. as substantially
undervalued and a factor in global economic imbalances that
could lead to another financial crisis.  “ China  appears to be on the verge of allowing faster
currency appreciation in response to inflation,” Williams said.
“ This may not last long if inflation drops back in the second
half of the year, as we expect.”  Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, the most in almost three years.  Bets on Appreciation  Yuan forwards strengthened yesterday after a central bank
adviser said China will not rule out a one-off revaluation of
the currency.  Xia Bin said that while the yuan should appreciate
gradually in the long term, and current conditions aren’t
conducive to overly fast gains, a one-off revaluation “can’t be
ruled out.” His comments were in an online interview on Sina.com.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.17 percent
to 6.3745 per dollar as of 6:27 p.m. in  Hong Kong , reflecting
bets the yuan will strengthen 2.4 percent in a year from the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  --Paul Panckhurst. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Ken McCallum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  