-- 
China Mobile Users Pass 600 Million, Fueled by Rural Areas

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-21T08:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/china-mobile-passes-600-million-subscribers-on-rural-additions.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941)  became the
world’s first phone company to exceed 600 million subscribers as
it signed up more rural customers in the first quarter.  China  Mobile added 16.8 million subscribers in the first
quarter, an almost 3 percent increase from the 584 million
customers at the end of December, the company said yesterday.  With mobile devices now accounting for 75 percent of
China’s 1.2 billion phone users, the Beijing-based carrier is
getting most of its new additions from customers in the
countryside who spend less on their monthly phone bills. As a
result average revenue per user, or ARPU, for the three months
ended March 31 dropped to 67 yuan ($10.3), from 76 yuan at the
end of December, the company said yesterday.  “This subscriber number is pretty good,” said Jim Tang,
an analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai  who
rates the shares “neutral.” “It’s mostly low-end subscribers,
which is why you see single-digit profit growth.”  First-quarter net income climbed 5.4 percent to 26.9
billion yuan, from 25.5 billion yuan a year earlier, China
Mobile reported. Sales rose 8.3 percent to 118.2 billion yuan.  Profit in the first quarter was projected at 26.8 billion
yuan, on sales of 119 billion yuan, according to the median of
four analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Low Usage Customers’  “The new customers were mainly low usage customers,”
Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said yesterday. “ARPU and average
revenue per minute of usage continued to decline.”  Wang aims to battle the decline in per-user revenue by
expanding sales of value-added data services such as music
downloads to high-end smartphone users.  China Mobile said 549 million customers made use of value-
added services in the first quarter, and 476 million used its
wireless music service. The value-added services were “the
driving force” of sales growth in the first quarter, it said.  Wang expects the data business will be a significant source
of future revenue growth and plans to boost  capital spending  6.5
percent this year to bolster services. China Mobile will spend
as much as 132.4 billion yuan to invest on the network and add
wireless hotspots as it aims to keep attracting smartphone users
and help maintain its lead over China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.
and China Telecom Corp.  ‘Data Revenues’  China Unicom this week reported it added 9.6 million
subscribers in the first quarter, taking its total to 320.9
million at the end of March.  “It is data revenues that are increasing sharply,” Colin McCallum, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong,
wrote in an April 15 report. “This looks to be a very healthy
ratio of revenue to volume, which China Mobile’s management has
put down to a conscious strategy of avoiding unlimited data
packages.”  China Mobile fell 0.9 percent to HK$71.95 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in  Hong Kong . The stock has fallen 6.8 percent
this year.  China Unicom and China Telecom will report earnings next
week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  