-- 
Citigroup Competes For Kangaroo Deals After Record Sales: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-04-21T04:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/citigroup-merrill-seek-kangaroo-market-share-australia-credit.html
Competition to underwrite debt sold
by overseas borrowers in  Australia  is the greatest since before
the global financial crisis as banks seek to profit from record
sales that dwarfed growth in Japanese and U.S. markets in 2010.  RBC Capital Markets  and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  are
leading 18 banks that have managed A$14.8 billion ($15.9
billion) of kangaroo bond offerings this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest number of deal
managers since 2007, and the most underwriters in a first
quarter in data going back to 1999.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  returned to the market after a three-year
hiatus and Bank of America Merrill Lynch managed its first
offering for an unrelated party as sales of kangaroo bonds
almost doubled to a record A$37.3 billion last year. Australia
is attracting borrowers such as the World Bank and  European
Investment Bank  as economic growth accelerates, the currency
trades at the strongest level since it was floated in 1983 and
the swaps market offers them discounts to sell debt.  “Australia is certainly becoming more relevant in the
context of global capital markets and hence it’s important to
have a presence here,” said Chad Karpes, Sydney-based director
of debt capital markets at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“There has been an increase in investor enquiries globally
about Australian dollar products.”  The surge in kangaroo bonds last year outpaced a 32 percent
increase in sales of Samurai notes in  Japan , Bloomberg data
show. Debt offerings in the U.S. by foreign issuers dropped 3.3
percent in 2010 from the previous year.  Global Roles  Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank,  Germany ’s development
agency for agribusiness, and  Asian Development Bank  are among 18
issuers that have sold kangaroo bonds this year, matching the
number of underwriters, Bloomberg data show. In the so-called
Yankee market in the U.S., 72 deal managers worked on sales for
211 foreign issuers.  Underwriting deals in Australia may help banks secure roles
in markets globally, where bond sales by supranational issuers
reached $189.6 billion last year, more than double the volume in
2006, Bloomberg data show.  “When we award mandates for benchmark transactions in U.S.
dollars and euros, the overall relationship and the contribution
to our non-benchmark funding plays a key role,” said Stefan Goebel, head of treasury at Frankfurt-based Rentenbank, which
has sold A$1.7 billion of kangaroo bonds this year. “A strong
relationship in the kangaroo market helps.”  Basis Swap  EIB will seek to raise as much as 75 billion euros ($108.2
billion) from bonds globally in 2011, according to its  website .
The  World Bank ’s International Bank for Reconstruction &
Development will  borrow  as much as $15 billion, while Rentenbank
will  sell  about 10 billion euros of debt maturing in two years
or longer, their websites show.  Kangaroo bond sales have surged as the swaps market cuts
funding costs for issuers once proceeds are exchanged into U.S.
dollars.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap, which measures
the cost of switching interest based on the London interbank
offered rate for payments linked to Australia’s bank bill swap
rate, was at 21 basis points at 2:40 p.m. in Sydney today. It
peaked at 48 basis points in November 2009, and has averaged 21
basis points this month compared to an average 8.6 for the five
years to 2007, before the global credit freeze began. The higher
the level, the greater the discount for overseas borrowers
selling debt in Australia.  Growth Forecast  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised its forecast in
February for 2011 growth to 4.25 percent, from a November
prediction of 3.75 percent.  The central bank increased borrowing costs seven times from
October 2009 to November 2010 to 4.75 percent to contain
inflation as a mining-investment boom bolsters employment
growth. The highest benchmark rate in the developed world has
helped spur the Australian dollar to strengthen 16 percent in
the past 12 months, the third-best performance among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The so-called Aussie traded at
$1.0742 as of 2:45 p.m. today in Sydney.  The yield on the 10-year government note fell 1 basis point
to 5.51 percent today, or 210 basis points more than similar-
dated Treasuries.  Consumer prices may rise an annual 3 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on  government
bonds  and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to hold
inflation between 2 and 3 percent on average.  ‘Head to Head’  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , has helped
Rentenbank and Luxembourg-based EIB with kangaroo bond sales
this year, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re not here to go head to head with people who make
this market their main business,” said James Arnold, Sydney-
based director of capital markets origination at Citigroup.
“We’re here to be credible and provide a global offering to our
clients.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch helped Kommunalbanken AS, a
lender to Norwegian local governments, sell A$450 million of
kangaroo bonds this year, Bloomberg data show. The lender
managed a sale for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based parent
company  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  last year.  Toronto-based RBC Capital Markets, which has been ranked
first or second among kangaroo bond underwriters every year
since 2004, holds the top spot in 2011 with a 20 percent market
share, Bloomberg data show. It’s also the top underwriter in
 Canada ’s maple bond market, where sales more than tripled to
C$4.85 billion ($5.1 billion) in 2010.  “Over the history of the kangaroo market, competition has
come and gone and will continue to do so,” said Enrico Massi,
Sydney-based head of debt capital markets Asia-Pacific at RBC.
“The issue is consistency. Everybody wants to get involved but
as the market is very competitive, not everyone will stick with
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net . 