-- 
Commodity Assets at Record $412 Billion in March, Barclays Says

-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 
2011-04-20T13:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/commodity-assets-at-record-412-billion-in-march-barclays-capital-says.html
Commodity assets under management
rose to a record $412 billion in March, led by the biggest ever
jump for agriculture products,  Barclays Capital  said.  Investment flows into raw materials for the first quarter
totaled $16.8 billion, with $7.1 billion added to agriculture
and $6.8 billion to energy, Barclays analyst Roxana Mohammadian Molina said in a report e-mailed today. Precious metals got $300
million, the smallest ever, Barclays said.  Commodities represented by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total
Return Index of 24 raw materials climbed 4.4 percent in March,
trading at a two-year high, led by gains in cotton, energy,
silver, live cattle and corn. Pricier food contributed to riots
across north  Africa  and Middle East this year, toppling leaders
in  Egypt  and Tunisia and leading central banks from  Brazil  to
China to raise  interest rates .  “This is precisely the time to hold on to your commodity
portfolios,” Molina said by phone from London. “You have
strong fundamentals, you have geopolitical risks and then you
have the fact that equities are pricing in slower growth ahead
and this is not happening in commodities because commodities
tend to outperform in the later stage of the economic cycle.”  Oil’s Advance  Oil’s biggest advance in two years led commodities to a
third straight quarterly gain in the first quarter as political
turmoil erupted in the Middle East and north Africa, while
stocks were curbed by  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record.  “Oil and food prices are already at levels that are
raising inflation fears and by implication, threatening the
performance of other assets,” Molina wrote in the report.  Barclays said it was again betting on higher corn prices,
because of increased demand for ethanol made from the grain and
expanding imports from  China . It’s too early to bet on higher
copper prices while nickel will probably gain on increased
stainless steel production in the second quarter, Barclays said.  Commodity inflows for the first quarter were down $5.9
billion from the fourth quarter, Barclays said. Agriculture was
the only sector with higher inflows from the previous quarter,
it said.  In March, the inflows were $5.6 billion, down from $7.3
billion in February, Barclays said. Precious metals added $1.9
billion in March, followed by $1.8 billion into agriculture,
$1.2 billion into energy and $700 million in industrial metals,
Molina said.  “In January, we saw the largest outflow for precious
metals, and this weakness continued into February and now in
March the trend reversed,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  