-- 
Cooper Reveals Superior Valuation With Tyco in Play: Real M&A

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-20T20:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/cooper-industries-revealing-superior-valuation-with-tyco-in-play-real-m-a.html
Cooper Industries Plc (CBE) , the maker of
electrical distribution equipment with a valuation 52 percent
greater than  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , is looking more like the
target that proves you get what you pay for.  Cooper, a takeover candidate according to Citigroup Inc.
and Vertical Research Partners LLC, is valued at 13.3 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
more expensive than Tyco at 8.74 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cooper also trades at the third-highest
price relative to free  cash flow  for a diversified manufacturer
with a market value greater than $5 billion, the data show.  A focus on smart-grid components, LED lighting and energy-
efficient technology makes Cooper attractive for  Schneider
Electric SA (SU) , which said last week it’s “not currently” in
talks to buy Tyco, as well as  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) 
or  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , said Citigroup’s Deane Dray. The almost $11 billion
company will benefit from North American and European utilities
upgrading to smart grids that better manage power usage and
emerging economies building new infrastructure. Cooper was one
of more than 40 companies Bloomberg identified last month as
fitting  Warren Buffett ’s acquisition criteria.  “I’m not surprised that it would be a potential target for
any number of these big multinationals,” said Andrew Baumbusch,
a Denver-based  fund manager  with Cambiar Investors LLC, which
oversees about $8 billion and owns almost 2.2 million Cooper
shares. “Cooper’s a very well-run entity. The current
management has done a fantastic job at getting the company
exposed to longer-term growth areas of the market.”  Enterprise Value  The firm’s $1.6 billion  Cambiar Opportunity Fund (CAMOX)  in the
past year has beaten 96 percent of rival funds.  Dan Swenson, a spokesman for Cooper, which is incorporated
in Dublin with administrative headquarters in Houston, didn’t
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman for Schneider; Alexander Becker with Munich-based Siemens; Thomas Schmidt for Zurich-
based ABB; and Paul Mason at Johnson Controls; declined to
comment on market rumors.  With debt and equity of $11.1 billion, Cooper is worth 13.3
times its Ebitda in the past 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s 52 percent higher than Tyco, owner of the
security-monitoring firm ADT, and above the median 10 times for
diversified manufacturers with market values greater than $5
billion, the data show.  ‘Bit Expensive’  Cooper closed at $65.39 yesterday, which is 22 times the
free cash flow generated per share in the past 12 months, higher
than 17 of 20 large diversified manufacturers, the data show.  “Cooper may look a bit expensive,” said  Jack Ablin , chief
investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which
oversees $60 billion. “Still, it’s a high-quality company. It
would be a great fit for a lot of global companies. Energy
efficiency and alternative energy are huge growth areas that the
world certainly needs.”  Cooper,  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  and Falls Church, Virginia-based
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  were among companies identified by
Bloomberg last month as fitting the acquisition criteria listed
in the annual letter to shareholders from Buffett, the 80-year-
old billionaire investor and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Two weeks later, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said it agreed
to pay about $9 billion for Lubrizol of Wickliffe, Ohio.  Buffett said in the  letter  that he typically prefers
“simple” businesses with pretax profit exceeding $75 million,
“consistent” earning power, and “good” returns on equity
while employing little or no debt.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Schneider-Tyco  Schneider, the French maker of electrical components, was
considering a takeover of Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Tyco,
Bloomberg reported April 11, citing three people with knowledge
of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions were private. Schneider’s shares fell 11 percent in
the next six days. The stock climbed 2.3 percent to 114.25 euros
($165.61) in Paris today.  “The pressure has been building for M&A in this space for
two years, and not much is getting done,” said Jeffrey Sprague,
a Vertical analyst in  Stamford , Connecticut. “This could blow
things open.”  Schneider’s Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire
today damped speculation the company is exploring a major
purchase, saying it prefers smaller deals.  ‘No Plan’  “There is no plan of large-size acquisitions now and in
the foreseeable future,” Tricoire said on a conference call
with analysts. “We can also work on medium-sized deals”
ranging “from one to a few billion euros,” he said.  Cooper would be a “more obvious” fit for Rueil-Malmaison,
France-based Schneider than Tyco, said Sprague, who was the top-
ranked multi-industry analyst by Institutional Investor for a
decade until he left Citigroup a year ago to co-found Vertical.
He spoke before Tricoire’s comments today.  Schneider, which specializes in energy management, would be
interested in Cooper to boost its presence in the energy-
efficiency market, according to Julian Mitchell, a New York-
based analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG. While Cooper’s work
with utility power and lighting would also fit with Schneider’s
recent acquisitions and building-management business,
respectively, a deal is unlikely because of the size, Mitchell
said in an April 4 note.  ABB, Siemens  Of Cooper’s $5.1 billion in revenue last year, about 65
percent came from the U.S. That presence may make it appealing
to a large European industrial company such as Schneider, ABB or
Siemens, according to Dray, an analyst with Citigroup in  New
York . Johnson Controls in Milwaukee may be another potential
suitor if the company decides to branch outside of building
controls, automotive components and batteries, he said.  “There are probably five or six companies that are able to
look at Cooper to buy,” said  Joel Levington , managing director
of corporate credit research at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York. “They’re well-positioned within electrical
equipment product lines. They make products that will be around
for a lot of long-term trends.”  U.S.  electricity  consumption is projected to rise 0.2
percent in 2011 and 2.3 percent in 2012, according to the U.S.
Energy Department’s Short-Term Energy Outlook published this
month. Utilities in the U.S. will spend about $5.5 billion this
year on smart grids, while European utilities will shell out
about $1.3 billion, according to Albert Cheung, a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analyst in London. China has said it will invest
up to $660 billion through 2020 to upgrade its national grid.  ‘Quality Over Time’  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  last year
estimated that $33 trillion of energy infrastructure investment
is needed by 2035 if countries are to meet their international
commitments to limit greenhouse gases.  “If there’s a thought that quality over time can trump the
price side, then you’ll likely get what you pay for,” said
James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC
Wealth Management, which oversees $108 billion.  Cooper has climbed 15 percent this year, to as high as
$69.76 on April 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
had a market value of $10.8 billion as of yesterday.  The shares rose 2.2 percent to $66.82 on the New York Stock
Exchange today. Tyco retreated for a sixth straight day, losing
4.1 percent to $48.96 after Schneider’s comments.  Digesting a company of Cooper’s size would mean completing
one of the largest takeovers of its kind. The biggest multi-
industry manufacturing deal was Veba AG’s $15 billion merger in
2000 with Viag AG to form Germany’s largest utility,
Duesseldorf, Germany-based E.ON AG, Bloomberg data show.  Wrenches, Tape Measures  Cooper,  founded  in 1833 by the Cooper brothers, transformed
itself into a focused electrical-equipment company a year ago
when it agreed to combine its tool operations, including
Crescent wrenches and Lufkin tape measures, in a joint venture
with Washington-based  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  That made it more appealing
to acquirers who no longer have to deal with an unrelated,
“low-growth” business, Citigroup’s Dray said.  Kirk Hachigian, 51, who became Cooper’s chief executive
officer in 2005, said at a March 1 analyst conference that the
company is now “100 percent electrical” and serves markets
with $140 billion in sales.  “We have the cycle and the wind in our sails for the next
several years,” Hachigian told investors.  ‘Stay Independent’  Cooper almost tripled its cash and equivalents to $1.04
billion last year. Hachigian said at the analyst meeting that
the company is pursuing “mid-size to larger acquisitions.”  “Cooper’s talked about wanting to be a consolidator, to be
an acquirer, but as yet in the last couple of years they’ve not
been able to put the balance sheet to work from a real scale
perspective,” Cambiar’s Baumbusch said. “To some degree that
strong balance sheet becomes a bit of a liability to the extent
they want to stay independent.”  Overall, there have been 7,384 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $715.9 billion, a 29 percent increase from
the $553.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 