-- 
Cotton Farmers in China Fail to Boost Crop, Top Agency Says; Prices Climb

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-20T08:30:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/cotton-farmers-in-china-fail-to-boost-crop-favor-grain-top-agency-says.html
Cotton plantings in some areas of
 China , the largest importer, have fallen as record prices failed
to spur increased acreage, according to the top economic
planning agency, which highlighted a problem in the biggest
producing region. Futures reversed losses to gain 1 percent.  “Cotton used to be a pillar industry in Xinjiang, if
Xinjiang cotton has a problem, the foundation of our cotton-
producing ability will be rocked,” Fang Yan, deputy head of
rural affairs at the National Development and Reform Commission,
said in an  online briefing . Other cotton-growing areas along the
Yellow, Huai and Yangtze river plains have shrunk as growers in
Henan and Shandong ramped up grain output instead, Fang said.  Lower cotton output in China, or a smaller-than-expected
gain in acreage and production, may reignite a rally that drove
prices to a record last month. Futures have tumbled into a bear
market since then on speculation that global output, including
in the U.S. and  India , is set to increase, boosting stockpiles.  “It’s inevitable that China will expand cotton imports,”
Du Ying, an analyst at Wanda Futures Co., said from Urumqi,
Xinjiang. China imported 2.84 million metric tons in 2010, up 86
percent from 2009, according to customs data. “Xinjiang farmers
favor other cash crops such as apricots, dates and walnuts, so
cotton isn’t gaining much acreage,” Du said.  Cotton on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  reached an all-time
high of $2.1970 per pound on March 7. The July-delivery contract
reversed losses today to gain as much as 1.74 cents to $1.7290,
paring the fall since the record to 21 percent. A slump of 20
percent or more signifies a  bear market  to some investors.  ‘Not Optimistic’  The cotton-production situation in Xinjiang “is not
optimistic,” Fang said in the briefing yesterday, without
giving precise forecasts for national acreage or output. Farmers
have been favoring grain crops because of high subsidies and the
need for less labor due to mechanization, Fang wrote.  China’s farmers were expected to plant more cotton this
season, helping to underpin a gain in global output. In the
2011-2012 crop year, production in China may climb 13 percent to
34 million, 480-pound bales, according a February forecast from
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , or USDA. That would account
for about 27 percent of the global harvest in the year from Aug.
1, which was forecast to gain 11 percent to 127.5 million bales.  ‘Favor Grains’  China’s “cotton acreage this year may rise a bit on higher
prices, but farmers these days favor grains or abandon farming
altogether as labor elsewhere makes much more money,” said Dong
Shuzhi, manager at Shanghai Jinhuicheng International Trade Co.  The cotton area in China may rise 9.8 percent to 84.55
million mu (13.9 million acres) this year, the China Cotton
Association said in February, citing a survey. China’s Ministry
of Agriculture forecast a gain of 5.4 percent last month.  Cotton has rallied over the past year as China’s imports
have surged, driven by increased textile production. In the year
to July 31, the nation will use 17.5 million more bales than it
grows, the USDA has estimated.  China’s economy  grew at a faster-
than-estimated 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  Cotton in China reached a record 34,870 yuan ($5,344) per
ton on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange on Feb. 17 as demand
from the  textile industry  soared. The most-active contract ended
at 27,715 yuan per ton today.  --Feiwen Rong. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith,  Richard Dobson   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  