-- 
Croatia’s HBOR Shifts Tactics to Issue More, Smaller Loans in Q1

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-04-20T10:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/croatia-s-hbor-shifts-tactics-to-issue-more-smaller-loans-in-q1.html
The  Croatian Bank for
Reconstruction and Development , or HBOR, doubled the amount of
creditors in the first quarter to help boost recovery more
evenly, while the total amount of lending remained stable.  In the first three months 165 loans were approved totaling
434 million euros ($629 million), up from 72 loans in the same
period last year, said Anton Kovacev, head of the bank’s
management board. The bank has started five new loan programs in
2011 to help spread recovery to small- and medium-sized
businesses, he said.  “This is a great indicator that our funds are being used
by a large number of small- and medium-sized enterprises,”
Kovacev told journalists in Zagreb today. “Our bank’s function
is not to loan to big businesses, but to evenly enable the
development of all the regions in  Croatia ,” he said.  Croatia’s economy may expand for the first time since 2008
and grow an estimated 1.5 percent this year, according to a
government estimate in November. The country is in the final
stage of negotiations with the European Union.  The bank’s 2010 profit was slightly revised to 118 million
kuna ($23 million), or 29 percent lower than in the previous
year, Kovacev said. The bank made a “conscious decision” to
lower the profit in order to keep the  interest rates  lower, he
said.  HBOR in January decided to lower interest rates on loans to
solvent entrepreneurs to 2.8 percent from 3.8 percent when
matched by lending from private banks to help boost the economy.
HBOR will finance 40 percent of a loan under the lower rate,
with private banks providing the remaining 60 percent to
qualified borrowers under market rates.  The bank also plans to sign new contracts with the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
 European Investment Bank  to finance tourism and infrastructure,
totaling 300 million euros, Kovacev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  