-- 
Debt at 200% of GDP Dares S&P Amid Succession: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-20T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/debt-at-200-of-gdp-dares-s-p-amid-succession-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
So  Naoto Kan  is a goner.  That’s the word in traumatized Tokyo. Japan’s prime
minister had a once-in-a-lifetime chance to get his mojo back in
the five weeks since a record earthquake and tsunami. He failed,
and pundits wonder if he will make it to his first anniversary
in office in June. Kan would be the fifth to go in five years.  Investors harbor a well-honed cynicism about Japanese
leaders. They come, stick around for 12 months and they’re gone
before markets or foreign governments get to know them. Japan’s
revolving-door politics constantly sends new finance and foreign
ministers to global summits. So much for relationship-building.  Kan’s predecessor lasted only nine months. Now Kan, who
cheered markets with talk of reducing  Japan ’s massive debt,
seems to be on the way out. And the question isn’t who’s next,
but does it even matter? Not without sweeping changes to the
political system. Barring that, Japan’s economic future is as
cloudy as the status of the radiation leaks in Fukushima.  The focus is on how the March 11 quake, tsunami and
unfolding nuclear-reactor drama will affect gross domestic
product this year. That makes sense when the world’s third-
biggest economy is suddenly in turmoil. We also must ponder
where aging, deflation-plagued Japan will be five, 10 or 20
years from now.  And that’s what worries me. Japan faces a daunting Catch
22. It needs a strong, independent prime minister willing to
wrest power from the entrenched  bureaucrats  who really run the
nation. When we actually get one, the entire political
establishment thwarts reform and works to oust that leader.  Maverick  Kan is one of the few prime ministers in decades who didn’t
descend from political royalty. His maverick streak emerged in
the 1990s. As  health  minister, he forced bureaucrats to release
documents exposing their role in allowing as many as 5,000
Japanese to contract HIV through contaminated blood products.
Whistle-blowers are a rare thing in Japanese politics.  Investors were excited 10 months ago when Kan unveiled
plans to yank power away from bureaucrats. We foreign
journalists were overjoyed that Kan’s  government  moved to open
press conferences to scribes outside Japan’s press-club system,
which is more about control than transparency.  These steps alone border on revolutionary and go a long way
toward explaining why Kan efforts to bring about change are
failing. Vested interests rallied to save the status quo.  Corruptive Force  One of the most corrupting forces in government is the rise
of shadowy fiefdoms. The longer one stays in a job, the bigger
their influence becomes and the more skewed their incentives are
toward personal success and avoiding change. An added problem in
Japan is the offensive practice of public servants getting cushy
gigs in industries they once oversaw.  The hapless  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. runs the leaking
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. You might expect there
to be strict rules about former  government officials  gaining
lucrative employment at Tepco after retirement -- you know, just
to ensure that nuclear plants are actually being watched with
some semblance of objectivity.  Nope, the practice that encourages bureaucrats to look out
for their future employers, not the average Japanese household,
is alive and well. It’s called amakudari, which means “descent
from heaven.” Decades of doctored safety reports and
underestimated risks at Tepco were made possible by bureaucrats
looking the other way. Far from heaven, it’s made life a
nightmare for farmers, fishermen and millions living around
Fukushima.  Japan Inc.  Kan’s unsteady leadership these last five weeks sealed his
political fate. Yet so did his failure to see through change,
just as Japan’s last independent-minded leader Junichiro Koizumi
fell far short in his pledge to shake things up. Koizumi was
around for an extraordinarily long time, from 2001 to 2006, and
had only marginal success. Though they hail from different
parties and ideologies, both ran up against the same wall: Japan
Inc.  We can obsess over who will succeed Kan. Many bets are on
Katsuya Okada, secretary general of the ruling  Democratic Party 
of Japan. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano is another
favorite, as are Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and National
Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba . Long shots include Renho Murata, a former model turned fiscal firebrand serving as
conservation minister. She would be Japan’s first female
premier.  Unless Kan’s successor is willing to attack the status quo,
to disturb Tokyo’s established political order, it won’t much
matter.  Japan’s Debt  Standard & Poor’s  regained a bit of its own mojo this week
by threatening to take away the AAA credit rating for the U.S.
Japan should brace for greater skepticism of its balance sheet
as politicians add to a public debt that’s 200 percent of GDP.  In January, S&P lowered Japan’s rating to AA-, the same
level as  China ’s. Japan’s forthcoming borrowing binge to rebuild
the quake-devastated northeast will do nothing to make it more
competitive or vibrant, and its rating may pay the price.
Leaders change; Japan’s dismal debt-to-GDP ratio doesn’t.  To change course, the nation’s 127 million people require a
liberated and visionary leader. They just need to find one and
let him or her stay in the job for a while.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  