-- 
Deere CEO Says Debt Debate May Send ‘Shock’ Through Economy

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-04-20T20:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/deere-ceo-says-u-s-debt-debate-may-send-shock-through-economy.html
Deere & Co. (DE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Samuel Allen  said  Washington ’s partisan debate over debt could
send a “near-term shock” through a U.S. economy still
struggling to recover.  “I have a lot of concerns for the economy,” Allen, who
leads the world’s largest maker of  farm equipment , said
yesterday in an interview in Bloomberg’s Chicago bureau. “I
don’t think we are out of this.”  Deere, which had 65 percent of its sales in U.S. and  Canada 
in fiscal 2010, plans to double revenue to $50 billion by 2018.
President  Barack Obama  is touring the U.S. to promote his
proposal to cut long-term budget deficits after Standard &
Poor’s said April 18 the country risks losing its AAA credit
rating unless policy makers agree on a plan.  “From a long-term standpoint, the debt is a tremendous
issue,” he said. “How we address the debt and the dialogue and
discourse” can have “more of a near-term shock implication on
the economy than what I maybe perceive others do.”  Allen, 57, who became CEO at Moline, Illinois-based Deere
in 2010, said the  U.S. economy  is in a “more precarious shape”
than those who forecast growth of about 3 percent or 4 percent.
The economy will expand 2.9 percent this year, according to the
median of 75 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which
range from 2.2 percent to 4 percent.  ‘Doomsday Scenarios’  The debate between Democrats and Republicans over raising
the current debt ceiling of $14.3 trillion is intensifying. The
Treasury Department projects the government could reach the
limit as soon as mid-May and run out of options for avoiding
default by early July.  “Sometimes people in Washington lose sight of how much the
rest of us go into paralysis when you don’t know what’s going to
happen or both sides start so far apart,” Allen said.  “You end up creating these doomsday scenarios,” he said.
“We may have to cut back from record levels of  capital
expenditures  if all of a sudden the economy goes south.”  The long-term conditions driving demand for Deere’s
tractors, combines and excavators are still intact, Allen said.
Global food output must double by 2050 as the populations in
emerging economies expand, become more prosperous and
increasingly migrate from rural areas to cities, he said.  Deere is positioning itself to help farmers to meet those
needs by improving productivity, because simply cultivating more
arable land won’t be enough, Allen said.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “That’s high-production, precision agriculture,” he said.
“That is John Deere’s sweet spot. That is a tremendous
opportunity.”  Deere rose $1.51, or 1.6 percent, to $93.89 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange Composite trading. The shares have
climbed 56 percent in the past year, compared with a 10 percent
advance in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Fiscal first-quarter net income was $513.7 million on sales
of $6.12 billion. Deere is scheduled to report second-quarter
earnings May 18 and will probably say adjusted profit increased
55 percent to $850.2 million, according to the median of nine
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Deere in February forecast fiscal 2011 sales will gain 18
percent to 20 percent, with revenue climbing 25 percent in the
three months through April. It also raised its projected full-
year earnings to $2.5 billion, from $2.1 billion previously.  Deere is building factories in  China  and  India  and doubling
manufacturing capacity in Russia. The company may be at a
disadvantage to competitors from other countries if  Russia 
doesn’t join the  World Trade Organization  and the U.S. doesn’t
establish permanent normal trade relations, Allen said.  “You are much better off having them in the game and
having them play by the rules,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  