-- 
Delta to Build Fare-Distribution System to Cut $300 Million Cost

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-20T17:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/delta-to-build-fare-distribution-system-to-cut-300-million-cost.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is building a
computer system to let travel agents book flights directly with
the carrier, helping trim the $300 million spent annually on
fare distributors such as Sabre Holdings Corp.  Fare data and ancillary services such as seat selection and
paying checked-bag fees will be available to agents when the
system goes live in the fourth quarter, said Trebor Banstetter,
an airline spokesman. Atlanta-based Delta hired  Farelogix Inc. 
on April 12 to do the work, Banstetter said.  Airlines pay so-called global distribution systems as much
as $5 a flight segment to collect and share fares and data with
travel agents. American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  used Farelogix
to build a proprietary system for travel agents, and is in legal
battles with Sabre and Travelport Ltd. over the issue.  “Our agreement with Farelogix isn’t intended to replace
the multiple existing relationships Delta has with GDS’s,”
Banstetter said today in an interview. “It is designed to
provide an additional option to our customers that will offer
complete access to Delta’s products and services.”  Delta has said it pays Sabre, Travelport and  Amadeus IT
Holding SA (AMS)  about $300 million a year to distribute fare and
flight data. Including payments to online travel agencies such
as Travelocity, which is owned by Sabre, such spending totals
$400 million a year, Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson
said on a Jan. 18 conference call.  Farelogix’s system for American will be “repeatable
from a technology point of view” for Delta and other airlines
and won’t have to be created from scratch, CEO Jim Davidson said
in a telephone interview.  Farelogix helps airlines use historical data on customer
preferences to tailor deals and services such as day passes to
airport lounges and which specific seats they like on planes,
Davidson said. Delta’s accord with the Miami-based company was
reported previously by travel site Tnooz.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 