-- 
Diageo Is Said to Team Up With Bain Capital for Possible Stock Spirits Bid

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/diageo-bain-capital-said-to-team-up-for-distiller-stock-spirits.html
Diageo Plc (DGE)  is teaming up with U.S.
buyout firm  Bain Capital  LLC for a possible joint bid for Stock
Spirits Group, the distilling and distribution company owned by
Oaktree Capital Management LLC, said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  Diageo and Bain Capital are the only potential bidders,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the information is private. An initial public offering of Stock
Spirits in Warsaw is still a possibility, said the third person.
Diageo Plc may spend 500 million pounds ($820 million) to buy
Stock Spirits, maker of the Polish vodka Czysta de Luxe, the
Sunday Times reported last month.  Distillers including Diageo are seeking takeovers in
developing economies as competitive markets and sluggish
consumer-spending growth in western  Europe  and the U.S. restrict
sales increases. Luxembourg-based Stock Spirits is the biggest
vodka maker in Poland and the  Czech Republic  as well as in
 Italy .  Officials at Diageo and Boston-based Bain Capital declined
to comment. Spokeswomen for Los Angeles-based Oaktree and Stock
Spirits declined to comment when reached on the phone.  London-based Diageo, which makes Smirnoff vodka, made its
largest purchase in more than a decade in February when it
agreed to buy Mey Icki,  Turkey ’s No. 1 maker of raki, for about
3.3 billion Turkish lira ($2.2 billion). Chief Financial Officer
Deirdre Mahlan said that Diageo aims to make purchases in
markets where growth is fastest.  ‘Strategic Options’  Oaktree may seek about 200 million euros ($290 million)
selling a stake in the distiller through an IPO, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in December. The Los Angeles-based
investment firm said April 1 that it was reviewing “strategic
options” for Stock Spirits, which hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
to advise on a potential sale.  Stock Spirits reported in April that full-year sales and
profit gained, and forecast that market conditions will
“improve slightly” in 2011. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 17 percent to 68.2 million
euros in 2010.  Sales at Diageo’s international and Asia-Pacific units
outpaced those in  North America  and Europe in the fiscal first
half ended Dec. 31, the company said in February.  Oaktree, which is led by co-founder Howard Marks, acquired
Stock Spirits in 2007, according to the drinkmaker’s website.
The price wasn’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans in London at  at
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  