-- 
DirecTV Is Willing to Lower Price in Shorter Window for On-Demand Movies

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T22:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/directv-is-willing-to-lower-price-in-shorter-window-for-on-demand-movies.html
DirecTV (DTV)  may lower the $30 price on
its premium video-on-demand film rentals and offer new movies
sooner if subscribers don’t embrace the service, according to
Derek Chang, executive vice president.  “We’re testing a price point and testing a window in the
early days of this product, and we’ll see how it takes,” Chang,
DirecTV’s head of content strategy and development, said today
in an interview. “Down the road, if the window gets tweaked and
changed, I think we all cross that bridge when we get to it.”  DirecTV, based in El Segundo, California, will begin
offering 48-hour rentals of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Just Go With It” for
$29.99 starting tomorrow, just 10 weeks after the movie’s
theatrical release. It’s the first film to be released for home
viewing so soon after the cinema debut. The service has sparked
protests from theater owners and directors.  The world’s largest satellite TV operator plans to shorten
the time frame to 60 days for future releases, including  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s “The Adjustment Bureau,” in the “next few weeks,”
Chang said.  Shortening the exclusivity for cinemas threatens the
theatrical revenue for movies that gain momentum several weeks
into their release, Alan Stock, chief executive officer of
 Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , said in a phone interview.  The current window for on-demand home viewing starts 90 to
120 days after a movie opens in theaters, Stock said. “The
Blind Side” remained popular in theaters after 60 days in
release, he said. Cinemark, based in Plano,  Texas , operated 430
theaters with 4,945 screens at year-end, according to a
statement.  Theater Backlash  Stock said Cinemark reserved the right not to screen
trailers of movies that will be shown on TV sooner than 90 days.
Cinemark theaters also may follow Regency Theatres in not
showing films that break the 90-day window.  Regency, based in Calabasas,  California , said yesterday
that it will pull “Just Go With It” from cinemas.  “If studios have movies they think should be released on-
demand in 60 days, then my answer is, go directly to video-on-
demand,” Stock said. “If you go outside the traditional way of
how we do business, I have to alter the way I do business with
you.”  Chang said premium on-demand movies should help theaters by
giving films added exposure. Theater operators like Stock are
overreacting because the vast majority of movies make very
little revenue after two months of release, he said.  “Biting off their nose to spite their face doesn’t make a
lot of economic sense,” Chang said. “You’d only play those
cards if you feel like there was material impact to your
business, and I don’t think there will be.”  DirecTV rose 42 cents to $46.52 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 17 percent
this year. Cinemark added 10 cents to $19.16 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has risen 11 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  