-- 
Dogan Agrees to Sell Two Turkish Newspapers for $74 Million

-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-04-20T15:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/dogan-agrees-to-sell-two-turkish-newspapers-for-74-million-1-.html
Turkish businessman Aydin Dogan
agreed to sell the Milliyet and Vatan newspapers to DK
Gazetecilik & Yayincilik AS, owned by the Demiroren and Karacan
groups, for $74 million.  Dogan will sell Milliyet for $48 million and Vatan for $26
million, unit  Dogan Gazetecilik AS (DGZTE) , which controls the
newspapers, said in a filing with the  Istanbul Stock Exchange 
today.  Aydin Dogan is seeking buyers for his media assets after
the government demanded $3.8 billion in back taxes and fines.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Dogan on the sale of the
units, which include CNN Turk television channel. TPG Capital
and KKR & Co. LP were among companies shortlisted for the sales.
Time Warner Inc. also has said it’s interested.  “It looks like the price is much lower than Dogan Group
paid to buy Vatan daily,” Mehmet Agyuz, an analyst at EFG
Istanbul Securities, said by telephone. “The deal doesn’t
include the main bread-and-butter business, which is the Posta
daily.”  Dogan Gazetecilik fell 22 kurus, or 5.3 percent, to 3.91
liras at 5:30 p.m., its lower price limit for the session and 
erasing gains of as much as 16 percent earlier. Dogan Yayin 
Holding AS, which controls Dogan Gazetecilik, rose 2 kurus, or 
1.1 percent, to 1.81 liras.  Demiroren runs companies including Milangaz, a gas
distributor. The Karacan family were founders of Milliyet
newspaper and own assets including the Number One Media Group.  Lawyers are still working on the agreement, Omer Karacan
said in a telephone interview. The agreement is expected to be
signed today, Bloomberg HT television said citing Hanzade Dogan Boyner, daughter of Aydin Dogan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  