-- 
Draghi Campaign to Run ECB After Trichet Wins Momentum With German Backing

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-04-20T14:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/draghi-campaign-to-run-ecb-after-trichet-gets-momentum-with-german-backing.html
Mario Draghi ’s campaign to run the
 European Central Bank  is gaining momentum as some German
officials signal they support the Italian taking charge of euro-
area monetary policy.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sees Bank of
Italy Governor Draghi as the candidate likeliest to be appointed
as the ECB’s next chief, say people familiar with his thinking.
Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer, who manages European
affairs, said last week Draghi would make a “very good” ECB
president and uphold Germany’s goal of a stable euro.  Germany, the region’s largest economy and biggest donor to
its bailout facility, is first among equals in deciding who
replaces  Jean-Claude Trichet  at the helm of the Frankfurt-based
ECB when his eight-year term ends on Oct. 31. Draghi, 63, could
still come unstuck if he fails to win the backing of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel , who is struggling to rally support for the euro
at home and may face domestic criticism for choosing a southern
European from a country with a legacy of inflation and debt.  “Draghi is building up a head of steam, but the key is
still Mrs. Merkel,” said  James Nixon , co-chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in London and a former ECB
forecaster. “This isn’t over yet. The worry is that Draghi is
not the man to sell the euro project to the German people.”  Weber’s Departure  The signal from Merkel’s aides is that Germany is no longer
insisting on a German to succeed Trichet as the ECB’s third
president. Their preferred candidate, Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , leaves office next week after announcing in February he
wouldn’t seek the job amid concern his controversial comments on
monetary policy would hurt his chances of rallying leaders
behind him.  Germany ’s Free Democratic Party, the junior coalition
partner in Merkel’s government, sees no alternative to Draghi
and will back him, the Handelsblatt newspaper reported today,
citing an unidentified member of the FDP leadership.  In Draghi’s favor are his duties heading the central bank
of the euro area’s third-largest economy and the Financial
Stability Board, which is rewriting the rules of global finance
following the credit crisis.  Whether Draghi wins the ECB job still depends on
politicians who are struggling to persuade their electorates to
back financial aid for debt-strapped nations on the euro
region’s periphery. Greece has yet to convince investors it can
pay its debts almost a year after it was rescued, and Portugal
is now negotiating a bailout.  Merkel’s Travails  The task is greatest for Merkel, whose country writes the
biggest checks. She is on the defensive after losing control of
a key state in a regional election last month amid public
opposition to nuclear power.  Her Christian Democrats and their FDP partners trail the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens at 38 percent to 50
percent, an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television showed April 15.
The gap widened from 8 points last month as the Greens surged.  Merkel’s travails may mean Draghi’s homeland undermines his
candidacy.  Italy  had inflation exceeding Germany’s in all but
one year in the decade through 2009. In the 10 years before the
start of the euro in 1999, its inflation averaged 4.4 percent
compared with 2.7 percent in Germany.  Italy also has the euro region’s second-largest debt load
at almost 120 percent of gross domestic product, although
investors are signaling they’re less concerned about its fiscal
health than they are about others. The Italian yield spread over
equivalent German debt narrowed to 144 basis points today,
compared with 1,123 points for Greece.  Not a Done Deal  The selection of Draghi is “not quite a done deal yet,
with Mrs. Merkel’s silence on the matter rather conspicuous to
date,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-zone market economist at
BNP Paribas SA in  London . “The clock is ticking for a decision
to be made.”  Germany hasn’t decided on a candidate yet and won’t propose
one until the end of June, deputy government spokesman Christoph Steegmans said today. The ECB succession and Draghi’s candidacy
”are not being addressed at the moment,” said  Franck Louvrier ,
a spokesman for French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  In a sign he understands the need to meet the skepticism
head on, Draghi has been appealing to the German inflation-
fighting mindset. He said April 13 that monetary policy is still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
this month.  In February, he told newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung that Germany is an example for other nations, calling
for tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to
ensure  price stability .  Other Candidates  Also in Draghi’s favor is that, unlike his competitors, he
comes from a large European nation and has international
experience they lack. Other candidates include Yves Mersch of
Luxembourg, Erkki Liikanen of Finland and Nout Wellink of the
Netherlands. Klaus Regling, a German who runs the bailout
facility, has never been a central banker.  Draghi is the bettors’ choice. Irish bookmaker Paddy Power
Plc makes him a 4-7 favorite, followed by Regling at 7-2. Mersch
and Nout Wellink are at 7-1.  Picking Mersch, Liikanen or Wellink would leave small
European countries with three of the six seats on the ECB’s
Executive Board and no room for  France  when Trichet leaves.  The selection of Draghi would likely mean the exit of board
member and fellow Italian Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, opening a slot
for France to fill.  ‘Front-Runner’  “Draghi is the front-runner,” said Michael Burda, an
economics professor at Berlin’s Humboldt University. “I met him
once when I was research scholar at the ECB three years ago and
he left a strong impression. It’s his bad luck that he’s from
Italy, but I don’t think there’s an alternative.”  Draghi holds a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, was a director general of the  World Bank  for six
years and previously chairman of the European Economic and
Financial Committee, which helped introduce the euro.  After a stint as an economics professor at the University
of Florence from 1981 to 1991, he was director general of the
Italian Treasury until 2001. Married with two children, Draghi
was appointed to lead Italy’s central bank at the end of 2005,
replacing Antonio Fazio, who was indicted in a criminal
investigation for favoring Italian lenders in merger battles.  A potential wrinkle is his three-year tenure as vice
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which arranged currency
swaps that helped Greece hide the extent of its  budget deficit .
Draghi had “nothing to do with those transactions,” Italy’s
central bank said in a statement on Feb. 17 last year.  IMF Option  An alternative destination for Draghi could be the
 International Monetary Fund  if Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn quits to seek the French presidency and the
tradition of having a European head the lender continues.  In one sign Draghi has done enough to persuade Germany of
his suitability for the ECB job, Bild, the country’s biggest-
selling newspaper, seems to have accepted his candidacy.  In an article last month on the euro’s future, it wrote
Draghi would be the ECB’s next president followed by a German.
Only a month earlier it had called for him to be spurned,
saying: “Please not this Italian! Mamma mia, for Italians
inflation belongs to life like tomato sauce to pasta!”  “I think there was a media campaign against him, but that
is now gone,” said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam. “At this point he looks very likely to be the next
ECB president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  