-- 
Draghi’s ECB Fate Rests With Merkel, Not Schaeuble or Bookies

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/draghi-s-ecb-fate-rests-with-merkel-not-schaeuble-or-bookies.html
Europe ’s oddsmakers call Italy’s
 Mario Draghi  the favorite to take over the  European Central
Bank . Associates of German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
call his qualifications undisputed.  What the person who will determine the decision -- German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  -- wants is less clear. As Europe nears
a late-June deadline to make the appointment, Draghi’s career
and the ECB’s fate are caught up in her political calculus.  With Portugal’s looming bailout pushing the cost of aiding
debt-wracked euro states past 250 billion euros ($361 billion),
whether Merkel, who has been punished at the polls for backing
rescues, could tolerate a southern European ECB chief is in
question. The German choice,  Axel Weber , withdrew amid concern
his objection to ECB bond buying undercut his chance at the job.  “It makes more sense for Merkel to stay silent on this
right now, whether there’s a new German candidate or not,
showing her cards only at the point where it counts,” Lars Feld, a Freiburg University professor who serves on the German
government’s economic-advisory panel, said in an interview
yesterday. “That’s strategically sound.”  Unfolding behind the scenes, the campaign for ECB president
runs in parallel with efforts to contain inflation while
stamping out the debt crisis that generated renewed speculation
that Greece, now drawing on 110 billion euros in European Union-
led loans, will renege on its bills.  As Europe’s dominant economy, Germany is critical to
picking a successor to ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , a
Frenchman whose term terminates at the end of October. Germany’s
status as the leading guarantor of the euro rescue packages
gives it further influence.  Last Word  Signals that Schaeuble is behind Draghi may not be borne
out. Merkel and her finance minister have sparred over the
handling of the debt crisis -- with the chancellor always having
the last word.  Only last month, Schaeuble signed a financing agreement for
the region’s 700 billion-euro emergency-aid fund to be set up in
2013. Two days later, Merkel tore up the deal, insisting on
stretching Germany’s payments over a longer period.  Merkel also overruled Schaeuble’s attempt to keep the
 International Monetary Fund  out of the Greek rescue -- doing so
less than a week after the wheelchair-bound finance minister was
released from the hospital in March 2010.  Draghi’s origins in  Italy , Europe’s most debt-ridden state
until overtaken by Greece in 2009, are “a potential issue,”
said  Holger Schmieding , London-based chief economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. German acceptance of him may hinge on a
wider bargain, including a “de-facto veto” over future
bailouts, he said.  June Decision  Merkel refuses to be drawn on the ECB. Germany won’t settle
on its pick until June, deputy government spokesman Christoph Steegmans said yesterday.  Bailout politics narrow Germany’s room for maneuver, with
resentment at propping up deficit-prone governments translating
into regional electoral defeats for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union and its allies.  “There is deep-seated dissatisfaction with the euro in
Germany and Merkel is conscious of that,” said  James Nixon , co-
chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in  London  and a
former ECB forecaster. “Draghi is building up some degree of
momentum, but has limited appeal in  Germany  and at this juncture
that’s a weakness.”  Finland, like Germany a AAA rated state, offered a
cautionary tale when an anti-bailout party finished third in
elections on April 17. In Germany, the popular backlash led even
the Free Democrats, the junior party in Merkel’s coalition, to
slip their pro-European moorings and cultivate votes on the
anti-euro fringes.  One of Several  In an interview last week, German Deputy Foreign Minister
Werner Hoyer said Draghi would make a “very good” ECB chief,
yet spoke of him as one of several possibilities.  “Draghi’s credentials as a sound fiscal-policy and
monetary-policy stabilizer are beyond any doubt,” Hoyer, a Free
Democrat, said in the April 15 interview. “We have not decided
within the cabinet whether we are going to nominate a German
candidate or whether we support one of the other candidates.
It’s a completely open question.”  Weber, Germany’s first contender, dropped out in February,
preferring a return to academic life over a chance to step into
the glare of running the world’s second most powerful central
bank. He also quit as head of Germany’s Bundesbank.  Euro’s Gain  The euro climbed to $1.4548, its highest in 15 months
yesterday, on economist forecasts that the ECB will raise its
benchmark rate a further 50 basis points this year to 1.75
percent.  Politics, not monetary credentials, will dictate the
appointment. It will mark the first time Europe has named a new
top central banker since the ECB’s first two presidents were
simultaneously selected in May 1998, eight months before the
euro’s debut.  At the time, Wim Duisenberg of the Netherlands, backed by
Germany and the central banking community, faced a veto threat
from France. A political deal was struck to give him the job, as
long as he stepped down midway through his eight-year term to
hand off to Trichet.  The EU has since dropped the policy of allowing solitary
countries to block high-level appointments. The voting math now
requires anywhere from two to six of the euro region’s 17
countries to band together to wield a veto, with bigger
countries holding more clout.  Betting Line  Draghi, 63, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist with stints at the World Bank and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  on his resume, is the  bettors’ choice . Irish bookmaker
 Paddy Power Plc (PWL)  makes him a 4-7 favorite, followed by Germany’s
Klaus Regling, a non-central-banker, at 7-2. Luxembourg central
bank Governor Yves Mersch and Dutch central bank chief Nout Wellink are at 7-1.  Money plunked down in a betting shop isn’t the best guide
to European decision-making. Two weeks before  Herman Van Rompuy 
of Belgium was named the EU’s first president in 2009, Paddy
Power was tipping Dutch Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende  and
former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair .  Draghi carries none of the negatives that felled Blair, a
polarizing figure who split Europe by backing the  Iraq war  in
2003, said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam.  “Blair was talked about as a frontrunner, but it’s also
clear that there were a lot of people who would say ‘over my
dead body,’” Kounis said. “I don’t think that there’s anyone
who would oppose Draghi violently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  