-- 
Dubai Stocks Climb to 2011 High on Earnings Optimism; Emaar, DIB Advance

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-20T13:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/dubai-stocks-advance-ninth-day-on-quarterly-earnings-optimism-emaar-gains.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
advanced to the highest this year on investor expectations
first-quarter earnings will exceed estimates and after oil
increased for a second day.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, rose to the highest in three months.  Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , the phone company known as
Du, gained 1.3 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 1.6
percent to 1,680.96 at the 2 p.m. close Dubai, the highest since
Dec. 9. The measure has surged 24 percent from a low of 1,352.24
on March 3, after surpassing the 20 percent threshold some
consider the beginning of a bull market.  “There are positive expectations for first-quarter
results,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at
Abu Dhabi-based financial services company CAPM Investments
PJSC. “On the macro picture, higher oil prices have supported
the rally.” Investor optimism that the U.A.E. will secure an
upgrade in June at MSCI Inc. has also helped gains, he said. [bn:WBTKR=DIB:UH]   Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  [], the lender with the second-
heaviest weighting on Dubai’s index, may report a 55 percent
increase in first-quarter profit to 310 million dirhams ($84
million), according to an EFG-Hermes Holding SAE analyst
estimate on Bloomberg. Du may next week report first-quarter
earnings that more than doubled to 207 million dirhams,
according to the median estimate of two analysts on Bloomberg.  DIB jumped 3.1 percent to 2.31 dirhams, the highest since
February and Du advanced to 3.22 dirhams. Emaar rose 1.5 percent
to 3.46 dirhams.  Expected Earnings  Oil climbed as much as 1.6 percent to $109.92 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract has soared 20 percent so far this year amid an armed
conflict in  Libya . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, including the U.A.E. and Qatar, supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Dubai’s index declined 4.6 percent in the first quarter
after uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa that ousted
Egypt and Tunisia’s leaders reached the Persian Gulf states of
Oman,  Saudi Arabia  and Bahrain. The gauge has advanced 8 percent
this month on investor optimism Dubai’s market will be raised at
index provider MSCI. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained
1.9 percent in the period.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are seeking to secure an upgrade to
emerging-market status at MSCI, which will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
slipped 0.1 percent, paring the gain this month to 2 percent.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.9 percent. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.2 percent and Saudi Arabia’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 0.8 percent, trimming the loss
for the week to 0.5 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index rose
0.6 percent, while Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  declined 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  