-- 
Mead Johnson Loses Bid to Cancel $13.5 Million False Advertising Verdict

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-20T22:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/mead-johnson-loses-bid-to-cancel-13-5-million-jury-verdict-1-.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the
baby-formula maker that  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  took public in
February 2009, lost a bid to overturn a $13.5 million jury
verdict in a false-advertising case over its product Enfamil.  A federal appeals court in Richmond, Virginia, today
affirmed a 2009 finding that the Glenview, Illinois-based
company engaged in false advertising in a mailing to more than
1.5 million people that said “store brand” infant formula was
inferior to its  Enfamil LIPIL .  The suit was filed by PBM Products Inc., a unit of  Perrigo
Co. (PRGO)  that makes store brand infant formula. PBM, based in
Gordonsville, Virginia, sued Mead Johnson twice before over
advertising campaigns.  “As the litigation history of the parties demonstrates,
despite having twice been restrained from disseminating
misleading advertising, Mead Johnson continued to do so,”
Circuit Judge Andre Davis wrote. “PBM cannot fairly compete
with Mead Johnson unless and until Mead Johnson stops infecting
the marketplace with misleading advertising.”  Art Shannon, a spokesman for Perrigo, said, “We are very
pleased” with the ruling.  Christopher Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, said in an
e-mail that the company will comply with the court’s ruling.  “The case focused on a single direct mail piece, and the
statements that the district judge decided should be
discontinued have not been used for over a year,” Perille said.  The case is PBM Products LLC v. Mead Johnson & Co., 10-
1421,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 