-- 
Single Company May Control LME Inventories of Lead Now Worth $704 Million

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-20T13:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/lead-stockpiles-show-one-company-has-a-dominant-market-position-lme-says.html
One unidentified company has the
potential to own up to 89 percent of the lead in warehouses
monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange, a position worth $704
million at the current price, exchange data showed.  The so-called Warrant Tom Banding Report today signaled a
dominant position of 80 percent to 89 percent as of April 18,
the most since Feb. 11, according to the LME. The exchange uses
the report to apply guidelines that oblige owners of stockpiled
metal to lend it out at fixed rates.  “Clearly there is a dominant position in lead today, but
we have our lending guidance methodology, which is what we use
to deal with that situation,” said Chris Evans, head of
business development at the LME in London. “If there’s a
dominant in the market and somebody needs the metal, then the
lending guidance can be invoked to ensure that metal is supplied
by the dominant in the market at a limited premium.”  Lead, used in vehicle batteries and plumbing, this month
reached the highest level in almost three years. Prices gained
after producer Ivernia Inc. halted its Magellan mine in  Western
Australia  and Mitsubishi Materials Corp. said it would boost
output to meet increased demand for batteries after the March 11
earthquake in  Japan .  Chinese Usage  The metal for three-month delivery rose $63, or 2.5
percent, to $2,620 a metric ton by 1:52 p.m. on the LME. Prices
reached $2,904, the highest level since April 17, 2008, on April
11. Lead has more than doubled since the end of 2008, helped by
demand from  China , the world’s largest buyer.  “We know who the long positions are,” Steve Hardcastle,
head of client services for industrial commodities at broker
Sucden Financial Ltd., said at a press conference in London
today. “Whether they can maintain it, I think it’s doubtful,
given the current level of stock deliveries.”  LME lead inventories total 301,950 tons, the most since
March 1995, daily exchange figures showed today. Stocks have
jumped 45 percent this year, the biggest increase among the six
main metals traded on the exchange.  “The high level of backwardation has attracted stock,”
Hardcastle said. Backwardation denotes a market in which nearer-
dated metal trades at higher prices than later-dated contracts,
potentially indicating concern about supply.  Cash lead was recently at a premium of $32.85 a ton to
three-month metal after reaching $82.25 on April 18. The fee to
borrow lead for one day, also known as the tom-next spread, was
last at $6 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  