-- 
Egypt Economy Contracted 7% in Fiscal Third Quarter, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-20T15:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/egypt-economy-contracted-7-in-fiscal-third-quarter-finance-minister-says.html
The Egyptian economy shrank 7
percent in the third quarter of the fiscal year that ends on
June 30, after a revolt that toppled former President  Hosni Mubarak , Finance Minister Samir Radwan said.  Exports fell 40 percent, the value of imports increased due
to higher global commodity prices and tourism revenue “went
away,” Radwan told Cairo-based ONTV network in an interview
late yesterday. Gross domestic product expanded 5.6 percent in
the previous three months, according to government figures.  “The stoppage of economic life has affected business,”
Radwan said. “The number of businesses that went bankrupt is
big.” The contraction rate is based on the previous quarter,
Radwan said in an interview in Cairo today.  The economic slowdown has prompted Radwan to seek soft
loans from the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  to
finance a  budget deficit  that he forecasts could widen to 9
percent of GDP in the current fiscal year compared with 8.1
percent in the previous 12 months. Economic growth may slow to
as little as 2.5 percent compared with 5.1 percent in the
previous year, Radwan said this month.  World Bank Loan  Egypt  will obtain a $2.2 billion loan from the World Bank,
payable over 18 years with an interest rate below 3 percent,
Radwan said in the interview, conducted after he returned from
 Washington , where he held talks with international lenders.  Mubarak resigned on Feb. 11 after 18 days of mass protests,
ceding power to the military, which has dissolved parliament and
suspended the constitution.  “Uncertainty has demolished Egypt’s macroeconomic scene,”
Mona Mansour, a research director at Cairo-based investment bank
CI Capital, wrote in a report today. “Imposed curfews, closure
of businesses and security issues have all restricted business
activities.”  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (CASE)  declined for the fourth time
in five days, losing 1.9 percent to 4,986.46 at the 2:30 p.m.
close in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 