-- 
Heineken Slides Most in Six Months as Sales Miss Estimates on Price Cuts

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-04-20T09:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/heineken-s-first-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-on-growth-in-europe-africa.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  slid in Amsterdam
trading after growth in first-quarter revenue missed estimates
because of discounting that boosted the amount of beer sold.  Heineken fell as much as 2.2 percent, the steepest intraday
drop since Oct. 27. The shares were the only decliner in the
Dutch benchmark AEX Index.  So-called organic revenue rose 3.6 percent in the quarter,
less than a 5.5 percent increase in volume, the Amsterdam-based
brewer said today. Sales growth missed the 3.8 percent median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, while the
volume gain exceeded the 2.1 percent median estimate.  “The big worry is the price mix,” Samar Chand, an analyst
at Barclays Capital in  London , said today. “All the volume beat
has been entirely driven by discounting, which is not good.”
Chand has a “neutral” recommendation on the shares.  Heineken is seeking to revive sales in the U.S. and Europe,
where beer volume contracted last year because of increased
competition and dwindling consumer budgets. Volume at the
western European unit rose 0.6 percent in the quarter, compared
with the median of four estimates for a 2.5 percent drop.
Heineken bought the beer unit of  Mexico ’s Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB in April last year to expand in emerging markets.  Advertising and Promotions  Heineken, the world’s third-biggest brewer by volume, said
it doesn’t expect to maintain profit growth at the pace of the
first quarter as it increases marketing spending. Earnings
before interest and taxes, excluding some items and the effect
of acquisitions, rose more than 20 percent in the quarter as the
company spent less on advertising and promotions.  Heineken said it plans to increase marketing spending,
which will affect “profit development in the near term.”  “All of us expected marketing to be phased-in in the first
quarter,”  Barclays Capital ’s Chand said. “It’ll be more of a
lump in the next three quarters.”  Heineken shares were down 33 cents, or 0.8 percent, at
39.88 euros as of 11:34 a.m. Amsterdam time.  A new marketing campaign for the brewer’s eponymous brand
will start in 30 markets in the first half of 2011, Heineken
said. The brand’s volume increased 5.7 percent in the first
quarter on an organic basis, which excludes units the company
bought or sold in the past year.  Gains in  Russia   Total group revenue increased 22 percent to 3.6 billion
euros ($5.2 billion), the company said.  “Whilst we are witnessing gradually improving economic
conditions in a number of countries in  Europe  and in the U.S.,
consumers remain cautious with their spending behavior,”
particularly in bars and restaurants, Heineken said.  Beer volume in central and eastern European rose 7.3
percent, led by gains in Russia, Heineken said. Volume in the
region fell 14 percent in the same period last year after the
Russian government raised taxes on beer by 200 percent.  Volume in  Africa  and the Middle East, the region with the
fastest improvement for Heineken, climbed 13 percent as economic
growth spurred beer purchases across sub-Saharan Africa.
Heineken submitted the highest bids for two breweries being sold
by the Ethiopian government last month. It also bought five
breweries in  Nigeria  this year to alleviate capacity
constraints.  SABMiller Plc, the second-biggest brewer in the world by
volume, beat estimates yesterday with a 3 percent increase in
volume, driven by growth at its African and Asian units.  Heineken said volume in  Egypt  was lower in the quarter,
following political unrest in the country.  Volume rose 5.8 percent in the Americas, including the U.S.
and Latin America, and 11 percent in the Asia Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 