-- 
Elton John, Ozzy Osbourne Films Highlight 10th Tribeca Festival: Preview

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/elton-john-ozzy-osbourne-films-highlight-10th-tribeca-festival-preview.html
To drum up interest in the first
 Tribeca Film Festival  in 2002, co-founder Jane Rosenthal handed
out free tickets in  New York  schools, firehouses and police
stations.  “We’d go anywhere to spread the word,” she recalled.
“Most people didn’t know we existed.”  As Rosenthal gears up for the festival’s 10th edition,
which opens tonight with a free performance by  Elton John 
following a documentary on his musical collaboration with Leon
Russell, recognition is no longer a problem.  The festival -- started by Rosenthal, her husband Craig Hatkoff and actor  Robert De Niro  to help revive  Lower Manhattan 
following 9/11 -- is now an internationally known event that has
drawn more than 3 million visitors and generated an estimated
$600 million for the local economy.  “We’ve come a long way in a short time,” Rosenthal said
in a telephone interview.  This year’s festival will showcase 93 feature-length films
from 40 countries. The lineup includes documentaries on Ozzy
Osbourne and  Yves Saint Laurent , the directing debut of actress
Vera Farmiga (“Higher Ground”), and “The Good Doctor,” a
psychological thriller starring Orlando Bloom.  Online Festival  But the 12-day movie celebration is now just a spoke in the
giant wheel of Tribeca Enterprises, which includes a film
institute, a distribution company, an online festival, a
multimedia school and an international film festival in Qatar.  “We’re trying to extend our reach beyond the traditional
boundaries,” said Geoffrey Gilmore, who became chief creative
officer of Tribeca Enterprises in 2009 after directing the
Sundance Film Festival for 19 years. “We want to build an
ongoing dialogue between filmmakers and film lovers.”  A few years ago, the Tribeca Film Festival got so big that
it was criticized for being sprawling and unfocused. So the
organizers cut the number of feature films -- the current lineup
is about half the size it was in 2006 -- and returned to the
festival’s roots of timely documentaries, indie dramas and
international fare.  They also added popular features like the online festival
and an annual series of sports films sponsored by ESPN, which
this year includes documentaries on infamous  Chicago  Cubs fan
Steve Bartman and Renee Richards, a tennis player who underwent
a sex-change operation from male to female in 1975.  “We offer films that appeal to a variety of audiences,”
said programming director David Kwok. “If you’re into sports or
music or politics, we have films for you.”  School Program  The Tribeca Film Institute offers financial and creative
support for aspiring screenwriters and directors. It also
operates a film-education program for New York public-school
students.  “Kids are the largest media consumers, and we want them to
be educated, active consumers,” said Beth Janson, the
institute’s executive director.  Tribeca Film was created a year ago to distribute indie
films via theaters, video-on-demand, DVDs and other platforms.
Recent acquisitions include “Last Night,” starring Keira Knightley, and “The Bang Bang Club,” featuring Ryan Phillippe.  The Tribeca Flashpoint Media Arts Academy is a two-year
school in Chicago that teaches students how to make movies,
video games, special effects and other multimedia projects.  Another part of the empire that Rosenthal and De Niro have
built is the  Doha Tribeca Film Festival , which was launched in
2009 to increase exposure for Arab cinema and provide Mideast
moviegoers with more options.  “We’ve always been willing to take risks and try new
things,” Rosenthal said. “That’s what Tribeca is all about.”  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is a sponsor of
the Tribeca festival.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 