-- 
EMC First-Quarter Profit Rises 28% as Companies Increase Spending on Data

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-20T14:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/emc-first-quarter-profit-rises-28-as-companies-increase-spending-on-data.html
EMC Corp., the world’s biggest
maker of storage computers, reported a 28 percent gain in first-
quarter profit as companies increased spending on data centers
capable of delivering tasks through the Internet.  Net income rose to $477.1 million, or 21 cents a share,
from $372.7 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, EMC said today
in a statement. Excluding some items, profit of 31 cents met the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  EMC, like  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , is benefiting from corporations’ need to upgrade their
systems after holding off during the recession. In January,
Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC unveiled more than 40 storage
products and technologies to capture part of that boom.  “We’re in the early innings of a major refresh cycle,
where EMC is in the driver’s seat,” said  Daniel Ives , a New
York-based analyst at FBR Capital Markets who rates the shares
“outperform.” “For a few years companies were in a bunker
mentality. Now you’re seeing wallets get bigger, issuing a lot
more”  information technology  spending.  Sales rose 18 percent to $4.61 billion last quarter,
exceeding the $4.5 billion average estimate. EMC reiterated its
full-year profit forecast of $1.46 a share, excluding some
items. Analysts on average estimate $1.48.  EMC rose 96 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $27.68 at 10:46 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares 
climbed 17 percent this year before today.  Cloud Computing  Companies are increasingly turning to data centers capable
of providing storage, software and other computing tasks through
the Internet. The global market for such cloud-related services
may more than double to $148.8 billion in 2014 from $58.6
billion in 2009, according to researcher Gartner Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  VMware Inc. (VMW) , majority-owned by EMC, yesterday reported
profit excluding some items of 48 cents a share, exceeding the
42-cent average of projections compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose
33 percent to $843.7 million, said  Palo Alto , California-based
VMware, the biggest maker of programs that let computers run
multiple operating systems.  IBM, the largest computer-services provider, boosted its
full-year profit forecast yesterday, while Intel, the top
chipmaker, forecast second-quarter sales higher than analysts
predicted.  ‘Potential Risks’  While EMC expects information technology spending to
increase 5 percent to 7 percent this year, damage from the
March 11 earthquake and aftershocks in Japan, public-sector
deficits and rising commodity prices are “potential risks,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joe Tucci said on the
company’s earnings conference call.  “You just worry about the future,” he said. “Our supply-
chain people have really done a heck of a job looking at first-,
second- and third-order effects. So we feel OK, but you still
have some angst. It’s a big supplier to the IT community.”  EMC has “only a handful” of suppliers in  Japan  with
potential risk, Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said on
the call.  Worldwide spending on information technology is forecast to
total $3.6 trillion this year, a 5.6 percent increase from 2010,
according to Gartner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  