-- 
Tepco Will Start Compensating Evacuees From Near Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-20T07:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tepco-will-start-compensating-evacuees-from-near-nuclear-plant.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said it
will start compensating residents evacuated from areas around
its crippled nuclear power station, as the government pledged
support for the company’s aid plans.  Tepco, as the company is called, will begin distributing
claim forms today and payments will be made as soon as possible,
spokesman Tetsuya Terasawa said at a briefing in Tokyo. Initial
compensation totaling about 50 billion yen ($602 million) was
promised by the utility last week.  Tepco faces compensation claims of as much as 11 trillion
yen for the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in
1986, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said last month. The
company is pumping contaminated water from trenches around
reactor buildings damaged by explosions after last month’s
earthquake and tsunami so it can restore cooling systems and
stop the radiation leaks that forced residents to evacuate.  Japan ’s government will aid Tepco’s efforts to compensate
those affected by the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today.  “Our broad policy to provide support as necessary is
clear,” Edano said. “But what must be done urgently is to pay
1 million yen per household to evacuees and then make the first
compensation payments for businesses.”  Giving Support  No specific plans have been decided, Edano told reporters
today in Tokyo. The government may contribute several trillion
yen to create a fund to help Tepco, the Yomiuri newspaper said
today, citing an unidentified person familiar with the plan.  “The government’s method for giving support for Tepco’s
compensation hasn’t advanced to the kind of specifics that have
been reported,” Edano said.  While Tepco executives are considering ways to streamline
the company, no specific proposals have been put forward,
Terasawa said, adding he hadn’t heard of support from the
government. No decision has been made on the number of job
losses, he said.  The utility plans to cut salaries for executives and
eliminate jobs, President Masataka Shimizu said on April 15,
when he offered 1 million yen per family and 750,000 yen for
each single-person household within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of
the nuclear plant.  About 50,000 households will receive the aid, he said.
Payments should go out before Japan’s Golden Week holidays that
begin on April 29, Edano said at the time.  “Our top priority is for them to think quickly and act
quickly,” he said today.  Pumping Operation  Tepco shares fell 0.5 percent today to 445 yen. They are
down nearly 80 percent since the earthquake and tsunami struck
on March 11, leaving almost 28,000 people dead or missing.  The Fukushima plant, 220 kilometers north of Tokyo, has six
reactors, three of which were shut for maintenance when the
tsunami washed ashore, knocking out backup generators.  The company has been pouring millions of liters of water to
cool the other three reactors and spent fuel after the accident,
which has flooded basements and trenches near the reactors. Some
highly contaminated water leaked into the sea and the utility
has dumped less toxic fluids into the ocean.  Engineers pumped 210,000 liters (55,000 gallons) of highly
radioactive water from the No. 2 reactor at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant by 7 a.m. today, Terasawa said.  Avoiding Leaks  An operation to remove 10 million liters of the
contaminated water, which is emitting radiation as high as 1,000
millisieverts per hour, to a storage unit started yesterday.  The company is using an 800 meter (2,600 foot) hose to pump
the water out and is limiting the flow rate to avoid building
pressure, that could cause a leak of contaminated water in other
areas of the plant. The operation is expected to take 26 days,
Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager, said yesterday.  The water will be decontaminated by a water treatment unit
that  Areva SA (CEI)  plans to deliver by the end of next month, the
French company said yesterday in a statement.  The treatment unit, which separates and recovers
radioactive particles, can process 50,000 liters (13,200
gallons) of water per hour, Areva Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  said yesterday at a briefing in Tokyo.  “The contaminated water must be treated rapidly as it is
preventing Tepco from repairing the power plant’s power supply
and cooling systems,” Areva said in the statement. The unit
“will sharply reduce the radioactivity levels of the treated
water, which could be reused in the power plant’s cooling
systems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  