-- 
Tepco Must End ‘Whack-a-Mole,’ Cover Fukushima Reactors as Typhoons Loom

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-04-21T10:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tepco-must-end-whack-a-mole-cover-fukushima-reactors-as-typhoons-loom.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. must speed
up plans to cover reactors at its crippled nuclear plant and
drain tainted water to prevent more radiation leaks as  Japan ’s
typhoon season approaches, engineering professors said.  In 2004, eight cyclones passed over or skirted Japan’s
Tohoku region, where the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station is
spewing radiation after an earthquake and tsunami on March 11.
The earliest was in May that year, according to Japan’s weather
agency data. The eyes of two storms passed within 300 kilometers
(180 miles) of Tohoku last year, the data show.  Last month’s disaster wrecked the plant’s cooling systems,
triggering the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. The
roofs of three buildings were damaged in blasts as water inside
reactor cores and spent-fuel ponds boiled away. The utility
known as Tepco plans to install temporary covers within nine
months, and concrete ceilings over the “medium term.”  “The buildings should be covered at least before the
typhoon season is in full swing by late July,” said Tadashi Narabayashi, a professor of nuclear engineering at Hokkaido
University. “Tepco’s actions are like a game of Whack-a-Mole
because the company keeps reacting after the event.”  Temporary Covers  Tepco  said  on April 17 it will start erecting temporary
covers for the damaged building within three months provided
radiation falls to levels at which workers can begin
construction. The work is expected to be completed in the next
three to six months, according to the action plan, which lists
the “possibility of the cover being damaged by a big typhoon”
as a risk.  The company hasn’t decided what material it will use to
temporarily cover the buildings, Tepco spokesman Hajime Motojuku
said today.  The covers are the only measures planned at the moment to
protect against typhoons, Takeo Iwamoto, a Tepco spokesman, said
yesterday. The company may install them faster than the plan
announced on April 17, he said.  The  Japan Meteorological Agency  doesn’t make forecasts for
how many  tropical storms or typhoons  are expected to approach
the country, Hajime Takayama, a weather forecaster at the
bureau, said by telephone.  “It’s quite possible for a typhoon to hit the Tohoku
region while maintaining its strength, although most tend to
make landfall in the south,” Takayama said.  Reactors Weakened  Typhoon Melor smashed into Japan west of Tokyo in October
2009, leaving five people dead. The storm weakened as its eye
passed over land to the west of the Fukushima station, where it
dumped more than 30 millimeters (1.2 inches) of rain per hour in
the early hours of Oct. 8, 2009, according to the JMA.  Tepco shares fell 5 percent to 423 yen in  Tokyo . They are
down almost 80 percent since the disaster.  The Fukushima plant, 220 kilometers north of Tokyo, has six
reactors, three of which were shut for maintenance when the
earthquake and tsunami struck, leaving almost 28,000 people dead
or missing.  Reactor buildings weakened by explosions may suffer further
damage if a typhoon hits them, while strong winds and rain could
scatter radioactive materials and water, said Hironobu Unesaki,
a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University .  Tepco has been pouring millions of liters of water to cool
the reactors and spent fuel after the accident, which has
flooded basements and trenches near the buildings that house
them. Some highly contaminated water leaked into the sea and the
utility has dumped less-toxic fluids into the ocean.  Leaking Radiation  About 520,000 liters (137,000 gallons) of water with a
level of radioactivity that was 20,000 times the legal limit
leaked into the ocean between April 1 and 6,  Junichi Matsumoto,
a Tepco general manager, said today at a briefing in the
Japanese capital.  The amount of radiation discharged in the leakage was 4,700
terabecquerels of iodine-131, cesium-137 and cesium-134,
according to a statement from Tepco.  Basements and trenches around the reactor buildings are
also flooded with radioactive water, preventing repairs to the
electrical equipment and cooling systems.  “Heavy rain may cause radioactive materials to soak
further into the ground and enter the water table," Unesaki
said. ‘‘This could affect drinking water.’’  Pumping Water  Tepco started pumping contaminated water out of trenches
near one of the reactor buildings that were damaged by the
blasts, Matsumoto said on April 19. The company aims to move 10
million liters of the contaminated water to a storage unit and
expects to complete the transfer in 26 days.  About 450,000 liters was pumped out by 7 a.m. today,
spokesman Takashi Kurita said at the briefing in Tokyo today.  ‘‘It will be too late to start preparations once a typhoon
approaches,’’ said Narabayashi of  Hokkaido University . ‘‘It’s a
basic risk principle that you proactively take measures against
circumstances that are predictable.’’  Radiation in excess of 100 microsieverts per hour was
measured at 2 kilometers away from the nuclear plant on April
18, Japan’s science ministry said today.  Japan’s government imposed a 20-kilometer (12 mile) no-
entry zone around the crippled plant in the interests of public
health, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today.  The order will go into effect at midnight today, Edano said
at a press conference in Tokyo. An earlier directive asking
about 80,000 residents living within the radius to evacuate
wasn’t legally binding.  Some have returned to the area to collect belongs and check
their properties against the advice of officials. One person per
household will be allowed to return to their homes for two-hour
periods to retrieve possessions, Edano said.  ‘‘There has been a strong desire from evacuees who left
without anything to go back,” Edano said. Groups will be
transported by bus and required to wear protective gear, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/21/ :36 GMT 