-- 
Mercedes Fights BMW for Bankers in Manhattan Showroom Upgrades

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-04-20T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/mercedes-fights-bmw-for-bankers-in-280-million-manhattan-dealer-upgrades.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  are spending a combined $280 million
to improve their Manhattan showrooms as they race to become the
top-selling luxury brand in the U.S.  Mercedes is investing $220 million in a new dealership on
11th Avenue between 53rd and 54th Streets that will feature
soaring ceilings and changing light colors when it opens in May.
Three blocks away, on 57th Street, BMW is spending $60 million
to free up floor space, renovate its store’s facade and make the
location more environmentally friendly.  Mercedes is leading BMW by less than a thousand sales this
year as they work to overtake  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  as the
top-selling luxury brand in the U.S. for the first time in 11
years. Some of both automakers’ best clients are located in
 Manhattan , said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with TrueCar.com.  “The financial markets are coming back, bonuses are coming
back, bankers are doing just fine again,” Toprak, whose firm is
based in  Santa Monica ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “Some of the best months historically for both brands
had been whenever the bankers get their Christmas bonuses.”  Mercedes sold 53,346 vehicles in the U.S. in the first
three months of the year, topping BMW’s 52,617 deliveries. Lexus
sold 47,356 light vehicles. Lexus kept the title last year,
beating BMW by 9,216 sales. Mercedes finished third.  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars
and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  Mercedes’s new U.S. flagship store at 770 11th Ave.
replaces the location on 41st Street near the Lincoln Tunnel
entrance, according to plans the automaker revealed amid the New
York International Auto Show this week.  Five Levels  The new store has five levels, including three underground,
and is 330,000 total square feet, which is more than 100,000
square feet larger than the previous location. The site has a
helix ramp that allows customers to pull into the basement to
drop off their vehicles for servicing.  “It’s not just a dealer facility,” Ernst Lieb, head of
Mercedes U.S. operations, said at an event to preview the new
space. “It’s more for us. It’s a showpiece.”  The new facility has 20 more work bays than the previous
site and a glass-enclosed service area that allows customers to
watch technicians work.  The previous dealership serviced an average of 145 cars and
trucks a day and sold 3,254 new vehicles last year, making it
the third best-selling U.S. Mercedes dealership, Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler said in a statement. The dealership has
more than 30,000 active customers.  ‘Brand Statement’  The new facility “is a brand statement but it’s also a
functioning business, and it’s a profitable business,” said
Blair Creed, the dealership’s general manager. “It’s a bit of a
laboratory, it’s a bit of an incubator, but it’s also a very
good working model of an effective business.”  BMW’s plans in Manhattan include opening a new 69,000-
square-foot space for its Mini brand across the street from its
555 W. 57th St. location. The Mini store should be completed
late this year, and the renovated BMW space should be done by
the end of next year, the Munich-based company said.  BMW Manhattan has 32,000 active customers, including Mini
owners, servicing 180 to 200 vehicles a day and selling about
2,400 new vehicles last year, including Mini models, said
Jeffrey Falk, who heads the dealership.  Moving Mini will free more space at the showroom, which has
228,000 square feet and hasn’t been renovated since it opened in
1998. The current dealership’s glass pyramid facade will be
replaced with a glass wall and specially designed louvers will
be added on the building’s exterior to reduce heat and use more
daylight.  “It will be a revolutionary change for this facility,”
Falk said in an interview. “It will set us on a trajectory for
the next decade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  New York City  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  