-- 
Euro-Region Crisis May Delay Czech Rate Increase, Hampl Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-04-20T10:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/euro-region-crisis-may-delay-czech-rate-increase-hampl-says.html
The euro region’s fiscal crisis may
further boost the Czech koruna, delaying an interest-rate
increase in the east European country, central bank Deputy
Governor Mojmir Hampl said.  The Czech central banker sees “no substantial” changes in
the economy since the last central bank meeting on March 24,
when the benchmark rate was left at 0.75 percent. The
possibility of further appreciation of the koruna against the
euro, driven by a deepening of the currency zone’s fiscal
concerns, would have an anti-inflationary impact, Hampl said.  “We are approaching the point when  interest rates  should
be increased, but I am uncertain about the timing,” Hampl told
journalists in Vienna today. The euro-region’s crisis “may
delay this point.”  The Czech central bank has kept the two-week repurchase
rate at a record low since May as inflation hovers below its
target and an economic recovery following a recession slows. The
koruna has appreciated more than 1 percent in the past month
against the euro, even as the  European Central Bank  raised its
key rate by a quarter-point to 1.25 percent on April 7.  The koruna was trading at 24.162 per euro at 12:15 p.m. in
 Prague , little changed from yesterday. The currency of the
country, which has yet to set the target date for the euro
adoption, may further benefit from a deepening of fiscal woes in
the euro region, he said.  Inflation in the  Czech Republic , at 1.7 percent in March,
has remained below the central bank’s 2 percent target since
December. The central bank’s board will next discuss interest
rates on May 5.  Domestic demand remains “very much” subdued, Hampl said.
Even a potential increase in value-added taxes would have only a
one-off effect on price growth, he said.  The  Finance Ministry  expects economic growth will slow to
1.9 percent this year from 2.2 percent in 2010 because of the
government’s austerity measures. The pace should accelerate to
“normal” levels next year, Hampl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 