-- 
F-1’s Ecclestone Says No Plans to Sell Series to News Corp., Carlos Slim

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-20T09:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/f-1-s-ecclestone-denies-talks-on-selling-series-to-news-corp-carlos-slim.html
Formula One Chief Executive Officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  said there are no plans to sell the car racing
competition to media company  News Corp. (NWSA)  or Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim .  News Corp., owner of cable-television channels including
Speed, may make a bid with partners for motor racing’s most
popular series, a person familiar with the matter said
yesterday. Sky News, which is controlled by News Corp., reported
the company had talked to Slim.  Formula One owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd., a London-based
private equity company, recorded losses of $660 million last
year on costs associated with a $2.5 billion loan the firm took
out to pay for the 2005 acquisition of Formula One, according to
accounts published for its Delta (3) U.K. Ltd. unit on April 6.  “CVC are not in the slightest bit interested in selling,”
Ecclestone said in a telephone interview today. “A lot of
people approach them but they are there for the long term.”  Ecclestone helped set up the series, which hosts Grand Prix
races from Monaco to  Abu Dhabi . The sport has attracted wealthy
team owners like U.K.-based billionaire Richard Branson and
Indian liquor magnate Vijay Mallya. Car companies like Fiat
SpA’s Ferrari group, Renault SA and Daimler AG’s Mercedes
compete for the constructors’ championship.  Ecclestone, 80, has become a billionaire since setting up
the sport. He said he knows Slim and News Corp. chairman  Rupert Murdoch . “If they were interested for sure they would have
called me and they haven’t,” he said.  Yesterday,  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for News Corp.,
declined to comment, as did  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim.  German prosecutors are investigating the sale of a 48
percent stake in Formula One to CVC by  Germany ’s Bayerische
Landesbank, which received a government bailout following losses
on U.S. subprime mortgages. They are trying to find out whether
banker Gerhard Gribkowsky took a $50 million kickback for
engineering the sale. Gribkowsky’s lawyer, Reinhard Hoess, has
declined to comment. CVC said in a Jan. 5 statement that it has
no knowledge of or involvement in any such payment.  Ecclestone said that though CVC is committed to owning the
series, he couldn’t rule out a sale if an “enormous” bid was
tabled.  “If someone was to come along with an enormous offer,a lot
more than it were worth, then they have to look at it,” he
said. “They have never talked about selling, though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  