-- 
Fairfax Wants to Increase Stake in India’s ICICI Lombard

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-04-20T18:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/fairfax-s-watsa-wants-to-increase-stake-in-india-s-icici-lombard.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) 
Chief Executive Officer Prem Watsa said he wants to boost his
company’s stake in an insurance venture with  India ’s  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC)  when rules allow for increased foreign ownership.  Watsa, who said he sees a “huge amount of opportunity in
India,” wants 49 percent of ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Company Ltd., he told investors today at the company’s annual
meeting in Toronto. Fairfax owns 26 percent of the joint
venture, the maximum allowed under the country’s rules, he said.  “They’ve been telling us for the last five years that it’s
one year away -- and so I just have to wait,” for rules to be
eased, Watsa told reporters following the meeting. “When they
allow us the opportunity, we’ll look at taking advantage of
it.”  Watsa, 60, has modeled Fairfax after Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. by investing the assets of insurance
operations, often in out-of-favor securities. Born in Hyderabad,
India, Watsa was been running Fairfax since 1985.  He recommended shares of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  US Bancorp. (USB)  Fairfax owns a
combined $1.9 billion in the four U.S. company shares.  “The underlying fundamentals are there for everyone to
see, but it’s boring,” Watsa said. “No one wants to buy
something that will take five, six years” to double in value.  Fairfax, which owns insurers including Northbridge
Financial and Crum & Forster, plans to release first-quarter
results on April 28. Watsa declined to say what impact the
damages of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  may have on results.  Earthquake  “If it was material, we would disclose it,” Watsa said.  Fairfax is being “cautious” on investments and is
focusing on preserving capital, Watsa said. The CEO said he
likes government and municipal bonds and the company is selling
some corporate bonds after gains. Fairfax is also investing in
consumer price index-linked derivative contracts.  Through its subsidiaries, Fairfax is one of the largest
investors in publisher Torstar Corp. and toymaker  MEGA Brands
Inc. (MB) , according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 