-- 
FairPoint Bankruptcy Plan Approved as Judge Rejects Appeal

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-20T20:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/fairpoint-bankruptcy-plan-approved-as-judge-rejects-appeal-1-.html
FairPoint Communications Inc., a
telephone service provider in New England, won affirmation of
its reorganization plan by a federal judge who rejected  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s appeal of bankruptcy court approval.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in New York ruled
yesterday that the bankruptcy court had the authority to confirm
FairPoint’s Chapter 11 plan in January over Verizon’s
objections.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. telephone company,
appealed the confirmation by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland, alleging that the plan improperly prevented Verizon
from pursuing legal claims against other parties in the case.
McMahon said the appeal was moot in part because FairPoint has
emerged from Chapter 11 creditor protection.  “The plan has been substantially consummated and Verizon
waived its right to object by not obtaining a stay of the
confirmation order,” McMahon wrote.  FairPoint emerged from Chapter 11 on Jan. 24 with a new
$1.075 billion secured credit agreement. It filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2009 after acquiring from Verizon landline phone
operations that saddled it with more than $2 billion in debt.  ‘Very Pleased’  “We’re very pleased with the court’s decision,” Rose Cummings, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
FairPoint, said in a telephone interview. “We are eager to move
on with our business.”  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for New York-based Verizon, said
the company has no comment on the decision.  AT&T Inc. is the largest U.S. phone company.  FairPoint rose 23 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $16.74 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Verizon
gained 55 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $37.79 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  The appeal is In re FairPoint Communications Inc., 11-
00946, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan.) The bankruptcy case is In re FairPoint
Communications Inc., 09-16335,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 