-- 
Fiat’s First-Quarter Profit Increases 9.1% on Ferrari Sales, Brazil Demand

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-20T15:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/fiat-s-first-quarter-profit-increases-9-1-on-ferrari-sales-brazil-demand.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
runs Chrysler Group LLC, reported first-quarter profit gained
9.1 percent powered by the Ferrari brand and demand in  Brazil .  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items, which
Fiat calls trading profit, advanced to 251 million euros ($364
million) from 230 million euros a year earlier, the Turin-based
company said today. Profit exceeded the 241 million-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , 58, listed
Fiat’s trucks and tractors units as a separate company at the
beginning of the year to focus on carmaking. Fiat said first-
quarter Brazilian deliveries rose 8 percent. Trading profit at
Ferrari, which will start delivering its first family car next
month, jumped 36 percent.  “The Brazilian market and Ferrari more than offset the
weak Italian car market,” Andrea Balloni, a Fidentiis Equities
SA analyst in Milan with a “buy” rating on the stock, said in
a note to investors ahead of the earnings.  Fiat rose 29 cents, or 4.6 percent, to 6.58 euros. The
shares have dropped 1.8 percent this year, valuing the carmaker
at 8.1 billion euros.  Profit Advances  Fiat, which last week raised its holding in Chrysler to 30
percent, reiterated today that trading profit in 2011 will be
within a range of 900 million euros to 1.2 billion euros. The
forecast incorporates a potential loss of 50,000 to 100,000
vehicles because of missing components from suppliers in  Japan ,
Marchionne said today on a conference call.  Fiat reported a first-quarter net income of 29 million
euros compared with a loss of 25 million euros a year earlier.
Revenue rose 7.1 percent to 9.2 billion euros. The Italian
carmaker today reported its first results as a standalone
company following the spinoff of its industrial businesses into
Fiat Industrial SpA in January.  Ferrari’s trading profit gained to 53 million euros on
demand for the 458 Italia and 599 GTO models. The supercar brand
delivered 1,691 vehicles in the first three months, a 6.7
percent increase. Maserati’s profit more than double to 9
million euros.  Ferrari Option  Marchionne said that a listing of Ferrari remains an option
to unlock value of the luxury brand, which he said could be
worth almost as much as the entire group. The company has
sufficient cash to cover its needs and wouldn’t push an initial
public offering to raise cash, he said.  “Fiat results are better than expected,” said Andrea Carli, head of professional investor sales at Alpe Adria
Gestioni in Pordenone,  Italy . “There’s also good news regarding
the liquidity and debt reduction.”  Fiat reduced its debt to 489 million euros at the end of
March from 542 million euros at the end of last year and
increased its cash and cash equivalents by 7.3 percent to 13.1
billion euros.  Fiat reiterated debt will likely rise to between 1.5
billion euros and 1.8 billion euros at end of this year as
 capital expenditures  “are expected to increase substantially”
to as much as 4.5 billion euros. Marchionne said last week that
Fiat will use its cash to increase its holding in Chrysler.  “Fiat debt is much better than expected,” said Emanuele Oggioni, who helps oversees about 600 million euros at Saint
George Capital Management in Lugano,  Switzerland , and owns Fiat
shares. “This is very good news as volume stagnated in the
first quarter.”  Brazilian Lead  Fiat relies on Brazil, where it leads with a first-quarter
market share of 22.6 percent, to counter European losses. The
automaker’s first-quarter market share in  Europe  fell to 7.2
percent from 8.7 percent after Marchionne postponed model
introductions, including an updated Panda compact, until the
second half. Fiat will offer a total of five new cars this year,
compared with nine in 2012 and 11 in 2013.  Marchionne said this month he needs to give more attention
to Fiat’s European operations, which he acknowledged have
suffered while the Chrysler integration has consumed his time.  Fiat agreed with the U.S. government after Chrysler emerged
from bankruptcy in 2009 to share technology and management in
exchange for an initial 20 percent stake and performance goals
to increase to 35 percent without paying any cash. It has an
option to buy an additional 16 percent after the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker repays government loans.  Chrysler Attraction  “We argue that Fiat’s investment case is more attractive
than ever thanks to the Chrysler option,” said Gabriele Gambarova, a Banca Akros analyst in Milan who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  Marchionne, who plans to complete a refinancing deal for
Chrysler by the end of June, said earlier this month that he
aims for a Chrysler initial public offering still in 2011.  Marchionne is fighting with the carmaker’s biggest union
over efforts to reduce costs and improve capacity utilization as
part of a plan to invest 20 billion euros in Italy by 2014. The
Fiom Cgil union went to court this week to block the
implementation of an agreement that Fiat says is necessary to
boost productivity.  The challenge from Fiom may impact Fiat investments in
Italy, the carmaker said yesterday after Marchionne met union
chiefs. Fiat also said it may cancel plans for its Grugliasco
plant in Turin unless there is a consensus among labor unions.  “It’s hard to see Marchionne paint a rosy outlook for the
rest of 2011 as he’s still wrestling with Italian unions and
politicians,” said Michael Tyndall, a Barclays Capital analyst
in  London . “He appears to be using a carrot-and-stick approach,
holding back investment until the unions agree to more flexible
labor concessions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  