-- 
FIFA’s Sepp Blatter Pledges $1 Billion to Develop Soccer

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-20T15:42:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/fifa-s-blatter-pledges-1-billion-to-develop-soccer-in-bid-for-re-election.html
Sepp Blatter told voters who will
decide whether he’ll get a fourth term as  FIFA  president that
he’ll spend $1 billion in developing soccer and fight corruption
if he’s re-elected.  Blatter, 75, is being challenged by Qatar’s Mohamed Bin Hammam for leadership of soccer’s governing body. FIFA’s 208
member associations will be polled at the organization’s annual
congress in Zurich on June 1.  The presidency of FIFA is one of the most prestigious
positions in world sport. The body’s  World Cup  is the most-
watched sporting event and generates about $4 billion. Blatter,
who’s been president since 1998, said his next term would be his
last.  In a manifesto sent to FIFA members and made public today,
Blatter outlined what he saw as his successes over the past 12
years and promised to clamp down on the “biggest enemies of
football,” which he cited as corruption, match-fixing and
doping.  FIFA’s integrity was questioned during the bidding races to
stage the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, which were won by Russia and
Qatar in December. Two members of FIFA’s 24-member decision-
making body and other officials were suspended prior to the vote
after undercover reporters for the Sunday Times recorded them
saying votes could be bought.  Cash Reserves  Multimillionaire Bin Hammam, 61, made his money in
construction in the Gulf, and helped fund Blatter’s first
election. Both men have been traveling the world speaking to as
many federations as possible before the final vote.  Michel Platini , who heads European soccer’s governing body,
said he’ll announce his preferred candidate at the start of next
month.  “I will make a statement at the beginning of May on the
position of UEFA,” UEFA President Platini told reporters in
London today. “I know there is a lot of money invested since
1998 because TV rights are very important and it is the job of
FIFA to invest this money.”  Under Blatter, FIFA has recovered from near-bankruptcy in
2001. It has more than $1 billion in cash reserves and secured
long-term television and sponsorship rights worth $3.7 billion
for the 2014 World Cup in  Brazil .  Blatter’s pitch to the voters says he’ll provide
“stability, continuity and reliability” in a “world of
economic uncertainty and political turmoil.”  Blatter’s offer of $1 billion for soccer development comes
after Bin Hammam promised to increase the funding national
associations will get if he’s elected.  Bin Hammam’s Pledge  In his election manifesto published last month, Blatter’s
rival said he’d double the $250,000 each national association
receives from FIFA, which had revenue of more than $4 billion
between 2007 and 2010.  He’s also promised to replace the 24-member FIFA executive
committee with a 41-member body to reduce the power of
individual officials.  Blatter, who’s been with FIFA since the 1970s, fought to
take the World Cup to  Africa  for the first time when it was
hosted by  South Africa  last year. That tournament, won by  Spain ,
drew criticism in some quarters as failing to emulate levels of
performance seen in  England ’s Premier League and UEFA’s
Champions League.  The Swiss executive responded by setting up a  task force 
headed by former German World Cup-winning captain  Franz
Beckenbauer . In the letter to FIFA members, Blatter said he was
“committed to improving the attractiveness of our game.”  Bin Hammam, who’s sat on FIFA’s executive since 1996, says
it’s time for “new blood” to head the organization. He and
Blatter are the only candidates after former Chilean World Cup
player Elias Figueroa and U.S. journalist Grant Wahl failed to
get any nominations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London   at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 