-- 
Filmmakers Cameron, Jackson Resist Early Home Video Release

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-21T00:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/filmmakers-cameron-jackson-join-fight-against-early-home-video.html
James Cameron  and  Peter Jackson  are
among 23 filmmakers who joined cinema owners in protesting plans
by studios to offer 48-hour rentals through video-on-demand on
DirecTV just two months after movies open in theaters.  Making movies available for home viewing early may
“irrevocably harm the financial model of our film industry,”
the filmmakers said in a letter distributed today by the
 National Association of Theatre Owners .  Cinema owners and filmmakers are challenging a plan by four
studios to release some films for rental starting tomorrow
through El Segundo, California-based DirecTV, the largest
satellite-TV operator, for $29.99. Early release to home video
will cost the industry millions of dollars in ticket sales and
force some theaters to close, according to the letter.  “What sells for $30-a-viewing today could be blown out for
$9.99 within a few years,” the authors wrote. “We ask that our
studio partners do not rashly undermine the current -- and
successful -- system of releasing films.”  DirecTV (DTV)  would consider dropping the price if customers
aren’t willing to pay $29.99, Derek Chang, executive vice
president of programming at DirecTV, said today in an interview.
The timing of the VOD release, now set for about two months
after the film’s theatrical release, also may change, he said.  “Like the price point, the 60-day window is something we’d
have to evaluate down the road,” he said. “We’d have to
evaluate it with our partners at the studios.”  Home Viewing  Few movies are still generating revenue for cinemas after
two months, Chang said.  Films are typically released for home viewing about four
months after they appear in theaters, according to the letter.  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  Chief Executive Officer Amy Miles
said in March that her chain, the largest in the U.S., won’t
show films that are scheduled for home viewing four to six weeks
after the theatrical release, a time frame suggested by DirecTV
Chief Executive Michael White on a Feb. 23 conference call.  Gerry Lopez, CEO of AMC Entertainment Inc., the second-
largest chain, has said he opposes a window shorter than about
90 days. Regency Theatres, based in Calabasas,  California , will
pull “Just Go With It” from theaters, President Lyndon Golin
said yesterday.  Cameron’s “Avatar” is the top-grossing film of all time
with $2.78 billion in worldwide ticket sales, according to  Box
Office Mojo . Jackson directed “The Lord of the Rings” trilogy,
which collectively took in $2.91 billion globally, the
researcher said.  Other filmmakers who signed the letter include Michael Mann, who directed “Public Enemies,” and “Pirates of the
Caribbean” director Gore Verbinski.  Adam Sandler  Comedy  DirecTV will offer  Sony Corp. (SNE) ’s “Just Go With It”
tomorrow as the first movie in its premium video-on-demand film
service. The comedy, featuring Adam Sandler and  Jennifer Aniston , was released on Feb. 11 and was still in theaters last
weekend.  Universal Pictures , Warner Bros. and Twentieth Century Fox
also will supply films to the service two months after their
theatrical release, Jade Ekstedt, a spokeswoman for DirecTV,
said yesterday.  In the next few weeks, DirecTV will offer “The Adjustment
Bureau” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures, “Cedar
Rapids” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox and “Hall
Pass” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., Ekstedt said. All
three are still in cinemas, according to Box Office Mojo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  