-- 
Forint Gains and Hungarian Stocks Jump on Morgan Stanley Call

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-20T15:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/forint-gains-and-hungarian-stocks-jump-on-morgan-stanley-call.html
The forint jumped to the strongest
level in a week and  Hungary ’s stocks advanced for a second day
as commodities rallied and Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation for the country’s equities.  The Hungarian currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 264.86
per euro, the biggest advance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark BUX index of 13
companies rose 1.7 percent to close at 23,989.53, led by OTP
Bank Nyrt., the country’s biggest lender, and Mol Nyrt., the
largest  oil company .  Global stocks rallied the most this year and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average surged to an almost three-year high as Intel
Corp. forecast higher sales and company results in  Europe  and
Asia beat estimates. Commodities advanced.  Morgan Stanley advised clients to raise the share of
Hungarian stocks in their portfolios to “equal weight” from a
previous “underweight,” saying it has become more “positive”
about the country after the government announced fiscal reforms
in March, Marianna Kozintseva and Vaughan Henkel, strategists at
the bank, wrote in a note to customers today.  “The mood globally is better with commodities and stocks
trading higher,”  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital, said by phone from  London . “People
seem to like Hungary. Compared to the others in the region it at
least has some concrete plans for fiscal reforms.”  The first European Union member to get an International
Monetary Fund bailout in 2008 unveiled a three-year plan last
month to slash spending after relying on private pension funds
and special industry taxes to meet budget-deficit targets in
2010 and 2011. The measures should help stabilize the debt
level,  Standard & Poor’s  said on March 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  