-- 
Freeport, Lundin Eye Congo Expansion After Contract Approval

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-04-20T15:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/freeport-lundin-eye-2-billion-expansion-in-congo-after-contract-approval.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
and  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  may proceed with plans for an expansion
of the $2 billion Tenke project in the Democratic Republic of
Congo after their revised contract with the government received
presidential approval.  Congolese President Joseph Kabila gave final consent to
Tenke Fungurume Mining Sarl’s renegotiated contract earlier this
month, Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson said on
a conference call today that was broadcast on its website. The
revised deal gives 20 percent of Tenke to state-owned Gecamines,
leaving Phoenix-based Freeport with 56 percent and Toronto’s
Lundin with 24 percent.  The presidential decree “formally completes the contract
review process which we were engaged in for many months,” he
said. “We’re actively studying the second phase expansion” of
the mine, which should nearly double production.  Freeport and the government agreed to the contract
revisions in October as part of a nearly three-year review by
Congo of all its mining deals. Many of the contracts were
originally signed during two wars that spanned almost a decade,
or under a transitional government that ruled the Central
African nation for three years until 2006.  There were no changes between the signing of the revised
contract in the fourth quarter of last year and the final
presidential decree, Adkerson said. The Tenke project is the
biggest single investment in Congo.  Cobalt Refinery Mulled  Tenke produced 120,271 metric tons of copper cathode in
2010 and expects output of about 130,000 tons this year, Lundin
said on April 18. The second-phase expansion could boost
production to between 175,000 tons and 225,000 tons of copper
per year over the next two to three years, according to a Feb. 2
statement by Tenke Fungurume. Further expansion could boost
annual output to more than 400,000 tons a year, the companies
have said.  Freeport is considering the construction of a cobalt
refinery during the second phase of expansion that would produce
metallic cobalt, which could fetch higher prices, Adkerson said.
Tenke currently produces cobalt hydroxide at a rate of 20
million pounds per year, according to the company’s first-
quarter report, released today.  The company is studying ways of reducing costs by shipping
its minerals to ports in Angola or Tanzania instead of by road
to Durban in  South Africa , Adkerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in London at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  