-- 
Geithner Downgrades His Own Credibility to Junk: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-04-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/geithner-downgrades-his-own-credibility-to-junk-jonathan-weil.html
Fox Business reporter  Peter Barnes 
began his televised interview with Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  two days ago with this question: “Is there a risk that
the  United States  could lose its AAA credit rating? Yes or no?”  Geithner’s response: “No risk of that.”  “No risk?” Barnes  asked .  “No risk,” Geithner said.  It’s enough to make you wonder: How could Geithner know
this to be true? The short answer is he couldn’t.  All you have to do is read the research  report   Standard &
Poor’s  published on April 18 about its sovereign-credit rating
for the U.S., and you will see it estimated the risk of a
downgrade quite succinctly. “We believe there is at least a
one-in-three likelihood that we could lower our long-term rating
on the U.S. within two years,” said S&P, which reduced its
outlook on the government’s debt to “negative” from
“stable.”  There you have it: Geithner says the chance of a downgrade
is zero. S&P says the odds it will cut its  rating  might be
greater than one out of three. So who are you going to believe?
Geithner? Or the people at S&P who actually will be deciding
what S&P will do about S&P’s own rating of U.S. sovereign debt?  It would be one thing to express the view that a downgrade
would be unwarranted, or that the chance of it happening is
remote. Either of these positions would be defensible. Geithner
went beyond that and staked out an absolutist stance that reeks
of raw arrogance: There is no risk a rating cut will occur. He
left no room for a trace of a possibility, ever.  Battling Barney  The mystery is why Geithner would say such a thing. What’s
he going to do if S&P or some other rating company winds up
disagreeing with him? Send  Barney Frank  to beat them up? The
problem for leaders who make indefensible claims like this one
is that, after a while, nobody knows whether to believe anything
they say. Just remember all those government officials in
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  who kept saying their countries
didn’t need bailouts, long after it became clear they did.  This was the same answer Geithner gave during an ABC News
interview in February 2010, when asked if the U.S. might lose
its AAA rating. “Absolutely not,” he said. “That will never
happen to this country.” So, an asteroid could destroy the
entire Eastern seaboard 100 years from now. And, in the world
according to Geithner, we’re supposed to believe America’s top
rating would be safe.  Perhaps Geithner would be well-positioned to make such
assessments if he were the only person on the planet with the
authority to grade sovereign debt -- and if there were zero risk
that he would ever die. Not only is Geithner mortal, he doesn’t
even work for a  nationally recognized statistical rating
organization .  Great Error  In one of the great errors of financial history, the U.S.
long ago bestowed that vaunted designation on the likes of S&P
and  Moody’s Investors Service . The raters showed they could be
 corrupted  when they put their AAA marks on countless subprime
mortgage bonds that quickly turned sour. Unlike the companies
that bought those labels, though, the U.S. government didn’t
solicit S&P’s ranking of its debt. Trying to predict with
certainty what the raters may do next is a fool’s game.  Sure, it’s conceivable the government might threaten to
strip the raters of their officially recognized franchise as
retaliation if they dared to downgrade the U.S. We can only hope
this isn’t what Geithner had in mind when he made his bold
prediction. A move like that would risk a major scandal, and it
might not even work.  Unwilling Leaders  Nothing the raters say should matter, of course. The
markets are well aware the  U.S. debt  is on its way to surpassing
the country’s annual gross domestic product, and that few
leaders in  Washington  are willing to get federal spending under
control again.  The least Geithner could have done was take a page from
 Lloyd Blankfein , the chairman and chief executive officer of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and throw in a wiggle word or two.
Testifying last year at a hearing led by Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , Blankfein said “we didn’t have a massive
short against the housing market,” notwithstanding that Goldman
made about $500 million shorting the housing market in 2007.  Levin says he wants to refer the matter to the  Justice
Department  for a perjury investigation. Blankfein, of course,
included the word “massive” in his statement, whatever that’s
supposed to mean. Geithner could have done something similar.
Yet for some inexplicable reason he didn’t, which, if nothing
else, should tell us he probably wouldn’t have much of a future
as a top executive at Goldman Sachs.  No risk at all? If Geithner is really as smart as his
friends say he is, he doesn’t believe it either.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  