-- 
German Business Confidence May Fall for Second Month on Soaring Oil Prices

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/german-business-confidence-probably-fell-for-second-month-on-oil.html
German business confidence probably
declined for a second month in April after  oil prices  rose to
the highest in 2 1/2 years, damping the global economic outlook
and threatening to curb domestic consumer spending.  The  Ifo institute’s  business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 110.5 from 111.1 in
March, according to the median of 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. The index rose to 111.3 in February,
the highest since records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991.
Ifo releases today’s report at 10 a.m. in Munich.  Oil rose above $112 a barrel this month, the most since
September 2008, on political unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East. While market researcher GfK AG says rising prices
are eroding German  consumer confidence , the Bundesbank estimates
economic growth accelerated in the first quarter as companies
increased spending and hiring to meet export orders from
emerging nations such as China.  “It’s the oil price that really hurts,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “Other
than that, Germany’s economy is booming.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may ease to 115.5 from
115.8, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 105.5 from 106.5, the Bloomberg survey shows.  The German government predicts economic growth of 2.6
percent this year after a record 3.6 percent in 2010. Higher oil
prices may put a brake on the global recovery and fan inflation
as companies pass on higher input costs.  ‘Downside Risk’  The threat of further oil-price increases has become a
“key downside risk” for global growth, the  International
Monetary Fund  said April 11.  Higher energy costs pushed German inflation to 2.3 percent
last month. The European Central Bank, which aims to keep
inflation below 2 percent across the 17-nation euro region, this
month raised  interest rates  from a record low. It left the door
open for further moves even as a sovereign debt crisis damps
growth in peripheral euro-area nations such as Greece, Portugal
and Ireland.  “Higher interest rates are not really going to affect
German companies,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “Rates will still be low for Germany
and there won’t be any financing difficulties.”  German carmaker Volkswagen AG on April 15 posted record
first-quarter sales, powered by deliveries in  China ,  Europe  and
the U.S. Daimler AG and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG said this
month they expect double-digit growth in China this year.  Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s largest automotive industry
supplier, said April 14 that it expects record sales of 50
billion euros ($73 billion) in 2011 and plans to hire 15,000
workers globally.  Germany factory orders and industrial production jumped in
February. According to the Bundesbank, Europe’s largest economy
may have expanded as much as 1 percent in the first three months
of the year and will probably maintain its growth momentum in
the current quarter.  “Unless there is a serious drop in the Ifo reading, I
wouldn’t see Germany heading for a downturn at all,” said
Schmieding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  