-- 
Global Supply Chain Repairs May Boost Investment Driving Growth

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-04-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/global-supply-chain-repairs-may-boost-investment-driving-growth.html
Repairing supply chains frayed by
 Japan ’s earthquake and surging fuel prices may provide a further
spur to business investment powering global economic growth.  Joseph Carson, director of global economic research at
AllianceBernstein LP in  New York , says companies exploiting new
ways to ensure cost-effective delivery of raw materials and
their own goods may help extend last year’s 5.4 percent surge in
worldwide fixed investment. That may boost spending in the U.S.
alone beyond the 8 percent he estimates for this year, double
the pace of 2010 and more than three times the projected rate of
consumer demand.  “Recent events raise questions over the global supply
chain and reliance on single-source suppliers,” said Carson, a
former analyst at General Motors Corp. A shift “could add fuel
for a prolonged investment cycle that would have been impossible
to predict a year ago.”  Executives may re-evaluate their supply chains after
Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami hurt operations at
companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, a Hong Kong-based research group,
estimates Japanese companies such as  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  produce a
fifth of all technology products, making the world’s third-
largest economy a linchpin of output.  ‘Boardroom Agenda’  The Japanese disasters are just the latest shock to
companies’ ability to obtain and redistribute goods after a
volcanic eruption in  Iceland  last year sparked flight
cancellations across  Europe . Unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa this year pushed crude  oil prices  above $100 a barrel,
making deliveries costlier and raising concerns about western
reliance on the region. Companies such as U.K. retailer Next Plc
are also bemoaning higher labor costs in  China .  Executives are realizing that “they need to completely
review their supply chain and how to create value throughout
it,” said Richard Wilding, chair of supply chain risk
management at the Cranfield School of Management near London.
“Recent events have pushed this on to the boardroom agenda.”  Just days after the earthquake,  Stamford , Connecticut-based
technology-research company  Gartner Inc.  told clients “the
events in Japan could lead to a permanent change in the
competitive landscape” and that suppliers elsewhere “should
increase capacity to fill gaps and gain market share.”  Rising Yen  Stan Aronow, a research director in the supply chain
research group at Gartner, which has some 60,000 clients, said
companies which previously shifted production to low-cost
countries may pull 30 percent back to their bases by 2015.
Meantime, President  Barack Obama  last month called for
incentives to spur oil and gas production in the U.S. to reduce
the economy’s dependency on foreign fuel.  “You’ll probably see a global redistribution of the
manufacturing footprint,” said Aronow, who used to work at
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker.  In the case of Japan, firms also may be encouraged to shift
their production facilities elsewhere as a strengthening yen
makes goods less competitive, according to Carson, a former U.S.
Commerce Department economist. The yen traded at a postwar
record of 76.25 per dollar last month.  The fallout from Japan exposes the flaws of companies’
just-in-time inventory management, meaning they may start
boosting stockpiles to protect themselves against future shocks,
said David Hensley, director of global economic coordination at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. That may still end up
generating inefficiencies which weigh on growth just as banks
lose lending capacity when they hold more capital, he said.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London , says refocusing supply chains would hurt growth by
forcing companies to redeploy resources that could have been
used more productively elsewhere.  “What you would be saying is you invested in the wrong
thing,” said King. “You are changing your investment plans as
things turned out bad.”  For his part, Carson is confident the overhaul of supply
links may fuel even stronger business demand, adding to the
world economy’s investment-led recovery. That could even act as
an “unexpected catalyst” for expansion just as the technology
and housing booms did in the last two decades, he said  “Companies have received a wake-up call,” Carson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  