-- 
Gold May Advance Next Week on Faster Inflation, Debt Concern, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/gold-may-advance-on-faster-inflation-debt-concern-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend gains from a record
as concern about debt and faster inflation spur demand for the
metal as an alternative investment, a survey found.  Seventeen of 20 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 85 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Two
predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for June
delivery was up 1.2 percent for this week at $1,504.30 an ounce
by 11:18 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York  after reaching
a record $1,506.20 earlier in the day.  “The issues driving gold such as inflation, euro zone debt
and Middle East and North African unrest are not going to be
solved overnight,”  James Moore , an analyst at
TheBullionDesk.com in London, said in an e-mail. It’s “unwise
to buck the trend.”  Standard & Poor’s this week lowered its U.S. credit-rating
outlook, citing the widening budget deficit and helping push the
dollar to a 16-month low versus six major currencies. The
 European Central Bank  this month raised  interest rates  from a
record low as inflation quickened. Fighting in Libya and Japan’s
nuclear crisis helped gold’s 5.8 percent increase this year.  “With market focus shifting from sovereign debt issues in
the  euro zone  to sovereign debt issues in the U.S.,” the
previous resistance level of $1,500 may become support, said
Mark O’Byrne, executive director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in
Dublin.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of April 15.  The weekly gold survey started almost seven years ago and
has forecast prices accurately in 206 of 359 weeks, or 57
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 17 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 