-- 
Google and Cisco to Join White House Effort for Entrepreneurs

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/google-and-cisco-to-join-white-house-effort-to-promote-entrepreneurship.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)  are among companies joining an effort by
President Barack Obama to promote entrepreneurship, the White
House said today in a statement.  The effort, called the  Startup America Partnership , is led
by  AOL Inc. (AOL)  co-founder Steve Case as chairman. It is intended to
promote private-sector investments in startup companies and
small businesses as a way to improve the economy.  “These new partnerships will go a long way toward ensuring
that startups have every best chance to succeed,” the group’s
chief executive officer,  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  co-founder Scott Case, said in the statement.  Google is contributing $100 million for startup companies
to use the company’s advertising services. American Express will
offer $125 million in purchasing discounts and business services
and Cisco will provide training for 6,000 entrepreneurs.  Those commitments, and others by companies such as First
Data Corp., Ernst & Young,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ,
follow pledges from businesses including Facebook Inc.,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  to increase their investments in startups.  LinkedIn Corp.,  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and Silicon Valley Bank
are also announcing their involvement.  Obama will travel today to Facebook’s headquarters in  Palo
Alto , California, for a town-hall meeting about  government
spending  and the need to reduce the  budget deficit .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  