-- 
Governor Kasich Uses His Fox News Know-How to Take on Ohio’s Public Unions

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/governor-kasich-uses-his-fox-news-know-how-to-take-on-ohio-s-public-unions.html
The wooden schoolbus model on a
cabinet in Governor John Kasich’s Columbus office is a reminder
of the  Ohio  Republican’s warning to lobbyists he invited for
lunch two days after his election.  “If you’re not on the bus, we will run over you with the
bus,” he told them after the buffet. “And I’m not kidding.”  Since taking office Jan. 10, Kasich has confronted
Statehouse protests by police, firefighters and other public
employees angered by a bill limiting collective bargaining. He
created a private, nonprofit entity to handle state economic
development over the objection of Democrats concerned about
transparency and accountability.  He used his experience as a former Fox Television host to
present his budget in a talk-show format on live  TV  and
delivered his State of the State  address  without a text. He also
called a Columbus police officer who pulled over his car “an
idiot” during a Jan. 21 speech in which he urged state workers
to provide better service to taxpayers.  “What you see is an aggressive agenda,” Kasich said in an
interview in a state vehicle after speaking to a Rotary Club in
Cincinnati. “We knew what we wanted to do, and we’re carrying
it out.”  Fresh Aggression  Kasich, 58, who served nine terms in Congress and worked as
an investment banker and at Fox before running for governor, has
a more aggressive agenda and style than previous governors, said
 Paul Beck , chairman of the political-science department at  Ohio
State University  in Columbus.  His approach and agenda helped Kasich get legislation
approved during his first 100 days, including the union-
bargaining law that he signed March 31,  William C. Binning ,
chairman emeritus of the  Youngstown State University  political-
science department who worked for three Ohio Republican
governors, said in a telephone interview.  They also constitute a strategy that may sour Ohioans on
Kasich and doom his agenda, he said.  “Either he’s going to be viewed in a couple years as
successful and he’s going to become a dominant political figure
in the country, or it’s going to look like it’s not working
out,” Binning said.  Need for Speed  Kasich said that while he has made “unforced errors,” his
approach is crucial after Ohio lost 610,000 jobs during the past
decade. That’s more than every state except Michigan and
 California , according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  “I don’t think I’m in anybody’s face, but we are very
aggressive because we have to move quickly,” Kasich said.  Kasich grew up in  McKees Rocks , Pennsylvania, and came to
the Buckeye State in 1970 to attend  Ohio State University . When
the governor was a boy, his uncle would take him across the
state line into Ohio and say they had reached the promised land,
he said.  Ohio was home to  eight presidents , according to its 
secretary of state's office. It also produced inventor 
Thomas Edison, entertainer Dean Martin and Ohio State
football coach Woody Hayes.  From its factories came steel, tires and automobiles and by
1930, it was the fourth-most-populous state behind  New York ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Illinois , according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
As manufacturing declined in the 1960s and 1970s, population and
income growth slowed.  Fixing a State  The state is now seventh most populous, and per-capita
personal income hasn’t bettered the national average since 1979,
 federal data  show. Ohio’s foreclosure rate of 2.13 percent last
year was 13th in the nation, or one in every 47 homes, according
to RealtyTrac Inc., the California-based data seller.  Kasich was elected last year with a vow to “fix Ohio,”
and he said that he had been “fortunate enough to be
unwittingly acquiring the skills to do this job.”  He began his political career in 1979 as a 26-year-old
state senator and was elected to Congress in 1982, gaining
national attention as the House Budget Committee chairman who
helped craft a balanced federal spending plan in 1997.  After a run for president in 2000, Kasich became a managing
director of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  until the firm
collapsed in 2008. He also hosted “Heartland with John Kasich”
on Fox from 2001 to 2007, was a guest host for  “The O’Reilly
Factor,”  gave speeches and wrote three books.  Slenderizing Ohio  Kasich entered the 2010 race against first-term Democratic
incumbent Ted Strickland promising to phase out the income tax,
“skinny down” government and attract jobs. He won with 49
percent of the vote to Strickland’s 47 percent.  Besides the law curbing collective bargaining, the creation
of the JobsOhio economic-development arm and an initiative to
reduce regulations on business, Kasich cites as successes tax-
incentive deals to keep Bob Evans Farms Inc.,  American Greetings
Corp. (AM)  and  Diebold Inc. (DBD)  from moving to other states. He has said
that an $8 billion shortfall forecast for the two-year budget
that begins July 1 has prevented him from starting the phase-out
of the income tax.  The  Ohio Chamber of Commerce  broke a 117-year tradition of
not endorsing statewide candidates when it backed Kasich last
year, and he validated that support by making Ohio more
attractive for business, said Andrew E. Doehrel, the chamber
president.  Blazing Paths  “You don’t want to be sitting here in any state -- whether
it’s Ohio or any other state -- and say, ‘We’re going to
continue to do things the way we’ve done them for last 30
years,’ ” Doehrel said in a telephone interview.  Investors see debt from Ohio, which is rated second-highest
by the three major credit-rating companies, as a safer bet since
Kasich took office. On Jan. 10, a general-obligation bond with
an August 2020 maturity was yielding 3.52 percent or 49 basis
points above top-rated debt, according to Bloomberg Valuation
data. The same security offered a 3.46 percent yield yesterday,
or 43 basis points above the benchmark, BVAL data show. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Voters have been less enthusiastic. A recent Quinnipiac
poll put Kasich’s approval rating among Ohio voters at 30
percent, and his backing of the collective-bargaining bill has
drawn thousands of protesters to the Statehouse in Columbus
chanting, “Hey, Hey, ho, ho, Kasich’s got to go.”  Clumsy Governing  Chris Redfern, the Ohio Democratic Party chairman who
served in the legislature under former Republican governors
 George Voinovich  and Bob Taft, said Kasich is divisive while
Voinovich, Taft and Strickland tried to bring people together.  “He’s a disaster,” Redfern said of Kasich in a telephone
interview. “You can’t govern a state as significant as Ohio
with your elbows.”  Kasich said he is buoyed by his Christian faith, which he
rediscovered after his parents, Anne and John, were killed in a
1987 car crash by a drunk driver. It led him to form a Bible
study group that has continued to meet and was the subject of a
book Kasich published last year about the meetings called
“ Every Other Monday .”  The group has helped Kasich cope, said the Rev. Ted Smith
of Galloway, a Methodist minister who helps lead it.  “It’s been a serious test to his practical living out the
faith that we’re talking about, particularly because of some of
the extreme reactions he’s encountered, the intensity of some of
the ill will,” Smith said in a telephone interview.  Kasich said he no longer has presidential ambitions. Even
if he doesn’t run, he can emerge as a national figure such as
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  by showing how to deal with
tough problems, Ohio State’s Beck said.  “He’s creating his own mold,” Binning said. “We’ll see
how it works out.”  John Kasich  at a glance:  Born: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, May 13, 1952 (Age 58), raised in
McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania.  Party: Republican  Spouse: Karen Waldbillig Kasich, former public-relations
executive  Children: Emma and Reese, both 11.  Education: Sto-Rox High School, 1970;  Ohio State University ,
Columbus, Bachelor’s of Arts, political science, 1974  Career: Ohio Senate, 1979-83; U.S. House, 1983-2001; managing
director,  Lehman Brothers , 2001-2008; on-air personality,  Fox
News , 2001-2009; governor, 2011-present.  Famous friend: Kasich counts rock star Bono, the lead singer U2
and a human-rights advocate, as a friend and traveled to  Rwanda 
with his wife in 2008 at his request. Kasich met Bono in
 Washington  when he was in Congress: “Bono says, you’re not
getting me in to see enough congressmen and senators. I said,
‘Bono, look, you’re wearing a black leather suit, Prada shoes,
and those crazy sunglasses. They don’t want to be seen with
you.’ He said, ‘John, the guys in my band, they don’t want me to
be seen with you.’ ”  Editors: Stephen Merelman, William Glasgall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  