-- 
Greeks Brace for Losses as Papandreou Debt-Cutting Odyssey Enters Year Two

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-04-20T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/greeks-gird-for-losses-as-debt-cutting-odyssey-enters-year-two.html
Georgios Kakaboukis, 87, has
survived the Nazi occupation of Greece, a civil war, a military
coup and martial law. He can deal with Prime Minister  George Papandreou  cutting his Easter holiday pension bonus.  “Some people, these younger ones, haven’t lost anything at
all,” said Kakaboukis, a retired civil servant, while waiting
in line to see his doctor at the state welfare office in the
Athens suburb of Neos Kosmos. “Greeks have learned to yell,
raising their fists in protest while the other hand is stretched
out for handouts.”  It’s been almost a year since Papandreou traveled to the
remote island of Kastelorizo on April 23 to tell Greeks they
needed to grab the financial lifeline from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund . Evoking Homer’s Odyssey, the
Socialist premier said he had “charted the waters” and “knows
the way to Ithaca,” the home of the mythological hero Odysseus.  Greeks are realizing that the journey to financial health
is only just beginning. A year of spending cuts and tax
increases has failed to tame the euro-region’s second-largest
deficit and the government is pushing for more austerity. Record
bond yields signal investors’ bets that  Greece  will capitulate
and restructure a debt forecast to peak at 159 percent of gross
domestic product next year.  With unemployment set to exceed 15 percent this year, and
the country’s central bank saying the economy may shrink more
than its 3 percent forecast, the third year of contraction,
Greeks are girding for more losses. Last week, Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  announced cuts covering the next five
years, targeting schools, hospitals, and public transit.  ‘Won’t-Pay’ Movement  Wages and pensions have already been reduced for the
768,000 state workers and the bonus payments were eliminated.
The deficit-cutting drive that was a condition of 110 billion
euros ($160 billion) in aid has left hospitals without supplies,
forcing closures. Higher public transit fares have sparked a
“won’t-pay” movement on buses, trains and toll roads.  Athina Eleftheriou, 50, is fed up with Papandreou.  “We should throw him in the sea and let him find his own
way to Ithaca,” said Eleftheriou. Sales at her central Athens
store selling silks imported from  India  have fallen by half, as
have her prices, while sales taxes have risen, she said.
“Nobody asked the Greeks about this.”  Yiannis Constantinidis, 57, Eleftheriou’s husband, says
Papandreou’s policies are squeezing small businesses and forcing
people to dodge taxes, worsening the situation.  Growing Disenchantment  “He’s taking 45 percent of profit, 23 percent VAT and
indirect taxes and there’s nothing left,” he said. “He’s
forcing us into a position where we can’t pay.”  The couple represents Greece’s fastest growing political
group: the disenchanted. Polls show Greeks increasingly unhappy
with both Papandreou’s Socialist Pasok party and the main
opposition New Democracy led by Antonis Samaras.  Thirty percent of the 1,005 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research between April 11 and April 14 said they were undecided
about who they would vote for if elections were held now. Pasok
garnered the support of 21.7 percent;  New Democracy  of 20.1
percent.  More than half said their greatest fear was a major cut in
their  household income . The second-greatest was a bankruptcy of
the Greek state, according to the poll.  Papandreou and Papaconstantinou are sticking to the plan,
rejecting default and saying the economy needs to be overhauled
to avoid wasting their efforts. “Restructuring holds huge
dangers for Greece’s economy, Greek banks, households and
businesses,” Papaconstantinou said yesterday. “I leave out the
issue of what will happen in the rest of the European Union.”  Buying Time  The bailout was designed to give Greece room to cut a budget
shortfall that soared to 15.4 percent of GDP in 2009, the EU
plan foresees the country returning to markets for financing in
2012, an eventuality bond yields are signaling isn’t likely to
happen. The deficit is targeted to fall to 7.4 percent this year
and to within the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014.  The yield on the country’s 10-year bond was 14.8 percent
yesterday, about 600 basis points higher than when Papandreou
asked for the aid a year ago. Borrowing costs for two-year Greek
bonds exceed 22 percent, more than 10 times what  Germany  pays.  Echoing the pre-bailout dynamic, ratings companies have
kept up the pressure on Papandreou, lowering the country’s
creditworthiness to junk status. Meantime,  tax evasion , slumping
growth and corruption are undermining his efforts.  Missing Target  Government revenue grew 5.5 percent in 2010, compared with
a targeted increase of 6 percent. The government initially
forecast a 13.7 percent increase and was forced to reduce the
goal twice as increases in value-added taxes and levies on
alcohol, tobacco and fuel failed to generate enough income.  Greeks were asked to pay bribes of between 150 euros and
7,500 euros for surgery in public hospitals, with payments to
doctors to facilitate the process ranging from 50 euros to 1,500
euros, according to data presented by the Greek chapter of
 Transparency International  and  posted on its website .  Total bribes paid were an estimated 632 million euros last
year, about 0.3 percent of the economy, the report said.  Plans to cut the state’s stakes in the phone, gambling and
power companies have reignited union dissent, with the country’s
biggest groups calling a general strike for May 11, days before
Papandreou takes his five-year plan to parliament for approval.
His majority in the legislature has fallen to 156 of the 300-
seat chamber. That’s down from 160 after his election in October
2009 as lawmakers broke ranks.  Toughening Rules  As the EU pushes through legislation to toughen punishment
of governments that breach the bloc’s budget-deficit and debt
limits, Socialist politicians say the EU must avoid pursuing
punitive policies.  “The weaker economies will go through a period of blood,
sweat and tears,” says Udo Bullmann, a German Socialist member
of the European Parliament. “The leaders there have to be able
to offer something to their people. They have to be able to say
‘you get something more from Brussels than sanctions.’”  Kakaboukis, the pensioner, says Greeks are well aware of
their failures, referring to bankruptcies in 1843 and 1893.
Default wouldn’t be the end of the story, and would spread to
other countries, he said.  “Bankruptcy isn’t just a word,” he said. “Bankruptcy,
restructuring, these are terrible things. We will all fall in
the sea together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling ay  jhertling@bloomberg.net  