-- 
Li Ka-Shing’s Yuan IPO Is Said to Raise $1.6 Billion at Low End of Range

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-04-20T02:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/li-ka-shing-s-hui-xian-said-to-sell-stock-at-5-24-yuan-low-end-of-range.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s real
estate investment trust raised 10.5 billion yuan ($1.6 billion)
in  Hong Kong ’s first initial public offering denominated in the
Chinese currency, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust sold 2 billion units
at 5.24 yuan apiece, the low end of a range marketed to
investors, said the people, who declined to be identified before
an announcement. The REIT will have a forecast yield of 4.26
percent, based on pricing assumptions presented in the company’s
share sale document.  The prospect of yuan appreciation wasn’t enough for Li, 82,
to raise the maximum amount sought as other REITs traded in the
city offer higher yields and investors can open bank accounts in
China for similar returns. Individuals applied for about 2.5
times the stock reserved for them, the people said, compared
with 300 times for the last REIT Li took public in Hong Kong
more than five years ago.  “People can bring their money to mainland  China  and
achieve a similar yield through  time deposits ,” said Nelson Yan, who helps oversee $90 million as investment manager at
Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong Kong.  REITs tend to trade less actively than other stocks as
investors hold them for their yield, making them less attractive
to retail buyers seeking quick gains, Yan said.  Higher Yields  China’s central bank has raised  interest rates  four times
since October as it tries to cool a property bubble and tame
inflation.  The interest rate is 3.25 percent on a one-year deposit and
4.15 percent on a two-year deposit in mainland China. In Hong
Kong, the return on a one-year deposit of at least 500,000 yuan
($76,700) at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is 0.6 percent.  Most of the real estate investment trusts listed in Hong
Kong yield 5 percent to 6 percent, according to Jonas Kan, head
of Hong Kong research at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. Among
Hong Kong-listed REITs, Sunlight Real Estate Investment Trust is
estimated to yield 6.8 percent this year, while Champion REIT
may return 4.6 percent, according to Katie Chan, an analyst at
Haitong International Securities Group Ltd.  Winnie Cheong, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Li’s
 Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., didn’t immediately respond to phone
calls made to her office. BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic
Securities International Co. and HSBC managed the sale.  Shopping Mall  The city’s yuan-denominated deposits reached a record $52
billion in February. Hui Xian’s IPO may pave the way for other
developers to make similar offerings as Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. seeks to widen its product range to compete in the
region.  The offering is backed by the Oriental Plaza properties
which cover 100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet)
along the Changan Avenue in central Beijing. Oriental Plaza
consists of eight premium office towers, a shopping mall, a
Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced apartments, according to its
 website . Cheung Kong owns 33.4 percent of Oriental Plaza, while
affiliate  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  holds 18 percent, according to
the companies’ 2009 annual report.  Companies from Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
International AG to Prada SpA of Milan plan share sales in Hong
Kong this quarter, providing impetus to the exchange’s push to
become a global IPO hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  