-- 
Li’s ‘Superman’ Status Tested in Hong Kong With First Yuan IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-20T08:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/li-s-superman-status-tested-in-hong-kong-as-yuan-ipo-meets-tepid-demand.html
Hong Kong ’s first stock sale
denominated in yuan marked a different kind of milestone for Li Ka-shing: It was the first time in at least eight years the
billionaire had to settle for the lowest amount sought in an
initial public offering of a property trust.  Li’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust raised $1.6
billion in an IPO after selling units at the low end of a price
range, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The three
other REITs backed by Li that sold stock in IPOs since 2003
raised the maximum targeted, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With Hui Xian forecast to yield 4.26 percent, the lowest
among Hong Kong-traded REITs, investors betting on yuan gains
can open a bank account across the Chinese border and get
similar interest on a two-year time deposit. Limited prospects
for early gains may also have deterred individual buyers, said
Kenny Tang, executive director of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd.  “Li Ka-shing is usually able to get off everything he puts
out there, but this deal may have been too pricey,” said Brook McConnell, president of Hong Kong-based South Ocean Management
Ltd., which oversees about $20 million.  Hui Xian’s underwriters -- BOC International Holdings Ltd.,
Citic Securities and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  -- set aside 20 percent
of the total offering for individuals, double the typical retail
allotment in Hong Kong IPOs.  The decision was driven by expectations that Hui Xian would
be popular among retail investors, people familiar with the
process said.  ‘Idle’ Deposits  There is about 200 billion yuan ($31 billion) of “idle”
Chinese-currency deposits in Hong Kong that could flow into the
IPO, according to a sales document sent by one of the
underwriters before marketing started. That would be almost 100
times the amount of stock reserved for them.  Instead, individual investors applied for about 2.5 times
the shares available, people with knowledge of the matter said.
Li’s last IPO of a REIT in Hong Kong, in December 2005, drew
retail orders of 300 times the stock on offer.  Li, 82 and Hong Kong’s richest man, is seeking to take
advantage of  China ’s efforts to promote international use of its
currency and swelling yuan deposits in Hong Kong. The sale drew
institutional investors including  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC (OZM) , people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  “In Hong Kong, the market has almost no investment
opportunities in renminbi products, except the renminbi bond
funds, and the yield on this product is more attractive,” said
Danny Yan, a  fund manager  at Haitong International Asset
Management, which oversees $600 million. He said the fund
planned to subscribe for Hui Xian shares.  Plastic Flowers  So-called Dim Sum bonds denominated in yuan and sold in
Hong Kong yielded an average 1.918 percent as of April 19,
according to data from HSBC. The interest rate on a one-year
yuan time deposit at HSBC in Hong Kong is 0.6 percent or less.  Hong Kong will have more yuan-denominated share sales as
deposits of the currency rise, K. C. Chan, the city’s secretary
for financial services and the treasury, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview today. He said Hui Xian is a “very good product” even
though REITs “don’t generate as much excitement as regular IPOs.”  Hui Xian, controlled by Li’s  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd.
and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is backed by the  Oriental Plaza  in
Central Beijing. Covering 100,000 square meters (1.1 million
square feet), Oriental Plaza consists of eight premium office
towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced
apartments, according to its website. Cheung Kong spokeswoman
Winnie Cheong didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Underperformers  The tepid response from Hong Kong individuals is a
departure for Li, dubbed ‘Superman’ by local media for his
ability to generate returns. Having opened a plastic flower
factory after World War II, Li has built an empire spanning
ports, real estate, hotels, infrastructure and energy -- a feat
that landed him on the 11th spot on Forbes annual global rich
list last month with $26 billion of estimated wealth.  Among five previous Li-backed IPOs in Hong Kong since 2000,
only one failed to raise the maximum targeted: phone carrier
Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. cut the price of
a sale in October 2004 after investors balked at the valuation.  The stock market performance of the other REITs Li took
public may have added to investor wariness about Hui Xian.  Shares of  Prosperity REIT (808)  jumped 20 percent on their first
day of trading on Dec. 16, 2005. Since then, they’ve dropped 27
percent, compared with a 56 percent advance in Hong Kong’s
benchmark Hang Seng Index. The trust now has an indicated yield
of 5.81 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Die-Hard Fans’  Suntec Real Estate Investment Trust and Fortune Real Estate
Investment, the REITs Li took public in  Singapore  in 2003 and
2004, have underperformed the city-state’s benchmark stock index
since their IPOs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There maybe some die-hard fans who will jump onto
anything put out by Cheung Kong or Hutchison, but if you look at
the last two REITs they’ve brought to the market, the
performance haven’t been that good, said Lantis Li, an analyst
at Capital Securities Corp.  Hui Xian’s ownership claim to the assets backing the trust
expires in 2049, according to the IPO prospectus. That may
further dent the allure of the sale as it limits investors’
ability to benefit from yuan gains, according to CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  Another concern is potentially limited volume of trading in
the secondary market, limiting the potential for IPO investors
to make a profit, said Ronald Wan, Hong Kong-based managing
director of China Merchants Securities Co.  A better way to benefit from the Hui Xian REIT may be to
invest in Cheung Kong, Li’s flagship company. The IPO will lift
Cheung Kong’s net asset value and lower its indebtedness, CLSA,
the brokerage arm of  France ’s Credit Agricole SA, said April 14,
rating the stock “buy.” Cheung Kong owns 33.4 percent of
Oriental Plaza.  “To get rich with  Li Ka-shing , it’s better to invest with
him than buy from him,” Andrew Riddick, an analyst at CLSA,
said in the April 14 note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net 
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  