-- 
Europe Deploys Military Advisers in Libya to Aid Rebel Army

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-20T19:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/libyan-rebels-hail-u-k-military-help-as-nato-air-campaign-meets-obstacles.html
Italy and  France  joined the U.K. in
sending military advisers and trainers to help Libya’s rebels
struggling to topple Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, as an opposition
spokesman raised the possibility of having UN-designated ground
troops safeguard humanitarian-aid deliveries.  Those developments raise the prospect of deeper involvement
by the U.S., France, the U.K. and their allies as the anti-
Qaddafi alliance’s air campaign enters its second month with a
military stalemate on the ground and the besieged western city
of Misrata under continuing attack by Qaddafi’s forces.  The rebels are open to having United Nations-designated
ground troops help protect the aid deliveries, Abdul Hafiz
Ghoga, spokesman for the National Transitional Council, told
reporters at a press conference in Benghazi. The UN Security
Council resolution authorizing “all necessary measures” to
protect civilians in  Libya  bars “a foreign occupation force of
any kind.”  In Misrata, Tim Hetherington, the Oscar-nominated film
director and war photographer who produced the film
“Restrepo,” was killed, the New York Times reported on its
website. Two other photographers nearby, Chris Hondros and Guy
Martin, were reported gravely wounded in same rocket-propelled
grenade attack.  Heavy Weapons  Separately, a United Nations official said today that the
regime’s indiscriminate use of heavy weapons in the city may
constitute a war crime. The attacks in Misrata, Libya’s third
largest city, and the rebels’ failure to advance from their
eastern positions has forced NATO officials to concede the
limits to what airpower alone can accomplish.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who met today with the head of
Libya’s  Interim Transitional National Council , Mustafa Abdel
Jalil, said France will “intensify the strikes,” the
 Associated Press  reported, citing a presidential aide.  Additionally, France will send a “very small group” of
officers to Libya, government spokesman  Francois Baroin  said
today. Italy plans to send 10 military instructors, Defense
Minister Ignazio La Russa said. About 20 British army members
who served in Iraq and  Afghanistan  are being deployed to advise
rebels, a U.K. Ministry of Defense official said on condition of
anonymity.  Non-Lethal Assistance  Libyan rebels welcomed the move as President Barack Obama’s
administration announced it will provide $25 million in “non-
lethal” assistance. That aid will include medicine, radios,
prepared hallal meals and body armor, according to State
Department spokesman Mark Toner.  Forces loyal to Qaddafi shelled and caused damage to three
 oil fields  since the fighting started in mid-February, Ghoga
said at his press briefing. Crude oil for June delivery climbed
$3.30, or 3.05 percent, to settle at $111.45 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Oil exports from Libya, which has
Africa’s biggest oil reserves, dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said last month.  Libyan opposition forces have failed to take and hold
territory along the Mediterranean coast, or to capitalize on air
strikes that the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  says have
destroyed more than 30 percent of Qaddafi’s military. Rebels
were pushed back this month from the oil port of Brega under a
barrage of artillery fire east to Ajdabiya, about 160 kilometers
(100 miles) south of the rebel stronghold of Benghazi. Al
Arabiya television reported today that rebels re-entered Brega.  No Quick Change  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington , said the arrival of
allied military advisers won’t yield any quick change to the
fortunes of Libya’s rebels.  “It will take months more -- at a minimum -- to properly
train and equip them,” Cordesman said in a  comment  on the CSIS
website. NATO, he said, needs to shift to a bombing campaign
“that cannot be ‘surgical,’” and confronts Qaddafi, his family
and supporters with “the choice between exile or death.”  The U.S. is working with a number of opposition groups, not
just the main opposition group, the Transitional National
Council, Toner said at the State Department. The U.S. has “some
confidence” that the rebels “can work cohesively as a group,”
he said. Toner said the aid that the U.S. is providing rebels is
“not a blank check, this is goods and services that would be
drawn down from U.S. stocks.”  Rebels’ Needs  The rebels do need training, Toner acknowledged. “We’re
all well aware they’ve had trouble with some of the equipment,”
said Toner. “These are doctors, lawyers, people from civil
society who’ve taken up arms to protect their homes,” he said.  Libyan Foreign Minister Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi said the
military presence by foreign powers in Libya would be a “step
backwards.” In a BBC interview, he called for a cease-fire
along the lines of an African Union plan and a period to
establish a dialogue on revamping the Libyan political system.  NATO warplanes flew 62 strike missions yesterday, the
alliance said in an e-mailed  statement . Jets hit three tanks and
three rocket-launcher vehicles near the besieged rebel city of
Misrata, two ammunition depots near Tripoli and a surface-to-
surface missile site near Sirte, the statement said.  NATO, operating under a United Nations mandate to protect
civilians, said Qaddafi’s forces have hidden their heavy armor
among the civilian population. The development has hampered
efforts by alliance warplanes to stop threats to civilians in
Misrata.  War Crimes   UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said the
government’s use of cluster bombs and heavy weaponry, reported
by the New York Times and  Human Rights Watch , could amount to
war crimes because of the substantial toll on civilians.  “Reportedly, one cluster bomb exploded just a few hundred
meters from Misrata hospital, and other reports suggest at least
two medical clinics have been hit by mortars or sniper fire,”
Pillay said in a statement on the UN group’s website. “Since
the city is largely cut off, it is not known precisely how many
civilians have died or been injured during two months of
fighting there, but it is clear that the numbers are now
substantial, and that the dead include women and children.”  “The pro-government forces besieging the city, including
their commanders and all other personnel, should be aware that -
- with the  International Criminal Court  investigating possible
crimes -- their orders and actions will be subject to intense
scrutiny,” she said. “Under international law, the deliberate
targeting of medical facilities is a war crime, and the
deliberate targeting or reckless endangerment of civilians may
also amount to serious violations of international human rights
law or international humanitarian law.”  Lack of Unity  Europe ’s military assistance will have to wrestle with the
rebels’ lack of unity, as two of the fighting force’s top
commanders, General Khalifa Hifter and General Abdul Fattah
Younes, both claim to be in charge of opposition soldiers, the
New York Times reported. Mustafa Gheriani, a spokesman for the
rebel council, said Younes is in charge of the military
operations and he reports to the council.  A vessel carrying 500 tons of food, medical supplies and
other equipment was bound for Misrata today and plans to rescue
some of the estimated 5,000 migrants from the besieged city, the
 International Organization for Migration  said on its website.  The shelling by government forces caused damage to the
Messla field, operated by Arabian Gulf Oil Co., oil well 59 in
the Waha field operated by Waha Oil Co., and field 103 A/D
operated by Zueitina Oil Co, Ghoga said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 