-- 
Iceland Keeps Rates Unchanged as Icesave No Threatens Recovery

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-20T09:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/iceland-keeps-rates-unchanged-as-icesave-no-threatens-recovery.html
Iceland ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second consecutive
meeting after failure to settle a foreign depositor claims
dispute threatened to stall the island’s economic recovery.  Sedlabanki kept the seven-day collateral lending rate at
4.25 percent, the Reykjavik-based bank said today. It also kept
the deposit rate at 3.25 percent. The bank last month ended a
cycle of 15 cuts that started after the island obtained a $4.6
billion loan from an International Monetary Fund-led group.  Policy makers are adopting a wait-and-see stance on the
fallout of last week’s referendum, in which voters rejected an
accord with the U.K. and  Netherlands  that the government had
hoped would help normalize international  investor relations . The
country may now be forced to scale back plans to ease capital
controls to protect the krona amid warnings from rating
companies that credit downgrades will follow the vote.  Rating companies are concerned that a delayed settlement of
the dispute “could weaken Iceland’s relationship with other
European countries, increase its external financing risks, and
hinder Iceland’s economic recovery prospects,” said Ingolfur
Bender, an economist at Islandsbanki Research.  The government’s failure to persuade voters to back the
accord, known as Icesave, prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to put
Iceland’s BBB- grade on CreditWatch negative. Moody’s Investors
Service on Feb. 23 warned it may cut Iceland’s debt rating to
junk if Icesave isn’t settled while Fitch Ratings Ltd. has rated
Iceland non-investment grade since January last year.  Capital controls, which the central bank estimates are
stopping investors from selling about $3.6 billion in krona
assets, have allowed Iceland’s trade surplus to support the
exchange rate and cap import prices.  The economy shrank 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter from
the third, bringing last year’s overall contraction to 3.5
percent, the  statistics office  said on March 8. Unemployment was
unchanged at 8.6 percent last month from February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik   valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 