-- 
Insurers Post First Sales Gain Since 2006 on Rates, Economy

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-20T16:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/insurers-post-first-sales-gain-since-06-on-higher-rates-economic-rebound.html
U.S. property and casualty
insurance sales rose for the first time in four years as
carriers raised rates and individual and commercial clients
expanded coverage amid an economic rebound.  Policy sales climbed 0.9 percent to $422.1 billion in 2010
from $418.4 billion a year earlier, the  Insurance Information
Institute , a trade group, said today in a  statement . That’s the
first gain since 2006, when sales jumped more than 4 percent to
about $444 billion.  Carriers are adding to sales after businesses and
individuals scaled back coverage during the recession.  Allstate
Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home insurer,
 raised rates  for residential coverage last year amid higher
costs tied to natural disasters. Travelers Cos. said demand for
coverage from businesses increased in the fourth quarter for the
first time since 2008.  “Pricing has leveled off and most probably will start to
go up,” said Shivan Subramaniam, chief executive officer of
commercial insurer FM Global, in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  Insurers rely on gains in employment, auto sales and  home
construction  to stoke demand. The U.S. added jobs in each of the
last six months and the  unemployment rate  fell to a two-year low
of 8.8 percent in March. Auto sales ran at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of more than 12 million in each of the last three
months of 2010, the fastest pace since August 2009.  Claims Costs  The gain in sales may increase claims costs, said Michael Murray, assistant vice president for financial analysis at ISO,
a unit of  Verisk Analytics Inc. (VRSK) , which released the statement
with the Insurance Information Institute and the  Property
Casualty Insurers Association of America .  “As the economy inches closer to full employment,
inflation in the severity of claims may accelerate,” he said.
“Economic growth may also spur increases in demand for
insurance that absorb excess capacity faster than investment
gains create it.”  Net income for the industry climbed 21 percent last year to
$34.7 billion. Realized investment gains were $5.7 billion
compared with a loss of $7.9 billion in 2009.  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co. is the largest home and car insurer in the U.S., ahead of
Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  and Travelers, both based in  New York , are among the
largest sellers of commercial coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 