-- 
Inter Milan CEO Says Leonardo Safe as Manager, Blames Injuries for Results

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-20T22:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/inter-milan-ceo-says-leonardo-safe-as-manager-blames-injuries-for-results.html
Inter Milan’s chief executive
officer said Leonardo will still be managing the club next
season amid media reports that the Brazilian will be fired at
the end of the campaign.  The 41-year-old only joined Italian champion Inter in
December after former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  was fired
six months into a two-year contract.  Inter  is third, eight points behind cross-town rival AC
Milan in Serie A and was eliminated by Schalke from the
Champions League in the quarterfinals. It leads Roma 1-0 after
the first game of the Coppa Italia semifinals going into the May
11 second leg. Last season the club swept all three titles under
 Jose Mourinho , who quit to join  Real Madrid .  “The future of Leonardo is with Inter,” CEO Ernesto Paolillo said in an interview in London yesterday. “He’s a
great coach, he’s working very well, we are really satisfied.”  Inter won five straight games after ex-AC Milan player and
coach Leonardo was appointed, getting the club back on track for
its sixth consecutive title. In recent weeks, the team has
faltered. It’s failed to win five of its last 10 games, and was
crushed 5-2 at home by Schalke in the first match of their two-
game Champions League series. It lost the second match 2-1 in
 Germany .  “Just because of two games we lost we are reading a lot of
crazy things in the newspaper but they are coming from outside,
not from the club,” Paolillo, a former vice-chairman of  Italy ’s
Banca Akros SpA, said. “We have no problems at all and we are
convinced he’s working very well.”  Injury Toll  Inter retained much of the squad that helped it last
season. Paolillo put the difference in performance down to
fatigue after last summer’s  World Cup  and injuries to key
players. He refused to pin the blame on Benitez.  “A lot of young players had to play together because a lot
of the first-team players were injured,” he said. “The players
were a little bit too tired.”  Benitez “was unlucky,” Paolillo said.  Inter hasn’t spent much on talent since investing heavily
on the team that Mourinho took to the Champions League title.
Planning for next season hasn’t begun, Paolillo said.  “We have to examine the situation just after the end of
the season, not now,” he said, adding any spending will be in
line with new financial rules established by European soccer’s
governing body.  Under the so-called Financial Fair Play regime, clubs are
being pushed to balance their books. Teams that have excessive
losses face sanctions, starting in 2014, including suspension
from the Champions League. Inter’s club accounts show it lost
500 million euros ($724 million) in the three seasons to 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  