-- 
Italy Extends Nuclear Moratorium to Focus on Fossil Fuel, Renewable Energy

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-20T13:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/italy-to-focus-on-renewable-energy-extend-halt-on-new-nuclear-plants.html
Italy  will extend a moratorium on
its nuclear program indefinitely and overhaul its energy
strategy to focus on traditional and renewable sources because
of concerns sparked by the atomic crisis in  Japan .  Italy’s planned nuclear program was “coherent with a
situation that has changed dramatically” after the accident at
the Fukushima plant, Industry Minister Paolo Romani told
Parliament today. The country will put off any further decisions
on atomic energy until an overall European Union strategy is
outlined, he said.  This is the second time Italy, the only major world economy
without atomic power, has shied away from nuclear power after a
major accident outside its borders. The country dismantled all
its plants after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, and had only just
restarted its nuclear program when a March 11 tsunami triggered
the Fukushima crisis.  Romani didn’t make it clear whether a referendum planned in
June on the future of nuclear power would go ahead.  The minister said Italy will reflect on nuclear safety and
fully participate in European efforts to come up with new
standards. In the meantime the country will concentrate on
diversifying its sources of fossil fuels, on improving
infrastructure, and supporting research and development of
 renewable energy , he said.  Italy currently gets 80 percent of its energy from fossil
fuels and the remaining 20 percent from hydroelectric and
renewable energy, according to data from power grid operator
Terna SpA. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s center-right
coalition government had made nuclear energy part of a strategy
to cut dependence on fossil fuels to 50 percent, reducing
imports from abroad and cutting energy prices in the long term.  Now the country with  Europe ’s highest energy prices will
have to find new ways to cut costs. Italian companies paid twice
as much for power in 2010 as their French counterparts, 40
percent more than the U.K. and 27 percent more than German
rivals, according to  Eurostat , the region’s official provider of
statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  