-- 
TiVo Shares Rise as U.S. Court Finds Dish in Contempt

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-20T20:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tivo-rises-as-u-s-court-finds-dish-in-contempt-of-dvr-order-3-.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  surged 30 percent in
Nasdaq trading after a U.S. appeals court agreed that  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  is violating a judge’s order to shut down parts of
a digital-video recording service that infringe a TiVo patent.  The  ruling  today affects Dish’s older DVRs and leaves open
the question of whether software on newer models was changed
enough to get around TiVo’s patent for the “time warp”
technology that simultaneously records and plays back television
programs. Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider,
is entitled to a new hearing on the altered products, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said.  “It’s a big win for TiVo because it can move forward to
pursue its rights and remedies but it’s obviously not a total
win,” said Ed Reines, a lawyer at Weil Gotshal & Manges in
Redwood Shores,  California , who isn’t involved in the case.  TiVo, a pioneer in the market for home DVRs, has been
trying to shut down Dish’s DVR service since winning cases
before a jury four years ago and before an appeals court in 2008
and 2010. Dish, formerly known as EchoStar Communications Corp.,
said it will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case, and
seek to have the order put on hold during that period.  “This ruling is going to move them toward a settlement
because Dish already has two strikes against it,” said Rich Tullo, an analyst with Albert Fried & Co. in New York who has a
“buy” rating on TiVo shares. “At the end of the day, Dish has
to look at this in context of its acquisitions and cash flow and
decide what the cost-benefit of losing is.”  Monetary Damages  The judge in the original trial awarded Alviso, California-
based TiVo $200 million in contempt sanctions. The appeals court
today upheld $90 million of that, which was related to contempt
of the disablement order, and ordered the judge to recalculate
the remaining $110 million.  Without a settlement, Englewood, Colorado-based Dish may be
forced to pay as much as $1 billion to TiVo, Tullo said.  TiVo rose $2.47 to $10.84 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading for its biggest percentage gain since March
4, 2010. Dish fell 29 cents to $23.58.  “This marks the second time that the district court’s
contempt ruling has been upheld,” TiVo said in a statement.
“We look forward to the permanent injunction against EchoStar
and  Dish Network  finally being enforced.”  DVR Models  TiVo, which has reported net losses in nine of the past 10
fiscal years, has said in court filings it lost a quarter of its
customers, while Dish was able to double its DVR subscribers.  Dish may have to disable DVR functions on eight receiver
models, according to the ruling. The company has claimed it has
since developed a new product that doesn’t infringe TiVo’s
technology and said in a statement today the order to halt the
service only covers older models. Existing customers “are not
immediately impacted by these recent developments,” Dish said.  “We have already upgraded many of these customers and, if
we are unsuccessful in obtaining a stay, we will work as quickly
as possible to upgrade the remaining customers to our current
generation DVRs, as these are not at issue in the ruling,” the
company said.  The lawsuit was originally filed against Dish and EchoStar
when they were a single satellite-TV and equipment company. The
business split in 2008, and Dish has agreed to cover the bulk of
liability in the case, the company said in its annual report.  Failure to Comply  A panel of the Federal Circuit ruled 2-1 in March 2010 that
Dish was in contempt of an order to stop its DVR service because
the altered system wasn’t that different than the one presented
to the jury. All active judges of the court decided to revisit
the issue to determine when someone who claims to have worked
around a patent is entitled to a new trial.  Dish, which argued to the appeals court that the order to
shut off its DVR service was vague and too broad, never sought
clarification from the trial judge, the Federal Circuit ruled.  “Nor did it ever disable any DVR functionality in even a
single receiver that had been found infringing by the jury,”
the appeals court said. “It unilaterally decided that
downloading modified software to its infringing receivers was
sufficient to comply with the district court’s injunction.”  In its 2010 annual report, Dish said that being forced to
stop providing DVR service and failure to reach a licensing
agreement with TiVo “would result in a significant loss of
subscribers and place us at a significant disadvantage to our
competitors.” It also may lead distributors to decrease their
marketing of the network, Dish said.  Bigger Fish  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, has an
agreement with TiVo for use of its DVR service. The patent
expires in 2018.  Following the March 2010 Federal Circuit ruling, Dish
claimed it had developed another way to work around the TiVo
patent, and asked the court to review that version. The judge
hasn’t ruled, because of the appeal that had been pending.  Dish has its own patent-infringement case pending against
TiVo filed in 2005. The case had been on hold because the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office is taking a second look at the Dish
patents, which were bought from International Business Machines
Corp.  TiVo also is involved in patent suits with Microsoft Corp.,
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., AT&T Inc. and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  It claims Verizon’s FiOS and AT&T’s U-verse
television and Web services infringe patents.  “TiVo wants this resolved,” Tullo said of the Dish case.
“They’re fatigued and they’ve got bigger fish to fry with
Verizon and AT&T.”  The appeal is TiVo v. EchoStar, 2009-1374, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court
case is TiVo Inc. v. EchoStar Communications Corp., 04-cv-01,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  