-- 
Ivory Coast’s Main City Faces Clashes Between Rival Groups

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-04-20T17:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/ivory-coast-s-main-city-abidjan-faces-new-clashes-between-rival-groups.html
Clashes resumed in  Ivory Coast ’s
main city between supporters of the former president,  Laurent Gbagbo , and the militia that backs the new leader,  Alassane Ouattara .  “We can hear since this morning heavy artillery clashes,”
Alain Gbalou, a resident Yopougon in the northern part of
Abidjan, the commercial capital, said today. “The neighborhood
has become a war a zone.”  The Republican Forces, which support Ouattara, appear “to
be pursuing heavily armed pro-Gbagbo militias, including
Liberian guns-for-hire, who are hiding in the area and continue
to abuse the civilian population,” according to  Control Risks ,
a London-based security advisory group.  Patrick Achi, a spokesman for Ouattara’s government,
pledged to “eradicate these pockets of resistance as soon as
possible,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Ivory Coast , the world’s top cocoa producer, is attempting
to “restore normality” to the city following the April 11
capture of Gbagbo by Ouattara’s fighters, Control Risks said on
its website. The ex-leader had refused to cede power to Ouattara
after losing a November election, sparking a civil war that
ended with a 10-day siege on the city.  Yopougon has seen several days of clashes and “is the sole
neighborhood of the commercial capital where life is still
paralyzed,” said Gbalou. The fighters repelled an attempt by
the Republican Forces to enter the area yesterday, said Guy
Gbeti, a member of the militia loyal to Gbagbo.  “We defended our territory,” he said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in  France  and Baudelaire Mieu in Lome via Accra
at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 