-- 
Japan’s Quake Rebuilding Must Be Backed Up by Taxes, Minister Yosano Says

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-21T03:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/japan-s-quake-rebuilding-must-be-backed-up-by-taxes-economy-chief-says.html
Japanese Economy and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said taxes must be part of funding
earthquake reconstruction, as polls indicate public support for
increasing levies to pay for rebuilding.  “Of course our borrowing must be backed by taxes,” Yosano,
72, said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. While a  sales tax 
increase “is one possibility we could explain to people, the
government hasn’t made any progress on discussions.”  Policy makers are grappling with ways to pay for relief
after the March 11 quake and tsunami without exacerbating a debt
burden that is near 200 percent of gross domestic product.
Sixty-nine percent of people said they would support an increase
in levies to fund rebuilding, according to a Nikkei newspaper
survey released this week.  Benchmark 10-year bond yields were at 1.235 percent as of
11:05 a.m. in Tokyo, one basis point from the lowest level in
three weeks.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government is compiling the
first of what may be multiple supplementary budgets for
reconstruction after the disaster caused damage estimated at as
much as 25 trillion yen ($302 billion) and killed or left
missing more than 27,000 people. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano indicated this week that raising the nation’s 5 percent
sales tax could be an option ruling party members will consider.  ‘Beyond’ 10 Trillion Yen  Yosano, a former finance minister, said spending by the
public and private sector to repair damage would be “well
beyond” 10 trillion yen, without elaborating. The government
has said the first spending package may be around 4 trillion yen.  Exports fell 2.2 percent in March from a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo yesterday, a decline economists
say may accelerate. Reports since March 11 have also indicated a
slump in manufacturing and a record drop in household sentiment.
Corporate demand for loans rose for the first time in two years
as the quake spurred people to borrow, a central bank report
released today showed.  The disaster’s effects span radiation leaks at a nuclear
plant in Fukushima, the destruction of towns on the northeastern
coastline, and disruptions to supply chains and production for
companies such as Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
automaker.  Threatened power shortages won’t cause “fatal” damage to
the world’s third-largest economy, Yosano said, and
reconstruction will help fuel growth later this year.  Fiscal Discipline  The government must continue to pursue fiscal discipline,
including changes to the nation’s social welfare system, he said.
Officials will review long-term fiscal goals “within two to
three months,” Yosano said, adding that he didn’t know whether
rebuilding efforts will be taken into account. Kan pledged last
June to balance the nation’s budget by fiscal 2020.  Yosano reiterated his support for the  Bank of Japan , saying
the central bank has devoted “100 percent of its capability”
to supporting the nation since the disaster. The BOJ unveiled a
one-year lending facility for banks in affected areas this month
and has also doubled its asset-purchase program and injected
record amounts of cash into the money market since the temblor.  Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said today
that the economy’s uncertain outlook in the wake of the disaster
“seems to be exerting overall downward pressure on business
fixed investment and private consumption” and the central bank
is ready to take “appropriate” policy action if necessary.  Speaking at a business meeting in Yokohama, west of Tokyo,
he also said there’s a risk the disaster and nuclear power plant
accident “might put a chill on corporate investment and
households’ consumption, thereby reducing expectations for
 Japan ’s economy.” Supply-chain constraints may also compel
companies to shift production overseas, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  