-- 
Post-Quake Reprieve Over for Japan’s Kan as He Faces Calls to Stand Down

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-21T06:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/kan-s-post-quake-reprieve-over-as-he-faces-calls-to-stand-down.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
earned a reprieve six weeks ago when the earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear crisis diverted attention from a funding scandal and
budget impasse. The respite is over.  Kan’s  Democratic Party of Japan  fared poorly in local
elections this month and polls show more than two-thirds of
voters disapprove of his handling of the situation at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. His efforts to corral
the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  into a coalition were
met with a suggestion from its leader that he quit, a call
echoed last week by a member of his own party.  “Things are heading in a very difficult direction,” DPJ
lawmaker Hiroshi Hamamoto said in an interview. Calls for Kan’s
ouster “are sporadic fires that could spread, depending on
whether the nuclear situation is contained.”  Kan’s immediate challenge is containing the crisis at the
Fukushima plant and winning support for a post-quake rebuilding
plan without adding to the world’s largest debt burden. A
failure could end his tenure and make him  Japan ’s fifth straight
leader to last no more than a year.  The LDP, which until 2009 held power for more than 50 years,
has refused to approve legislation to sell bonds that would fund
almost half of this year’s record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1
trillion) budget.  The administration will submit an initial recovery plan of
about 4 trillion yen to parliament this month. The LDP opposes
the DPJ’s proposal to use pension money to fund it and party
leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  signaled he was unlikely to cooperate
when he said April 14 that “the time has come for the prime
minister to decide whether to stay or step down.”  Internal Dissent  Kan, 64, also faces internal dissent. DPJ legislator
 Yozaburo Ishihara  last week said he should resign immediately,
Jiji press reported. Ishihara spokesman Satoru Kumagai said the
lawmaker was calling for Kan’s resignation if the situation at
Dai-Ichi didn’t improve.  Some DPJ members also oppose plans to use 2.5 trillion yen
in pension funds to help pay for reconstruction, Hamamoto said.  The quake and tsunami left almost 28,000 people dead or
missing and the government estimates the damage may reach 25
trillion yen. The disaster lowered growth expectations and the
economy may shrink at an annualized 3 percent pace this quarter,
according to the median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Index has lost 7.2 percent since March
10, the day before the quake hit.  Approval Rating  “All the problems Kan had before the disaster are still
lurking,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of the Asian Studies program
at  Temple University ’s Tokyo campus. “The DPJ’s divided. He’s
still got a respite, but only for another few weeks.”  Hours before the temblor hit, Kan was fending off criticism
over reports he received an illegal donation, an issue that
forced his foreign minister to resign. Damaged by his inability
to win support for the deficit-funding bills, his approval
ratings dropped to 20 percent.  Kan’s popularity has improved marginally: His rating this
week was 21 percent in an Asahi newspaper survey, 22 percent in
the Mainichi daily and 27 percent in the Nikkei newspaper. The
polls showed seven in 10 voters think the government has
mishandled the nuclear disaster.  Plant owner  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. this week unveiled a
plan to end the crisis within the next six to nine months. The
government says it will aid Tepco’s efforts to compensate nearby
residents who evacuated because of radiation leaks.  No-Entry Zone  Japan today imposed a 20-kilometer (12 mile) no-entry zone
around the facility in the interests of public health, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said. About 80,000 people lived in
the area and some have returned against the advice of officials.
Kan today visited Fukushima and met with Governor Yuhei Sato.  The polls also showed about 60 percent of voters favor a
DPJ-LDP coalition. That prospect may be more likely if Kan quits,
LDP lawmaker Ichita Yamamoto said in an interview.  “Kan resigning would provide the LDP with the opportunity
to change our stance,” Yamamoto said.  Criticism of Kan hasn’t translated into support for the LDP.
The Nikkei poll showed less than a fifth of those surveyed want
him to step down immediately, and while the Asahi poll put DPJ
support at 17 percent, the LDP’s support was only 19 percent.  “There isn’t a whole lot of enthusiasm for the LDP
either,” Kingston said. “There’s no benefit of seeking an
early election and getting hammered for anyone.”  Before the earthquake, Kan rejected calls to resign and he
has given no indication since that he plans to step down.  Defending Kan  “In addition to achieving a recovery from the disaster, I
want to pave the way for fiscal reconstruction,” he said this
week in parliament.  His defenders in the DPJ say resigning would weaken the
party by subjecting it to a leadership contest in the midst of
Japan’s worst crisis since World War II.  “Even if Kan were replaced, it’s not like the situation
would change completely,” DPJ lawmaker Masaharu Nakagawa said
in an interview. “What’s important is that the current
government improve its direction and come up with an appropriate
vision for reconstruction.”  If the LDP refuses to back Kan’s rebuilding plans, one
other option is for the prime minister to bring in smaller
parties to push through relief funding.  “Kan certainly is seen as being out of touch,” said Jun Okumura, a former Japanese trade ministry official and a senior
adviser at Eurasia Group in Tokyo. “But he’s not the kind of
person to go gently into the night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  