-- 
Kathleen Turner’s Swearing Nun Helps ‘High’ Hustler: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-20T14:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/kathleen-turner-s-swearing-nun-helps-hustler-in-high-review.html
A recovering alcoholic nun in
mufti, Sister Jamison talks tough, swears a lot and can out-
wrestle anyone foolish enough to take her on.  As played by Kathleen Turner on Broadway in “ High ,” she
could be country kin to the femmes fatales she played in noir
films like “ Body Heat ” and “ Prizzi’s Honor .”  When Father Delpapp consigns a crank-addled gay hustler to
her care, Sister Jamison is suspicious. She’s the go-to
counselor for tough cases at the suburban rehab center the
priest runs. But those cases tend to be 19th-hole tipplers.  When she asks her new charge, Cody Randall, what drugs he’s
done, she has to stop him mid-sentence to rephrase the question:
“Whoa, maybe we should list the drugs you haven’t tried.”  Each of the three characters in Matthew Lombardo’s play
carries a secret that will be revealed in painful detail before
the curtain falls.  None of them makes any more sense than the character of
Sister Jamison herself: She talks the talk of a woman on
intimate terms with street life, substance abuse and various
sins of the flesh. But she recoils in horror at the unpleasant
details of Cody’s history. What street was she living on, Rodeo
Drive?  In front of a backdrop of stars twinkling in a midnight
sky, she soliloquizes about  St. Augustine , her prettier,
younger, smarter sister, and the tattooed boy at the bowling
alley who will change both their lives.  Ponderous  You don’t need to hear every word of every speech to get
the gist. That’s a good thing, because diction is not one of
Turner’s strong points; nor is the natural flow of language. She
tends to break sentences up into actorish phrases to suggest
deeper significance.  Lombardo, a recovering addict, has written an imitation of
a play, and not a very good one. Kunken is petulant as Father
Delpapp. Jonigkeit plays Cody with such incoherent gruffness
suggesting he never gave up dope long enough even to get into
the center. Under Rob Ruggiero’s overwrought direction, “High”
plays more like an early workshop than a polished Broadway
production.  And this is yet another show with background music, by
Vincent Olivieri, that is determined to add ponderousness to
every moment not already given over to it by the writing.  At the  Booth Theatre , 222 W. 45th St. Information: +1-239-
6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 