-- 
Napolitano Tosses Color Chart for More-Comprehensive Terror-Alert System

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-20T17:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/napolitano-to-describe-replacement-system-for-color-coded-terror-alerts.html
A new terrorism alert system will
take the place next week of the color-coded advisories that have
been used by the U.S. for the past eight years, Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said today.  Under the new  National Terrorism Advisory System , which
will begin on April 26, the Homeland Security Department will
coordinate with other federal entities to issue alerts,
Napolitano said. Advisories will categorize threats as
“elevated,” indicating a “credible” terrorist threat against
the U.S., and “imminent,” warning of a “credible, specific
and impending” threat.  Alerts may be sent to  law enforcement , distributed to areas
of the private sector that may be affected, or issued more
broadly to the public through the department’s website, Facebook
and Twitter. Advisories will be issued for a specific time frame
and will automatically expire in two weeks, although they may be
extended if a threat evolves or new information becomes
available.  “There’s an ever-evolving threat both homegrown and
international of terrorist activity,” Napolitano said at a
press conference in  New York ’s Grand Central Terminal today.
“These alerts are designed for when there is specific credible
information where people need factual content in order to know
what they need to do, how they protect their families and how
they can help us protect their communities.”  Color Code Criticized  Napolitano announced in January that the U.S. had decided
to abandon the color-coded terror-alert guide adopted by
President  George W. Bush ’s administration following the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  The color code was criticized by lawmakers, security
analysts and travelers as being too vague and was lampooned on
comedy shows such as “Saturday Night Live.” New York
representatives Carolyn Maloney, a Democrat, and  Peter King , a
Republican who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee,
said at today’s press conference that the new system is an
upgrade.  “New York has always been terrorist target No. 1, so I
always felt we were under either red or orange alert,” Maloney
said. “This new program will tell New Yorkers and Americans
what they need to know, when they need to know it and replaces
the current color-coded system, which many people had basically
tuned out because it never really ended and you didn’t really
know what it meant.”  Alerts Fluctuated  During the eight years the system was implemented, the
alerts fluctuated between yellow for “elevated” and orange for
“high,” reaching red for “severe” once, on Aug. 10, 2006.
The green or blue symbols, representing the lowest threat
levels, were never used.  In that instance, the alert was applied to flights coming
from the U.K. after discovery of what officials said was a well-
advanced plan suggesting that al-Qaeda was plotting to use
liquid explosives and detonators disguised as electronic devices
to blow up jetliners in midair.  “Our whole goal is to maximize our ability to detect
prevent and deter terrorism and minimize the likelihood that
they will be successful,” Napolitano said. “Even given, as we
have to be very frank and say, that there are no guarantees
here. We cannot put America under a glass dome and prevent all
damage from occurring but we can minimize the risks and maximize
the information that we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  