-- 
Nasdaq OMX First-Quarter Earnings Meet Analyst Estimates

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T21:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/nasdaq-omx-first-quarter-earnings-meet-analyst-estimates-2-.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the U.S.
exchange operator trying to take over NYSE Euronext, posted
first-quarter earnings that matched analyst estimates, boosted
by derivatives trading and share repurchases.  Excluding some items, earnings were 61 cents a share,
matching the average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, the New York-based company said in a statement today.
Net income attributable to Nasdaq increased 70 percent to $104
million. Expenses for 2011 will be $895 million to $915 million,
excluding about $50 million in merger and other charges. That’s
double the one-time items forecast in February, mostly for costs
from the NYSE Euronext bid, the company said.  The company repurchased more than 20 million shares in
December, bringing the amount bought back since March 2010 to
$797 million and helping boost per-share earnings. While Nasdaq
OMX is bidding for the equities and listings units of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , it has increased its focus on derivatives and started
trading U.K. power contracts to widen its business to other
markets. The exchange operator had about 27 percent of the U.S.
equity options market in the first quarter, according to OCC.  “Despite management obviously being focused on merger
issues, Nasdaq delivered a record-revenue and record-EPS
quarter, reflecting diversification, acquisitions and balance-
sheet management,” said Rich Repetto, a New York-based analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  Revenue  Net exchange revenue rose 15 percent to $415 million, with
a foreign exchange conversion benefit of about $10 million,
compared with a year ago, according to today’s statement.
Revenue from U.S. derivatives trading climbed 31 percent to $80
million from the first quarter of 2010, while U.S. equity
trading rose 13 percent to $62 million.  Nasdaq OMX’s adjusted operating margin rose to 46 percent
from 44 percent a year ago, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said during an
April 1 conference call that earnings were a record in the first
quarter, beating the fourth quarter’s 55 cents a share, which
was an all-time high then, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shares fell 0.3 percent to $27.32 at 4 p.m. New York
time. Since Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta’s  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE)  offered $11.3 billion to buy NYSE Euronext on April 1, they
have climbed 5.7 percent.  ‘Upward Bias’  The quarter was “in line with our estimate and
consensus,”  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based analyst with Macquarie
Group Ltd., wrote in a note after the report. “We don’t expect
any significant move in the stock price, but see an upward bias
on earnings quality.”  Nasdaq and ICE are offering about $11.3 billion in stock
and cash to buy NYSE Euronext and split it between them. Nasdaq
OMX would take the equities, options and listings business, and
ICE would keep the Liffe derivatives markets. The unsolicited
bid came about a month and a half after New York-based NYSE
Euronext said it agreed to merge with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , based
in  Frankfurt , in a $9.53 billion all-stock transaction.  Deal Values  While the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer is valued about 14 percent
higher, based on prices as of 4:52 p.m. New York time, the
companies added a $350 million reverse termination fee yesterday
if antitrust authorities block their proposed takeover. The move
is meant to ease NYSE Euronext shareholders’ concerns about the
antitrust barriers, which the company’s board brought up on
April 10 as it rejected the offer.  Both sides have been meeting with NYSE Euronext
shareholders since then in an effort to win support for their
offer. Antitrust approval has been “clearly the one thing and
one thing only” that investors are concerned about with the
Nasdaq-ICE offer, Greifeld said today on a conference call.  Nasdaq  OMX is prepared to pursue the bid through April
2012, Greifeld said today, adding that he is aiming for a
“friendly transaction.” The commitments for $3.8 billion in
financing that Nasdaq OMX and ICE announced yesterday are valid
for one year, Nasdaq OMX interim Chief Financial Officer Ron Hassen said on the call.  The company will pay half the 250 million-euro ($363
million) breakup fee that the Deutsche Boerse agreement requires
using cash on hand, according to Frank De Maria, a spokesman for
Nasdaq OMX. The fee would be split equally between Nasdaq OMX
and ICE, according to a filing yesterday.  Returning Capital  Should NYSE Euronext accept the offer, Nasdaq OMX plans to
return capital to shareholders through dividends or stock
repurchases after it lowers its debt-to-earnings ratio,
estimated for 18 months after the close. Greifeld said today the
company will start a dividend, whether it ends up buying NYSE
Euronext or not.  “When you look at the amount of cash that we generate,
that clearly will be in our future,” he said on a conference
call. “It’s a question of when not if.”  Nasdaq OMX had $733 million in unrestricted cash and near-
term assets at the end of 2010. The company paid $35 million in
debts owed, leaving it with $2.3 billion outstanding debt at the
end of the quarter, according to an earnings presentation today.  “Absent the organic initiatives or capital that you’d want
to have available to do strategic deals, the business has
evolved to a point where the cash requirements to run the
business have really diminished,” said  Roger Freeman , a New
York-based analyst with Barclays Plc. “There’s a base level of
earnings that can be counted on to do a dividend.”  New Initiatives  New initiatives, such as the Nasdaq OMX PSX equity platform
and the U.K. power market, will generate $112 million to $122
million in revenue this year, with margins growing to 24
percent, the company said in a presentation today, reiterating a
forecast given in February.  NYSE Euronext, operator of the largest U.S. exchange, is
set to issue its first-quarter report on May 3. The average
analyst projection is for 60 cents a share in profit excluding
some items, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ICE, the
second-largest U.S. futures market, will post earnings of $1.69
a share on May 4, according to the average projection of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  