-- 
New Jersey's High Court Set to Hear Demand for Spending for Poor Schools

-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-20T19:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/new-jersey-s-high-court-set-to-hear-demand-for-spending-for-poor-schools.html
The  New Jersey  Supreme Court heard
arguments on whether Governor  Chris Christie  and lawmakers must
restore reduced aid to the poorest school district amid a  budget
crisis .  Advocates for the poorest districts said Christie, a
Republican, and the Democratic-controlled Legislature allocated
$1.6 billion less than the amount required under a 2008 law. The
impact has been dire, David G. Sciarra, a lawyer for the
 Education Law Center  of Newark, New Jersey, told the justices
today in Trenton.  “The state’s aid reductions forced schools to make
significant cuts” to programs essential to providing adequate
education, Sciarra said, urging the court to order aid restored,
regardless of the fiscal crisis.  The diminished funding led to the dismissal of teachers,
guidance counselors and librarians, to the elimination of
language courses, and to an increase in class sizes, Sciarra
said.  A lawyer for the state defended the budget cuts as fiscally
necessary. Christie said yesterday that if the state loses the
case over the education budget he won’t raise taxes and foresees
“monumental” cuts elsewhere.  The Education Law Center represents plaintiffs in the 30-
year-old case, known as Abbott v. Burke, over aid to the state’s
poorest districts.  State Constitution  The center argues that the cuts violate the constitution’s
guarantee of a “thorough and efficient system of free public
schools.” A state court judge studied the issue and reached the
same conclusion last month, saying the next step is up to the
 Supreme Court .  The court must order the state to fully implement the
formula dictating state funding to the at-risk districts to
mitigate further harm, Sciarra said. Fiscal conditions “don’t
trump” the constitutional right of the state’s children to an
adequate education, he said.  The hearing follows a finding in March by Superior Court
Judge Peter Doyne, a special master in the case, who said
reductions in aid violated the constitution.  “Education funding could not escape” budget cuts required
by New Jersey’s fiscal crisis, attorney Peter G. Verniero,
special counsel for the state, told the justices.  Elected officials acted in good faith when decreasing state
spending to the so-called Abbott districts by about 6 percent,
compared to about 14 percent overall, last fiscal year, he said.  Law in Crisis Time  Justice Barry T. Albin asked Verniero whether citizens’
constitutional rights may be undermined when the state is facing
“dire fiscal circumstances.”  “We have to react to the fiscal distress that the state is
in,” Verniero said.  Christie claims the Supreme Court is out of touch with the
state’s fiscal condition. His budget proposal for the fiscal
year that begins July 1 seeks to close a $10.7 billion deficit
in the current $29.4 billion plan. He also is calling for
changes in teacher tenure and evaluation.  “If this had been a raging success and had pushed up the
achievement level of children in those districts, maybe we might
be willing to pay for it, but what you have is a 29 percent
graduation rate in  Newark , an Abbott district,” Christie said
yesterday at a town hall meeting in Jackson. “The Supreme
Court’s argument is money equals achievement and we know that it
doesn’t.”  No Tax Increase  Christie said he won’t raise taxes if the Supreme Court
orders him to spend the funds, requiring cuts that could close
hospitals or spur “monumental” government workforce cuts.  New Jersey’s 31 Abbott districts received 59 percent, or
$4.5 billion, of state education aid to schools in the current
fiscal year, up from 36 percent in 1988, Christie said. Per-
pupil spending in those districts averaged $16,138, compared to
$2,895 in the other districts, which number about 550.  “We are paying for the failed legal theory of a bunch of
lawyers in black robes,” he said yesterday.  Verniero, a former state Supreme Court justice and attorney
general now with the law firm  Sills Cummis & Gross PC , argued
that the funding for poor districts is enough to satisfy
constitutional requirements. He asked the court to grant
lawmakers “breathing room” when seeking budget solutions.  Sciarra urged the justices to adopt the findings by Doyne,
who held eight days of hearings and reported last month to the
top court. At-risk districts have been hit the hardest by
inadequate funding while they are the least able to withstand
reductions, he said.  Who’s Hurt Most  “Despite the state’s best efforts, the reductions fell
more heavily upon our high-risk districts and the children
educated within those districts,”  Doyne wrote.   School districts cut reading and summer programs and
efforts to help students “struggling and in need of additional
help,” Doyne said in his 96-page report. Piscataway schools,
for example, cut 14 teachers, pushing class sizes to 27 pupils
for some third-graders and up to 32 in high-school, he wrote.  The Supreme Court denied the state’s request that Doyne be
allowed to consider the state’s fiscal crisis.  The state said falling federal aid and  tax revenue  required
spending cuts for this fiscal year since the budget must be
balanced. The School Funding Reform Act of 2008 “constructs
state aid as a perpetually increasing amount of money,”
Verniero wrote in court papers.  Doyne’s findings “are of little relevance to the court”
because he wasn’t permitted to consider the fiscal crisis,
Verniero wrote.  High-Spending State  New Jersey, Verniero wrote, is among the highest-spending
states on education per pupil. He cited the testimony at the
hearings of a state expert who said that “how money is spent is
much more important than how much money is spent” and that cuts
in state aid shouldn’t affect student performance.  “No actual evidence exists of what effect these minimal
aid reductions might have on student achievement,” Verniero
wrote.  Sciarra argued that the opinions of the state’s expert were
based on data collected nationwide as opposed to New Jersey.  The Supreme Court may rule on the case before the June 30
end of the budget year,  David Rosen , chief fiscal officer for
the Office of Legislative Services,  told lawmakers  last month.  The case is Abbott v. Burke, 62,700, Supreme Court of New
Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Trenton, New Jersey,
at   edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 