-- 
Goodell Says NFL Plans to Start Season On Time Without Player Replacements

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-20T18:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/nfl-s-goodell-says-league-planning-for-on-time-season-without-replacements.html
Commissioner Roger Goodell told
fans of the  New York Giants  that the  National Football League 
intends to start its season on time and without replacements for
the players that owners locked out more than a month ago.  Goodell said today in the latest in a series of conference
calls that he’d just stepped out of mediation ordered by a
federal court in Minnesota, where the league is talking with
players about how to divide about $9 billion in revenue, the
most of any sports league.  “We’re planning to start the season on time,” Goodell
said. “We’re planning on playing a full season. And we’re going
to negotiate as hard as we can to get that done.”  Giants broadcaster Bob Papa hosted the 30-minute call with
Goodell and the team’s seat-license and ticketholders. The
commissioner spoke with fans of the  Miami Dolphins ,  Cleveland
Browns  and  San Diego Chargers  last week at the request of the
teams, NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said, and he’s doing the same
for the Giants and San Francisco 49ers this week.  Fans asked the commissioner about everything from health
care for retired players to the state of labor talks. Goodell
promised better care for those who played before 1993 and
detailed the league’s plan to expand the season to 18 games from
16 while cutting two preseason games.  Goodell said Giants owner John Mara would stay in talks
with players and that the lockout “will have a significant
financial impact on clubs,” without giving specific figures.  He also said that, while the league has considered options
for refunding ticket fees if games are missed, replacement
players “are not part of our strategy.” The NFL used
replacements during a players’ strike in 1987.  “We have not had any focus on replacement players,” he
said. “It’s not part of our thinking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 