-- 
Nigerian Rights Group Says 153 Killed in Opposition Protests Over Election

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-04-20T16:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/nigerian-rights-group-says-153-killed-in-opposition-protests-over-election.html
At least 153 people died in riots
across northern Nigeria by supporters of opposition candidate
Muhammadu Buhari, who lost the April 16 presidential vote in
 Africa ’s top oil producer, a civil rights group said.  The mainly Muslim supporters of Buhari, a former military
ruler, attacked backers of President Goodluck Jonathan, the
election winner, and clashed with Christians in the northern
city of Kaduna and at least seven other towns, Shehu Sani,
executive director of the Civil Rights Congress, said today by
phone.  In Kaduna, members of Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party 
“are leaving town,” Sani said. “If you’re a known PDP member,
or you have their banner or sticker, you were attacked,” he
said.  The fighting displaced more than 39,000 residents and
injured at least 410 people, the secretary of the Nigerian Red
Cross, Umar Mairiga, said by phone from  Lagos , the commercial
capital. Seventeen people were killed in the city of Gombe and
71 injured, Ali Shaliza, a doctor at the Federal Medical Center
in the city, said by phone.  Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River delta
region, defeated Buhari by a 57 percent to 31 percent margin,
according to the Independent National Electoral Commission.
Buhari’s party rejected the election verdict.  Credible Vote  Most international observers, including the European Union,
called the vote credible. The last elections, in 2007, were
described by international and local monitors as flawed because
of intimidation of voters and ballot fraud.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with 150 million
residents, is roughly split between a mostly Muslim north and a
largely Christian south, a divide reflected in voting for the
election. Buhari won all of the country’s 12 northern states
while Jonathan took 23 of 24 in the mainly Christian central and
southern states.  Decades of dominance in northern  Nigeria  by a “corrupt
elite” have left a huge army of unemployed and unskilled poor
in the region who are increasingly attracted to radical Islamic
views, Matthew Hassan Kukah, the vicar-general of the Catholic
Diocese of Kaduna, said by phone today.  Churches Attacked  “At any little dispute they attack churches,” he said.
“Now the system is beginning to consume itself,” he added,
referring to attacks targeting politicians and traditional
rulers.  Troops have been deployed across the north to quell the
violence and in some southern cities to forestall reprisal
attacks against Muslims, according to military spokesman
Brigadier-General Ralph Isa.  A night-time curfew is in place in Bauchi, Gombe, Kano,
Yobe, and Jigawa states. In Kaduna state, worst affected by the
violence, Governor Patrick Yakowa imposed a 24-hour curfew.  The current unrest in the north “is unlikely to lead to a
major wave of sectarian unrest going forward,”  Samir Gadio ,
sub-Saharan Africa analyst at Standard Bank Plc in  London , said
in a note to clients today. “Overall, there seems to be a
consensus among senior political leaders to reject sectarian and
political violence, and prevent the destabilization of the
country.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  commended the
presidential vote today, saying it was “a dramatic shift from
decades of failed elections and a substantial improvement over
the 2007 presidential election,” according to an e-mailed
statement by the U.S. Embassy in Abuja, the capital. She also
condemned “the acts of violence related to elections.”  More than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious
clashes in Nigeria between 1999 and 2009, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 