-- 
Nissan Says It Will Boost U.S. Deliveries of Leaf Electric Cars This Month

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-04-20T17:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/nissan-says-it-will-boost-u-s-deliveries-of-leaf-electric-cars-this-month.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
largest automaker, said beginning this month it will boost
shipments of Leaf battery-electric cars to the U.S., where it
has made about 500 deliveries since late December.  The company, with 20,000 customers waiting to receive cars,
this week got its first shipment of the cars since Japan’s March
11 earthquake and tsunami, said  Carlos Tavares , chairman of
Nissan’s Americas operation. Nissan aims to fill all initial
orders in seven regional markets within months, with the
remaining U.S. cars to be delivered later, he said.  “Nissan Leaf deliveries are about to grow from the few
hundreds to the many thousands,” Tavares said today at the New
York International Auto Show. “All current customer orders will
be fulfilled by the end of this summer.”  While Nissan expects to be the world’s largest seller of
electric cars, it has struggled to boost deliveries of the
rechargeable Leaf. The crisis in Japan last month added to
production delays, while the company this week also said it
needed to fix a software defect in initial models.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has said the market
for electric vehicles may reach 10 percent of global auto sales
as early as 2020 because of demand for vehicles that emit little
or no gases linked to global warming.  Nissan’s goal for Leaf isn’t volume, Tavares said in an
interview.  “We have never said we wanted to rush in sales volume,”
he said.  Renault Report  Tavares declined to comment on a report in the French
magazine Challenges that he is being considered to become
 Renault SA (RNO) ’s next chief operating officer. Renault is Nissan’s
largest shareholder, with a 43 percent stake, and both are led
by Ghosn.  Nissan said today it plans to build the new Infiniti JX
luxury crossover at its plant in Smyrna, Tennessee, where it’s
also adding Leaf and Rogue compact sport-utility vehicle
production. To accommodate that move, the Yokohama-based company
is shifting production of the Xterra SUV and Frontier pickup to
its factory in Canton,  Mississippi .  The move will boost the percentage of Nissan’s sales in the
Americas that are produced in the region to 85 percent by 2015
from 69 percent last year, Tavares said.  The full cost of the production changes still are being
determined, Tavares said.  Nissan’s North American unit is based in Franklin,
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  