-- 
Norilsk’s Trafigura Accord ‘Not Transparent,’ Deripaska Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-20T18:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/norilsk-s-trafigura-accord-not-transparent-deripaska-says-1-.html
United Co. Rusal, the owner of a 25
percent stake in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, said the Russian mining
company’s December agreement to sell 8 percent of its shares to
commodities trader Trafigura Beheer BV was “not transparent.”  “This was a fictitious transaction,”  Oleg Deripaska ,
chief executive officer of Moscow-based Rusal, said today on a
conference call with reporters after Norilsk held a board
meeting. “Norilsk just gave Trafigura the stake.”  Norilsk said Dec. 20 that it agreed to sell an 8 percent
stake to Amsterdam-based Trafigura, valued by Rusal at $4
billion. The deal stoked a feud between Deripaska and fellow
Norilsk shareholder  Vladimir Potanin , who have bickered over
influence on the board and use of the company’s cash since 2008.  Trafigura’s press service was unable to comment immediately
when Bloomberg News called. Maria Uvarova, a spokeswoman for
Norilsk, declined to comment.  Rusal has pressed Norilsk to ensure that management
discloses the details of the deal to the board within the next
30 days, Deripaska said, adding that the proposal is backed by
Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. “The deal of Norilsk with
Trafigura was not transparent,” he said.  An official at Interros, who asked not to be identified,
declined to comment.  Rusal on March 3 rejected a $12.8 billion bid from Norilsk
to buy back 20 percent of its shares. Instead the aluminum
company approved a special resolution that committed management
to begin talks with Interros in a bid to end the shareholder
dispute.  “We discussed the situation with Potanin, but came to no
conclusion,” Deripaska said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  