-- 
Obama Considering Warren Among Consumer Bureau Candidates, Official Says

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T22:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/obama-considering-warren-among-candidates-for-u-s-consumer-bureau-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  has narrowed
the list of candidates to lead the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau to a group of people with financial-services experience
including  Elizabeth Warren , an administration official said.  Warren, the Obama administration adviser setting up the
agency, and the other candidates have all worked in financial
services, though not necessarily in private industry, said the
official who requested anonymity because the process isn’t
public. The administration hopes to make a decision in the next
few weeks, the official said.  Obama met recently with advisers to discuss the nomination,
according to a person briefed on the talks. He may announce a
nominee with the expectation that he will make a recess
appointment if it becomes clear the Senate won’t confirm a
director in time for the CFPB’s scheduled July 21 start date,
according to a person with knowledge of the bureau’s efforts.  Under a  recess appointment , the president would choose a
director while the Senate is out of session. That person could
serve through the next session of Congress through 2012.  For example, Obama nominated  Donald Berwick  to head the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in April 2010. After
the nomination stalled amid Republican opposition, Obama gave
him a recess appointment in July and resubmitted his nomination
to the Senate when the new Congress began in January.  Meetings With Senators  Warren has had meetings in recent weeks with Senate
Democrats on the Banking Committee including Chairman Tim Johnson of  South Dakota , Mark Warner of  Virginia ,  Herb Kohl  of
 Wisconsin  and Kay Hagan of  North Carolina , according to two
people briefed on the discussions.  The meetings have the dual effect of updating the senators
on Warren’s progress in setting up the agency created by the
Dodd-Frank Act and tamping down opposition to a recess
appointment, according to the person with knowledge of the
bureau’s efforts.  The administration wants to ensure no Democrats echo likely
Republican criticism in the event of a recess appointment, the
person said.  Two people -- former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm
and former Delaware Senator Ted Kaufman -- turned back
approaches about the consumer bureau job, according to two
people briefed on the talks. Both urged the White House to
nominate Warren, 61, one of the people said.  Warren, the White House and Treasury Department adviser
assigned to set up the consumer bureau, is “absolutely” still
on the list as a possible nominee for the director’s job,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday.  “She is doing a terrific job making the case for stronger
consumer protection and attracting talented people to stand up
that agency,” Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with Peter Cook.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for Warren, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  