-- 
U.S. Finances Are ‘Unsustainable,’ Obama Says at Facebook Town Hall Event

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-21T17:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/obama-tells-facebook-audience-that-nation-s-finances-are-unsustainable-.html
President  Barack Obama , on a cross-
country trip to sell his deficit reduction plan, said yesterday
that the nation’s finances are “unsustainable.”  At a campaign-style town hall meeting at the headquarters
of Facebook Inc., Obama described the House Republicans’ budget
plan as “fairly radical,” and said members of both political
parties in Washington need to work together to start reducing
the federal deficit in a “balanced way.”  “We have an unsustainable situation,” he said. “We face
a critical time where we are going to have to make some
decisions -- how do we bring down the debt in the short term,
and how do we bring down the debt over the long term?”  After his appearance at Facebook, Obama turned his
attention to political fundraising.  During remarks to Democratic donors today at a  San
Francisco  hotel, a group of people at one table stood and broke
into song, demanding the release of Bradley Manning, the U.S.
soldier accused of leaking secret documents to the WikiLeaks.com
website. Obama brushed off the interruption: “Now there’s an
example of creativity,” he said.  Obama attended a dinner in San Francisco last night hosted
by Marc R. Benioff, chairman and chief executive officer of
Salesforce.com, a cloud computing company.  Obama’s ‘Startup’  Obama spoke after a performance by singer  Stevie Wonder ,
telling a roomful of early supporters: “Some of you were
involved in startups. Well, I was a startup.”  “We started something in 2008,” Obama said of his first
presidential campaign. “We haven’t finished it yet,” he said,
reeling off needs to overhaul education, improve clean energy
programs and reduce debt and deficits. “I’m going to need you
to help me finish it.”  Tickets for today’s event, which drew about 200 donors, and
yesterday’s dinner, attended by about 60 people, cost as much as
$35,800 a person, according to a Democratic official who wasn’t
authorized to discuss such details publicly. The president
yesterday also attended a  “Gen44”  Obama fundraising event at
the Nob Hill Masonic Center, where ticket prices ranged between
$25 and $2,500, according to another Democratic official.  Obama is to fly today to  Nevada , a politically important
state in the 2012 campaign. The president is scheduled to hold a
town hall meeting in Reno at  ElectraTherm Inc. , a small
renewable energy company, giving him a chance to reinforce his
push for increased spending on clean-energy technology.  Job Approval  A poll released today showed that 42 percent of Americans
surveyed approved of Obama’s job performance, down from 48
percent last month. In the poll by American Research Group Inc.,
of Manchester,  New Hampshire , 53 percent of respondents
disapproved of Obama’s performance, up from 47 percent in March.
Pollsters questioned 1,100 adults nationwide from April 17-20.
The margin of error is plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  Later today, Obama returns to  California  for fundraisers in
 Los Angeles , including events at Sony Pictures where actor-
singer Jamie Foxx is scheduled to appear.  The fundraising events in San Francisco and Los Angeles are
expected to bring in between $4 million and $5 million, a
Democratic official said.  Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist based in Los Angeles,
described the trip as “not a full-fledged campaign trip, but it
has some of the dynamics of preparing to run a campaign,” such
as efforts to “start focusing on swing states early so you can
broaden the electoral map.”  Reach Out  Facebook, with more than 500 million users, is the world’s
largest social network website. It was founded in 2004 by  Mark Zuckerberg .  Obama has used social media sites such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube to reach out to voters. Yesterday’s session is the first
time he has appeared on Facebook, which passed Google last year
to become the most visited website in the U.S.  Zuckerberg, joined by Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, moderated the event. Obama took questions filed online
through the White House’s  Facebook page  and  website , along with
those from an audience of Facebook employees, small-business
leaders and Silicon Valley entrepreneurs.  Obama said using Facebook allows us to “make sure this
isn’t just a one-way conversation.”  “This format and this company, I think, is an ideal means
for us to be able to carry on this conversation,” the president
said. “We’re having a very serious debate right now about the
future direction of our country.”  Separate Plans  The White House and  House Republicans  have offered separate
plans to reduce cumulative budget deficits by $4 trillion, over
12 years and 10 years respectively. Obama’s plan would include
$1 trillion in tax increases that his advisers say could be
raised from families earning at least $250,000, while the
Republicans’ measure wouldn’t raise taxes.  “The Republican budget that was put forward I would say is
fairly radical. I wouldn’t call it particularly courageous,” he
said. “I would call it short-sighted.”  Obama criticized the Republican plan for preserving tax
breaks while chopping funds from programs such as clean energy
and for seeking to overhaul Medicare and Medicaid health
insurance programs for the elderly and the poor.  “Nothing is easier than solving a problem on the backs of
people who are poor or people who are powerless,” he said.  Treasury Yields  While the deficit dominates political debate in  Washington ,
bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago even as
Treasury Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to more than $9 trillion from about $4.3
trillion in mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is
below the average of about 7 percent since 1980 and the average
of 5.48 percent in 1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had
a budget surplus, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year yields fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 3.38 percent at 11:48 a.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
rose 0.3 percent to 12,492.10 at 12:59 p.m., after surging 1.5
percent yesterday to its highest closing level since June 2008.  Housing Market  The president said the economy is still “not growing quite
as fast as we would like” even after creating almost 2 million
jobs in the past 18 months. He called the housing market
“probably the biggest drag” on the economy.  “What I’m really concerned about is making sure that the
housing market overall recovers enough that it’s not such a huge
drag on the economy because, if it isn’t, then people will have
more confidence, they’ll spend more, more people will get hired,
and overall the economy will improve,” he said. “It’s still
tough out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in San Francisco at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  