-- 
Obama May Require Contractors to Disclose Political Donations

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-20T20:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/obama-may-require-government-contractors-to-disclose-political-donations.html
The Obama administration has
drafted an executive order that would require government
contractors to disclose some of their political donations, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Carney declined to confirm any specifics about the
proposal, saying it “could change over time.”  President  Barack Obama  “is committed to improving our
federal contracting system,” Carney told reporters traveling
with the president on  Air Force One  to  California . “His goal is
transparency and accountability.”  Carney said the president’s goals with the order would be
to let taxpayers know how federal government contractors spend
their money “in terms of political campaigns.”  “That’s the responsible thing to do when you’re handling
taxpayer dollars,” he said.  Politico reported yesterday that the administration is
circulating an executive order that would require companies
seeking government contracts to disclose contributions they make
to groups that air political advertisements. Some of those
contributions can now be kept secret, Politico said.  The draft order follows last year’s  Supreme Court  decision
that struck down a federal law banning companies and unions from
using money from their general treasuries to support or oppose
political candidates. After the ruling, Obama urged Congress to
pass legislation requiring additional disclosures to limit the
impact of anonymous political spending.  Political Affiliation  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell today said Obama’s
executive order was “outrageous.”  “No White House should be able to review your political
party affiliation before deciding if you’re worthy of a
government contract,” the Kentucky senator said in a statement.  Senate Republicans last September blocked that chamber from
voting on legislation that would have required corporations and
unions to disclose spending on political advertising.  Craig Holman , a campaign finance lobbyist for  Public
Citizen  in Washington who advocates greater campaign spending
disclosures, said the executive order shows a more “active
role” being taken by the White House after the high court’s
action.  “It really should be done by legislation so it would apply
to everyone, but this is what the president can do,” Holman
said. “He’s taking the regulatory approach to this.”  Blair Latoff, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobbying group, said the
administration’s proposal would lead to government contracts
being awarded on the basis of political views, instead of the
best value for taxpayer dollars.  “The fear of political discrimination and retaliation is
not just theoretical here,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Nicholas Johnston in
 Washington  at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  