-- 
Obama Heads West on Campaign-Style Swing to Sell Plan on Deficit Reduction

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/obama-heads-west-on-campaign-style-swing-to-sell-deficit-reduction-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  hits the
road today to sell his deficit reduction plan, drawing lines
with his Republican opposition over values in a cross-country
trip that has all the markings of a campaign swing.  Along with driving his message on the federal budget,
Obama, who announced his re-election bid less than three weeks
ago, will be attending to essential tasks of a political
candidate: raising money, touching base with a core constituency
of younger voters and visiting critical states on the electoral
map.  In an appearance yesterday in Virginia, a state where in
2008 he was the first Democratic presidential candidate to win
since Lyndon Johnson in 1964, Obama cast his differences with
Republicans over the deficit as an elevation of national needs
over tax cuts for the wealthy.  “We know that the only way to pay for these tax cuts for
the wealthiest Americans is by asking seniors to pay thousands
of dollars more for their health care, or cutting children out
of Head Start,” the president said at  Northern Virginia
Community College  in Annandale,  Virginia . “It’s not a trade-off
that I’m willing to make.”  Both the White House and  House Republicans  have offered
plans to reduce cumulative budget deficits by $4 trillion, over
12 years and 10 years respectively. Obama’s plan would include
$1 trillion in tax increases that his advisers say could be
raised from families earning at least $250,000, while the
Republicans’ measure would not raise taxes.  Swing-State Focus  The president leaves today for a three-day trip that will
include town hall-style meetings at  Facebook Inc .’s headquarters
in Palo Alto, California, and in Reno, Nevada, along with
fundraisers in  San Francisco  and Los Angeles.  “It’s not a full-fledged campaign trip, but it has some of
the dynamics of preparing to run a campaign,” said Bill Carrick, a Democratic strategist based in  Los Angeles . That
includes “start focusing on swing states early so you can
broaden the electoral map,” he said.  The stop at Facebook headquarters represents an appeal to
the 18- to 24-year-old demographic that deserted Democrats in
the 2010 midterm elections and contributed to a Republican
takeover of the House, said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at
Rutgers University in New Brunswick,  New Jersey .  “He’s got to reel those people back in,” Baker said.
“One of the things to do, of course, is to appear at the shrine
of social networking.”  S&P ‘Negative’ Outlook  The president’s task of promoting his deficit reduction
plan gained new urgency this week after  Standard & Poor’s  placed
a “negative” outlook on the nation’s AAA credit rating. The
New York-based company cited a “material” risk that
Republicans and Democrats would not be able to agree on a plan
to reduce long-term deficits by 2013.  Obama must balance the political task of framing
differences with Republicans with a role as a kind of educator-
and salesman-in-chief on the U.S.’s fiscal predicament, its
risks and threats, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics.  “I think it’s going to be arduous,” Zandi said of the
difficulty facing Obama. “People understand the problem; they
don’t understand the scale of it and what it might require in
terms of sacrifice to solve.”  Obama also must confront deepening economic pessimism as
the price of regular unleaded gasoline has risen to a national
average of $3.84 on April 18 from $3.10 at the end of January,
according to the American Automobile Association.  Approval Rating  The president’s job approval rating, which started rising
after he reached a deal on tax cuts with congressional
Republicans in December, reversed course in late January as
turmoil in the Middle East began driving up gasoline prices.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll released yesterday found
that 47 percent of Americans approve of Obama’s job performance,
down seven percentage points since January. Even with signs of
improvement in economic indicators, 44 percent of Americans said
they believed that the economy is deteriorating, the worst
reading for the poll in two years.  Obama has responded with messages targeted to local
audiences in potential 2012 battleground states.  At the beginning of the week, he conducted interviews with
local television stations in Denver, Indianapolis,  Dallas  and
Raleigh,  North Carolina .  Colorado , North Carolina and  Indiana 
are swing states that Obama carried in 2008, and some Democratic
strategists believe the growth in the Hispanic population in
 Texas  makes that state more attainable for the party’s
candidates.  Local Interviews  “It’s smart to start talking to these local stations,”
Carrick said. “Not only will they get the initial rating from
whatever show he’s on, but they’ll be rerun several times. They
end up thinking you do care more about North Carolina or
Colorado or Texas.”  The town-hall meeting Obama is scheduled to attend in
 Nevada  places the president in a state he carried with 55
percent of the vote in 2008. Two years later, his  Democratic
Party  colleague, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, won re-
election with a bare majority.  A swing state that has voted for the winning presidential
candidate in every election since 1980, Nevada sustained some of
the hardest blows of any state in the recession. A housing boom
collapsed, and the tourism and convention business centered in
 Las Vegas  suffered.  The state’s unemployment rate -- 13.2 percent -- was the
highest in the nation in March, up from 8.6 percent when Obama
won the state in November 2008. More than one out of 10 home
loans in Nevada were in foreclosure at the end of last year,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Funding ‘Mother Lode’  In  California , Obama will visit a “mother lode” of
funding for the Democratic Party, Baker said.  “For a Democrat, Southern California is the bonanza,” he
said. “The entertainment community is very generous to
Democrats.”  The state provided 20 percent -- $77.8 million -- of the
funding for Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, according to the
 Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based organization
that examines the influence of money on the political process.  The events in San Francisco and Los Angeles are expected to
raise between $4 million and $5 million, said a Democratic
official who was not authorized to publicly discuss the party’s
fundraising.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  