-- 
Oil, Gold Seen Rallying by Threadneedle as Economy Overcomes ‘Headwinds’

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-04-20T07:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/oil-gold-seen-rallying-by-threadneedle-as-economy-overcomes-headwinds-.html
Oil, platinum and gold may rally as
the global economy withstands the “headwinds” of higher
 interest rates ,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil and Japan’s
nuclear crisis, according to Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd.  Threadneedle is bullish on oil and platinum as demand
climbs, while gold may advance to a record $1,800 an ounce,
manager David Donora said in an e-mail interview. The London-
based hedge fund targets its $149 million main commodity fund
to beat the Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index by 6 percent in 2011.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said this week industrial metals have
“limited upside” while silver may fall as central banks curb
inflation. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has ended a call to buy raw
materials including oil in the near term, while forecasting
gains over the next 12 months. Gold reached a record today.  “We see short-term headwinds as the market digests higher
prices, tightening in emerging-market countries takes effect,
and the market adjusts to the tragedy in Japan,” Donora said.
“We believe the recovery will continue and that demand for
commodities will accelerate into the end of the year.”  Group-of-20 finance chiefs said last week the world economy
is strengthening, citing “increasingly robust” demand growth
even as  Japan  rebuilds from last month’s record quake and
nuclear disaster and Europe battles a debt crisis.  China , the
world’s largest metals user, grew at a faster-than-estimated 9.7
percent in the first quarter, according to government figures.  Cotton, Silver  Investors have more than doubled their bets on higher
prices for commodities traded in the U.S., according to
government figures. The Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index has gained
5.2 percent this year and touched the highest level since 2008
on April 8, led by gains in silver and cotton.  Threadneedle Asset Management , founded in 1994, oversees
total assets of $97 billion. The main commodity fund, which is
managed by Donora and invests in energy, metals and agricultural
futures as well as equities of producers, posted a year-to-date
return of 9.2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Donora added gold to his list of this year’s best bets as
investors seek to preserve their wealth against rising inflation
and weaker currencies. The dollar lost 5.4 percent against a
basket of currencies this year.  “One would expect gold to be the safe-haven currency of
choice,” Donora said on April 18. Immediate-delivery gold,
which has gained every year since 2001, touched an all-time high
of $1,502.32 an ounce today.  Threadneedle is also “consistently bullish” on oil and
platinum as they face supply constraints and increased demand,
Donora said, without giving forecasts. Crude in  New York  has
soared 31 percent in the past year to $109.13 a barrel as unrest
in the Middle East hurt supply, while platinum rose 4.3 percent
to $1,788.75 an ounce.  Global Campaign  The global campaign to fight inflation won’t curb demand
for commodities, Donora said. Central banks across the globe,
including the  European Central Bank , have raised interest rates
to counter rising prices and China has taken other steps, such
as selling oilseeds at a discount to market prices.  “Any efforts to subsidize commodity prices to soften
inflation are likely to offset the rationing effect of higher
prices,” he said. “This leads to higher prices ultimately.”  Corn more than doubled in the past year, wheat surged 66
percent and soybeans rose 37 percent. World Bank President
Robert Zoellick said on April 16 that the global economy is
“one shock away” from a crisis in food supplies.  Still, Donora did not expect a return of the food crisis
that was seen in 2008 as he has “a lot of confidence in the
North American farmer.” The U.S. is the world’s largest
exporter of wheat, corn and soybeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  