-- 
Oklahoma Considers Own Accord With Banks on Foreclosures

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-20T22:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/oklahoma-seeks-alternative-deal-with-banks-in-foreclosure-probe.html
Oklahoma  Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a critic of proposed settlement terms stemming from a
50-state foreclosure investigation, may break off to seek an
alternative accord with banks.  Pruitt’s office is conducting its own investigation and may
negotiate a separate settlement if state and federal officials
leading the nationwide probe reach a deal that forces banks to
pay for reductions of loan balances for borrowers.  “If there is a direction the national settlement goes that
is inconsistent with our conviction, we have an option available
to us that could still represent the interests of Oklahomans,”
Pruitt said today in a telephone interview.  Pruitt is among at least eight Republican attorneys general
who have criticized a federal-state settlement proposal
submitted last month to five mortgage servicers, including  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  The 27-page document was offered to start
negotiations with banks as part of an investigation into
foreclosure and mortgage-servicing practices.  In an e-mailed statement earlier today, Pruitt’s office
said he instructed his staff to “craft a settlement that is
specific to Oklahoma’s concerns of punishing bad actors while
respecting the appropriate role of attorneys general.”  “This alternative to the current proposed term sheet could
provide other states with a model to consider,” according to
the statement.  Criticized Terms  Attorneys general in  Florida ,  Texas ,  Virginia ,  South
Carolina , Nebraska, Alabama and Georgia have also criticized
terms that call for a loan-modification program involving
principal reductions.  In a March 16 letter to Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller,
Pruitt said forcing lenders to reduce mortgage balances would
take away incentives for banks to loan money and “destroy an
already devastated housing market.” Miller is leading the
negotiations for the states.  Since writing the letter, Pruitt said there has been “more
open discussion” about whether the nationwide settlement should
include principal reductions.  “It’s a process that’s more reflective perhaps now of
concerns that many of us have,” he said in the interview. “It
remains to be seen where we end up but as part of that I think
it’s good policy for me in this office to engage in a very
specific inquiry about our state.”  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  