-- 
OM Holdings Seeking Legal Advice on Dual Hong Kong Listing

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-20T07:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/om-holdings-seeking-legal-advice-on-dual-hong-kong-listing-1-.html
OM Holdings Ltd. (OMH) , an Australian-
traded manganese producer, said it will seek legal advice after
shareholder votes failed to meet a threshold for a bye-law
change that would allow a dual listing in Hong Kong.  OM Holdings, which sells manganese, used to harden steel,
from its Australian mines to  China , said about 66 percent of its
shareholders supported a dual listing to increase access to
capital markets and leverage its connections to China. The
necessary bye-law change required 75-percent shareholder support,
the Singapore-based company said in a statement.  “The company is seeking legal advice as to the impact, if
any” of the resolution “not being passed,” OM Holdings said.
“The company will be continuing with its application to list in
 Hong Kong .”  Consolidated Minerals Ltd., the largest shareholder of OM
Holdings with an 11.35 percent stake, earlier sought an
injunction against the resolution for a dual-listing. The
request was rejected by the federal court of  Australia .
Consolidated Minerals, owned by Ukrainian billionaire Gennadiy Bogolyubov, is opposed to the secondary listing because it would
dilute its stake in the company.  Consolidated Minerals  Consolidated Minerals welcomed the defeat of a change in
the bye-law and will pursue court proceedings to have other
resolutions relating to the Hong Kong listing struck down, it
said in an e-mailed statement. The proceedings are due to be
heard in the Federal Court in Sydney on May 13.  The company also said it would seek “change at the board
level” of OM Holdings and intended to “call for a meeting to
effect such change.”  OM Holdings joins Rio De Janeiro-based Vale SA, the world’s
biggest iron ore exporter,  Russia ’s United Co. Rusal and
Luxembourg-based L’Occitane International SA in seeking access
to Chinese investors via  Asia ’s third-biggest stock market. Hong
Kong handled $50 billion in initial public offerings last year,
up 51 percent on-year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OM Holdings fell 4.5 percent to A$1.285 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, taking losses this year to 8.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  