-- 
Home Retail Says Argos Chief to Leave; Reports Profit Decline

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-04-20T06:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/home-retail-says-argos-chief-to-leave-reports-profit-decline.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of
U.K. store chains Argos and Homebase, said Sara Weller will step
down as head of Argos as it reported a drop in full-year profit.  Weller, 49, is leaving “for personal reasons,” the  Milton
Keynes , England-based retailer said today. She will step down in
June after more than seven years in the role. Chief Executive
Officer Terry Duddy will take on the position while the company
considers internal and external candidates for a successor.  So-called benchmark pretax profit at  Home Retail  fell 13
percent to 254 million pounds ($415 million) in the year ended
Feb. 26. That compares with the 250.5 million-pound average
estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company
lowered its forecast for pretax profit five weeks ago, citing
weakness at Argos.  Same-store revenue will probably decline at Argos this
year, while sales at the Homebase home-improvement chain will be
“broadly flat,” the retailer said last month. U.K. retail
sales fell by a record in March as accelerating inflation and
concerns about employment prompted consumers to cut back, the
 British Retail Consortium  said on April 12.  “There has been a particular weakness at Argos, explained
by weaker consumer confidence trends amongst older, lower-income
consumers,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble,
said in a report. She has a “sell” rating on the stock.  Home Retail fell 6.9 pence, or 3.2 percent, to 209.3 pence
in London trading yesterday. The stock has gained 11 percent
this year, compared with the 1.3 percent decline of the FTSE 350
General Retailers Index.  U.S. investment firm Madison Dearborn Capital Partners has
increased its stake in Home Retail twice in the last month to
5.14 percent, which analysts said has prompted speculation of a
possible takeover bid.  The retailer maintained its full-year dividend at 14.7
pence for the fourth year in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 