-- 
Hong Kong’s Chan Sees More Regular Yuan IPOs, China Bond Sales

-- B y   S u s a n   L i ,   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-20T05:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/hong-kong-s-chan-sees-more-regular-yuan-ipos-china-bond-sales.html
Hong Kong will have more regular
sales of yuan-denominated shares and Chinese government debt as
deposits of the currency double, said K. C. Chan, the city’s
secretary for financial services and the treasury.  The first yuan initial public offering, a listing of
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s real estate investment trust, is a
“very good product” even though REITs “don’t generate as much
excitement as regular IPOs,” Chan, 54, said in an interview
with Bloomberg TV. With deposits predicted by economists to
reach 800 billion yuan ($123 billion) in a year “that’s a lot
of deposits to support an efficient trading platform,” he said.  “I expect to see more equity IPOs though they will be
trailing in terms of number and percentage compared with yuan
bonds,” he said. Potential listing candidates include “any
company with assets in China and that means most companies in
Hong Kong,” he said.  China is seeking to reduce reliance on the dollar by
promoting use of the yuan in global trade and identified  Hong
Kong  as an offshore hub for investing the currency in its coming
five-year plan. The city’s deposits in the currency more than
tripled to 407.7 billion yuan in the six months through
February, Hong Kong Monetary Authority data show.  “Right now the market is testing the yuan but once they
get used to it I expect more IPOs,” said Chan, adding that
there will be no regulatory limits on volume of issuance. “It’s
whether companies believe they can get a better valuation.”  Dim Sum Bonds  Li’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust sold shares at
5.24 yuan each, the low end of a range marketed to investors,
two people with knowledge of the matter said. The REIT will have
a forecast yield of 4.26 percent, based on pricing assumptions
presented in the company’s share sale document.  Sales of dim sum bonds totaled 28 billion yuan this year,
compared with 25 billion yuan in the last three months of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Chan said he is
working with Chinese regulators on streamlining rules for
bringing funds raised back into the country for direct
investment purposes.  China ’s Ministry of Finance is also
“receptive” to the idea of holding more regular issues than
the current annual sales, he said.  Chan said that Hong Kong has an advantage over rivals in
being an offshore yuan hub because it conducts 70 percent of
international trade settlement in the currency. Hong Kong
settled a monthly average of 95 billion yuan of transactions in
the first two months of 2011, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority
said on March 25. That compared with a monthly average of 57
billion yuan in the second half of 2010.  Singapore Rivalry  China and Singapore signed a swap currency swap agreement
worth 150 billion yuan in July 2010, 18 months after Hong Kong
secured a swap accord worth 200 billion yuan, the largest size
swap line so far. The People’s Bank of China will choose an
approved Chinese bank soon to clear yuan trades in  Singapore ,
the Business Times reported yesterday, citing Monetary Authority
of Singapore Chairman Goh Chok Tong.  “We are the prime offshore yuan trading center, and that’s
no question in my mind,” he said. “That’s because of the
economics, the geography, the relationship between Hong Kong and
the mainland’s economy, and that’s very strong. It doesn’t mean
Hong Kong is the exclusive center in yuan trading. It shouldn’t
be.”  Chan said Hong Kong can match Singapore for financial
innovation. Hutchison Port Holdings Trust, which manages Chinese
port assets for Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., was listed in Singapore
on March 18, instead of Hong Kong where most of Li Ka-shing’s
assets are listed. Hong Kong’s listing rules should accommodate
business trusts and the government had been in talks with the
regulators, who “have some ideas in mind how to do it,” Chan
said.  Mini-QFII  Regulators are also considering how to let foreign
companies invest yuan raised offshore in the nation’s financial
markets in a program dubbed the mini-qualified foreign
institutional investor plan. Chan said that “many Chinese
authorities are quite ready for it but it is a timing issue.”  Hong Kong won’t be able to peg its currency to the yuan
before the latter becomes fully convertible, Chan said,
declining to predict when that will occur. Adjusting the
existing link to the  U.S. dollar  may do little to counter
capital inflows that are fueling inflation, he added.  “The Hong Kong dollar cannot be re-pegged to the yuan
until the yuan becomes a convertible reserve currency and that
is not for a long time,” he said. “I don’t think changing the
exchange-rate regime alleviates that kind of pressure. Liquidity
inflows are a global problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net .
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 