-- 
Mongolia Rail Boom Seen Breaking China's Rare Earths Grip: Freight Markets

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-04-21T06:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/mongolia-rail-boom-eases-china-rare-earth-grip-freight-markets.html
Mongolia’s aim of quadrupling its
rail network will send coal, copper and rare earths to nations
such as  Japan  and South Korea under a plan to reduce reliance on
the Chinese market and boost economic development.  The landlocked nation’s drive to lay 5,700 kilometers
(3,542 miles) of  track  across the country and to Russia’s Far
Eastern ports stands to benefit such companies as Australia-
listed  Aspire Mining Ltd. (AKM)  and  Canada ’s  Prophecy Resource Corp. (PCY) ,
said Richard Harris, chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based
Quam Asset Management. Quam raised $20 million for a Mongolia-
focused fund that is due to start investing in a few months.  “The missing link in the Mongolian gold rush now is
transportation infrastructure,” said  Roland Nash , who helps
manage about $150 million of Russian stocks at Moscow-based
hedge fund Verno Investment Management Ltd. “The key for the
Mongolians is to attract investments from as many different
countries as possible to lessen their dependence on China.”  A mining boom in the world’s most sparsely populated nation
promises the greatest influx of wealth for Mongolia since
Genghis Khan conquered much of the known world in the 13th
century.  Mongolia ’s benchmark MSE Top 20 Index is the world’s
best performer in the past 12 months and its currency, the
tugrik, the fifth-biggest gainer against the dollar.  Economic growth may surge to 23 percent in 2013, more than
twice the forecast expansion in China, as  large mining projects 
begin production, the  International Monetary Fund  says.  Giant Neighbors  Agriculture and mining each account for about  20 percent  of
gross domestic product. Aside from its main exports of coal and
copper, the country also holds oil, potash, iron ore and
uranium, as well as rare earths used in electronics,  wind
turbines  and smart bombs.  Mongolia has grown increasingly dependent on commerce with
 China ’s 1.3 billion people since the 1991 breakup of the  Soviet
Union : More than 75 percent of exports went to its giant
neighbor in 2009, according to  European Union  figures.  The relationship hasn’t always been easy. During a 2002
Mongolia visit by the exiled Tibetan leader, the  Dalai Lama ,
 trains were held up near the China-Mongolia border , a reminder
of the country’s vulnerability to pressure from the rulers of
the world’s second-biggest economy.  “Using the Russia route, Mongolia will have better access
to a global market rather than just dealing with China,” said
 Chris Weafer , Moscow-based chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp. “You need that to maximize the commercial value of its
goods. Otherwise China dictates prices.”  Precious ‘Necklace’  Mongolia this year is to start building a 400-kilometer
link from the Tavan Tolgoi coal basin and Oyu Tolgoi copper
deposit, two of the world’s biggest untapped resources, joining
with an existing rail line north to  Russia  and south to China.  An expanded rail network eventually will stretch directly
from Tavan Tolgoi to China and Russia. Extended train routes to
the west and the north will link with untapped silver, iron and
coal deposits, according to Eurasia Capital, Mongolia’s biggest
investment bank.  “A necklace of resource deposits lies across the south of
Mongolia and the idea is to connect it to rail, connect it to
China, and have options with a route via Russia,” said Eurasia
Capital analyst Dosbergen Musaev. “It’s a policy that defines
what Mongolia will do over the next decade.”  To prove Russia offers a realistic outlet, trucks filled
with coal from Tavan Tolgoi drove to Ulan Bator, where their
cargo was loaded onto a maiden 30-car train that left for
Russia’s biggest  Far East  port, Vostochny, on Oct. 28 last year.  ‘Historical Event’  The “historical event” shows that Mongolian coal can
travel via Russia to  South Korea  and Japan, OAO Russian Railways
Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said at the launch
ceremony for the train, according to a  statement  posted on the
state-run company’s website.  For now, Mongolia trucks its output into China, which is at
least three times more expensive than moving bulk commodities by
rail, Musaev said. Trucks won’t be an option when output at
Tavan Tolgoi and Oyu Tolgoi reaches projected capacity, he said,
given the high fuel and environmental costs.  Tavan Tolgoi’s owner, state-controlled  Erdenes MGL  LLC,
expects coal production of as much as 30 million tons a year,
according to a presentation made in Moscow in November, which
didn’t give a timeframe. That’s more than the record 25 million
tons from all of the nation’s coal mines in 2010.  Copper production at the Oyu Tolgoi deposit will reach
about 600,000 tons a year in its first decade, says Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd., which is developing the site with Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s No. 2 mining company by sales, and the Mongolian
government.  Road, Rail Costs  Moving those commodities by truck will be costly. The price
of coal sold by Tavan Tolgoi Co., which already mines one area
of the namesake coal basin, more than doubles to $61 per ton by
the time the fuel arrives at the Chinese border, according to a
presentation by the  Mongolia Mineral Resources and Energy
Ministry  made in Moscow in November.  On top of the $28 per ton in mining costs, the company pays
$32.50 for trucking, road charges and loading, the presentation
shows. Even with a rail connection, the cost of exporting via
Russia versus through China would be higher given the distances
involved, Musaev said.  Huanhua, the nearest Chinese port to Tavan Tolgoi, lies
1,638 kilometers away. Russia’s Vanino port is 5,044 kilometers
and Vostochny 5,069 kilometers from the Mongolian coal basin.  Labor Shortages  The price will be worth it because the option offers an
extra export route and the opportunity to develop deposits that
are too distant to utilize trucks, according to UralSib’s
Weafer. Processing Mongolian freight will also help Russia boost
its own economy in the more isolated Far East areas, which
suffers from labor shortages, he said.  “The future of Russia and modernizing the economy of
Siberia and the Far East is closely tied with the Asia Pacific
region,” President  Dmitry Medvedev  said April 15 in Boao,
China. Integration in the region “should be comprehensive and
involve all countries, without creating new dividing lines.”  In December last year, Russia wrote off about 98 percent of
Mongolia’s $172 million debt. Russian Railways owns a stake in
AO UlanBator Railways, Mongolia’s national operator, and
guaranteed a loan for it from Russian state-controlled  VTB Group 
in October 2010 to buy locomotives.  Russia plans to sell shares equal to about 12 percent of
Russian Railways, which Weafer said stands to benefit most from
Mongolia’s railway plans. The company may be worth several times
its share capital of more than 1.5 trillion rubles ($53
billion), Yakunin said last year.  Aspire and Prophecy  Aspire Mining is partnering with  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) 
for a coking-coal project, while Prophecy Resource in February
was given a  license  for its Chandgana Tal coal deposit. Hong
Kong-listed Mongolia Energy Corp. and Mongolia Mining Corp. are
two others whose business would improve with rail links,
according to  Monet Capital , an Ulan Bator-based bank.  “The opening of the rail line is really important for some
of the mines to the north,” said Quam Asset Management’s
Harris.  Still, while the economy has been growing at an average 6
percent rate during the last 10 years, the expansion has
fluctuated “sharply” from 1 percent in 2000 to 10 percent in
2007 and minus 1.6 percent in 2009, the IMF said in a  research
paper  this month.  The transition to a market economy in the early 1990s,
severe winters and a collapse in copper prices after a sharp
rise in 2006-2007 help explain some of the country’s “boom-
bust” cycles, it said.  Homework Needed  “You have to really do your homework” to pick Mongolian
equities, said Javier Garcia, lead manager at Swiss & Global
Asset Management of the 70-million-euro Julius Baer Black Sea
Fund, 4 percent of which is in Mongolia. “I’m not bearish but I
would be extremely selective.”  The nation must avoid developing “ Dutch disease ,” where
the financial benefits of a commodity boom lead to a hollowing
out of other sectors, according to the  World Bank . In the
Netherlands, the discovery of gas in 1960s drove up inflation
and damaged manufacturing.  Mongolia  needs to find a more balanced model of growth,
Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said in Ulan Bator in March.
He is trying to boost  living standards  in a nation where about a
third of the 2.7 million population lives below the poverty
line.  Joint Venture  UlanBator Railways, the company Russia helped, was
established in 1949 as a joint venture between the Soviet Union
and Mongolia, creating a legacy that includes a shared rail
gauge. That gauge, which refers to the width between the tracks,
differs from China’s.  The volume of cargo between Russia and Mongolia grew 10
percent to 1.15 million tons in the first nine months of last
year over the same period in 2009. The volume of Russia-China
rail freight, which transits Mongolia, was 2.3 million tons in
2009, according to Russian Rail.  In Russia’s Far East, Vostochny port plans to expand its
coal-handling capacity, according to the terminal’s  website .
Eurasia Capital estimates Russia will need to spend $2 billion
over three years to cope with major coal and ore export volumes
from Mongolia.  Mongolia will need to pay about $3 billion for the initial
1,100 kilometers of new rail, Lotte Engineering & Construction
Co., which is leading a South Korean group that is bidding for
the building contract, said last month.  “Mongolia is making a geopolitical choice and gaining a
stronger bargaining position” by striving to boost transport
connections with Russia, Musaev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  