-- 
Online Poker Companies Reach Accord With U.S. on Players’ Access to Money

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-04-20T17:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/online-poker-companies-reach-accord-with-u-s-on-players-access-to-money.html
Two online poker companies whose
founders face charges of illegal gambling reached agreements
with the U.S. Justice Department that will ease the return of
money to players.  PokerStars  and  Full Tilt Poker  entered into domain-name use
agreements, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said today
in a statement. The agreements allow the companies to use their
websites “to facilitate the withdrawal of U.S. players’ funds
held in account with the companies.”  Bharara announced an indictment against the founders of
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker last week,
alleging the three companies circumvented a 2006 federal law
barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites. All three are based outside the U.S. and are the
leading online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers,
according to prosecutors.  People lost access to their accounts when U.S. authorities
seized five Internet domain names and froze about 76 bank
accounts in 14 countries that allegedly belong to the online
poker companies, Kelly Langmesser, a spokeswoman for the FBI’s
 New York  office, said April 18.  “No individual player accounts were ever frozen or
restrained, and each implicated poker company has at all times
been free to reimburse any player’s deposited funds,” Bharara
said in the statement. “This office expects the companies to
return the money that U.S. players entrusted to them, and we
will work with the poker companies to facilitate the return of
funds to players.”  ‘Returning Money’  Today’s agreement allows PokerStars to “start the process
of returning money to its former U.S. customers,” the company
said today in a statement. “All PokerStars player deposits are
completely safe” and, with its domains released, the company
“continues to operate business as usual” outside the U.S.  Bharara’s statement didn’t provide an update on Absolute
Poker’s domain names or customer account access.  In the indictment unsealed April 15, 11 people, including
the founders of  PokerStars , based on the  Isle of Man , Ireland’s
 Full Tilt Poker  and  Absolute Poker  of  Costa Rica , were charged
with conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud,  money laundering 
and illegal gambling.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute used fraudulent
means to work around the ban to continue operating in the U.S.,
and “trick” banks into processing payments on their behalf. The
government seeks at least $3 billion in forfeitures and
penalties.  Five Domains  The indictment names two principals from each company and
others who allegedly worked with them to illegally process
payments. Five domains were seized: Pokerstars.com,
Fulltiltpoker.com, Absolutepoker.com, Ultimatebet.com and
UB.com.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , owner of Wynn and Encore casinos in  Las
Vegas  and Macau, announced on March 25 an alliance with
PokerStars, the world’s biggest online poker business, to seek
the legalization of  Internet gambling  in the U.S. Wynn said it
terminated the accord on April 15.  Wynn Resorts “hesitantly” partnered with PokerStars
“because there didn’t seem to be any interest in the government
to enforce restrictions on the game of poker,” chief executive
officer and founder  Steve Wynn  said yesterday on an earnings
call, where he compared the situation to last century’s
prohibition of alcohol. “We’re trying to figure out what the
hell the public policy is and then we can have a corporate
policy.”  ‘Screaming for Regulation’  “Internet poker seems to be screaming for regulation,”
Wynn said. “States can get money at a time when they need money
and the federal government can get some money at a time when it
could use the money. It seems like an intelligent thing to sit
down and regulate it.”  Fertitta Interactive, controlled by the owners of Station
Casinos Inc., said it had been negotiating an alliance with Full
Tilt Poker. The Wall Street Journal reported the talks last
month.  “The deal between Full Tilt Poker and Fertitta Interactive
was contingent upon pending federal poker legislation, our own
internal due diligence, and gaming license approvals,” Fertitta
Interactive said in an e-mail April 18. “There is currently not
a deal in place as the exclusive negotiating period has
expired.”  Industry Lobbying  Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest casino
company, has led industry lobbying to legalize online poker in
the U.S. Gary Thompson, a Caesars spokesman, declined to comment
on the indictments on April 18.  Seth Palansky, a spokesman for Caesars’ World Series of
Poker and interactive units, said in an April 18 e-mail that the
company had “never offered any real online gaming in the  United
States .”  Units of Caesars, formerly Harrah’s, operate “real” online
gambling -- in which players wager actual money -- in the U.K.
with partners who aren’t involved in the indictment, and
recently reached licensing deals in Italy and  France . The
company also operates play-for-fun Internet poker elsewhere,
including the U.S., according to Palansky.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net  