-- 
Philadelphia’s Musical Bankruptcy Is Orchestra Versus Pops

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-20T23:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/orchestra-says-bankruptcy-stems-in-part-from-pianist-injunction.html
The bankruptcy of the Philadelphia
Orchestra Association was caused in part by a legal fight
between the symphony behind Disney’s “Fantasia” and the
Grammy-winning pianist Peter Nero, artistic director of the
Philly Pops orchestra, a lawyer said today.  Within the last week, Nero won an arbitration case
involving the orchestra, which wants to cancel its participation
in the Philly Pops because the annual series of concerts costs
it at least $600,000, Richard B. Worley, chairman of the
orchestra, said in an interview today. The arbitration ruling
was a factor in the company’s decision to file bankruptcy, Larry
McMichael, an attorney for the orchestra, said in court today.  “We said we simply can’t do this anymore,” Worley said.  The Philadelphia Orchestra is the first major symphonic
orchestra to file bankruptcy in the U.S., said Bruce Simon, an
attorney for the union representing the orchestra’s musicians,
Local 77 of the American Federation of Musicians. The orchestra
also blamed its bankruptcy on the high cost of the musicians’
pensions and said in court papers that it must renegotiate the
musicians’ labor contract.  In the orchestra’s first day in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Philadelphia, it won permission to keep paying its bills,
including musician salaries while it tries to reorganize its
debt and renegotiate some of its contracts.  Nero’s attorney, Paul R. Rosen, said in court that the
76-year-old musician intends to continue his legal battle
against the orchestra in bankruptcy court. His treatment by the
orchestra has been disrespectful, Rosen said.  ‘Philadelphia Legend’  “Mr. Nero has not missed a concert series in 32 years,”
Rosen said. “He is a well-known Philadelphia legend.”  The arbitration loss didn’t determine the timing of the
bankruptcy filing, Worley said. It was just one factor among
many the orchestra considered, he said.  McMichael didn’t provide the court with details about the
outcome of the arbitration. He said the bankruptcy protects the
orchestra from having to comply with the arbitration order.  Nero has a contract with the orchestra and a related entity
it controls that is also in bankruptcy, Encore Series Inc. The
contract requires the two non-profits to put on a season of
Philly Pops concerts and take “full financial responsibility
for any resulting deficits,” Worley said in court papers.  The Philadelphia orchestra’s bankruptcy comes as many
classical music and opera companies struggle with falling
attendance and donations. Earlier this month, musicians at the
 Detroit Symphony Orchestra  wrapped up a six-month strike. The
Baltimore Opera closed in 2009 and New York City Opera projects
a deficit for its fourth consecutive season.  “The major donors only have so many dollars to go
around,” Isaac F. Slepner, an attorney for the bankrupt theater
group, the Prince Music Theater. “In past years the
organizations would have expected to rebound quickly. Now it’s
more evident that is not going to be nearly as fast.”  The case is In Re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 