-- 
Low Birthrate is Biggest Threat to South Korean Economy, Governor Kim Says

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-20T22:37:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/low-birthrate-is-biggest-threat-to-south-korean-economy-governor-kim-says.html
The biggest threat to  South Korea ’s
economic health isn’t from North Korean aggression or Chinese
competition, according to Kim Moon-Soo, governor of the
country’s largest province and a potential presidential
candidate. It’s from the country’s low birthrate.  South Korea will face “a very big obstacle to our growth”
unless families have more babies,  Gyeonggi  Governor Kim said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. The
government needs to be “more active” in providing child care
and lowering families’ education cost, he said.  Women with careers, who tend “not to marry and not to have
children,” have added to this “difficult” issue, said Kim,
the third-most-favored candidate from the ruling  Grand National
Party  for next presidential election, according to a Realmeter
poll this month. Gyeonggi province has introduced incentives for
encouraging government employees to have more children, Kim
said.  South  Korea ’s fertility rate was 1.21 per woman in the last
five years -- the fourth-lowest in the world, according to
United Nations  data .  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is seeking further business
cooperation with the U.S. as it faces rising competition from
 China , which has lower labor costs and land prices. Kim urged
the U.S. to ratify the free trade agreement between the two
countries, adding to the existing military alliance between the
nations that is “critically essential” because of China.  Increasing China Trade  China, overtaking  Japan  last year as the world’s second-
biggest economy, is a competitor as well as a close trade
partner with South Korea, even while it is always on the side of
 North Korea  on military affairs, Kim said. The two countries in
the Korean peninsula remain technically at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was never replaced
by a peace treaty.  “If there were no China, the U.S.-Korea alliance may not
be as essential,” he said.  Korea’s anti-U.S. groups may try to spur animosity against
the U.S., said Kim, noting that the trade agreement that awaits
ratification was completed during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, with some provisions renegotiated in December.  A firm security tie with the U.S. is also important for
South Korea in dealings with North Korea, Kim said.  “We have to try to continue our dialogue and cooperation
with North Korea, but it has to be based on a very strong
military alliance” with the U.S., he said.  South Korea has refused to engage in dialogue with North
Korea until the government in Pyongyang apologizes for last
year’s attacks that killed 50 South Koreans, hampering
international negotiations on North Korea’s nuclear weapons
program.  Moving to Korea  Some Japanese electronics and semiconductor makers,
including Canon Inc., are considering moving plants to Gyeonggi
province to take advantage of Korea’s growing market for such
products, a trend that began after the earthquake in Japan last
month, according to Kim. San Diego-based  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the
world’s largest producer of mobile-phone chips, will also expand
its investment in the country, he said.  Kim, who said he was imprisoned twice while an anti-
government activist, said he became a conservative after seeing
failure in communism in 1990s following the collapse of the
Berlin wall and the  Soviet Union . He said his first visit in
1994 to the U.S., where he saw “impressive values” of human
rights even in poor neighborhoods such as  New York City ’s
Harlem, also helped change his views.  When asked to confirm his plans to run for president, Kim,
59, said, “Let’s wait and see” -- and noted that there are  20
months to go before the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Fireman at 
 kfireman1@bloomberg.net  