-- 
Pentagon ‘Undoubtedly’ to Shutter More Programs, Chief Weapons Buyer Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-20T20:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/pentagon-undoubtedly-will-terminate-more-programs-carter-says.html
The U.S. Defense Department
“undoubtedly” will be forced to terminate weapons programs
upon completion of the comprehensive review requested by
President  Barack Obama , according to the Pentagon’s chief
weapons buyer.  Reassessing programs is “only a piece” of what Pentagon
officials will be examining. The review will cover the roles and
missions of the U.S. military services and the force structure
and capabilities required to accomplish those missions, the
department’s undersecretary for acquisitions,  Ashton Carter ,
said today.  This year the Pentagon has terminated the  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
Medium Extended Air Defense System. “There undoubtedly will be
more cancellations of that kind,” Carter said.  “We will be scrutinizing all of our programs and
activities for those that are not needed,” he said today in
 remarks  at the  Heritage Foundation , a conservative policy
research center in Washington.  While weapons spending “is an important part, it is only a
piece of the  defense budget ,” Carter said.  “It’s very easy to pick programs because they all have a
name and they are discrete. They are easy to write about, but
that’s not where the money is,” he said.  Cuts In 2013  Carter said the additional cuts are likely to start in the
fiscal year 2013 budget. The end of the EFV and  Meads  programs
followed a slew of terminations and truncations that Gates
announced in April 2009 and that the Pentagon says has saved in
excess of $300 billion over the life of the programs.  Separately, Carter’s deputy,  Frank Kendall , told a
breakfast meeting of defense reporters that “everything is on
the table when you get into that kind of broad review,”
including the force structure and missions.  Obama, as part of his plan to reduce the nation’s long-term
debt, on April 13 proposed cutting $400 billion from the
Pentagon’s budget through the 2023 fiscal year, extending cuts
beyond the $78 billion proposed in January by Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates . This included savings of $4 billion from
reorganizing Lockheed Martin’s  F-35  program and $68 billion from
a combination of shedding excess overhead, improving business
practices and personnel costs, and revising economic inflation
assumptions.  A White House fact sheet said the administration wants to
achieve deeper reductions in security spending by holding growth
in “base security spending below inflation.”  Gates’s “efficiency initiatives are about to go into
overdrive to identify DoD’s overwhelming majority contribution
to President Obama’s goal” of cutting $400 billion from the
defense budget, Heritage Foundation defense analyst  Mackenzie
Eaglen  said in an e-mail.  “It is a virtual certainty DoD will carry the lion’s share
of that burden, possibly upwards of 90 percent,” she said.  The administration has forecast that over the next five
years, the government will pile up a cumulative deficit of $3.8
trillion; over the decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to
$7.2 trillion.  In addition to defense cuts, Obama has proposed three other
main components to reduce the debt, according to a White House
statement: holding down domestic spending, curbing health-care
costs and closing tax loopholes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  