-- 
Peru’s Biggest Pension Fund Buying Stocks After Humala Victory Sparks Rout

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-20T18:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/peru-s-biggest-pension-fund-buying-stocks-after-humala-victory-sparks-rout.html
Prima AFP,  Peru ’s biggest pension
fund manager, is taking advantage of the biggest stock selloff
in more than two years and declines in the country’s bonds and
currency to buy assets on a bet prices will rebound after
presidential elections.  Stocks are undervalued after the country’s benchmark index
plunged 8.9 percent last week following candidate Ollanta
Humala’s victory in the first-round ballot, said Alejandro Perez-Reyes, head of investments at the Lima-based company.
Foreign investors have fled Peruvian securities on concern that
a Humala victory may stunt economic growth and sap profits in
the mining and energy industries, Perez-Reyes said.  “Being long-term investors in a market with good
perspectives and some nervousness is actually a good position to
be in,” Perez-Reyes said. “You take a short-term hit and then
go out and buy positions at very interesting prices.”  Prima, which has 26 percent of its 26.5 billion soles
($9.38 billion) in assets in Peruvian stocks, sold shares and
bet against the sol before the April 10 first-round vote as it
anticipated the drop in asset values, Perez-Reyes said in an
interview in Lima yesterday. The Lima General Index has dropped
9.5 percent in the past month, the fourth-biggest slide among 90
primary indices tracked by Bloomberg, on concern Humala, a one-
time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , will win the June
runoff vote and prompt international companies to pare planned
investment projects worth $50 billion.  Selective Buying  Prima is now “selectively” buying stocks as it expects
private investment and consumer demand to keep fueling Latin
America’s fastest-growing economy regardless of who wins the
ballot, Perez-Reyes said. Investors will probably overreact to
the first opinion poll on the election runoff, due for release
April 24, as well as the final vote, whoever wins, Perez-Reyes
said. This may create more buying opportunities, he said.  Investors are concerned Peru’s next president may seek
“radical” changes to economic policies, such as nationalizing
companies or scrapping free-trade agreements the government
expects will double Peru’s exports to $70 billion within five
years, he said.  “It’s not a question of who wins the elections but what
policies are implemented,” Perez-Reyes said. “There is a
chance of a big shift in economic policy that could change
fundamentals. We hope that’s not going to be the case.”  Prima’s net return on assets fell to 9 percent in the 12
months through March, from 9.7 percent a year earlier, and was
the lowest among the nation’s four private pension fund
managers, according to the country’s pension regulator.  Humala’s Proposals  Humala proposes raising royalty fees on mining and gas
production and renegotiating contracts with foreign companies
and trading partners including the U.S. After winning 32 percent
in the first round of balloting April 10, Humala said he would
consider a proposal drafted by former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, who placed third, which urges respect for the
constitution and the free-market system.  Humala has abandoned the anti-capitalist rhetoric that
limited his appeal to Peru’s growing middle class and says his
policies won’t jeopardize investment that drove the economy to
average growth of 7.2 percent over the past five years.  His opponent in the second round is Keiko Fujimori, a
lawmaker and the daughter of jailed former President  Alberto Fujimori , who trailed Humala with 24 percent support in the
first round. She has sought to distance herself from the
corruption and human-rights abuses that brought down her
father’s government.  Currency, CDS  Concern that Humala may win the election led to a 1.8
percent decline in the sol in the past month, the worst
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose to its highest in more
than two years yesterday, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Peru’s debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose to the highest since
July 2009 this month.  Consumer demand and private investment in mines,  power
plants  and infrastructure fueled 8.8 percent growth last year.
Peru will post a region-beating 7.5 percent expansion this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said this month.  Peru’s four private pension fund managers invested more of
their 84.3 billion soles in assets abroad last month as domestic
securities declined. The funds had 29 percent of assets invested
overseas last month, compared with 27 percent a month earlier
and 22 percent in March last year, according to the regulator.  Overseas Investments  The central bank increased the limit on pension funds’
overseas investments four times last year to 30 percent of their
assets from 22 percent in 2009 to help cool demand for soles as
exports jumped 35 percent and central bank policy makers raised
borrowing costs to cool inflation.  Lawmakers have yet to debate a government proposal to raise
the limit to 50 percent.  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said Oct. 27 the
government favors the higher limit to stabilize the currency and
allow the pension funds to buy the shares of companies in Chile
and  Colombia  once the three countries integrate their stock
markets.  Benavides said this week the government will take steps to
protect the assets of the private pension system as it’s
concerned a future administration may expropriate the funds.  Private Pensions  Humala’s campaign platform includes a pledge to introduce a
free  retirement plan  as part of reforms to the country’s pension
system. The state pension would be financed by taxes, not
private pension funds, he told reporters yesterday.  The  Finance Ministry  is seeking to make it harder for a
future government to take steps that would cut returns for
pension holders, such as lowering the limit on overseas
investment or forcing the funds to buy sovereign debt, Perez-
Reyes said.  “They’re trying to find a way to make sure there won’t be
any changes that will hinder returns for affiliates,” Perez-
Reyes said.  Pension fund managers may send letters to their customers
warning them their pensions are in danger of being expropriated,
Felipe Tam Fox, head of the regulator, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  