-- 
Peugeot First-Quarter Sales Rise 10% on New Models, Emerging Market Demand

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-04-20T07:16:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/peugeot-first-quarter-sales-rise-10-on-new-models-emerging-market-demand.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s
second-biggest automaker, posted a 10 percent first-quarter
revenue gain because of new models and said Japanese supply
disruptions haven’t compromised its full-year earnings targets.  Sales rose to 15.4 billion euros ($22.2 billion) from
14 billion euros a year earlier, helped by the introduction of
vehicles such as the upscale Citroen DS3 minicar, Paris-based
Peugeot said today in a statement. That compares with the 14.9
billion-euro average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Hats off,”  David Arnold , a London-based analyst at
Credit Suisse, said today in a note to clients. “The market
will take today’s statement as positive, given the higher degree
of confidence the company shows about the near-term earnings
environment.”  Peugeot stuck to its forecast of a gain in automotive
division operating profit in 2011, predicting that spending cuts
will outpace raw-material cost gains and make up for an
estimated 150 million-euro drop in first-half earnings from the
effects of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan . The automaker said
it will propose to reinstate a dividend of 1.10 euros on 2010
earnings after scrapping the payout for two consecutive years.  Stock Rises  Peugeot rose as much as 4.9 percent to 28.49 euros, the
biggest intraday jump since Jan. 11, and was up 4.4 percent as
of 9:15 a.m. in Paris trading. That narrowed the stock’s decline
this year to 0.1 percent.  The manufacturer is benefiting from a decision not to scrap
or delay vehicle programs during the 2009 economic crisis, with
new models such as the Citroen DS3 minicar and Peugeot Hoggar
pickup helping the company defend pricing and bolster deliveries
in emerging markets.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin , the automaker
aims to generate more than half its sales outside Europe by 2015
compared with 39 percent last year. In the quarter, non-European
sales rose to 38 percent of the total from 33 percent a year
earlier as Peugeot increased its share of the Latin American
market to 6 percent from 5.3 percent.  Auto-division revenue rose 6 percent as a shift by
consumers toward pricier models such as the DS3 more than
compensated for a 2 percent decline in pricing, Peugeot said
today.  While Japanese supply disruptions have been contained for
now, “output in Japan has yet to return to normal and the group
is carefully tracking the situation,” the company said.  Some Peugeot plants temporarily slowed production by as
much as 60 percent last month because of a shortage of Japanese-
made Hitachi microprocessors used in its  diesel engines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  