-- 
TPG Recoups Iasis Investment With Junk-Backed Dividend: Corporate Finance

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-04-20T16:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tpg-recoups-iasis-investment-with-junk-backed-dividend-corporate-finance.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity
firm started by  David Bonderman , may recoup its $434 million
investment in Iasis Healthcare Corp. through a third dividend
backed by leveraged loans and junk bonds.  Iasis is planning to raise $1.235 billion of loans and $935
million in notes, the Franklin, Tennessee-based owner and
operator of community hospitals said April 18 in a statement. A
portion of the funds will be used for a payout, according to the
company, which is rated five steps below investment grade.  TPG, which led JLL Partners and Trimaran Capital Partners
in buying Iasis in 2004, is taking advantage of lender appetite
for high-risk, high-yield debt to pull money out of the company,
rather than attempt to cash out with an initial public offering.
The deal will boost the company’s debt burden while competitors
such as HCA Holdings Inc., the hospital chain owned by KKR & Co.
and Bain Capital LLC, cut borrowings and raised the most money
in U.S. equity markets in five years.  “The volatility entering the hospital space in terms of
valuations provides some incentive for sponsors to exit through
the high-yield market and with a dividend deal as opposed to
IPOing the company,” said Sam Goodyear, a senior analyst at
debt research firm CreditSights Inc. in  New York . “In terms of
the IPO, it’s unclear whether this company has low enough
leverage to be attractive to equity investors. It raises that
question; when HCA did its IPO, it was less levered.”  Private-equity owned companies are on track to raise the
most in share offerings since at least 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Preqin Ltd. Buyout firms raised more
than $19.5 billion from IPOs in the first quarter and sales
would rise to $78 billion at the current pace.  Dividend Payments  Iasis is doing the reverse as it seeks to raise debt to
refinance $475 million of 8.75 percent notes due 2014 and $395.4
million owed on paid-in-kind loans, as well as fund a dividend
and pay for its acquisition of St. Joseph Medical Center,
according to company statements and filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  As much as $230 million of the debt Iasis is seeking to
raise may be used to fund a payout to the company’s owners, said
Peter Thornton, an analyst at KDP Investment Advisors Inc. in
Montpelier,  Vermont .  The company, founded in 1998 to acquire community
hospitals, raised its $300 million PIK loan in 2007 to fund a
dividend and used $125 million of cash last year for a payout,
according to reports by Moody’s Investors Service and
CreditSights. TPG of  Fort Worth ,  Texas , and New York-based firms
JLL and Trimaran got back 73 percent of the $584 million they
contributed to Iasis’s $1.4 billion buyout in 2004, regulatory
filings show.  ‘Push the Envelope’  “They view it as a good time to do an all-encompassing
refinancing and pay out a dividend, which none of us really
like,” said  Sabur Moini , who manages the $1.1 billion Payden
High Income Fund in  Los Angeles , which held $2.79 million of
Iasis bonds as of Feb. 28, according to regulatory filings.
“They’ve delivered and trends are good for hospitals, so they
figure they can push the envelope a little bit.”  John Doyle , chief financial officer of Iasis, and company
spokeswoman Michele Peden didn’t return telephone messages left
at their offices seeking comment.  Owen Blicksilver , an outside
spokesman for TPG, declined to comment.  HCA’s March share sale five years after its $33 billion
buyout, the biggest at the time, reduced its net adjusted
leverage to 4.3 times from 4.7 times as of Dec. 31, according to
CreditSights. Leverage is the measure of debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The measure was
at about 6.5 times after the Nashville, Tennessee-based
company’s takeover.  Boosting Leverage  Iasis will add at least $450 million to its borrowings
after the transaction is completed, boosting its leverage to 6.5
times from 4.9 times as of Dec. 31,  Vicki Bryan , senior bond
analyst for  Gimme Credit  LLC in New York, said in an April 18
report.  The company will take advantage of junk bond borrowing
costs that declined to a record 7.29 percent on Feb. 22 and was
at 7.3 percent as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  The average cost of issuing loans graded B to B- declined
to as low as 5.6 percent in March, according to S&P Leveraged
Commentary and Data, the second-lowest since September 2008,
when the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  froze credit
markets. They were at 5.61 percent as of April 14 and reached a
post-crisis low of 5.28 percent in January 2010.  Hot-Market Bet  “Iasis Healthcare is betting that the hot high-yield
market will enable it to refinance all of its debt and
potentially fund a dividend for its equity owners at potentially
cheaper rates than it is paying now,” Gimme Credit’s Bryan
said. “Leverage is creeping higher and credit quality could
erode further next year, especially as the company ramps up
acquisition spending on low margin assets with its dwindling
cash flow instead of paying off debt. ”  Medicaid cuts contributing to a “persistent” pressure on
reimbursements and rising physician-recruitment costs are among
the causes of declining profit margins at the company, according
to S&P. The health reform law may trigger a drop in payments and
higher costs due to rising demand, analysts David Peknay and
David Lugg in New York said yesterday in a report.  Iasis’s $475 million of 8.75 percent notes due June 2014
fell 0.1 cent to 102.2 cents on the dollar as of 9:14 a.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The company is
offering to buy the securities for 102.1 cents from bondholders
who agree to sell by April 29, Iasis said April 18 in a
statement.  St. Joseph Acquisition  “We recommend bondholders tender to receive maximum
consideration as the company will likely succeed with the
offerings and could opt to wait for the lower call price in
June,” KDP’s Thornton said today in a report.  In addition to the tender offer, Iasis will use a portion
of the proceeds from its offering to pay for the purchase of St.
Joseph Medical Center. The company will buy a 78.2 percent
interest in the 792-bed facility in Houston in a transaction
valued at $165 million, Iasis said March 18 in a statement.  “We view this transaction as a good move for Iasis because
it allows the company to proactively refinance its current debt
load while the window for bank and high-yield  debt market  is
still ‘open and favorable,’” wrote Sheryl R. Skolnick, an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The senior-secured portion of Iasis’s financing includes a
$300 million “super priority” revolving  credit line  and a $935
million term loan, the company said. Bank of America Corp. is
leading the transaction and started lender talks yesterday,
according to a person briefed on the transaction, who declined
to be identified because the terms are private.  ‘Spike’ in Risk  Moody’s said yesterday that it assigned Iasis’ new loans a
rank of Ba3 and graded its proposed unsecured  junk bonds  Caa1,
four steps lower. S&P rated the company’s proposed revolving
credit line BB-, its term loan got a B grade and the notes got a
CCC+ rating. The company’s B credit grade is unchanged, Peknay
and Lugg said.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. Revolvers are
typically funded by banks and so-called institutional term loans
are primarily sold to non-bank lenders such as collateralized
loan obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds . A super priority
credit line would get repaid ahead of the term loan in a
liquidation or bankruptcy.  “I do consider the extra protection required by the banks
a meaningful indication that they have become more concerned
about the spike in credit risk,” Gimme Credit’s Bryan said. “I
also am concerned that the hot high-yield market could mean that
the notes will be priced at a coupon inordinately cheap versus
the increased risk and deteriorating credit profile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 