-- 
TPG's Bonderman Attempts to Muscle His Way Into Russia Where Others Failed

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-04-21T21:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/tpg-tries-to-muscle-its-way-into-russia-where-others-failed.html
A dozen men in black guard the  St.
Petersburg  offices of hypermarket operator Lenta LLC. They’re a
reminder of how much muscle it is taking TPG Capital, which owns
a stake in the company, to establish a beachhead in Russia.  The firm’s $100 million investment in Lenta in 2009, in
partnership with state-controlled VTB Group, sparked a brawl in
September. Jan Dunning, backed by TPG and surrounded by
bodyguards, barged past Sergei Yuschenko, who had been installed
as chief executive officer by rival investors, to reclaim his
job running the company. Windows were smashed and punches thrown
-- all of it broadcast on national television.  Russia’s government, seeking to diversify its economy away
from energy, is finding it difficult to lure international
private-equity firms, even as investors look to emerging
markets. TPG co-founder  David Bonderman  is betting that with the
right connections he’ll overcome a complex legal system,
widespread corruption and competition from local oligarchs for
assets. Doubters like the  Carlyle Group  aren’t buying.  “Russia is still perceived as the ‘wild, wild West,’ and
the issues TPG is facing there aren’t helping,” said Jeremie Le Febvre, a partner at Triago SA, which helps firms raise funds.
“Investors much prefer  Asia  and Latin America right now.”  Russian Fundraising  After raising $1.4 billion over the last three years,
Russian private-equity managers are seeking more than $4 billion
this year and next as deal making is picking up. China, by
contrast, attracted $28.6 billion from limited partners since
2008,  India  $15 billion and  Brazil  $5 billion as Western pension
funds are turning to fast-growing economies to meet increasing
obligations, according to the Washington-based  Emerging Markets
Private Equity Association . About 20 percent of limited partners
are planning to invest more or start investing in Russia in the
next two years, an EMPEA survey found in April.  “There will be intense fundraising activity in the next 12
months, and limited partners will take a fresh look at Russia,”
said Mounir Guen, head of MVision Private Equity Advisers, which
helps firms raise money. “There are some fantastic
opportunities in Russia, and the contrarians are starting to
show up.”  In March, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  announced a $10
billion private-equity fund, partly funded by the government and
aimed at investing alongside international firms. He also
created a working group to turn Moscow into a global financial
center. It includes  Stephen Schwarzman , CEO of Blackstone Group
LP, one of the world’s largest private-equity firms, along with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Lloyd Blankfein  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Jamie Dimon . Separately, state-owned OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest bank, said it planned a $1 billion private-
equity fund with Credit Suisse Group AG. The two firms will each
contribute about $100 million to the project.  ‘Political Risk’  Russia ranked as less attractive for private-equity deals
than Brazil, India and China -- the other members of the so-
called BRIC nations -- as well as  Africa  and the Middle East in
the EMPEA survey. Almost two-thirds of those questioned cited
“political risk” as the main reason for avoiding the country.  Corruption within the local authorities and a small and
volatile universe of fund managers that have survived crises are
other deterrents, said Steven Cowan, a partner at  57 Stars , a
Washington-based fund of funds investing in emerging markets for
pension plans including the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System .  Carlyle Pulls Out  “ Russia  is tough,” said Alexander Savin, a former
investment executive at billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s Alfa Group
who co-founded Moscow-based buyout firm Elbrus Capital last
year. “Those who have cracked it can generate superior returns,
but it has been difficult for international firms to do good
deals over the long term.”  Elbrus is to seek $750 million this year, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. Savin declined to comment.  Carlyle, the Washington-based buyout firm, attempted to set
up a team in Russia twice since the late 1990s, only to
withdraw. It shut its Moscow office in 2005, saying the returns
weren’t worth the risks, after hiring a team the year before and
failing to get enough investor support for a dedicated fund.  The firm has no plans for a third try.  “Russia has not proven to be a place where Western
private-equity investors can have the returns and realize the
profits commensurate with the risks they’ve had to take,”
Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  said in Berlin last month.
The country doesn’t lack capital, especially among oligarchs, he
said previously. The firm, which operates in  China , India and
the Middle East, said last month it hired a team to invest in
Sub-Saharan Africa.  Russian Returns  Anne Fossemalle, director at the  European Bank for
Reconstruction & Development , the London-based international
financial institution created after the Soviet Union collapsed,
disagrees. Returns from EBRD-backed  private-equity funds  in
Russia and the former Soviet Union have exceeded those in
emerging markets as a whole over five and 10 years, and have
averaged 14 percent annually after fees since the mid-1990s, she
said.  The EBRD helped start most of the country’s few success
stories, mainly firms targeting mid-size companies.  Baring Vostok Capital Partners is one of them. The firm,
started in 1994 by former Salomon Brothers oil banker Michael Calvey, has made about four times its money for investors on
average, Calvey said in his office on Ulitsa Gasheka, a dusty
street two metro stops from the Kremlin where Goldman Sachs and
the EBRD have also settled. Baring Vostok, whose backers include
Calpers and the Pennsylvania State Employees’ Retirement System,
may start raising a $1.4 billion fund this year, according to
three people briefed on the plans. Calvey, 44, declined to
comment.  ‘Breakout Winners’  Of Baring Vostok’s 55 investments in entertainment, oil
exploration, banking and confectionary, a quarter delivered more
than four times the initial investment, including six “breakout
winners” that returned more than 10 times, offsetting six
money-losing deals, he said.  A future winner may be Yandex, in which Baring Vostok
bought a minority stake in 2000. The Russian equivalent of
Google is planning an initial public offering on the Nasdaq
Stock Exchange this year. Baring Vostok’s $1.1 billion fund
raised in 2007 is recovering from the financial crisis, posting
a 20 percent gain as of December, said a person with knowledge
of the matter who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  In-House Expertise  While Russia is “much more civilized than 15 years ago,”
the barriers to entry are high and the learning curve long for
foreign firms, Calvey said. Epic fights against oligarchs in the
1990s provided some training, he recalled. Disputes are much
less frequent now, he said.  “It’s a do-it-yourself market,” Calvey said. “You can’t
rely on outside service providers.”  Besides 20 investment professionals, he employs four full-
time lawyers, three government-relations managers, and eight
accountants and human-resource managers dedicated to the
portfolio companies. All of Oklahoma-raised Calvey’s other 10
partners are Russians.  “It looks like a venture-capital firm,” he said.
“International firms aren’t equipped for Russia. And they
usually have a low tolerance threshold for uncertainty and no
sense of humor for Russian surprises.”  Such surprises may include a tax inspector showing up to
seize assets because of unpaid value-added tax, a regulator
announcing that a license for your business is under review
three years before it expires, or a competitor raiding one of
your companies, Calvey said.  TPG in Russia  “You just learn not to panic,” he said. “It’s routine.”  TPG, the only global buyout firm with a presence in Russia,
manages about $48 billion in assets and counts among its
investments Energy Future Holdings Corp., the Texas power
producer whose $43.2 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was the
largest in history. The firm is finding out just how difficult a
market Russia can be.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based firm, currently investing a
$19.8 billion fund, set up a Moscow office in 2007 and has three
investment professionals there, none of whom are partners.
Stephen Peel, the partner overseeing the firm’s Russian
operations, is based in  Hong Kong  and John Oliver, the operating
partner in charge of Lenta, is in  London . TPG’s Bonderman met
with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in 2009 and joined the board
of VTB after buying a $100 million stake in Russia’s second-
biggest lender in February.  Lawsuits and Violence  TPG dropped its bid to buy Moscow-based drug distributor SIA
International Ltd. in September 2008 and abandoned a plan to
raise a joint fund with VTB in the wake of the credit crisis,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. The Lenta
deal has spawned lawsuits on three continents and claims of
forgery, fraud and violence.  “There are pros and cons to every emerging market,” said
Peel, who left Moscow for Hong Kong in 2008. “None of them is
perfect and ultimately, we have to balance the risks with
rewards of the specifics of the deal, the institutional
investment framework of the country and the medium-term macro-
economic outlook. Lenta was acquired at an attractive price and
at the right time. The economy and the business have performed
exceptionally well since then and it is likely to be a very good
investment.”  TPG’s “Russian surprises” have mostly come from an
unexpected direction: a fellow American-born investor.  In September 2009, TPG and VTB agreed to buy a 31 percent
stake in Lenta and operate it jointly with Svoboda, the grocer’s
largest shareholder. It didn’t take long for the relationship to
sour.  CEO Removed  Svoboda is controlled by August Meyer, an American-born
lawyer-turned-businessman. Within three months of the deal,
Meyer said he intended to exercise his right under the
shareholders’ agreement to replace Dutch-born Dunning as CEO
with Yuschenko, a Russian and former top Lenta executive.  “I didn’t want a CEO in there not speaking Russian and
answering to only one shareholder,” Meyer said in an interview
in St. Petersburg.  Meyer, 48, came to St. Petersburg in 1999 after being a
prosecutor in  San Diego  for about 10 years. He fell in love with
the Baltic Sea city built in baroque style by Peter the Great
and decided to stay, he said, sitting in the Mozzarella Bar on
Kanal Griboedova, close to the city’s Winter Palace and
Hermitage Museum. He bought apartment buildings and started a
hotel business.  Ayn Rand Fans  Speaking little Russian, he met Dmitry Kostygin, a fellow
fan of St. Petersburg-born Russian-American author Ayn Rand, a
champion of laissez-faire capitalism. Kostygin, 38, put him in
touch with Lenta’s founder, Oleg Zherebtsov, and in 2002 Meyer
bought a stake of about 36 percent for less than $20 million,
using family money. Kostygin also invested in Lenta.  “I wanted something scalable,” Meyer said.  Lenta, started in 1993 as a cash-and-carry warehouse
serving small retailers and restaurants, had two stores when
Meyer got involved. It now owns 39 warehouse-sized hypermarkets
in 20 cities, selling everything from food and cigarettes to
toys and television sets. Sales grew 27 percent to 70.6 billion
rubles ($2.5 billion) last year.  Its flagship store is next to the company’s headquarters in
the city’s northern district of Staraya Derevnya, surrounded by
low-rent housing. The format, combining retail, wholesale and
discounter, appeals to Marina Valentina, a brown-haired chef in
her 50s who got a 20 percent discount on a bulk purchase of
pots, pans and plates.  “Lenta was the first supermarket in St. Petersburg to
offer discounts if you buy in bulk,” she said. “The loyalty
card is great value and it’s a well-run store.”  Partners at Odds  Zherebtsov and Meyer started to quarrel over strategy in
2008, Meyer said. Zherebtsov sacked Yuschenko, then the
company’s CEO, and Meyer opposed the move. The EBRD, which
bought an 11 percent stake in 2007, backed Meyer, resulting in
the sale of most of Zherebtsov’s stake to TPG and VTB. Meyer
bought another 5 percent for $15 million in January 2010, he
said. Dunning was hired just weeks before the TPG deal.  By last May, Meyer and Kostygin wanted Dunning out and
convened a board meeting to bring back Yuschenko. TPG walked out
of the meeting before the vote and sued to block the change.
EBRD has since sided with TPG and VTB.  A U.K. arbitration court in July confirmed Yuschenko’s
appointment as interim CEO and requested the two sides hold a
board meeting and look for a new CEO together to succeed him.
Meyer and Kostygin haven’t attended board meetings since, and a
search for a successor never started.  September Melee  Opposed to Yuschenko staying on permanently, TPG and VTB
convinced the tax authorities to recognize Dunning as the CEO,
saying the board meeting dismissing him wasn’t valid. He took
over again on Sept. 14 after the melee at Lenta’s headquarters.  A TPG spokesman said the firm had no direct role in the
September scuffle. Tim Demchenko, head of VTB Capital and a
Lenta board member, declined to comment.  Yuschenko is being investigated by police after Lenta’s
deputy CEO provided evidence of misappropriation of 4.2 million
rubles of company funds, according to three people with
knowledge of the case. Yuschenko, also a shareholder in Lenta,
confirmed the probe and denied wrongdoing in a phone interview.  “It’s been months now and I still haven’t seen the
documents against me,” he said. “I want this investigation to
go to term. My reputation is on the line. Lenta is a big part of
my life and wealth.”  Calls to the office of the head of the St. Petersburg
police department’s investigative committee, Alexander Romanov,
were disconnected every time Bloomberg News called. Five calls
to other numbers for the committee weren’t answered. The police
department’s head of press relations, Vyacheslav Stepchenko, and
other members of the press office didn’t pick up repeated calls.  Dunning ‘Irrelevant’  Dunning, whose CEO contract expired in October, declined to
comment. He continues to be employed by Lenta as a consultant.
Officially, the company has no CEO, according to TPG.  “Dunning is now irrelevant,” Meyer said. “We’re far
beyond that. The trust cannot be rebuilt.”  Meyer last month offered to buy TPG and VTB’s stake for
$806 million, or about eight times their investment in 2009. TPG
rejected the bid, proposing the two sides hold an auction with a
starting valuation of $2 billion for the company. Meyer’s latest
offer is to sell his 41 percent for $1.17 billion.  Baring Vostok’s Calvey said all the drama misses the lesson
of Russian private equity.  “The real story is that TPG is going to make a big
profit,” he said. “I bet it will be one of the best-performing
investments of TPG’s latest fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  