-- 
Philippine Peso Gains After Balance of Payments Surplus Widens

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-04-20T08:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/philippine-peso-gains-after-balance-of-payments-surplus-widens.html
The  Philippine peso  advanced the
most in a week after the nation’s balance of payments surplus
widened and the central bank said it expects sustained capital
inflows. Five-year  government bonds  rose.  The surplus was $2.02 billion in March, the most since
November, official data released yesterday showed. Policy makers
are ready to act to ensure fund inflows don’t lead to excessive
volatility in the currency market, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message. Overseas investors
bought $317 million more Philippine shares than they sold this
month through yesterday.  “Flows are still coming in, attracted by strong
fundamentals,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , a strategist at Banco de
Oro Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender. “The central
bank has been on top of the situation.”  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 43.285 per dollar as of the
4 p.m. close of trading in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. That was the biggest one-day gain since April 8.  The yield on the 9.125 percent bond due September 2016 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.13 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The  budget deficit  in March was likely below the 59.7
billion pesos ($1.4 billion) target, putting the first-quarter
shortfall well below the 112 billion peso ceiling, Budget
Undersecretary Laura Pascua said in an interview today. The
government will probably report the data next week, Budget
Secretary Butch Abad told reporters today.  Domestic financial markets are shut tomorrow and on April
22 on account of Easter.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net 
NI MANILA
NI PHIL
NI SEASIA
NI ASIAX
NI ASIA
NI EM
NI FRX
NI MMK
NI BON
NI GBN
NI CLM
NI INF
NI CEN
NI TRD
NI BUD 