-- 
Pinewood Says It Received Further Approach From Third Party

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-04-20T15:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/pinewood-says-it-received-further-approach-from-third-party-1-.html
Pinewood Shepperton Plc (PWS) , the studio
where  James Bond  and Harry Potter films were made, said it
received another approach that may lead to an offer.  The overture follows one announced on April 8 by its
biggest shareholder, Peel Holdings Ltd. The latest approach is
“from an unconnected third party,” Pinewood said today. Peel
Hunt analyst Malcolm Morgan cut his stance to “hold” from
“buy” after the stock rose, saying the other party has only a
“modest chance” of succeeding in a bid due to Peel’s holdings.  Pinewood didn’t mention a price for the second approach.
The company has applied for a permit to build homes for film and
television workers along with film sets designed to mimic
cities. Peel’s shareholdings, plus its real estate capabilities
as a U.K. developer, mean it’s in the “driving seat,” Morgan
wrote today.  “We anticipate Peel may choose to increase its bid price
to see off any potential threat from the secondary source, but
otherwise it remains the key bidder,” Morgan wrote. He said a
price of 212 pence is “logical.”  Pinewood rose 11 pence, or 5.8 percent, to 202 pence in
 London . The Iver Heath, England-based company has gained 37
percent so far this year, giving it a market value of 93.4
million pounds ($153 million).  Peel Holdings, which owns 29.8 percent of Pinewood shares,
is selling the Trafford Centre near Manchester,  England , to
 Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc. (CSCG)   Morgan said he thought a rival bidder might have to pay 250
pence or more per share to compensate Peel for lost
opportunities. A U.S. film studio would be unlikely to bid
because Pinewood would lose the support of the studio’s rivals,
if it was no longer independent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  