-- 
Pound Falls Versus Euro as Majority in Bank of England See Data ‘Downside’

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-20T16:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/pound-falls-versus-euro-as-majority-in-boe-see-data-downside-.html
The pound slumped against the euro
as minutes of April’s Bank of England meeting indicated most
policy makers thought the past month’s data indicated a weaker
economy, damping prospects for tighter monetary policy.  Short-sterling futures rose as investors pared bets on an
increase in  interest rates . Policy makers voted 6-3 to keep the
benchmark rate at a record low 0.5 percent, judging support for
the economic recovery should take precedence over tackling
inflation.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for an increase
to 1 percent, while  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  wanted a move
to 0.75 percent.  “Markets should be a little surprised to find no further
members voted for an increase in rates,” said  Neil Jones , head
of European hedge fund sales in London at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. “The pound is being sold as a reflex action by
disappointed bulls.”  The pound depreciated 0.7 percent to 88.63 pence per euro
at 4:30 p.m. in  London , and earlier lost 1 percent, its biggest
intraday drop since March 24. Against the dollar, sterling
gained 0.5 percent to $1.6376. It slipped 0.4 percent in a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  “News over the month about demand and activity had
probably been to the downside,” according to the Monetary
Policy Committee’s majority view, published in today’s minutes.  Sonia, Short-Sterling  Data released since the meeting has showed U.K. inflation
unexpectedly slowed in March for the first time in eight months
and Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club cut its economic growth
forecast for this year, citing a reluctance by employers to
raise wages.  Investors pushed back bets on when the  Bank of England  will
first raise rates. U.K. borrowing costs will rise by 25 basis
points in November, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Ltd. Before the publication of the minutes,
forwards showed bets on the first 25-basis-point increase coming
in October.  Short-sterling futures increased, pushing the implied yield
on the contract expiring in December down three basis points to
1.20 percent.  Barclays Capital , Citigroup Inc. and Nomura International
Plc pushed back their forecasts for the first interest-rate
increase by the BOE to August from May.  U.K. government debt declined, snapping four days of gains
and pushing the yield on the 10-year note two basis points
higher to 3.57 percent. Two-year yields were little changed at
1.15 percent.  The difference in yield between German two-year notes and
similar-maturity gilts increased to 68, the widest margin since
January 2009. The U.K. securities yielded more than their German
counterparts as recently as February.  Gilts have returned 1.1 percent this month, compared with a
0.8 percent return on U.S. Treasuries and 0.4 percent on German
bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 