-- 
Princeton Brings Back Ex-Guard Mitch Henderson as Men’s Basketball Coach

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-20T18:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/princeton-brings-back-ex-guard-mitch-henderson-as-men-s-basketball-coach.html
Mitch Henderson has been one of the
most visible symbols of  Princeton University ’s basketball
success for 15 years. Now he’s returning to the  Ivy League 
school to run the program.  Henderson, who graduated in 1998, succeeds former teammate
Sydney Johnson, who left Princeton two weeks ago to take the
coaching job at Fairfield University.  Henderson’s celebratory leap after Princeton’s upset of
defending-champion UCLA at the 1996 National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament remains one of the most iconic sports
 photographs  in the school’s history. A poster-size copy hangs
just inside the door of the student café.  “I want to continue that moment with this team and keep
building on it just like we did in ‘97 and ‘98,” said
Henderson, a four-year starter for the Tigers who played in the
NCAA tournament his final three seasons.  Henderson spent the past 11 years as an assistant at
 Northwestern University  under former Princeton coach Bill Carmody. Henderson, who has no previous head-coaching
experience, takes over a program that this year won a share of
its record 26th Ivy League title.  “I’m eager to get going with growing on what Sydney has
been able to do here the last four years,” said Henderson, who
ranks fourth in school history with 304 assists.  Princeton went 25-7 this year and tied  Harvard University 
for the conference title with 12-2 records before beating the
Crimson in a one-game playoff for the Ivy League’s berth in the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  In their first NCAA tournament game since 2004, the Tigers
lost by two points to the  University of Kentucky , which advanced
to the Final Four.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  