-- 
ProSiebenSat.1 Sells Dutch, Belgian TV, Print Units Valued at $1.8 Billion

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d ,   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-04-20T16:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/prosiebensat-1-sells-dutch-belgian-tv-print-units-valued-at-1-8-billion.html
Sanoma Oyj (SAA1V)  and a group of investors
including John De Mol agreed to buy  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) ’s
Dutch and Belgian broadcasting and print assets in a deal valued
at 1.23 billion euros ($1.8 billion).  Finland’s biggest media company and De Mol, who helped
create the “Big Brother” television show, will purchase the
Munich-based broadcaster’s Dutch assets including the SBS 6 and
Net5 TV channels, they said in statements today. In Belgium,
Sanoma is teaming up with media group Corelio and former sports
journalist Wouter Vandenhaute and TV producer Erik Watte.  The sale completes a strategic review of ProSiebenSat.1’s
northern European assets to reduce debt.  Germany ’s biggest
private broadcaster said today it has decided to keep its
businesses in Scandinavia. Suitors of those assets included
 Modern Times Group AB (MTGA)  and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) , a
person familiar with the matter has said.  “This is a step in the right direction,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital markets in Paris. “The
disappointing part is that they didn’t sell the Nordic business.
I would have thought that they would have closed this deal and
continued to negotiate on the Nordic assets.” Those assets may
still be sold later, he said.  This deal is a first stage in reducing ProSiebenSat.1’s
debts to a point where it is more in line with its peers and
where it might be attractive for private-equity owners Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP to reduce their
stake or sell outright.  ‘Nice Premium’  Sanoma rose 2.2 percent to 13.89 euros in Helsinki.
ProSiebenSat.1 fell 0.9 percent in  Frankfurt  to 18.54 euros.  The senior loans at ProSiebenSat.1’s holding company rose
100 basis points to a mid-price of 92.75 percent of face value,
according to prices from Mizuho Financial Group UFJ Ltd.  “There’s no way KKR and Permira want to go through a
downturn again,” O’Shea said. “I think they will exit within
the next 18 months and selling it off in chunks is probably a
better way to do it because you get a nice premium every time
and you are left with the German assets that won’t suffer a
discount because they’re not indebted anymore.”  At the end of 2010, ProSiebenSat.1’s net debt was 3.3 times
recurring Ebitda. The target is to get it down to between 1.5
times and 2.5 times, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling said
in a statement today.  Sanoma Strategy  The assets that are part of today’s agreement, including
the VT4 and VIJF channels in  Belgium  and the SBS 6, Net5 and
Veronica TV and magazine in the Netherlands, had sales of 404
million euros in 2010 and adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 115 million euros.  Sanoma is paring down to focus on consumer media and
education, Chief Financial Officer Kim Ignatius said in an
interview. It recently had 15 different businesses, he said. In
the past month, Sanoma announced its sale of a movie
distribution business as well as a Romanian kiosk chain.  “Magazine and TV platforms are converging, if you look at
the new tablet offerings, so that’s why we put the entertainment
assets together with the magazine and online business so that we
as a media company start thinking the same way the consumer
consumes media services,” Ignatius said. “Now we’re doing the
same in the Dutch and Belgian markets.”  Sanoma’s assets include  Finland ’s main newspaper,  Helsingin
Sanomat , as well as the Nelonen, Jim and Liv free-to-air TV
stations, cable, radio, books and magazines. The company merged
its TV and magazine operations into the Sanoma Media division at
the beginning of the year, saying it aimed to expand in both
areas in  Europe .  Ebitda Multiple  “From a strategic point of view this seems like a good
thing for Sanoma,” said Mikael Doepel, a Helsinki-based analyst
with Handelsbanken. “They are increasing their exposure to TV
operations, which are part of the new media and that’s a good
thing.”  The deal represents a premium of 10.6 times 2010 Ebitda,
according to ProSiebenSat.1. In the past three years,
transactions involving TV, radio and broadcasting services
assets in western Europe fetched a median multiple of about 13
times, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s a decent multiple and at a significant premium to
their own rating,” O’Shea said. He has a buy rating and a 25
euros price target on ProSiebenSat.1 shares. ProSiebenSat.1
trades at 5.9 times Ebitda.  International Business  Under the deal, Helsinki-based Sanoma is paying 566 million
euros to buy 67 percent of the Dutch activities and 33 percent
of the Belgian operations. The company plans to finance the deal
with debt, and predicted a positive effect on earnings per share
from 2012.  Talpa Media, is the Laren, Netherlands-based holding
company for De Mol’s media activities. The entrepreneur also
owns about 26 percent of RTL Group’s Dutch television channel
RTL Nederland. De Mol started Talpa TV in 2005, which failed to
attract enough viewers, and later sold part of the programs to
RTL Nederland.  “Our business model is to develop programs and roll them
out internationally,” de Mol said in an interview in Amsterdam.
“This transaction gives us the opportunity to accelerate
this.”  De Mol and Sanoma did not set any target for the amount of
Talpa content in the new SBS, but Sanoma “hopes it will be an
important part,” De Mol said.  SBS Broadcasting has been losing market share recently, and
De Mol and Sanoma aim to recover and expand that after the
transaction is done, De Mol and Dick Molman, CEO of Sanoma’s
Dutch operations, said at a press conference in Amsterdam today.  Millions in Investment  Molman said it will take “several million euros” of
investment to restore SBS’s market position.  ProSiebenSat.1 was advised by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , while
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP provided legal advice.
Sanoma’s lead financial adviser was ING Corporate Finance with
Nordea as co-adviser. The two and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  are the lead
arrangers and underwriters of Sanoma’s debt financing. Clifford
Chance LLP was legal adviser to Sanoma. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and law firm Allen & Overy LLP advised Talpa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  