-- 
Putin Says Russia Must Avoid Liberal Experiments as 2012 Election Looms

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-04-20T12:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/putin-says-russia-must-avoid-liberal-experiments-as-2012-election-looms.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
Russia must avoid liberal “experiments” to ensure sustainable
economic growth as it seeks to become one of the world’s top
five economies by 2020.  “The country needs decades of solid, steady growth without
going back and forth with ill-thought-out experiments based on
often unfounded liberalism and social demagoguery,” Putin, 58,
said in a speech to lawmakers today, less than a year before
presidential elections in which both he and President  Dmitry Medvedev  have said they may run.  Russia will fully emerge from the global financial crisis
by next year and must double productivity over the next 10 years
to achieve its goal of becoming one of the top five economies,
Putin said. He also pledged to double production of offensive
missiles by 2013, including Iskander-M nuclear-capable weapons.  Putin, a former KGB agent elected president in 2000 and
2004, stepped down in 2008 because of a ban on serving more than
two consecutive terms. His hand-picked successor Medvedev, a 45-
year-old lawyer who has sought to reduce the government’s role
in state companies and attract foreign investment, said April 12
he is nearing a decision on whether to seek re-election. A day
later, Putin said it was too early to decide who would run.  Russia ’s gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate
of 4.4 percent in the first quarter and may grow 4.2 percent
this year, Putin said during his address to the State Duma, the
lower house of parliament. The inflation rate won’t exceed 7.5
percent and the  budget deficit  may narrow to between 1 percent
and 1.5 percent of GDP this year, he said.  Oil Revenue  Russia’s economy expanded 4 percent in 2010 after suffering
the worst recession on record in the wake of the global credit
crunch in 2009. Russia posted an average growth rate of almost 7
percent from 1999 to 2008.  Russia will cut foreign borrowing because of revenue the
world’s biggest energy exporter receives from higher  oil prices ,
Putin said. Oil has risen 20 percent this year in  New York ,
reaching as high as $109.85 a barrel today, after unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Egypt and
 Tunisia  and spread to countries including Libya and  Syria .  Sovereign debt stands at “slightly above” 10 percent, a
level Putin called “acceptable and safe.” Russia is expected
to receive 1.1 trillion rubles ($400 billion) of additional
income this year from oil and gas and will put most of this into
its Reserve Fund, used to safeguard oil revenue, Putin said.  The lesson of the financial crisis is that a country’s
inability to deal with external shocks is a threat to national
sovereignty, Putin said.  ‘Gross Diktat’  “If you are weak, there will be someone who will come and
try to push you to follow a certain policy, pick the path to
follow for your country in the form of friendly advice that in
reality is a gross diktat and interference in the internal
affairs of a sovereign state,” he said.  Russia has said it may deploy the Iskander-M in
Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave sandwiched between NATO members
Lithuania and  Poland , to “neutralize” a planned U.S. missile
defense system.  Defense spending, which the government plans to increase by
two-thirds with an additional 21.5 trillion rubles ($760
billion) through 2020, should be dedicated almost entirely to
domestic weaponry to develop Soviet-era strengths in military
technology, Putin said.  “This is what we inherited from the  Soviet Union , we are
proud of it,” he said. “I believe, of course, that the
country’s defense budget shouldn’t be spent abroad.”  Russia, whose military has struggled with a lack of
financing and development since communism collapsed almost 20
years ago, is seeking to overhaul its armed forces after waging
a five-day war with  Georgia ’s U.S.-trained army in August 2008.  Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov said in September that
Russia may make its first purchases of U.S. military technology
since World War II as it seeks to bolster the armed forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 