-- 
QPR Plans $3.3 Million Bid for Tottenham's Naughton, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-20T08:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/qpr-plans-3-3-million-bid-for-tottenham-s-naughton-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  QPR Plans Naughton Bid  Queens Park Rangers  manager Neil Warnock is preparing a 2
million pound ($3.3 million) bid for Tottenham Hotspur defender
Kyle Naughton as he prepares his team for Premier League soccer
next season, the  Daily Mirror  reported. Naughton, 22, impressed
during a loan spell at Leicester.  Aquilani to Stay?  Alberto Aquilani , the Liverpool player currently on loan at
Juventus, may remain in Turin permanently, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  “We have a good rapport with Liverpool and we think we can
reach an understanding,” the paper quoted Juventus general
manager Guiseppe Marotta as saying to Italian sports paper
Gazetta dello Sport.  Aquilani, 26, joined Liverpool from Roma in 2009 but has
failed to impress at Anfield and was loaned to Juventus at the
start of this season.  Out of Redknapp’s Hands?  Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry Redknapp  said there is
nothing he can do to prevent a possible sale of Gareth Bale,
 Metro  reported.  Bale, who recently won the Professional Footballers’
Association Player of the Year accolade, has hinted he may leave
unless the north  London  club will be eligible to play in the
Champions League next season.  Although Redknapp told Metro he wants to keep the player
valued at 50 million pounds, he added the matter would be out of
his hands.  “I would have no say in that, it would be up to the
owners, it would be their decision at the end of the day,” the
paper quoted Redknapp as saying.  Clarke Talks  Liverpool ’s new owners, the Fenway Sports Group, have
started negotiations with first-team coach Steve Clarke about a
new deal, giving another indication the club may offer Kenny Dalglish the manager’s position on a long-term basis, the
 Guardian  reported.  Dalglish has already spoken to John W. Henry and  Tom Werner , Liverpool’s principal owner and chairman respectively,
over succeeding  Roy Hodgson  on a long-term basis. Both Dalglish
and Clarke may be offered three-year deals, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 