-- 
Qualcomm Shares Advance After Smartphone Boom Fuels Profit

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-21T20:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/qualcomm-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-on-demand-for-smartphone-chips.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, rose as booming smartphone demand fuels
better-than-predicted profit and sales.  Excluding some costs, second-quarter earnings rose to 86
cents a share, the San Diego-based company said yesterday. Sales
increased 46 percent to $3.88 billion in the period, which ended
March 27. Analysts had estimated profit of 80 cents and revenue
of $3.62 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shift to smartphones has spurred demand for Qualcomm’s
chips and the licensing of its patents, which cover a broad
swath of wireless technology. Lower handset prices and the
features offered by new network standards, such as long-term
evolution, are increasing the appeal of the devices. The company
boosted its annual forecast yesterday, citing smartphone growth.  “It’s a nice, solid beat and raise,” said Craig Berger, an
analyst with FBR Capital Markets in  New York , who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock. “Qualcomm does have a tendency
to crush their EPS numbers, so estimates are likely to go up.”  Qualcomm gained $1.67, or 3 percent, to $56.94 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
increased 15 percent this year.  Third Quarter  Profit this quarter will be 68 cents to 72 cents a share,
excluding some items, with sales of $3.35 billion to $3.65
billion, Qualcomm said. Analysts had projected earnings of 69
cents and revenue of $3.4 billion on average.  For the year, sales will reach as much as $14.7 billion, up
from a previous forecast of up to $14.2 billion, Qualcomm said.
Earnings will grow to as much as $3.13 a share, compared with an
upper end of $3.05 in the prior outlook.  In February, Apple Inc. began offering a version of its
iPhone through  Verizon Wireless , whose network relies on
Qualcomm’s code division multiple access technology, or CDMA.
Apple said yesterday that it sold 18.7 million iPhones last
quarter, more than double the number in the year-earlier period.  A broader switch to 3G networks and even newer LTE
technology is spurring Qualcomm sales, said Executive Vice
President Steve Mollenkopf. The company also is optimistic that
Nokia Oyj’s agreement to use  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  operating system
will generate more orders from the Finnish mobile-phone maker.
Qualcomm is a longtime partner of Microsoft.  Getting Orders  “We’ve been very successful on increasing our customer
traction with the exception of Nokia,” Mollenkopf said in an
interview. “With the Microsoft deal, it’s really made it easier
for us to get assignments.”  Second-quarter net income attributable to Qualcomm rose to
$999 million, or 59 cents a share, from $774 million, or 46
cents, a year earlier.  While Qualcomm gets the majority of its revenue from chip
sales, it receives the bulk of its profit from licensing. The
company is trying to expand the reach of its chips with a
product called Snapdragon.  That chip is now running smartphones that use Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Qualcomm is also trying to sell it to
makers of tablet computers.  Though some customers have been affected by last month’s
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , “preliminary indications are
that demand has held up fairly well,” Chief Executive Officer
Paul Jacobs said during a conference call.  The falling cost of smartphones is letting more consumers
upgrade from traditional handsets, generating a wave of growth
for the company, said Jacobs, 48.  “The investments that we have made in the past I think are
paying off well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  