-- 
Rajaratnam Sought to ‘Conquer’ Wall Street, U.S. Says as Defense Responds

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/raj-rajaratnam-corrupted-friends-u-s-says-as-defense-team-responds.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder accused at trial of insider trading, sought to
“conquer”  Wall Street  by corrupting friends and employees of
his hedge fund, a prosecutor told jurors.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , in closing arguments
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court, said Rajaratnam was guilty
of more than just insider trading: He was a corrupter of others.  Rajaratnam “corrupted his friends and employees” to “get
secret information,” Brodsky said. The goal was to make money,
win business and “conquer the stock market at the expense of
the law,” the prosecutor said.  The prosecutor’s 4 1/2-hour summation, followed by the
first hour of the defense argument, came in the seventh week of
a trial that might send Rajaratnam to prison for 20 years.
Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips
leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a
dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies Inc.  “Getting information that others didn’t have was very
valuable,” Brodsky said. “In a world of uncertainty, he had
certainty because he had insiders who knew tomorrow’s news
today.”  Among fiercely competitive hedge funds, Rajaratnam
“thought making a winning trade, beating out the rest of Wall
Street, was a conquest,” the prosecutor said. “It was about
being on top.”  ‘Devastating Evidence’  As he has throughout the trial, Rajaratnam sat quietly in a
second row of defense lawyers, his hands folded, while Brodsky
told jurors that government wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s
conversations were “devastating evidence of the defendant
committing crimes in real time.” The audience in the courtroom
included  Preet Bharara , the U.S. attorney in Manhattan.  John Dowd , an attorney for the Sri Lankan-born money
manager, spent the first hour of his summation urging an
acquittal, accusing the government of “smearing” his client.
He repeatedly said the U.S. case was “a fiction.”  “The government is trying to make Galleon into something
it wasn’t,” Dowd said. “Rajaratnam worked hard for Galleon
investors.”  Jurors saw that Rajaratnam was hard-working, that Galleon’s
research operation was extensive and that Rajaratnam demanded
transparency at meetings where analysts defended investment
ideas, Dowd said. The lawyer assailed government witnesses for
their “unreliable” testimony and said prosecutors gave several
who pleaded guilty a “free pass” in return for their
testimony.  ‘You Must Acquit’  “If it’s public, you must acquit,” he said, as he began
reviewing press accounts and analysts’ reports that the defense
said formed the basis for Rajaratnam’s trades. “Raj traded on
the basis of public information.”  Dowd also told jurors that the alleged tips weren’t
material or didn’t come from sources who breached a duty to a
company, and that they didn’t constitute illegal information.  “The government hasn’t proven its case,” he said.  For most of the day, Brodsky took jurors through evidence
that Rajaratnam engaged in five  insider-trading  conspiracies,
citing leaks he allegedly got from former McKinsey & Co. partner
 Anil Kumar , ex-Intel executive Rajiv Goel, former Galleon
portfolio manager  Adam Smith , New Castle Funds LLC analyst
Danielle Chiesi and former trader  Roomy Khan .  Kumar, Goel and Smith pleaded guilty and testified for the
government. Chiesi and Khan pleaded guilty and didn’t testify.  Rajaratnam “corrupted Kumar,” Brodsky charged, reminding
jurors that Kumar had proposed that Galleon hire McKinsey for
consulting work. Instead, Brodsky said, Rajaratnam lured Kumar
into an illegal scheme by paying him $500,000 through a secret
overseas account.  ‘Tell-Tale Sign’  Wiring money offshore was a “tell-tale sign,” he said.  The prosecutor reviewed Kumar’s alleged tips to Rajaratnam
about a transaction involving  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  -- a
McKinsey client -- and ATI Technologies Inc., and showed how
Rajaratnam’s trades corresponded with leaks. Returning to
wiretapped conversations between Kumar and Rajaratnam on other
transactions, Brodsky said Rajaratnam’s own voice was the “most
powerful evidence of the defendant’s guilt.”  “Let’s go to the tapes,” Brodsky said more than once as
he repeatedly turned to the wiretaps for support. He displayed
excerpts of conversations on a screen and played tapes of
Rajaratnam and others speaking.  Brodsky said Rajaratnam also lured Goel, his friend from
graduate school, into providing tips about Intel after loaning
Goel $100,000 and giving him $500,000.  ‘Enough Incentive’  “That money and their friendship gave Mr. Goel more than
enough incentive” for him to become Rajaratnam’s “corporate
spy,” Brodsky said.  Brodsky recounted how Goel had said he leaked information
to Rajaratnam about Intel’s investment in a new wireless network
company formed by Clearwire and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Brodsky moved on to alleged tips that Rajaratnam got in
2008 from  Rajat Gupta , then a Goldman Sachs board member and a
business partner of Rajaratnam’s. One tip came on Sept. 24,
2008, that  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. would invest
$5 billion in the bank. Another was about the bank’s unexpected
losses.  “Rajat Gupta was at the pinnacle of power, sitting on one
of the most prestigious boards in the world,” Brodsky said,
recounting how Gupta was heard on one wiretap passing tips about
possible Goldman investments to Rajaratnam.  ‘Breached His Duties’  “How do you know Gupta breached his duties? Because you
heard Gupta do it,” Brodsky said.  Brodsky said the wiretaps and other evidence debunked the
defense argument that Rajaratnam traded on analysts’ reports and
news such as a report about Goldman Sachs from
Theflyonthewall.com Inc. that was cited by defense lawyers.  “You don’t trade based upon a rumor, you don’t trade based
upon a Flyonthewall report,” Brodsky said. “You trade based
upon the real fly on the wall: Mr. Gupta, the person who is in
the Goldman board room.”  Gupta, who was accused by U.S. regulators in an
administrative action of leaking tips to Rajaratnam, hasn’t been
criminally charged.  The prosecutor went through some of the government’s
evidence, telling jurors, “I can’t get to everything.” He said
an e-mail that Smith, the ex-Galleon trader, sent to Rajaratnam
titled “the two eyes” was “a smoking gun” reference to an
illegal tip about a pending merger between Integrated Circuit
Systems Inc. and  Integrated Device Technology Inc. (IDTI)  -- both of
which begin with the letter “I.”  Assailing Arguments  Brodsky assailed defense arguments as “flawed” and
“absurd.”  “It’s going to get complicated,” he said as he showed a
timeline of what he said were defense arguments explaining why
Rajaratnam bought shares in Intel before the company released
positive earnings.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam, vacationing in the Caribbean,
got tipped to the news by Goel, while the defense said the stock
purchases were based on research including a report by an
analyst in  China .  “Does it make any sense that the defendant is sitting in
the Caribbean trading on some Beijing research?” Brodsky asked.
“Or does it make sense that he is trading on the tip?”  Dowd used the start of his argument to respond. He cited
“lies” that Kumar allegedly told to Galleon about his foreign
account as proof that Rajaratnam wasn’t scheming with Kumar.  “This was a false document Kumar created,” Dowd said,
citing a tax form. “He created it to deceive Galleon.”  Dowd said his client had a “duty” to investors to ask
questions and trade on the information he got. After telling
jurors they had been “badly misled” by the government, Dowd
said he will continue his closing argument today.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  