-- 
Rajaratnam ‘Corrupted’ Friends, Employees, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-20T19:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/rajaratnam-corrupted-friends-employees-prosecutor-tells-insider-jury.html
Raj Rajaratnam corrupted friends
and employees of his hedge fund to “conquer”  Wall Street , a
prosecutor told jurors in his summation at the insider-trading
trial of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky told jurors in
 Manhattan  federal court today that Rajaratnam was guilty of more
than just insider trading: He was a corrupter of others.  Brodsky said Rajaratnam “corrupted his friends and
employees” to “get secret information.” The goal was to get
money and “conquer the stock market at the expense of the
law,” the prosecutor said.  The prosecutor’s summation, which lasted more than 4 1/2
hours, came in the seventh week of a trial that might send
Rajaratnam to prison for 20 years. Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of
gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies
Inc.  “Getting information that others didn’t have was very
valuable,” the prosecutor said. “It meant the defendant knew
tomorrow’s news today, and it meant big money for the
defendant’s fund and for himself.”  As he has throughout the trial, Rajaratnam sat quietly in a
second row of defense lawyers, his hands folded, while Brodsky
told jurors that government wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s
conversations were “devastating evidence of the defendant
committing crimes in real time.”  Denies Wrongdoing  Rajaratnam, a Sri Lankan-born money manager, denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research. The defense
will address jurors later today after Brodsky concludes his
remarks.  Brodsky took jurors through evidence that Rajaratnam
engaged in five  insider-trading  conspiracies, citing leaks he
allegedly got from former McKinsey & Co. partner  Anil Kumar , ex-
Intel executive Rajiv Goel, former Galleon portfolio manager
 Adam Smith , New Castle Funds LLC analyst Danielle Chiesi and
former trader  Roomy Khan .  Kumar, Goel and Smith have pleaded guilty in the case and
testified for the government.  Brodsky reminded jurors that Kumar had proposed that
Galleon hire McKinsey for consulting work. Instead, Brodsky
said, Rajaratnam lured Kumar into an illegal scheme by paying
him $500,000 through a secret offshore account.  ‘Common Sense’  “Your common sense tells you he corrupted Kumar,” the
prosecutor said.  The prosecutor reviewed Kumar’s alleged tips to Rajaratnam
about a transaction involving  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  -- a
McKinsey client -- and ATI Technologies Inc., and showed how
Rajaratnam’s trades corresponded with leaks. Returning to
wiretapped conversations between Kumar and Rajaratnam on other
transactions, Brodsky said Rajaratnam’s own voice was the “most
powerful evidence of the defendant’s guilt.”  “Let’s go to the tapes,” Brodsky said more than once as
he repeatedly turned to the wiretaps for support. He displayed
excerpts of conversations on a screen and played tapes of
Rajaratnam and others speaking.  Brodsky told jurors that Rajaratnam lured Goel, his friend
from graduate school, into providing tips about Intel after
loaning Goel $100,000 and giving him $500,000.  ‘Enough Incentive’  “That money and their friendship gave Mr. Goel more than
enough incentive” for Goel to become Rajaratnam’s “corporate
spy,” Brodsky said.  Brodsky recounted how Goel had testified that he leaked
information to Rajaratnam about Intel’s investment in a new
wireless network company formed by Clearwire and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)   “Yesterday our board approved this deal,” Goel said on a
March 2008 wiretap that Brodsky played for jurors. On another
recording from days later, Rajaratnam and his brother can be
heard complaining that a newspaper had reported on the deal.  Brodsky moved on to alleged tips that Rajaratnam got in
2008 from  Rajat Gupta , then a Goldman Sachs board member and a
business partner of Rajaratnam’s. One tip came on Sept. 24,
2008, that  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. would invest
$5 billion in the bank, while another was about the bank’s
unexpected losses.  ‘Pinnacle of Power’  Brodsky told jurors that Rajaratnam and Gupta had engaged
in an insider-trading conspiracy in which Gupta passed inside
information to the hedge fund manager about Goldman Sachs.  “Rajat Gupta was at the pinnacle of power, sitting on one
of the most prestigious boards in the world,” Brodsky said.  The prosecutor told jurors Gupta breached his duties not to
disclose Goldman Sachs information and could be heard on tape
passing on information he gleaned about Goldman to Rajaratnam.  “How do you know Gupta breached his duties?” Brodsky said.
“Because you heard Gupta do it.”  He cited a July 29, 2008, call in which Rajaratnam asked
Gupta about Goldman Sachs considering acquiring a commercial
bank, to which Gupta answered “Yeah there was this big
discussion at the board meeting.”  Brodsky said these comments debunked the defense argument
that Rajaratnam traded on analysts’ reports and published
financial news service reports, such as a report about Goldman
Sachs by Theflyonthewall.com Inc. that was cited by defense
lawyers.  ‘Real Fly’  “This is Mr. Rajaratnam asking for confirmation of a
rumor, why?” Brodsky said. “Because you don’t trade based upon
a rumor, you don’t trade based upon a Flyonthewall report, You
trade based upon the real fly on the wall, Mr. Gupta, the person
who is in the Goldman board room, who knows what Goldman is
really going to do.”  Phone records reviewed by Brodsky show Gupta calling
Rajaratnam 16 seconds after he learned of the Berkshire
investment. In a tape Brodsky played for jurors, Rajaratnam is
heard saying that he learned news of the investment bank’s
earnings “from somebody on the board of Goldman Sachs.”  ‘Brodsky presented to jurors Galleon trading records
showing Rajaratnam bought 350,000 shares of Goldman worth
$43 million which the government was said based on Gupta’s tip.
The prosecutor showed the jury an excerpt from a wiretap in
which Rajaratnam said, “I got a call” adding “something good
may happen to Goldman.”  Gupta, who was sued by U.S. regulators in an administrative
action, has not been criminally charged.  ‘Two Eyes’  The prosecutor went through some, though not all of the
government’s evidence, telling jurors, “I can’t get to
everything.” He said an e-mail that Smith, the ex-Galleon
trader, sent to Rajaratnam titled “the two eyes” was “a
smoking gun” reference to an illegal tip about a pending merger
between Integrated Circuit Systems Inc. and  Integrated Device
Technology Inc. (IDTI)  -- both of which begin with the letter “I.”  Brodsky also assailed defense arguments as “flawed” and
“absurd.”  “It’s going to get complicated,” he said as he showed a
timeline of what he said were defense arguments explaining why
Rajaratnam bought shares in Intel before the company released
positive earnings.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam, vacationing in the Caribbean,
got tipped to the news by Goel, while the defense said the stock
purchases were based on research including a report by an
analyst in  China .  “Does it make any sense that the defendant is sitting in
the Caribbean trading on some Beijing research?” Brodsky asked.
“Or does it make sense that he is trading on the tip?”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  