-- 
Rand Gains Second Day to Dollar as Inflation Report Fuels Rate Speculation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-20T15:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/rand-gains-for-second-day-on-signs-global-economy-recovering.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar for a second day after a report showed inflation
quickened more than analysts estimated in March, adding pressure
on the central bank to raise its key interest rate.  The rand rose as much as 0.9 percent to 6.7640 and traded
0.6 percent stronger at 6.7871 as of 4:45 p.m. in Johannesburg,
the strongest level on a closing basis since April 12.  South Africa ’s consumer price index rose to an annual 4.1
percent in March, from 3.7 percent in February, the Pretoria-
based statistics office said on its website today. The median
estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the rate
to advance to 4 percent.  “The upside to our interest rate forecast has increased,”
 Carmen Altenkirch , an economist at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Group Ltd., South Africa’s fourth-biggest bank, said in a
research note after the inflation report. “The  Reserve Bank  may
opt to act pre-emptively, hiking rates in the second half of the
year.”  Higher interest rates would boost the allure of the rand
for the carry trade, in which investors borrow in currencies of
countries with low interest rates to buy high-yielding assets.
South Africa’s benchmark rate of 5.5 percent, the lowest in 30
years, compares with 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in
 Japan .  Home Sales, Stocks  “If South Africa’s CPI data disappoints, it could fuel
rate-hike expectations, which would also assist rand strength,”
 Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in a research note.  The rand pared gains after retail sales unexpectedly slowed
in February as rising prices curtailed  consumer spending . Sales
growth dropped to 5.6 percent from a revised 6.3 percent in
January, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website. The median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 7.1 percent.  Earlier, the rand advanced after a German report showed
producer prices gained and U.S. data showed home sales increased
in March, adding to signs the recovery is gathering momentum.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index rose for a second day,
led by miners including  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) , as gold surged to a
record, copper increased for a second day and platinum gained
for the first day in three. Gold and platinum account for a
fifth of South Africa’s exports.  “The risk trade is back on,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in a research note. “Equities are doing
nicely but it’s the typically high-risk currencies that are
surging.”  German PPI  German producer prices advanced 0.4 percent in March from
February, when they increased 0.7 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said today. Purchases of existing U.S. homes
rose 3.7 percent last month, exceeding the 2.5 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The German producer-price data “would further strengthen
the possibility of yet more monetary tightening by the ECB,”
supporting the euro, Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note.
The rand declined 0.9 percent to 9.8515 per euro.  Government bonds  rose for a second day. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 climbed 7 cents to 121.32 rand, driving the yield
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.67
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  