-- 
Republican Chairman Says Obama's Policies Risk U.S. Fiscal `Sovereignty'

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-20T21:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/republican-party-chairman-says-obama-risks-fiscal-sovereignty.html
The new chairman of the  Republican
National Committee  said President  Barack Obama  has put U.S.
fiscal “sovereignty” at risk by failing to control spending.  “I respect the president, but the fundamental fact is I
don’t think he has been an effective leader,” Reince Priebus
told a civic group in Obama’s home base of  Chicago  today. “This
president has simply not delivered.”  Priebus, 39, who in January defeated previous party
Chairman  Michael Steele  and others to win the post, said Obama
hasn’t taken enough of an active role in budget and deficit
negotiations in  Washington .  “A government that loses its sovereignty to its
bondholders cannot guarantee prosperity or freedom,” he told
the  City Club of Chicago . “An economy that is completely
controlled by  China  cannot possibly compete with China.”  Priebus mocked one of Obama’s re-election themes as he
noted the U.S. unemployment rate was 8.8 percent in March.  “We’re not winning the future, as the president likes to
say; I believe that we are losing the future,” he said. “The
president can talk about hope all he wants, but here’s the
problem: hope isn’t hiring in America.”  Hari Sevugan, a Democratic National Committee spokesman,
defended Obama’s economic record.  “With 13 straight months of private-sector job growth, the
president has led the country from the brink of economic
collapse following eight years of Republican economic
policies,” Sevugan said in a statement.  Wide-Open Field  Priebus said he isn’t concerned that the Republican field
of potential presidential candidates for 2012 remains wide open.  “We are going to have a lot of Republican candidates
running because they feel the same way I do, that this president
is taking us in the wrong direction,” he said.  The desire for fiscal discipline is helping fuel interest
in a potential Republican presidential bid by real estate
developer  Donald Trump , Priebus said.  “Donald Trump is speaking to those issues,” he said.  Priebus, who is from  Wisconsin , defended the actions of the
state’s governor,  Scott Walker , to weaken state workers’
collective bargaining rights.  “The debate in Wisconsin is a debate that the American
people are ready to have,” he said. “These are reasonable
things to do in order to balance a budget.”  Local Activist  Priebus began as a local Republican activist in Wisconsin
and became state chairman in 2007. He won the national
chairmanship in part by touting his record in Wisconsin, where
Republicans made significant gains in November’s election.  The party won the governorship, a U.S. Senate seat that was
held by Democrat  Russ Feingold , two House seats in the state’s
eight-member delegation, and gained control of both chambers of
the state legislature.  Priebus took over a party that had a $23 million debt. The
RNC raised $18.2 million while spending $15.7 million during the
first three months of 2011, reducing the debt to $19.8 million
at the end of March,  Federal Election Commission  reports show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 