-- 
Now Rover Can Text You With Web-Based Spy-Cam: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/rover-can-text-you-with-web-based-spy-cam-commentary-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When it comes to reviewing video
products, my subject of choice tends to be the family poodle,
who usually cooperates, never complains and works cheap.  Lately, Callie’s had a starring role on the Internet,
thanks to the  Dropcam , an easy-to-set-up, easy-to-use Web-based
camera and monitoring system. It does more than just provide you
with a remote eye. It will also keep track of what’s going on
when you aren’t watching, alert you to events worth paying
attention to, and, for an extra fee, let you go back in time to
retrieve events you didn’t pay attention to but should have.  In the new world of connected devices, the connection can
be more important than the device. Much of the Dropcam’s value
comes from the service behind it; the cost of the camera is just
the price of admission.  The Dropcam isn’t intended for secrecy. It’s about the size
of a deck of cards, and a ring around the lens glows green to
remind you that it’s watching. It comes with a stand as well as
mounting hardware if you need it, and weighs about three ounces.
There are two models: a $199 video-only version, and a $279
edition called the Dropcam Echo that adds audio.  Although the camera operates wirelessly, you’ll need a
wired Internet connection to set it up. Once you plug it in and
hook it up to your router using the included Ethernet cable,
you’ll go to the Dropcam website. There, you enter an activation
code, create an account and configure your camera to work with
your Wi-Fi network.  Batteries Not Included  At this point, you can disconnect the Dropcam from the
router and place it anywhere on your network. The main
requirement is power; there’s no battery-operation option.  The hardware is made for Dropcam by  Axis Communications AB (AXIS) ,
a Sweden-based manufacturer of commercial surveillance cameras,
and its color picture is by far the best I’ve seen from a
consumer product. Images are sharp, even in fairly low light,
and the camera captures motion at 30 frames per second with
little or no herky-jerkiness.  While the microphone on the sound model is extremely
sensitive, the actual quality of the audio depends on the
distance between camera and source. The further away from the
camera, the more you’re likely to pick up an echo-like
distortion -- but it’s more than sufficient to accurately pick
up a baby’s cry or a dog’s bark.  Apple and Android  You can access the Dropcam feed with either a Web browser
or free apps available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and for phones
using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  The basic, free service allows you to tap into a live video
stream. You can configure the service to notify you, via e-mail
or iPhone text alert, every time the camera picks up a movement
or, in the case of the Dropcam Echo, sound.  The paid service adds a bunch of DVR-like functions. For
$8.95 a month, Dropcam gives you access to the previous seven
days’ video, allowing you to play the specific footage around
any sound or motion event; for $24.95, you get a month’s worth
of storage. If you want to save something, the service will make
a clip and e-mail it to you.  For the most part, I kept the Dropcam aimed at the wire
crate in the kitchen where the dog hangs out when we aren’t at
home. I also configured the iPhone app to alert me whenever it
picked up her barking. I could then scroll back into the
archived footage to check whether anything other than boredom --
say, a workman coming to the door -- had set her off.  When we went out of town for a couple days and dispatched
her to the dog-sitter, I moved the camera to the top of the
stairs to act as a sentry.  High Cost  The Dropcam has a few drawbacks, the biggest of which is
its price: A single Dropcam Echo plus a year of the high-
capacity storage plan will set you back almost $600. Add a
second camera and the cost doubles; there’s no price break on
the service.  In addition, the camera isn’t made for outdoor use, there’s
no ability to pan or zoom, and the need for an electrical outlet
limits where and how you can use it. And setting up the service
can be cumbersome; for example, you have to enable iPhone alerts
separately both on the phone and on the Dropcam website. (The
company says it’s working to eliminate the two-step process.)  Still, the ease of use, video quality and online service
make the Dropcam a pleasure to use. If you don’t believe me, ask
Callie.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 