-- 
Royal Wedding Cake, ‘Lost’ Star Fumes, Ska Show: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/royal-wedding-cakes-lost-star-fumes-ska-revival-london-easter-weekend.html
Ska music returns to  London  for the
Easter weekend, with a four-day festival celebrating the reggae-
flavored mix of jazz, calypso and rhythm and blues.  Some of the genre’s biggest stars will be taking part in
the marathon Clapham Grand shows, including the  English Beat 
(“Mirror in the Bathroom,” “Can’t Get Used to Losing You”),
Dave and Ansel Collins (“Double Barrel”) and Lynval Golding of
the Specials (“Too Much Too Young,” “Ghost Town.”).  London International Ska Festival runs through April 24 at
St. John’s Hill, SW11 1TT. Information: +44-207-223-6523, or
 http://www.londoninternationalskafestival.co.uk/  and
 http://www.claphamgrand.com   Entree is a neighborhood restaurant and cocktail bar near
the Clapham Grand that is owned by Jayke Mangion, a young
Australian. It’s an informal venue for modern European food.
Information:  http://www.entreebattersea.co.uk/  or +44-20-7223-
5147.  Saturday  Exhibition organizers are jumping on the Royal Wedding
bandwagon.  To mark the April 29 nuptials of  Prince William  (grandson
of  Queen Elizabeth II ) and  Kate Middleton ,  English Heritage  is
staging a show of royal wedding cakes inside Wellington Arch,
steps away from  Buckingham Palace .  Highlights: a re-bake of the 9-foot-high (2.74-meter) cake
at Princess Louise’s 1871 wedding, a sugar model of Buckingham
Palace, and a replica of Queen Victoria’s wedding gateau. The
event is sponsored by sugar company  Tate & Lyle Plc. (TATE)   “Let Them Eat Cake” is at Wellington Arch, Hyde Park Corner, and runs April 22-25. Information:  http://www.english -
heritage.org.uk.  Saturday Night  Matthew Fox was last seen in the series “Lost,”
cohabiting with other plane-crash survivors on a faraway island.  He’s now in the cast of playwright Neil LaBute’s  “In a
Forest Dark and Deep.”  Fox plays blue-collar tough guy Bobby,
whose sister -- a successful academic -- needs help packing
books. The books are in her country cabin, and seem to belong to
the tenant, who’s gone strangely missing.  As lightning strikes, the siblings take the opportunity to
squabble, uncovering some awful truths in the process.  “In a Forest Dark and Deep” is at the Vaudeville Theatre.
Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-482-9675.  The Waldorf Hilton, near the Vaudeville, has refurbished
its bar to create Good Godfrey’s, serving cocktails in a dark
paneled room with large antique mirrors. Options include Hot Gin
Punch for two, which comes in a teapot. Afternoon tea is also
served, along with snacks and sharing dishes. Information:
 http://bit.ly/f2cfpD  or +44-20-7836-2400.  Sunday  Spy on a lady in her boudoir in a sumptuous London
townhouse.  “La Toilette” (“A Lady at her Toilet”) is a sexy work
by the 18th-century French painter Antoine Watteau: A nude woman
looks right at you as she strains to pull on her nightgown. She
and other oils have been rehung to accompany a free exhibition
on Watteau’s friend and patron Jean de Jullienne.  The artist’s drawings are among his best work. More than 80
now hang in the  Royal Academy  of Arts -- chalk sketches of a
glance, a twisting head, or a dark mantle.  “ Esprit et Verite: Watteau and His Circle ” at the Wallace
Collection and “ Watteau: The Drawings ” at the Royal Academy
both end June 5. Information:  http://www.wallacecollection.org 
and  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 