-- 
HRT Holders to Sell Up to 2.4 Billion-Real Stake in Auction

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-04-20T14:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/hrt-shareholders-said-to-sell-up-to-1-5-billion-stake-after-lock-up-ends.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA (HRTP3) 
investors plan to sell as much as 2.4 billion reais ($1.5
billion) of shares after a so-called lock-up period ends
tonight, according to a company official familiar with the
transaction.  The shareholders plan to hold an auction on  Brazil ’s
Bovespa exchange, according to the person, who can’t be named
because he’s not authorized to speak publicly. Investors with
the right to sell shares following the end of the lock-up period
include Highfields Capital and MSD Energy Investments, a
division of MSD Capital LP, the private equity firm set up by
 Michael Dell .  HRT, the Brazilian oil-exploration company that raised $1.5
billion in an initial share sale last year, said in a regulatory
filing today that investors have the right to jointly sell up to
32.3 percent of the company’s capital between tomorrow and May
20. HRT sold stock in the IPO in October, making it the third-
largest Brazilian  oil company  by market value, to finance the
development of fields in Brazil and offshore  Namibia .  HRT rose 20.01 reais, or 1.3 percent to 1,600.01 reais at
11:43 a.m. in Sao Paulo trading. The stock has gained 37 percent
since it started trading Oct. 25, compared with a 3.7 percent
drop for the benchmark Bovespa index.  Credit Suisse Group AG was hired as a financial adviser for
the offering of the block of shares, said the person familiar.
The entire block is worth 2.4 billion reais based on yesterday’s
closing stock price and the 4.68 million shares outstanding that
HRT had as of April 15, according to its website.  Investors who choose not to sell the shares in the joint
offering will have an additional lock-up period of 30 days after
the auction before they can negotiate individual sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  