-- 
Rupiah Gains Most in Two Weeks on U.S. Recovery Prospects

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-20T10:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/rupiah-gains-snapping-two-day-loss-on-u-s-recovery-prospects.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced the
most in more than two weeks, after an increase in U.S. housing
construction suggested the global economic recovery is on track,
improving investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  The currency reached a one-week high and the benchmark
 stock index  gained 1.7 percent after official data showed
housing starts in the world’s largest economy rose 7.2 percent
in March from the previous month. The U.S. was the second-
largest buyer of Indonesia’s non-oil exports in February, after
 Japan , according to statistics department data.  “Positive data from the U.S. last night lifted risk
sentiment in markets across Asia, including Indonesia,” said
 Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. “Investors have put aside  Standard & Poor’s 
negative outlook on the U.S. It does suggest there’s a lot of
room for volatility.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.5 percent to 8,648 per dollar
as of 4:52 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 8,637 on April 4, the highest level since
April 28, 2004. The currency has advanced 3.8 percent this year.  New York-based Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. long-term
credit outlook April 18, saying there’s a one-in-three chance
the AAA credit rating of the U.S. government might be cut within
two years unless policy makers agree on a plan to reduce budget
deficits and the national debt.  Indonesia’s 10-year government bonds gained, snapping a
four day loss. The yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021
fell seven basis points to 7.77 percent according to closing
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 