-- 
Russian Crops May Overcome Sowing Delay, Weather Center Says

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-04-20T15:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/russian-crops-may-overcome-sowing-delay-weather-center-says.html
Delays in sowing Russian spring
grains may not affect crop development because the weather is
improving and will be warm enough in the south to help plantings
ripen, the  Federal Hydrometeorological Center  said.  Some 1.5 million hectares (3.7 million acres) had been sown
with spring grains in Russia as of today, 42 percent less than a
year earlier, when 2.6 million hectares had been planted, said
Anna Strashnaya, head of agro-meteorological forecasts at the
Moscow-based center, citing Agriculture Ministry statistics.
Sugar beets had been sown on 215,000 hectares, compared with
last year’s 317,000 hectares, she said,  The delays were caused by rainfall in southern regions and
snowfalls in North Ossetia in March and April, Strashnaya said.  “The forecast is good enough for May,” Strashnya said.
“Thawing of soil and its heating will speed up, and farmers
will catch up with the sowing schedule.”  In  Russia ’s south, which traditionally leads the country’s
sowing campaign, cold weather will persist until the end of
April, with temperatures averaging 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit) lower than normal, Strashnaya said.
Temperatures will be between 18 and 22 degrees Celsius during
the day and between 5 and 6 degrees Celsius at night, according
to her forecast. In northern sowing areas, temperatures will be
close to normal, at between 12 and 15 degrees Celsius during the
day and between 3 and 5 degrees Celsius at night.  The forecast for May shows temperatures will be between 0.5
and 1 degree Celsius below normal and rainfall will be normal in
the Black Earth area of central Russia. Temperatures will be 1
degree Celsius above normal, and rainfall will be average next
month, in the so-called non-Black Earth area, which includes
Russia’s northwestern regions, Strashnaya said.  “There is no catastrophe,” Strashnaya said. “The only
thing that causes concern is that the ripening period may
coincide with hot winds in the end of May. However, current
rains and good moisture of soil may outbalance this, and the
forecast for May does not show risk of dry weather.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  