-- 
RXR Said to Buy New York's Starrett-Lehigh Building in $900 Million Deal

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-20T19:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/rxr-said-to-buy-new-york-s-starrett-lehigh-building-in-900-million-deal.html
RXR Realty LLC, the real estate
company run by investor Scott Rechler, agreed to buy the
Starrett-Lehigh building in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea neighborhood for
about $900 million, two people with knowledge of the deal said.  RXR has signed a contract to purchase the 2.2 million-
square-foot (205,000-square-meter)  property  from San Francisco-
based Shorenstein Properties LLC, according to the people. They
asked not to be identified because the sale is private.  Rechler, chairman and chief executive officer of Uniondale,
New York-based RXR, declined to comment through a spokesman,
Robert Leonard. Tim Gallen, a spokesman for Shorenstein, also
declined to comment. The sale was reported earlier today by
Crain’s New York Business.  The deal is the second this week involving a large
Manhattan building as the city’s office market rebounds.
Paramount Group Inc. agreed to buy the remaining 49 percent
stake in 1633 Broadway, a 48-story skyscraper north of Times
Square, from Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp., three
people with knowledge of the transaction said on April 18.  The Starrett-Lehigh building, located at 601 West 26th St.,
is a 20-story former railroad freight terminal that covers a
full city block between 11th and 12th avenues. Its tenants
include  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc., which has its
headquarters in the property.  The transaction is at least the third Manhattan office
purchase for closely held RXR in the past year. The company
agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in 340 Madison Ave. in May and
acquired 1330 Avenue of the Americas in November.  Manhattan office leasing reached a four-and-a-half-year
high in the first quarter, property broker Cushman & Wakefield
Inc. reported this month. Rents sought by landlords rose for the
second straight quarter after more than two years of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  