-- 
Advance in U.S. Existing-Home Sales Probably Failed to Recover Lost Ground

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-march.html
A gain in U.S. sales of existing
homes during March probably failed to make up for a drop the
previous month, a sign that the housing market is struggling to
rebound, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose 2.5 percent to a 5 million annual rate after
dropping 9.6 percent in February, according to the median
forecast of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales in
January of existing homes, which make up 90 percent of the
market, climbed to the highest level in eight months as buyers
used all-cash transactions to obtain distressed properties.  Housing may remain a weak link in the economic recovery
that began in June 2009 as unemployment, falling property values
and stricter loan rules push foreclosures to record levels. At
the same time, a drop in prices has made houses more affordable,
a sign demand may not fall much more.  “We’re on a recovery track, it’s just going to be slower
than we would all like,” said Robert Dye, a senior economist at
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “Credit
constraints are working against home sales right now. By the end
of this year, we’ll start to feel like we’ve turned a corner.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.59
million to 5.4 million.  The figures would underscore the  Federal Reserve ’s view
that the housing market “continues to be depressed” even as
the rest of the economy improves.  Median Price  The drop in purchases in February sent the median price of
existing homes to the lowest level since 2002. Distressed
properties accounted for 39 percent of sales, and the share of
all cash transactions was 33 percent, the highest since at least
August 2008, when the agents’ group began tracking the monthly
figure.  CoreLogic Inc. last month estimated that about 1.8 million
homes were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing homes already
on the market.  A glut of unsold properties may push prices down further, a
disincentive for homebuilders to break ground on new homes.  A report from the Commerce Department yesterday showed
builders began work on 549,000 houses at an annual rate in
March, up from 512,000 the previous month. The increase followed
a 19 percent plunge in February that was the biggest drop since
1984.  Homebuilders have underperformed the broader stock market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has
gained 3.6 percent so far this year, compared with a 4.4 percent
increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Builder Loss  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “We do not anticipate a net profit for 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call
with analysts on April 5. “The economy is continuing to
improve. Even so, this recovery has yet to include significant
job growth and has not spilled over into housing.”  Builders overall are not optimistic. The  National
Association of Home Builders ’ confidence fell to 16 this month,
according to the group’s gauge released this week. A reading
under 50 means a majority of builders view conditions as poor.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  