-- 
Samsung SDI’s Plea Deal in Price Fixing Case Blocked

-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-20T21:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/samsung-sdi-s-32-million-plea-deal-with-u-s-in-price-fixing-blocked.html
(Corrects to add context with lawyer’s comments in 10th
paragraph of story published April 19.)
s  A federal judge refused to accept
Samsung SDI Co.’s accord with U.S. prosecutors to pay a
$32 million fine for its alleged role in a conspiracy to fix
display tube prices, saying lawyers on both sides sought to
“railroad” a deal that didn’t compensate victims.  Samsung SDI, based in Gyeonggi,  South Korea , agreed in
March to plead guilty and cooperate with antitrust regulators,
who alleged that the company conspired from 1997 to 2006 to fix
prices, reduce output and allocate market share for color tubes
used in computer monitors.  The company was set to enter a guilty plea today on
condition that the settlement receive approval by U.S. District
Judge William Alsup without an additional review or a separate
hearing, according to court filings. Alsup said Samsung should
pay restitution for victims who were overcharged as a result of
the alleged price fixing.  “You are trying to run this through like a railroad
train,” Alsup said at the plea hearing in federal court in  San
Francisco . “I will not be stampeded by the antitrust
division.”  Victims’ compensation shouldn’t be “turned over to private
lawyers in private litigation,” he said, referring to a
separate group lawsuit pending in federal court in San Francisco
that combined 40 separate civil complaints by tube buyers
seeking damages from manufacturers.  ‘Significant’ Damages  Alsup asked the lawyer how much Samsung SDI might pay in
damages in the purchaser lawsuit.  “Will it be $100 million, $500 million?” said Alsup.  Samsung attorney Gary Halling said while it’s too early to
tell, damages in the civil case could be “significant”  The plea agreement with Samsung SDI would be the first in
an ongoing federal grand jury investigation into price fixing in
the color display tubes industry, prosecutors said in court
filings.  Lidia Maher, an attorney with the U.S. Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said, after Alsup criticized the
government’s handling of the case, “I apologize, your honor.”  Responding later to the judge’s question about the duration
of the case, Maher said, “The case has been going on for three
years.”  Alsup told the attorneys to return for a May 10 hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Samsung SDI, 11-162, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in San Francisco at  pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  