-- 
Samsung Electronics Gains on Plan to Sell Storage Unit for $1.38 Billion

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-04-20T06:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/samsung-electronics-gains-on-plan-to-sell-storage-unit-for-1-38-billion.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s largest maker of memory chips, rose the most in more
than four months after  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  agreed to buy its
unprofitable hard-disk drive business.  The company jumped 4.7 percent to 916,000 won, the most
since Dec. 2, while the benchmark Kospi index gained 2.2
percent.  Seagate’s $1.38 billion purchase of Samsung’s hard-disk
drive unit will allow Samsung to focus on its chip business, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said. Samsung may also use the
funds for more investments, according to Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch.  “Non-core business disposals such as the hard-disk drive
spin-off and sale could be financial sources for Samsung’s new
mergers and acquisitions,” analysts at the bank wrote in a note
yesterday.  Seagate offered 45.2 million shares valued at $687.5
million and the remainder in cash, the companies said in a joint
statement yesterday. After the transaction, Samsung will become
the second-largest shareholder of Seagate with a 9.6 percent
stake and will be entitled to nominate a director, the companies
said.  Samsung also agreed to supply Seagate with NAND  flash
memory  to be used in  storage devices  made by Seagate, according
to the statement. Seagate will supply disk drives to Samsung for
personal computers and notebooks.  Operating Loss  Samsung’s hard-disk business had an operating loss of about
$100 million in 2010, according to an estimate by Nomura
Holdings Inc. Samsung doesn’t disclose financial data about the
hard-disk drive business, said Jason Kim, a Seoul-based
spokesman for the company.  The deal follows  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) ’s agreement last
month to buy Hitachi Ltd.’s storage business for $4.3 billion
amid shrinking sales of disk drives with devices using flash
memory becoming popular.  “It’s a good deal for the industry,” said Mark Moskowitz,
an analyst at JPMorgan & Chase Co. “The days of big growth
rates are over. Consolidation euphoria always gets the best of
investors in the near term.”  Seagate’s shares rose 0.5 percent to $17.93 in  New York 
yesterday.  Hard-disk drive shipments  will probably drop  about 4
percent this quarter from the fourth quarter amid competition
from smaller and faster storage products, according to research
firm IHS ISuppli. Samsung and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  are the biggest
makers of so-called flash memory used to store data in some
laptops and tablets such as the iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab.  Western Digital accounted for 31 percent of global hard
drive shipments in the fourth quarter, followed by Seagate’s 30
percent, Hitachi’s 18 percent, Toshiba’s 11 percent and
Samsung’s 10 percent, according to IHS ISuppli estimates last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  