-- 
Saudi Arabia Has Arrested 160 Dissidents in Two Months, HRW Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-20T10:40:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/saudi-arabia-has-arrested-160-dissidents-in-two-months-hrw-says.html
Saudi Arabia , a member of the Group
of 20, has arrested more than 160 dissidents since February as
part of the government’s crackdown on protests,  Human Rights
Watch  said.  The government should order the “immediate release” of
the “peaceful” dissidents, the New York-based group said in  a
statement  today on its website. It also urged Interior Minister
Prince Nayef to free Nadhir al-Majid, a teacher and writer who
was detained on April 17 in the Persian Gulf city of al-Khobar.  Gulf nations have arrested activists, bloggers and doctors
in an effort to quell unrest in a region that holds the world’s
largest proven oil reserves. Bahrain declared a three-month
state of emergency on March 15 after Saudi-led Gulf troops
helped crush protests led by the majority Shiite Muslims, who
were calling for more democracy and civil rights.  U.S. and European Union officials haven’t criticized Saudi
Arabia for it “systematic violation” of international human-
rights laws, Human Rights Watch said. U.S. Secretary of Defense
 Robert Gates  and the EU’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , visited the kingdom this month.  In Saudi Arabia, holder of 20 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, protesters stayed away from a so-called Day of Rage on
March 11 after police were deployed in force in  Riyadh .  EU Silence  Al-Majid was arrested while working at a school in al-
Khobar, the Human Rights First Society said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “After the arrest, security forces raided
his home in Qatif, where they confiscated his laptop plus some
personal belongings,” the al-Khobar group said.  “The EU’s silence on the brazen arrest of a peaceful
dissident on the first day of its chief foreign policy
representative’s visit looks like a pat on the back for an
authoritarian state,”  Christoph Wilcke , senior Middle East
researcher at  Human Rights Watch , said in the statement.  Al-Majid wrote an article on April 2 criticizing the
government’s call to stop demonstrations, Human Rights Watch
said. He wrote that “we see history bypassing us, and this
speaks volumes to the ingrained blindness in political vision,
analysis and consciousness,” according to the rights group.  Saudi Arabia is the least democratic country in the Middle
East and ranks 160th out of 167 countries worldwide, according
to the Democracy Index for 2010 published by the Economist
Intelligence Unit.  The kingdom said on March 28 that it will hold municipal
elections on Sept. 22. The voting is open only to males 21 years
and older.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  