-- Schneider Eyes Acquisitions in West as Tricoire Moves East
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-10T09:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/schneider-says-no-major-purchase-close-as-company-prefers-smaller-deals.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU)  Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire, the first head of a CAC
40 company to move out of  France , is on the prowl.  Tricoire, 49, may this year look to buy businesses
primarily in North America and Europe rather than in  Asia , where
he moved with his family 16 months ago. The acquisitions will be
aimed at giving the world’s largest maker of low-and medium-
voltage electrical gear the critical mass and the technological
edge it needs in energy-management software and services.  “More than half of our growth comes from Asia, but as we
move toward more solutions and technologies, we’ll make some
acquisitions with targets rather in the U.S. and  Europe ,”
Schneider Chairman Henri Lachmann, 74, said in an interview last
month in his office at the company’s headquarters near Paris,
elaborating on Tricoire’s plans.  Since he was named CEO in May 2006, Tricoire has bought
dozens of companies, spending more than 11.6 billion euros ($15
billion) net of disposals and doubling  Schneider’s revenue  to 24
billion euros. Although the company’s power solutions push
eroded margins as such sales outgrew more profitable products
like switchgears, the CEO is eyeing purchases that will make the
company’s foray into services more lucrative.  Go East  Schneider’s net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at 1.6, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg -- compared with 1 for Siemens AG of  Germany  and
0.7 for  Switzerland ’s ABB Ltd. -- may mean a ratings downgrade
if it borrows more for acquisitions. The company, which has an
 A3 rating  from Moody’s Investors Service, says it’s prepared to
live with a temporary one-level cut to see its strategy through.  Investors have supported Tricoire’s plan,  pushing Schneider 
shares up 25 percent over his reign, even as the benchmark  CAC
40 (CAC)  index fell 29 percent amid the turmoil wrought by the more
than four-year-old global financial crisis. Today, Schneider’s
shares fell 0.9 percent to 55.68 euros at 9:30 a.m. in Paris,
valuing the company at 30.8 billion euros.  They have also been unperturbed by Tricoire’s decision to
base himself in  Hong Kong , a move that raised concerns among
employees in France who saw jobs heading east. His relocation
“triggered a lot of discussion,” independent board member
Catherine Kopp, said in an interview.  A Maverick  “There were worries about whether he would abandon France,
and favor Asia too much compared with the rest of the world,”
she said. “There were questions about the reaction of employees
and French institutions.”  Tricoire himself justified the move, telling Bloomberg in
 London  in June that his relocation “is business driven.” He
said with Asia representing the company’s  fastest-growing
market , where it was hiring the most, he wanted to be closer to
customers and employees.  “The world is moving so fast, we have to be one step
ahead,” he said. “We had insufficient coverage of Asia. If the
boss doesn’t move, the guys stay in Paris, in  Chicago .”  The move to Asia is among many elements that make Tricoire
something of a maverick in France, setting him apart among CEOs
of the country’s large companies.  In a country where most top executives come from France’s
Grandes Ecoles, or elite universities, Tricoire joined the
company in 1986, not long after graduating from  ESEO , a second-
tier French engineering school in Angers, Western France.  Asia Bet  He also has a deeper international profile than most CAC 40
CEOs. Starting in 1989, he spent five years each for Schneider
in  Italy  and  China . He caught then-CEO Lachmann’s attention when
he made it to a meeting on time in Beijing by riding a cabbage-
filled rickshaw to avoid traffic.  He then moved to  South Africa  before being brought back to
France as head of global strategic accounts. He was head of the
international division from 2002 to 2003, and became chief
operating officer in Oct. 2003 before becoming CEO.  Even before moving to Hong Kong, Tricoire spent only one
week a month in France. Married to a Dutch national, the father
of three who likes kayaking and backpacking, taught himself
mandarin with books and tapes during his China stint.  “He’s one of the very few western leaders who can do
business in Chinese,” said Luc Oursel, the CEO of Areva SA, the
French maker of nuclear fuel and reactors, who worked with
Tricoire at Schneider in China in the 1990s.  ‘Bit Excessive’  Tricoire’s Asia bet has paid off. The Asia-Pacific region
accounted for 28 percent of revenue in the third quarter,
leapfrogging  North America ’s 26 percent and catching up with
Western Europe for the first time. In 2005, Europe brought in 44
percent, America 26 percent and Asia 18 percent.  The CEO has moved  other function  chiefs to Asia. Hong Kong
is home to Schneider’s heads for strategy, the supply chain, and
human resources. Another executive committee member is based in
Beijing, five are in in Europe and four in the U.S.  “From the French employees’ point of view, there’s a
feeling that more and more stuff is being moved abroad,
including the executive management,” said  Thierry Jacquet , a
CFDT union representative at Schneider. The company is moving
some HR and finance positions to  Poland  from France, he said.  Schneider’s rivals see the moves giving the company an edge
in the markets it serves.  “It’s a signal for the entire company to ensure to take
care of customers and business wherever it may be,” said  Peter Loescher , CEO of Siemens.  Acquisition Binge  Still, Tricoire’s overriding passion for Asia, particularly
China, is questioned even by the company’s chairman.  “It may be a bit excessive,” Lachmann said, pointing out
that     China’s ambassador to France was the only outside guest
at a ceremony where Tricoire was awarded the Legion of Honor in
2007.  Lachmann adds, however, that the CEO remains realistic on
the pitfalls of doing business in China after Schneider lost a
patent fight there a few years ago.  Tricoire will now be looking to beef up systems and
services with purchases in North America and Europe, Lachmann
said.  “We had considered making a large acquisition in the U.S.,
and if that had happened, I think he would have moved there,”
he said.  Fine Balance  In April 2011,  Bloomberg News  reported that Schneider was
weighing a takeover offer for  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , a New
York-listed, Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based provider of fire
detection equipment. Schneider denied it was in talks with Tyco.  Tricoire bought American Power Conversion Corp. in 2006 for
$6.1 billion, making Schneider the leader in electrical gear for
data centers. He acquired video-surveillance provider Pelco Inc.
in 2007 for $1.5 billion. In Europe, Schneider bought Paris-
based Areva’s power-distribution unit for $1.6 billion in 2010
and Spanish software maker Telvent GIT for $2 billion in 2011.  His acquisitions in  emerging markets , although numerous,
have been smaller.  “We’ve overpaid for some takeovers, some didn’t meet our
expectations, or were badly integrated,” Lachmann said. “When
you make something like 120 acquisitions, there are bound to be
a few failures, but the biggest have been successes.”  Schneider’s bolt-on acquisitions in the U.S. and Europe
will help it achieve geographical balance, said Lachmann, who’s
preparing to relinquish his post to Tricoire in May if
shareholders agree to merge the chairman and CEO functions.  “We want to keep a balance between the three continents
and among countries,” with Europe, North America and Asia
representing about 30 percent of sales each, Lachmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel@bloomberg.net  