-- 
Schneider Plans ‘Focused’ Acquisitions, Says No Large-Scale 2011 Purchases

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-20T16:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/schneider-plans-focused-acquisitions-says-no-large-scale-2011-purchases.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, said first-
quarter sales rose 27 percent, led by demand in  Asia . The
company said it will continue “disciplined acquisitions.”  Revenue climbed to 4.94 billion euros ($7.2 billion) from
3.91 billion euros a year earlier, the company, based in the
Paris suburb of Rueil-Malmaison, said today in a  statement .
That’s in line with analysts’ estimates of 4.97 billion euros.
Excluding currency fluctuations and acquisitions of companies
such as Areva Distribution, sales advanced 12 percent.  “The performance reflects the group’s strength in the new
economies,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said
in the statement. “We will continue to leverage the high
internal growth potential offered by our five businesses, and at
the same time actively reinforce our portfolio through focused
and disciplined acquisitions.”  Schneider, which aims to grow in building automation and
security systems and in factory controls, held preliminary talks
with  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  after approaching the company
earlier this year, Bloomberg reported April 13, citing three
people with knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Schneider said on April
15 it’s “not currently” in takeover talks with Tyco.  Schneider slid 9.6 percent last week. It rose 2.3 percent
to 114.25 euros in Paris today.  The company reiterated its targets for annual sales and
earnings. Excluding acquisitions and currency effects, revenue
will climb by 6 percent to 9 percent in 2011, Schneider said.
Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization will account
for 15 percent to 15.5 percent of sales this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  