-- 
Celtic Coach Lennon Backed by Platini as Scots Police Probe Parcel Bombs

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-20T15:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/scottish-police-probe-parcel-bombs-sent-to-celtic-coach-lennon-supporters.html
UEFA President  Michel Platini  said
he supports the coach of Celtic, one of  Scotland ’s two biggest
soccer clubs, as police investigate explosive devices sent to
him and two prominent fans of the team.  The parcel bombs were designed to cause “real harm” to
Celtic’s Neil Lennon, lawyer Paul McBride and former Scottish
parliamentarian Trish Godman, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported, citing Strathclyde Police. They were posted last month
and intercepted and reported to officers.  “We have to keep politics and religion out of football and
sport, that is very important,” Platini told reporters in
 London  where he was handing over the Champions League trophy
ahead of the final at Wembley next month. “It’s a very bad
thing that has happened to the manager of Celtic and the whole
of UEFA support him.”  The attempted attacks are the latest in an escalation of
tension within Scottish soccer centering on Glasgow clubs Celtic
and Rangers. As well as representing different parts of the
city, the teams are traditionally divided between Catholics and
Protestants. Police are investigating a sectarian motive for the
parcel bombs, the Glasgow-based Herald newspaper reported.  “We unite to condemn such actions and condemn those who
abuse football for their pathetic and dangerous prejudices,”
 Alex Salmond , Scottish first minister and leader of the  Scottish
National Party , told the  BBC  in a television  interview .  Strathclyde Police ordered a “summit” on March 8 after a
game between the two rival Glasgow clubs saw the referee expel
three players with red cards during the match. There were also
several confrontations between coaching staff and 34 arrests
inside the Celtic Park stadium.  Lennon was involved in a confrontation with Rangers
assistant manager Ally McCoist after the match, and was given a
touch-line ban.  McBride and Godman were targeted because they are fans of
Celtic, the BBC reported.  “The people behind these sinister and potentially life-
threatening acts need to be caught and brought to justice,”
Iain Gray, leader of the opposition  Labour Party  in Scotland,
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 