-- 
Scovill Fasteners Seeks Bankruptcy Protection to Sell Most of Its Assets

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-20T19:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/scovill-fasteners-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-to-sell-most-of-its-assets.html
Scovill Fasteners Inc., the maker
of snap-closure buttons for consumer and military clothing for
more than two centuries, sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors with an agreement to sell virtually all its assets to
Global Equity Capital LLC.  The company, based in Clarksville,  Georgia , listed
$100 million to $500 million in debt and $10 million to $50
million in assets in Chapter 11 documents filed yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Gainesville, Georgia.  Scovill, with  roots  dating back to a small Connecticut
button-making business in 1802, makes fasteners used in jeans
and U.S. military garments, according to court documents.  “Scovill is currently suffering a liquidity crisis
attributable to losses suffered after the closing of a China
facility” that cost the company about $30 million, Chief
Executive Officer Stewart Little said in a court filing.  Due to “the high immediate  cash flow  required to keep
production at pace,” the company decided “a sale of Scovill’s
assets is necessary to complete its restructuring,” he said.  The company agreed to sell almost all its assets to a unit
of Global Equity that will act as the lead bidder at a
bankruptcy auction, according to court documents. The Global
Equity affiliate has offered $17 million in cash and the costs
for assuming certain contracts, as well as taking on other
liabilities.  War of 1812  Scovill’s products include “world-recognized” fasteners
such as the Gripper, Duramark and Dot. The company’s buttons
have been featured on many military uniforms since the War of
1812, according to its  website . Scovill also has a specialty
products line used in medical electrocardiograph monitoring
pads, as well as space suits used by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, court papers show.  In 1825, the company produced a set of 17 solid  gold
closures  for the Marquis de Lafayette, adorned with a likeness
of  George Washington .  The case is In re Scovill Fasteners Inc., 11-21650,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Georgia (Gainesville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  