-- 
LSE’s Davies Says Universities Should Stay ‘Engaged’: Tom Keene

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-20T19:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/lse-s-davies-says-universities-should-stay-engaged-tom-keene.html
A controversy over a gift from
 Libya  to the London School of Economics and Political Science
shouldn’t stop universities from involvement in countries with
autocratic regimes, said  Howard Davies , the school’s departing
director.  “Libya was a complicated place to do business in,” Davies
said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “I hope universities can remain engaged in
difficult countries. I don’t think that a country, just the fact
that it has an undesirable regime, means that you can’t educate
its people.”  Davies, 60, resigned last month over the institution’s
acceptance of 1.5 million-pound ($2.5 million) donation from
Libya’s Gaddafi International Charity and Development
Foundation. He will remain at the school until May.  At the time of his resignation, Davies, a former chairman
of the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, said it was a
mistake to accept the gift and an error to accept a British
government invitation to advise Libya on its investments.  The LSE was founded in 1895 by figures including the
playwright George Bernard Shaw to assist “the betterment of
society,” according to its website. The university has
commissioned an independent inquiry by England’s former Lord
Chief Justice, Harry Woolf, into its relations with Libya.  Separately, Davies said today that the U.K. economy may
“grow relatively slowly for the next 12 months” as debt,
unemployment,  oil prices  and taxes burden families.  “Our consumers are even more borrowed than Americans,”
Davies said. “You’d think it’d be difficult to beat the
Americans’ habits for debt, but we did.” Now, U.K. residents
are “starting to save more and spend less,” he said.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter
of last year. The  Office for Budget Responsibility  last month
cut its forecast for 2011 economic growth to 1.7 percent from
2.1 percent.  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio: Sirius
Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In  New York City , tune to WBBR
1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R. Keene in New York 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  