-- 
SEC/Madoff, Berkshire Hathaway, Insider Trading, Nasdaq OMX: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-20T12:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/sec-madoff-berkshire-hathaway-insider-trading-compliance.html
Two of Bernard L. Madoff’s
investors lost their bid to sue the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for allegedly gross negligent oversight in its
failure to uncover his Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York
yesterday threw out the 2009 lawsuit by investors Phyllis
Molchatsky and Steven Schneider which claimed the SEC failed to
detect and end the scheme.  “Plaintiffs have identified no statutory or regulatory
provision that suggests the existence of prescriptive rules for
the conduct of SEC investigations,” Swain said in a 28-page
ruling.  Swain has 27 similar cases, according to the court docket.  Molchatsky, a disabled retiree and single mother who claims
she lost $1.7 million in the fraud, and Schneider, a doctor who
said he lost almost $753,000, filed the lawsuit under the
Federal Tort Claims Act in October 2009 after the SEC denied
their administrative claims.  The U.S. asked the court to dismiss the case, claiming the
government is immune from suits because the SEC has discretion
in deciding who to investigate and how to conduct its queries.  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment on the court’s ruling. Plaintiffs’ lawyer Howard
Elisofon of New York-based Herrick Feinstein LLP, did not
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  The case is Molchatsky v. U.S., 1:09-cv-08697, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  Berkshire Hathaway, Buffett, Sokol Sued Over Lubrizol Profit  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and Chief Executive Officer Warren
Buffett were sued by a shareholder over trades in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) 
by former Berkshire manager  David Sokol .  Berkshire investor Mason Kirby, suing to recover damages
for the company, contends that Sokol, also a defendant, hurt the
firm by taking a stake in Lubrizol before recommending to
Buffett that Berkshire buy the company, according to papers made
public yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “Sokol knew that Buffett would closely consider and likely
take his recommendation,” Kirby said. “As a result of Sokol’s
unethical behavior, Berkshire suffered significant reputational
losses and other damages.”  Sokol bought 96,060 shares of Lubrizol in early January
before recommending that Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire acquire
the company, Buffett said in a March statement announcing
Sokol’s resignation.  Buffett didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Ann Thelen, a spokeswoman for Berkshire’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co., where Sokol remains  chairman  until April
21, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment from Sokol.  Kirby alleges that Buffett and Sokol, “working in
concert,” violated duties to shareholders “and put the company
at risk for a potential adverse SEC action and negative credit
rating.”  The case is Kirby v. Sokol, CA6392, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Gunns Sued by Shareholders Over 2010 Financial Disclosure  Gunns Ltd. (GNS) , Australia’s biggest woodchip exporter, failed
to warn investors of a drop in profit in the first half of
fiscal 2010 as required by law, lawyers suing on behalf of about
300 shareholders said.  The investors lost millions of dollars after shares slumped
following the company’s announcement in February 2010 that
profit fell 99 percent to A$420,000 ($445,000), the law firm
 Maurice Blackburn  said today in an e-mailed statement announcing
the lawsuit.  Gunns slumped 22 percent in Sydney trading on Feb. 22,
2010, following the release of first-half financial data, which
created concern among investors that the company wouldn’t be
able to expand. The shares had a further decline of as much as
15 percent on Feb. 26, 2010, sinking to a nine-year low.  “Investors expect listed companies and their officers to
fulfill disclosure obligations,” Jason Geisker, a senior
associate at  Maurice Blackburn , said in the statement.  Matthew Horan, an outside spokesman for Launceston,
Tasmania-based Gunns, said the company will defend itself in
court.  The lawsuit, filed in Federal Court in Sydney, is being
financed by IMF (Australia) Ltd., the country’s biggest
litigation funder.  Courts  Galleon Ex-Trader Goffer Pleads Not Guilty to New Indictment  Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , accused of leading one
of three insider-trading rings that are the subject of a U.S.
probe, pleaded not guilty to new federal charges in an amended
indictment.  Goffer and his brother Emanuel Goffer, along with Craig
Drimal and Michael Kimelman, yesterday entered not guilty pleas
to the new indictment filed by the U.S. on April 7.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York granted
defense lawyers’ request for a one-week delay in the trial,
which was originally set to begin May 9. The attorneys said they
needed time to review evidence because of the new charges.  “I’m not persuaded that a lengthy adjournment is
appropriate,” Sullivan told the lawyers, some whom asked for a
two-month delay in the case. “It seems an awful lot of what
happens in trial preparation happens in the month before
trial.”  The indictment added new charges of securities fraud
against Zvi Goffer, who now faces two counts of conspiracy and
12 counts of securities fraud. It also removed as defendants
 David Plate , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, and
Arthur Cutillo, who was a lawyer at the firm Ropes & Gray LLP.
Plate pleaded guilty in July while Cutillo pleaded guilty Jan.
14.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Banks Lose Challenge to U.K. FSA’s Payment-Protection Rules  A group representing banks including Barclays Plc and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  lost a bid to stop U.K. regulators from imposing
rules that would require lenders to compensate customers for
improperly sold loan insurance.  A London court ruled today in a case filed by the  British
Bankers’ Association  over on payment-protection insurance.  Implementing the measures and handling complaints may cost
the banking industry as much 4.5 billion pounds ($7.4 billion),
the BBA said in court documents. The industry group also said
that the Financial Services Authority imposing the guidelines
would unlawfully require banks to make compensation payments.  U.K. antitrust regulators have also cracked down on the
product, banning banks from selling most types of payment-
protection insurance at the same time they sell the loans the
insurance covers.  The insurance, which generates as much as 5.5 billion
pounds in annual revenue for U.K. banks, covers payments on
credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.
Customers who bought the insurance rarely compared prices and
terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they
could have purchased insurance from other companies, the U.K.’s
Competition Commission has said.  “We are disappointed with today’s judgment and now need to
consider the details of it very carefully as well as next steps
including whether it would be appropriate to apply for
permission to appeal,” the BBA said in  a statement on its
website .  The case is The Queen on the Application of the British
Bankers Association v. Financial Services Authority, case no.
10/10619, High Court of Justice, Administrative Court (London).  Verdicts/Settlements  Ameriprise, Investors Seek Court Approval of Lawsuit Accord  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , two of its Securities America
units and a group of investors who sued them asked a U.S. judge
to approve a proposed $80 million cash settlement.  The investors had bought stock and partnership interests in
Provident Royalties LLC, an owner of working interests in oil
and natural gas properties, through Securities America from
September 2006 through January 2009. They also bought notes
issued by so-called special purpose entities affiliated with
Medical Capital Holdings Inc., a company that bought accounts
receivable, according to papers filed April 18 with U.S.
District Judge W. Royal Furgeson in Dallas.  Those who invested in Medical Capital, which was later sued
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
misappropriation of investor funds, lost about $284 million on
the special purpose notes. Securities America sold about 37
percent of those notes, according to the investors’ filing.
Provident investors lost $46 million when that company went
bankrupt.  “The class action settlement will allow investors to
recover a meaningful percentage of their losses,” their
attorneys told the court.  Ameriprise, a Minneapolis-based company spun off from
American Express Co. in 2005, and its Securities America units
have also agreed to pay $70 million to investors who filed
claims for arbitration and rather than in the courts.  The lead case is case is Billitteri v. Securities America
Inc., 09cv1568, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  Former Taylor Bean Chairman Farkas Guilty of Conspiracy, Fraud  Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was found guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and
bank, wire and securities fraud in what prosecutors said was a
$3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  A federal jury in Alexandria, Virginia, yesterday returned
the verdict after one day of deliberations. Farkas, who was free
during the trial, was taken into custody. He faces a maximum
sentence of 30 years on the conspiracy and bank-fraud charges
and 20 years or more on the wire-fraud and securities-fraud
counts when he’s sentenced on July 1.  Prosecutors said Farkas, 58, orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S. that duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , head of the
Justice Department’s criminal division, said Farkas’s fraud
“poured fuel on the fire” of the financial crisis.  Farkas, who denied any wrongdoing, testified on his own
behalf and called two former Taylor Bean employees and a
forensic accountant in his defense.  William Cummings, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said the defense
team is disappointed with the verdict.  “We fought hard,” said Cummings, a former U.S. attorney
in Virginia. “Getting six former colleagues to plead guilty and
testify is a difficult obstacle to overcome.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Bank Bonuses ‘Inappropriate’ Amid Public Aid, Lawmakers Say  A cross-party panel of British lawmakers said it is
“inappropriate” for banks to award staff large bonuses and
reap excessive profits while they rely on support from
taxpayers.  British banks, which have received more than 1 trillion
pounds ($1.6 trillion) of government bailouts guarantees since
2008, benefit from an “implicit expectation” that taxpayers
will rescue them, the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee
said in a report published in London today. No new mechanism has
been developed that would transfer that risk to shareholders and
bondholders, the committee said.  “It is inappropriate for banks dependent on taxpayer
support to be generating excessive incomes, unnecessary bonuses
or dividends at the expense of exiting public support,”
Margaret Hodge, a lawmaker from the opposition Labour Party who
chairs the panel, said in a statement.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government is urging banks
to show restraint as it pushes through the deepest cuts in
public spending since World War II. Public backing for banks was
reduced to 512 billion pounds as of December, Hodge said.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  gave its chief executive Robert Diamond as
much as 10.1 million pounds in salary, bonuses and stock, while
HSBC Holdings Plc planned to pay Chief Executive Officer Stuart
Gulliver as much as 13.3 million pounds this year.  In a separate report, the same parliamentary committee
called for the Treasury to take steps to safeguard taxpayers’
interests in one of the support programs known as the Asset
Protection Scheme, which insured potentially toxic bank loans.  Deals  Nasdaq Offers to Pay NYSE $350 Million Should Takeover Fail  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
said they are willing to pay NYSE Euronext $350 million if
antitrust authorities block their proposed takeover, an offer
they say is now based on “fully committed financing” of $3.8
billion.  The statements were included in a letter to  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
board, which on April 10 rejected the unsolicited $11.3 billion
proposal and affirmed its February agreement to merge with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  for $9.5 billion in stock. The agreement with
Deutsche Boerse includes a payout of 250 million euros ($358
million) should that deal fall apart. Nasdaq OMX and ICE said
they received $3.8 billion in commitment letters from lenders.  The so-called reverse breakup fee is designed to allay
concerns the U.S. government will reject a Nasdaq OMX-NYSE
Euronext takeover because it would create a monopoly in stock
listings. Nasdaq OMX and ICE would divide NYSE Euronext, giving
Atlanta-based ICE the Liffe derivatives markets and Nasdaq OMX,
based in New York, the listings, equities and options
businesses, saving costs on overlapping units and technologies.  “NYSE shareholders are probably very concerned about
antitrust issues, and here they’ve done a couple things to try
to address their concerns,” said Ed Ditmire, a New York-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “That’s at the heart of what
will decide their fate.”  NYSE Euronext said it received the proposal and the board
will review it “in due course,” according to a  statement  on
its website. Frankfurt’s Deutsche Boerse said it is committed to
the merger agreement and is moving forward with plans, according
to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq OMX’s chief executive officer, and
ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said they are in discussions with the
antitrust division of the U.S. Justice Department. In an
interview, they said they have begun buying NYSE Euronext stock
in the open market to trigger the government’s procedure for
vetting antitrust concern. NYSE Euronext’s annual shareholder
meeting is April 28, where owners will vote on board members and
the right to call special meetings.  For more, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  Wolin Says Treasury Will Resist Efforts to Slow Dodd-Frank  Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin says the Obama
administration will resist efforts to slow the changes required
by the Dodd-Frank overhaul of U.S. financial regulations.  “We must move forward with implementing this law,” Wolin
said at the  Pew Charitable Trusts  in Washington yesterday,
according to prepared remarks distributed to reporters. “We are
doing so quickly, carefully and responsibly. We will continue to
do so in the face of these criticisms. And we will continue to
oppose efforts to slow down, weaken, or repeal these essential
reforms.”  The Dodd-Frank bank regulation law, enacted last year,
created a council of regulators to toughen oversight of the
country’s biggest financial institutions in an effort to prevent
future financial crises. The law also makes changes to
government supervision of derivatives, along with consumer
protection and other financial regulatory issues.  The Office of Financial Research, created by the law to
help agencies collect and coordinate information, is “hard at
work” even though it doesn’t have a director, Wolin said. He
also said he expects a voting member who specializes in
insurance oversight to be named “quite soon” to the Financial
Stability Oversight Council.  Wolin said regulators are taking steps to make derivatives
markets more resilient and transparent, in order to reduce the
risk and costs of a potential crisis. Proposed new rules take
into account that commercial end-users who use derivatives
contracts to hedge operations rather than to speculate pose
lower risks.  For more, click here.  Georgia Joins Dissenters to State Foreclosure Writedown Effort  Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens said he has
“significant concerns” about a proposal to reduce loan
balances for some homeowners as part of a settlement of a
nationwide foreclosure probe, joining at least seven other
states that have criticized such a plan.  A deal with the top mortgage servicers in the U.S. that
includes writedowns could encourage homeowners who are current
on their loans to stop making payments, Olens, a Republican,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “You’re declaring in advance who the winners and losers
are,” Olens said. “I’m a little concerned that this process
disengages the normal market forces.”  Republican attorneys general in Virginia, Texas, Florida,
South Carolina, Oklahoma, Nebraska and Alabama have signed
letters opposing the imposition of writedowns, which proponents
call the most effective way to modify a home loan.  State and federal agencies, including the U.S. Justice
Department, last month submitted proposed settlement terms to
five banks as a starting point for negotiations to set standards
for mortgage service and foreclosure. The 50-state effort began
last year after homeowners complained of faulty foreclosure
practices in the housing collapse.  The state-federal proposal calls in part for monetary
payments by banks to go toward a loan-modification program that
includes principal reductions.  Supporters of the proposal include attorneys general from
Iowa, Connecticut and Illinois, according to representatives in
their offices. Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller, who is leading negotiations for the states,
had no immediate comment on Olens’s remarks.  RBS Says U.K. Commission’s Report Won’t Make Banks Safer  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-controlled bank, said the Independent Commission on
Banking’s plan to create fire breaks around lenders’ retail
units won’t make them safer.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in a brief
interview at the lender’s annual shareholder meeting in
Edinburgh yesterday “It’s not obvious to us that” the
proposal, known as subsidiarization, “is the right answer.”  The government-sponsored commission last week recommended
the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost capital, implement plans
for an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around their
consumer units to boost the stability of the financial system.  “The best way to make sure the banks are safe for the
future is the global Basel III reforms,” said Hester. It is
“not clear to me that the U.K. on its own needs a special extra
something.”  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said last year
that all banks had to maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of at least 7 percent. The
largest U.K. consumer banks would need to hold at least 10
percent under the commission’s proposals.  “We will have to work hard to mitigate the impact of
additional costs arising from the ICB changes,” RBS Chairman
Philip Hampton said in a statement. “It seems inevitable that
customers and shareholders will be impacted by additional
costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 