-- 
Security Screeners to Have U.S. Runoff Between Two Unions

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-04-20T19:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/security-screeners-to-have-u-s-runoff-between-two-unions-2-.html
Airport security screeners in the
U.S. split on union representation, setting up a runoff between
two unions to determine which will lead negotiations over
transfers, work shifts and uniforms.  The  American Federation of Government Employees  said it
received 8,369 votes, or 43 percent, followed by 8,095 for the
 National Treasury Employees Union  and 3,111 voting for no union.
A majority vote was required to declare a winner.  “During a time when this country’s federal workers and
their unions are under attack, it speaks volumes that
transportation security officers nationwide stood strong and
voted to have a union,” AFGE President John Gage said in a
statement.  Republicans had said letting screeners join a union would
compromise safety on airplanes and lead to higher costs for
taxpayers, while labor leaders said collective bargaining would
boost morale and retention. The vote is a victory for  federal
employees  as Republican governors and lawmakers close budget
deficits by limiting the bargaining rights of public workers.  The union that wins the right to represent the airport
screeners will be barred from bargaining over  security-related
issues  such as pay and discipline standards. A vote will be set
schedule after the unions and TSA meet, the AFGE said.  TSA was created in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks and was exempt from regulations that let federal workers
vote on joining a union. The law let the agency administrator
decide whether to allow bargaining, which had been banned under
President  George W. Bush .  Bargaining Restrictions  In February,  John Pistole , the agency’s chief under
President  Barack Obama , decided to allow the election with
restrictions on what a union could bargain over.  “The safety of the traveling public remains our top
priority and I have made clear we will not negotiate on
security,” Pistole said in a statement today. “However, I
continue to believe that employee engagement and morale cannot
be separated from achieving superior security.”  The  American Federation of Government Employees  represents
600,000 government workers, and the  National Treasury Employees
Union  has about 150,000 bargaining-unit employees. The vote was
overseen by the  Federal Labor Relations Authority , which
presides over relations between the government and its workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net 
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 