-- 
Slovak Ruling Party Won’t Support Permanent EU Bailout Fund

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-04-20T14:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/slovak-ruling-party-won-t-support-permanent-eu-bailout-fund.html
A Slovak governing coalition party
said it won’t support the creation of the European Union’s
permanent bailout fund, potentially endangering the bloc’s main
tool to quell fiscal crises.  The Freedom and Solidarity party, one of four coalition
members, will vote against Slovak participation in the so-called
European Stability Mechanism, which is set to be created in 2013
to help distressed countries, Chairman Richard Sulik said today.
Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s government will therefore need
the support of the opposition, led by her predecessor and fierce
critic Robert Fico, to approve the country’s participation.  “We are here to defend interests of Slovak citizens, not
the interests of foreign banks, which have for a long time made
profits on high interest on loans to irresponsible countries,”
Sulik, who is also parliamentary speaker, said at a press
conference in Bratislava, Slovakia.  European leaders agreed last month agreed to set up the ESM
to replace a temporary bailout fund called the European
Financial Stability Facility, created after Greek fiscal
troubles escalated. As the crisis spreads to other countries,
including  Portugal , voters in northern euro-region members are
becoming increasingly reluctant to use taxpayers’ money to help
debt-laden peers.  Member countries are supposed to contribute 80 billion
euros ($116 billion) in cash to the permanent fund and pledge
620 billion euros in guarantees to secure the mechanism’s AAA
rating and an effective lending capacity of 500 billion euros.
Under the plan, Slovakia’s share would be about 600 million
euros in cash.  While supporting the creation of the temporary facility,
Radicova’s coalition last year rejected Slovakia’s participation
in an international bailout of  Greece .  The four-party coalition has 77 deputies in the 150-seat
chamber, including 21 lawmakers from Freedom and Solidarity.
Radicova said today she will negotiate with all parliamentary
parties and seek their support for the ESM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 