-- 
Solar-Panel Makers Gain as Fukushima Spurs Japan's Anti-Nuclear Movement

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-21T01:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/solar-panel-makers-gain-as-fukushima-spurs-japan-s-anti-nuclear-movement.html
Akiko Hirai says the Hamaoka power
station 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) from her home evokes such dread
of the crippled Fukushima plant that she would spend $6,000
installing solar panels if it helped make  Japan  nuclear-free.  “Who can really guarantee that they’re 100 percent safe? I
want nuclear plants to be halted if they’re so frail,” said the
53-year-old housewife, who’s lived in Shizuoka prefecture in
central Japan for more than 20 years. “It’s not that I’m
worried about myself, it’s my daughter and other small children
I’m concerned about.”  Hirai helps illustrate Japan’s growing anti-nuclear
movement in the wake of the world’s biggest nuclear accident
since Chernobyl. That’s creating an opportunity for makers of
solar equipment such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. to
capitalize on orders that analysts estimate may exceed $100
billion over the next decade, bringing down costs for consumers.  “It’s become clear we can’t keep relying on nuclear power
or fossil fuels,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona
Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “Still, solar power is too expensive for
the market to bloom without subsidies. It’s easy to agree on the
big picture but not so easy to determine who pays the price.”  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Japan’s two largest makers
of nuclear reactors, have underperformed Japan’s Topix index,
while shares of Panasonic and Sharp have outperformed the
benchmark since last month’s natural disaster.  Japan’s Power Plan  Last June, Japan laid out  plans  to build nine atomic
reactors by 2020 and at least five more the following decade to
increase the nation’s portion of nuclear energy to 50 percent of
overall power generation by 2030 from 29 percent in 2009. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said March 31 the country needs to revise
those policies.  That means Japan will probably step up a campaign to
encourage the use of solar cells for years at the expense of
atomic power, Takashi Watanabe, a Tokyo-based analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in an April 1 report. Solar may be the
strongest option because of restrictions on where wind and
thermoelectric power stations can be built, he said.  Replacing the proposed nuclear plants with solar ones would
require 108 gigawatts of photovoltaic generation by 2020,
according to Goldman Sachs. Based on the current estimated costs
of solar cells, that capacity would cost more than $150 billion.  Solar-panel prices will likely fall to $1.50 per watt in
the second half of 2011 from about $1.80 in 2010, Jenny Chase, a
solar analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said March 29.  Japanese Beneficiaries  Panasonic and Sharp, Japan’s biggest maker of solar panels,
would benefit from increased domestic adoption of the technology
as the companies earn about half of their solar-panel revenue
from Japan, Watanabe said. The strength of their brands and
relations with homebuilders would also help the Japanese
companies against Chinese solar companies, he said. Sharp
spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  declined to comment.  “Interest in solar power and other alternative energy
sources will probably rise further,” said Akihiko Oiwa, a
spokesman for Sanyo Electric Co., Panasonic’s solar-panel unit.
“Although they’re unlikely to replace nuclear energy right away,
solar and other alternative energies will likely supplement
existing power facilities.”  Politicians may help. Governor Yuji Kuroiwa held a 90-
centimeter (3-foot) solar panel on the streets of Kanagawa
prefecture this month as he pledged to install solar panels to
support as many as 2 million households. Kanagawa, located south
of Tokyo, will “kick off the revolution” to end Japan’s
dependency on nuclear power, Kuroiwa said April 11, the day
after the former journalist drew twice as many votes as his
opponent in the election.  Insecurity  On the same day in Shizuoka prefecture, Governor Heita
Kawakatsu said he aims to make Shizuoka the top municipality in
terms of the rate of solar-panel use. Kawakatsu plans to reduce
 Shizuoka ’s reliance on nuclear energy from 80 percent by
providing subsidies for consumers and funding research that
could improve the efficiency of photovoltaic power.  “I’ve never felt such insecurity before,” said Tamako
Sato, a 69-year-old housewife who lives in Kashiwazaki city,
where the world’s biggest nuclear plant is located. “I want the
plant to be out of the town.”  Reactors at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa
plant have been halted since an earthquake hit the plant in 2007
and caused radiation to leak.  China,  Germany   Japan isn’t alone in reviewing its nuclear plans since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling equipment at
Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, leading to the
evacuation of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants.  The U.S., the world’s biggest user of nuclear power,
started a 90-day review of domestic nuclear safety last month.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on March 15 ordered the idling
of the country’s seven oldest reactors, pending safety checks.
 Italy , the second-largest solar market after Germany, extended a
moratorium yesterday for its nuclear projects indefinitely to
focus on traditional and renewable sources.  China , the world’s biggest energy consumer, will cut its
2020 target for nuclear power capacity and build more solar
farms following Japan’s atomic crisis, an official at the
National Development and Reform Commission said last month.  Germany may increase its annual solar installation target
to 5 gigawatts from the current 3.5 gigawatts, according to
 estimates  at research firm IHS ISuppli. Japan’s accident may
also lead to a review of Italy’s plan to cut incentives for
solar-panel buyers from June, the researcher said.  Cheaper Power  For Toshiba, Japan’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors,
atomic energy still has the edge over other power sources.  “Even if we hypothetically say an accident occurs once in
every 30 years and that we need to consider the cost for
radiation leak problems, we’re also left with an issue of
reducing carbon dioxide,” Toshiba President Norio Sasaki said
in Tokyo last week. “Nuclear power will remain as a strong
option.”  Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi said April 6 residents’
concerns won’t derail Japan’s plans to seek more nuclear power.  “It surely has become harder to get the backing of
residents to build a nuclear plant,” Nakanishi said. “It’s not
possible for Japan to totally eliminate the usage of nuclear
power.”  Power Subsidies  Electricity from coal costs about 7 cents a kilowatt hour,
compared with 6 cents for natural gas and 22.3 cents for solar
photovoltaic energy in the final quarter of last year, according
to New Energy Finance estimates. The cost of nuclear power is
similar to that of coal, according to Japan’s Agency for Natural
Resources and Energy.  Installing a 2.4-kilowatt household solar system  costs 
about 1.57 million yen ($19,000), though consumers in Tokyo can
receive subsidies of as much as 408,000 yen, according to Tokuya
Co., a home improvement contractor.  That’s still too expensive for Hirai, the housewife from
Omaezaki, who says she’s willing to spend 500,000 yen for peace
of mind. The government should increase subsidies so people can
afford installing solar panels at home, she said.  “I’m all for solar power systems, but they’re too
expensive,” Hirai said. “Someone needs to do something.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  