-- 
South Africa Names Lungisa Fuzile as National Treasury’s Director-General

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-20T13:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/south-africa-names-lungisa-fuzile-as-national-treasury-s-director-general.html
South Africa  named Lungisa Fuzile,
in charge of government borrowing, as director-general of the
National Treasury to replace Lesetja Kganyago, who will become
deputy governor at the central bank.  Fuzile, 44, will assume his new post from May 16, Finance
Minister Pravin Gordhan told reporters in the capital, Pretoria,
today.  As head of assets and liability management, Fuzile is well-
known to investors, leading the sale of the country’s global
bonds and helping to negotiate a $3.75 billion World Bank loan
for Eskom Holdings Ltd., the state-owned power utility. Fuzile
first joined the Treasury in 1998 and became deputy director-
general in charge of government borrowing when Phakamani Hadebe
was appointed interim chief executive officer at the state-owned
 Land Bank  in 2008.  “I’m inheriting a very big, complex institution, with an
excellent reputation for doing excellent things,” Fuzile told
reporters today. “The first challenge is to sustain that
reputation.” Referring to the government’s economic growth
plans, Fuzile said the “Treasury has to engage with that, given
the task we have to help Cabinet with the allocation of
resources. We have to make sure our processes talk to that.”  Reserve Bank   Kganyago, 45, will join the Reserve Bank on May 16 as the
third deputy under Governor  Gill Marcus . He became director-
general of the Treasury in 2004.  Fuzile lectured at the University of Natal and joined
 Statistics South Africa  as a statistician before being appointed
to the Treasury.  “It’s a credible appointment,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a
phone interview today. “It’s somebody investors do know in his
former role as head of assets and liability management. All of
this will resound positively with investors. It will reassure
them that in terms of the institutional strength of the
Treasury, that’s still intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 