-- 
South African Retail Sales Growth Unexpectedly Slows to 5.6% in February

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-20T12:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/south-african-retail-sales-growth-slows-unexpectedly-to-5-6-in-february.html
South African retail sales growth
unexpectedly slowed for a second month in February as rising
prices curtailed  consumer spending .  Sales growth dropped to 5.6 percent from a revised 6.3
percent in January, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said
on its website today. The median estimate of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.1 percent.  “Rising income will support consumer spending in the
months ahead,” Nedbank Group Ltd.,  South Africa ’s fourth-
largest bank, said in e-mailed comments from Johannesburg.
“However, consumers face greater uncertainty, including the
possibility of an early interest-rate hike and even higher
petrol prices, which could put a damper on spending.”  Inflation accelerated to a nine-month high of 4.1 percent
in March as food and fuel prices climbed, the statistics agency
said earlier today. The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest
rate three times to 5.5 percent last year to help support the
economy’s recovery. The bank left the rate unchanged on March
24, as price pressures increased and growth picked up pace.  “The upside risk to our interest-rate forecast has
increased over the past month,” Nedbank said. “The Reserve
Bank may opt to react preemptively, hiking rates in the second
half of the year. We believe this would do little to contain
inflation and risks curbing the economic recovery. As a result,
the Reserve Bank is only forecast to raise interest rates in
January 2012.”  Retailers’ Reports  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South Africa’s second-biggest
grocer, said on April 18 that sales rose 5.9 percent to 51.9
billion rand ($7.6 billion) in the year through February.
Foschini Ltd., a clothing retailer, said on the same day that
its per-share earnings for the year through March were expected
to be from 19 percent to 22 percent higher than the previous
year. Both companies are based in  Cape Town .  The Retailer Liaison Committee said on March 18 that retail
sales increased an annual 10.7 percent in February. The
Johannesburg-based industry body’s data aren’t adjusted for
inflation and don’t usually tally with those of the statistics
agency, which surveys more companies and uses a different
methodology.  The rand pared earlier gains after the release of the
retail data. The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy traded 0.5
percent stronger at 6.7932 per dollar at 1:58 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Earlier, it strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to
6.7640.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  