-- 
Southern Sudan’s Unity State Expels Northern Oil Workers, Minister Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-04-20T20:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/southern-sudan-s-unity-state-expels-northern-oil-workers-minister-says.html
Southern Sudan ’s oil-rich Unity
state ordered the expulsion of all northern Sudanese workers
from oilfields in the region over the Khartoum administration’s
alleged support for southern militias, said Gideon Datpan, the
state’s information minister.  After the directive was issued, 130 workers left the Unity
field, Datpan said by phone today from the state capital,
Bentiu. The order will remain in effect until  Sudan ’s president,
Umar al-Bashir, halts his alleged support for “militias in the
south,” he said. Al-Bashir’s government denies the allegations.  Southern Sudan, which voted to secede from Sudan in a
referendum in January, accounts for 75 percent of Sudan’s daily
oil production of 490,000 barrels. It is scheduled to be
declared independent on July 9.  The northern and southern halves have not yet agreed on the
status of the citizens residing in the two regions. This is the
first expulsion order by either government.  The removal of the workers would be “a gross violation of
the peace agreement,” Rabie Abdel Ati, senior member in al-
Bashir’s  National Congress Party  and an adviser to the
information minister, said today by phone from Khartoum, the
capital. The 2005 accord ended a two-decade civil war between
the mostly Muslim north and the south, where traditional
religions and Christianity predominate.  The Unity and nearby Heglig fields, which is in northern-
held territory and where the expelled workers were sent, are
operated by the  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and 40
percent owned by state-owned  China National Petroleum Corp.   The northern workers are necessary to keep Unity state’s
oilfields in operation, George Odyoro,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd ’s liaison officer in the southern capital of Juba,
said by phone today. The Malaysian company, known as Petronas,
owns a 30 percent stake of Greater Nile.  “Production will stop, the whole thing will stop,” Odyoro
said. “It will hurt both sides, both governments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 