-- 
South Sudan Army Clashes With New Rebel Group in Unity State

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-04-20T09:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/southern-sudan-s-army-clashes-with-new-insurgent-movement-in-unity-state.html
Southern Sudan ’s army clashed with
a new rebel group yesterday in oil-rich Unity state, spokesmen
for the army and the insurgents said.  The fighting started when a convoy of trucks hit landmines
on the road between Mayom and Abiemnhom counties in the state,
 Southern Sudan ’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer, said today by
phone from Juba, the regional capital. One vehicle was destroyed
and a driver killed, he said.  Bol Gatkouth Kol, spokesman for the rebel group known as
the South Sudan Liberation Army, said by phone today that his
forces attacked the village of Boang in Mayom County and killed
dozens of government soldiers. Aguer said the government army
repelled the attack and couldn’t provide casualty figures.  The violence adds to a series of conflicts that have
overshadowed the oil-rich region’s preparations for independence
in July. Fighting has killed at least 800 people this year and
displaced 93,783 in the region, the  United Nations  said on April
13.  The SSLA rebel group is led Peter Gadet, a former Southern
 Sudan  army commander from Mayom County. It announced its
formation on April 11 by issuing a  declaration  accusing the
regional government of corruption and failing to halt a
breakdown in law and order.  Independence  Southern Sudan voted in January to secede from Khartoum in
a referendum that was the centerpiece of a  peace agreement 
signed in 2005, ending a two-decade civil war between the Muslim
north and the south, where traditional religions and
Christianity predominate.  “The only reason we were keeping quiet this long was so the
referendum could take place,” said rebel spokesman Kol, a former
member of parliament.  At independence, the region will assume control of about
three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000
barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil reserves as of
January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy Information
Administration .  The authorities in Southern Sudan say the group is backed
by President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and that
Gadet is mobilizing a northern nomadic tribe, the Misseriya, to
fight with his forces in Unity state.  “We have information that the Misseriya are involved in
this fighting,” Aguer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 