-- 
South African Inflation Accelerated to an Annual 4.1% on Food, Fuel Prices

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-20T09:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/south-african-inflation-accelerated-to-annual-4-1-in-march-on-food-fuel.html
South African inflation accelerated
to a nine-month high of 4.1 percent in March as food and fuel
prices climbed, adding to pressure on the central bank to raise
interest rates from a 30-year low.  The inflation rate rose from 3.7 percent in February, the
Pretoria-based statistics office said on its  website  today. The
median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
the rate to increase to 4 percent. Prices advanced 1.2 percent
in the month.  The Reserve Bank, which left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent in March, is monitoring to determine
whether rising food and fuel prices are pushing up costs more
broadly in the economy, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said on
April 16. While the bank expects inflation to remain inside its
3 percent to 6 percent target range until the end of 2012, there
are “significant upside risks” to the outlook, he said.  “Higher food and fuel prices are likely to be the dominant
inflationary theme over the next few months,” said  Carmen Altenkirch , an economist at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg.
“The upside to our interest-rate forecast has increased over
the past month. The Reserve Bank may opt to react pre-emptively,
hiking rates in the second half of the year.”  The rand was at 6.7805 against the dollar as of 11:16 a.m.
in Johannesburg from 6.7883 before the data was released. The
yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, was unchanged at
7.66 percent.  Gasoline Prices  The government boosted gasoline prices by 5.7 percent this
month and 4.8 percent in March. White corn, a staple food in
 South Africa , has surged 31 percent on the South  Africa  Futures
Exchange in the past six months.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its key rate three times last year to
spur growth in Africa’s biggest economy, which the bank expects
to expand 3.7 percent this year.  Consumers are starting to benefit from lower interest
rates, with retail sales probably increasing an annual 7.1
percent in February from 6.4 percent in the previous month,
according to the median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The statistics office is due to publish the data at 1
p.m. local time today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 