-- 
Sugar, Wheat Export Bans May Ease as India Predicts Normal Rain

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-04-20T00:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/sugar-wheat-export-bans-may-ease-as-india-predicts-normal-rain.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
sugar and wheat producer, may ease restrictions on exports as
the nation receives normal monsoon rainfall for a second year,
according to Agrocorp International Pte.  Rain will be 98 percent of the 50-year average in the June-
September season, the  India Meteorological Department  said
yesterday. The bureau defines normal precipitation as 96 percent
to 104 percent of the long-term average.  The rain may boost production of rice, wheat, corn and
lentils to a record for a second year, spurring exports and
capping global food prices that the United Nations estimates
advanced to a record in February. India’s 235 million farmers
depend on rain for irrigating crops. Agriculture makes up a
fifth of the economy and a bumper harvest will boost rural
incomes, lifting sales of tractors, cars and refrigerators.  “The government will consider lifting the ban on exports”
of wheat, Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp
International, a Singapore-based commodity trading company, said
by phone yesterday. “There are huge stocks and a storage
problem is also there.”  The country banned shipments of wheat in early 2007 and
non-basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster domestic supplies.
State reserves of rice and wheat totaled 44.2 million tons on
April 1, more than double the emergency stockpile requirement,
according to the Food Corp. of India.  A panel of ministers will decide whether to allow overseas
sales, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said on April 11.  More Sugar  An increase in sugar output may boost shipments and higher
oilseeds output may trim overseas purchases of  palm oil ,
Agrocorp’s Iyengar said. India is the world’s biggest palm oil
importer and buys the cooking oil from Indonesia and  Malaysia ,
the largest producers.  India, the second-largest sugar grower, may produce at
least 5 percent more refined sugar in the year that begins Oct.
1,  Vinay Kumar , managing director of the National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., said on April 13. The
government yesterday set rules for shipment of 500,000 tons of
sugar over the next 4-1/2 months.  Production of food grains from rice to wheat, lentils and
corn is estimated to climb 8 percent to a record 235.88 million
metric tons in the year ending June after a normal monsoon last
year, Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said April 6. That may
prompt the government to lift bans on exports of wheat and non-
basmati rice, Citigroup Inc. said on April 11.  Monsoon ‘Crucial’  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is betting on normal rains to
tame food inflation after it averaged 18 percent in 2010.
India’s benchmark wholesale-price index advanced 8.98 percent in
March from a year earlier after an 8.31 percent gain in February,
the commerce ministry said on April 15.  The monsoon will be “crucial this year both from the
inflation perspective” as well as a driver of growth,  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at  Standard Chartered  Plc, said
by phone yesterday. “If we don’t have a good monsoon, the
higher commodity prices globally, plus higher food prices will
push up inflation significantly.”  Sowing of monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting
starts in September. The monsoon typically sets over the
southern  Kerala  state by the first week of June and before
blanketing the entire nation by July 15. Actual rainfall may be
5 percent more, or less than the 98 percent predicted, the
bureau said yesterday.  Rainfall last year was 102 percent of the 50-year average,
boosting water levels in dams. Growth is moderating and “if the
monsoon turns out to be bad, then the rural consumption which is
very important can be hit too,” Standard Chartered’s Sahay said.
“It’s very closely watched by the policy makers.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has increased rates eight times
since March 2010, while factory output advanced 3.6 percent in
February from a year ago, down from a gain of 15.1 percent in
the same month last year, the government said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  