-- 
Sweden’s Riksbank Increases Benchmark Rate a Sixth Time to Limit Inflation

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-20T08:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/sweden-s-riksbank-raises-rate-a-sixth-time-to-limit-inflation.html
Sweden ’s central bank raised its
benchmark repo rate for a sixth time since July, and kept a
forecast for coming increases unchanged, as it seeks to cap
inflation in the European Union’s fastest-growing economy.  The seven-day repo rate was raised a quarter of a
percentage point to 1.75 percent, the Stockholm-based Riksbank
said today, as was expected by all 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank also kept its rate forecast unchanged at an
average 2.5 percent in the first quarter of next year and 3.2
percent in the first three months of 2013.  “The Swedish economy is continuing to grow at a good pace
and the labor market is improving steadily,” the bank said.
“Underlying inflation is still low in Sweden, but is expected
to rise as the rate of wage increase accelerates and the spare
capacity in the economy declines.”  Sweden’s economy may grow more than twice as fast as the
average for the 27-member European Union in 2011, as a second
year of recovery pushes down unemployment and fuels consumer
spending, the government said last week. The revival has
outpaced the central bank’s forecasts and Swedish headline
inflation reached 2.9 percent last month, exceeding the 2
percent target for a fourth month.  Inflation Raised  The bank raised its forecast for inflation to 3.2 percent
this year from a 2.5 percent prediction in February and its
forecast for next year to 2.8 percent from 2.1 percent.
Underlying inflation, which adjusts for mortgage costs, is
expected at 1.6 percent in 2011 and 1.7 percent in 2012.  The rate forecast implies another three quarter-point
increases this year to 2.5 percent, said Michael Grahn, an
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in  Stockholm .  Nordea Bank AB today said it sees a “clear upside risk”
to the rate forecast, in a note to clients. “Many domestic
factors, such as increasing resource utilization, upcoming wage
round and rising inflation expectations, suggest a tighter
policy,” Andreas Jonsson, an economist, said in the note.  The krona rose 0.2 percent against the euro to 8.8992 at
10:23 a.m. in Stockholm. It strengthened 1 percent to 6.1626
against the dollar.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said in the minutes of the
bank’s last meeting he can’t rule out raising rates at all
remaining meetings this year, boosting the krona and making it
this year’s best-performing major currency against the dollar,
the euro and the yen.  Upward Momentum  “The momentum both in the economy and  interest rates  is
clearly upwards and we suspect that the krona will continue to
strengthen,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , in a note.  Sweden’s economy grew 5.5 percent last year and will
probably expand 4.6 percent in 2011, 2.3 percent in 2012 and 2.5
percent in 2013, the bank estimates. Unemployment will fall to
7.3 percent this year and 6.7 percent in 2012, from 8.4 percent
last year, it said.  Still, underlying inflation has slowed, easing pressure on
the bank to pick up the pace of tightening. Deputy Governors
Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson today again opposed
higher rates and the rate forecast, arguing for slower increases
at first and then a rate rising to about 3.9 percent at the end
of the forecast period in 2014, higher than the main forecast.  Underlying inflation, or CPIF, was 1.5 percent last month.  Credit Growth  “Such a repo rate path implies CPIF inflation closer to 2
percent and a faster reduction of unemployment toward a longer-
run sustainable rate,” they said, according to the Riksbank’s
statement.  The bank is also trying to stem credit-market imbalances
after property prices exceeded a pre-crisis peak. The rate
increases and a cap on mortgage lending have started to work.
Lending rose an annual 7.5 percent in February, down from as
high as 9 percent last year. Swedish  house prices  fell 1 percent
in the three months through March from the prior quarter,
 Statistics Sweden  said on April 15. Prices rose 3 percent in the
year, the office said.  “A gradually increasing repo rate may also help to slow
down the growth of household borrowing,” the Riksbank said
today.  The economic rebound, driven by an export sector that’s
benefited from emerging-market demand, will help the government
deliver a  budget surplus  this year. That’s allowing Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt to plan a sixth round of tax cuts at
a time when other European governments are slashing costs to
counter deficits.  The largest Nordic economy will expand 4.6 percent this
year, compared with the 4.8 percent predicted last month, the
government said last week. Output will grow 3.8 percent in 2012
and 3.6 percent in 2013, it estimates, raising March forecasts.  The government’s outlook assumes the central bank’s
benchmark rate will average 2.25 percent this year, 3.25 percent
next year and 3.75 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  