-- 
Swiss Too-Big-to-Fail Proposals to Benefit Economy, Report Says

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-04-20T11:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/swiss-too-big-to-fail-proposals-to-benefit-economy-report-says.html
Swiss too-big-to-fail proposals for
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  bring long-term economic
benefits that outweigh potential costs, the government said.  While stricter regulation may curb profit at the country’s
two biggest banks, “these effects will be overcompensated as
the measures will remove costly market failures, thus increasing
overall economic welfare,” the government said in a study
published on its website today.  Swiss rule makers want UBS and Credit Suisse, which each
have assets more than twice the size of the Alpine economy, to
hoard capital to cut the risk of an Icelandic-style collapse.
The net benefit of tighter regulation could amount to between 1
percent and 2 percent of gross domestic product, the government
said, citing studies by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and the Financial Stability Board.  Should UBS and Credit Suisse curb lending, the gap will be
filled by smaller financial firms, which would also provide
competition on  interest rates , the government said.  Switzerland  rescued UBS in 2008, investing 6 billion Swiss
francs ($6.7 billion) to help the bank spin off $39 billion of
toxic assets into a Swiss central bank fund. Credit Suisse
declined government assistance.  The planned abolition of a tax on bond sales, to facilitate
the issue of so-called contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos,
would cut government revenue by 217 million francs, the report
said.  The Swiss government proposed requiring Credit Suisse and
larger rival UBS to hold capital equal to at least 19 percent of
their assets, weighted according to risk. The banks can use
CoCos, which automatically become equity when capital falls
below preset levels, to satisfy almost half the requirement
under the proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  