-- 
Swiss Probe Browder’s Money-Laundering Allegations Linked to Russian Fraud

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-04-21T08:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/swiss-probe-browder-s-money-laundering-allegations-linked-to-russian-fraud.html
Switzerland  has opened a money-
laundering probe at the request of Hermitage Capital Management
Ltd., the first criminal investigation outside Russia linked to
the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow prison.  The allegations involving a former Russian tax official are
the most recent lodged by Hermitage founder  William Browder  as
he asks authorities around the world to sanction officials he
blames for Magnitsky’s death. The lawyer, who alleged Interior
Ministry officials fraudulently collected a $230 million  tax
refund  using documents seized from Hermitage, died in 2009 after
a year in pre-trial detention.  “It’s been impossible to get any kind of real criminal
investigation in Russia,” Browder said yesterday by phone.
“It’s highly significant that a Western law enforcement agency
is taking this seriously and is launching an investigation.”  According to Hermitage, once the largest foreign investor
in  Russia , Olga Stepanova authorized $155 million of the tax
rebates in 2007 as head of Moscow Tax Inspectorate No. 28. Since
then, at least $38 million flowed through bank accounts opened
on behalf of companies incorporated by Stepanova’s husband,
partly to buy homes in Dubai, Montenegro and Russia, London-
based Hermitage alleged in a Jan. 28 letter to the Swiss
Attorney General and Credit Suisse AG.  $38,381 Average Income  The couple’s average declared income from 2006 through 2009
was $38,381 a year, according to Russian income declarations
included in Hermitage’s filing with the Swiss authorities.  “The Office of the Attorney General of Switzerland
confirms having officially launched a criminal investigation in
respect of suspected  money laundering ,” spokeswoman Jeanette
Balmer said yesterday in an e-mail after she was asked about the
Hermitage letter. “The investigation relates to persons
unknown,” she said, declining to release further details.  Stepanova, now an adviser to the head of Russia’s arms
procurement agency didn’t respond to e-mailed, faxed and phone
requests for comment submitted to the agency’s press service
yesterday. Her husband, Vladlen Stepanov, an employee of Moscow-
based OOO Volsstroy, is on vacation until mid-May, according to
a person who answered the company’s phone and said she would
pass on a reporter’s contact number.  ‘Sound Control Framework’  Credit Suisse declined to comment on the specifics of
Hermitage’s allegations, saying the bank complies with “all
applicable laws,” including those related to money laundering.  “We are confident that we have a sound control framework
with the necessary internal policies,” the Zurich-based bank
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  has made fighting corruption one
of his key objectives as he seeks to attract foreign investors
to help reduce Russia’s reliance on energy exports. Lawmakers in
the European Union and the U.S. are seeking to sanction the
officials accused of involvement in Magnitsky’s death and the
 tax fraud  with visa bans and asset freezes, including Stepanova.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released in October. It ranked 154th among 178
countries, tied with Tajikistan and  Kenya .  Hermitage, which once had assets of $4 billion in Russia,
says Interior Ministry officials seized documents from its
Moscow offices in June 2007 that enabled them to re-register
ownership of its three Russian funds and fraudulently claim $230
million in tax rebates on Dec. 24, 2007.  Targeting Browder  Hermitage filed a criminal complaint and Magnitsky
testified in the case before he was detained on  tax evasion 
charges. Magnitsky, 37, died in November 2009 after 358 days 
in pre-trial detention during which he said he was abused and 
denied medical care to force him to drop the fraud allegations.  Alexander Bastrykin, who heads the Investigative Committee
of the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office, said in a September
2010 interview with  Rossiiskaya Gazeta , the government’s
official newspaper, that there was “no reason” to believe
Magnitsky’s death was connected to those prosecuting the
criminal case against him.  The Interior Ministry said in November that Magnitsky
himself orchestrated the tax fraud on Hermitage’s instructions.  Russia in 2009 put Browder on its international wanted
list, saying he and Magnitsky participated in a tax evasion that
deprived the government of more than 500 million rubles.
Browder, an American who lives in  London , has been barred from
entering Russia since 2005.  Dubai, Montenegro  Since the tax refunds at the heart of the Magnitsky case
were authorized, Stepanova’s husband has acquired three
properties valued at $7 million in Dubai’s Palm Jumeirah
development and a seaside villa in Montenegro priced at $700,000
with money wired through Credit Suisse accounts, Hermitage said
in a separate letter to the investigative committee.  A $20 million property outside Moscow is registered in the
name of Stepanov’s 85-year-old mother, according to Hermitage.  Browder said he obtained the Credit Suisse bank statements
from a person close to Stepanova and information on the property
transactions from real estate records.  Russia’s Federal Tax Service said it reprimanded Stepanova
for professional misconduct after an internal investigation into
4.4 billion rubles ($157 million) of “suspicious” value-added
tax rebates approved by her office in 2010. Stepanova resigned
in January, the Tax Service’s press office said.  A criminal investigation is underway into the VAT rebates
based on a complaint filed by the tax authority, said Andrei
Pilipchuk, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry’s economic
crimes unit, in a phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  