-- 
Syrian Cabinet’s Backing for End to Emergency Rule Fails to Quell Unrest

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-20T16:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/syrian-cabinet-s-backing-for-end-to-emergency-rule-fails-to-quell-unrest.html
The Syrian Cabinet’s backing for a
draft decree ending a 48-year-old state of emergency failed to
persuade anti-government protesters to end their challenge to
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  Security forces arrested demonstrators near al-Rahman
mosque in the port city of Latakia, and rallies were under way
in the central city of Homs, the scene of deadly clashes this
week, Damascus-based human-rights activist Razan Zaitouneh said
on her Facebook page. Today’s dissent included a student protest
in the southwestern province of Daraa, a flashpoint in the
unrest that started in mid-March, she said.  Assad was to issue the decree ending emergency rule today,
 Al Watan newspaper  reported. The Cabinet also approved draft
bills to dissolve the Supreme State Security Court and regulate
the right to protest, Information Minister Adnan Mahmoud said
yesterday in a televised speech. The measures need the approval
of the president or parliament to become law, former lawmaker
George Jabbour said in a telephone interview.  The Interior Ministry yesterday announced a ban on street
protests in Syria, the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit
by the wave of uprisings that ousted long-time rulers in Egypt
and  Tunisia , and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Syria is an
ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon, where it
supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim group.  The moves by the  Council of Ministers  “will reinforce
security and will protect the dignity of the citizens,” Mahmoud
said. The draft law on the right to protest “is similar to
those in place in most countries of the world, particularly in
European countries and the  United States ,” he said.  Students Arrested  There were also demonstrations today in Swaida and in
Halab, where witnesses said 37 students were arrested, Al
Arabiya television reported.  Assad will issue a decree today approving the lifting of
the emergency law,  Al Watan , which is close to the regime,
reported, citing an unidentified senior official. The law won’t
be replaced by a special anti-terrorism law and the existing
general punishment law will apply to terrorism crimes, the
privately run newspaper said. Assad will also issue a decree
dissolving the Supreme State Security Court and another on the
organization of peaceful rallies,  Al Watan  said.  “The number of deaths and injuries suffered by protesters
at the hands of the security forces in the past month has
angered and galvanized the opposition to demand much more than
the modest reforms they initially wanted, some even calling for
regime change,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in  London , said yesterday. “The formal ending
of emergency law is unlikely to satisfy protesters unless it is
accompanied by a marked change in the behavior of the security
services.”  Deaths Nationwide  Demonstrations broke out in mid-March, prompting a
government crackdown that led to scores of deaths across the
country. Assad ordered his ministers to prepare the legal
framework for scrapping the state of emergency in a speech on
April 16, without referring to the protesters’ other demands,
including the release of political prisoners.  At least 18 protesters have died in clashes at anti-
government rallies since Assad’s April 16 address, Ammar Qurabi,
head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for Human Rights , said by
phone from Cairo yesterday. He said security forces yesterday
broke up a sit-in Homs, home to one of the country’s two oil
refineries, causing at least one death.  Agence France-Presse  put
the death toll yesterday in Homs at four.  Opponent Arrested  Syrian authorities yesterday arrested Mahmoud Issa, a
prominent opposition figure and former prisoner, after he gave
an interview to  al-Jazeera , activist Mazen Darwish said in a
phone interview today.  The Interior Ministry yesterday accused “criminal gangs”
of killing a general and three of his relatives, as well as a
colonel and a soldier, in two separate attacks in Homs,
according to the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency .  At least 130 people have been killed in the unrest,
according to  Human Rights Watch . The New York-based organization
says Syrian forces have tortured protesters and that it is
impossible to verify how many remain in detention. Activists say
the number killed exceeds 200.  Britain advised its nationals today to consider leaving
Syria because of the continued protests. U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told Sky News after the Cabinet’s approval of the
draft decree that Assad “still has much more to do to meet the
legitimate aspirations of the people of his country.”  Foreigners Accused  The turmoil has posed the most serious challenge to Assad,
who inherited power from his father 11 years ago. He has accused
foreign-led conspirators of taking advantage of the unrest to
undermine Syria, mostly due to its support for anti-Israel
groups.  Assad’s Baath party, which has been in power since 1963,
has blamed the violence on terrorists.  Baath’s assistant secretary-general, Mohammad Saeed
Bkhaitan, told officials from the party that there will be no
tolerance for “terrorists” and that “events have proved that
tolerance and forgiveness don’t pay off with the enemies of the
nation and those lurking against the security and stability
Syria enjoys,”  SANA  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 