-- 
U.A.E. Says Gulf Power Grid May Save $5 Billion in Costs

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-20T10:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-a-e-says-gulf-power-grid-may-save-5-billion-in-costs-1-.html
A regional  power grid  project in
the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council may save participating
countries 18.4 billion dirhams ($5 billion) in electricity
costs, the  United Arab Emirates  said.  The U.A.E., which today linked to the grid’s existing
members Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar, has contributed
800 million dirhams to the 5 billion-dirham project, it said in
a statement today in  Abu Dhabi . The participation of the final
member Oman has been delayed from this year and it will now join
within two years, according to Essa al-Kuwari, chairman of the
 GCC Interconnection Authority .  The Gulf states, where summer temperatures can reach 50
degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit), are boosting power output to
support industrial expansion and growing populations. Persian
Gulf oil producers need to produce more electricity to sustain
regional growth averaging about 10 percent a year,  Jarmo
Kotilaine , chief economist at National Commercial Bank in
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, said last month.  ‘Far Ahead’  “If you look at the annual growth rate of electricity
consumption in the Gulf, it is far ahead of the average increase
elsewhere in the world,” U.A.E. Oil Minister Mohamed al-Hamli
told reporters today. While domestic demand is high during
summer, “in winter, we have a lot of spare capacity, we can
even export,” he said.  The Arab League is carrying out a study about the
possibility of connecting to the rest of the Middle East
countries including North Africa, said al-Kuwari, who is also
the president of Qatar General Electricity & Water Corp.  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest Arab economy, is undertaking a separate
study with the  World Bank  about connecting the grid to  Europe ,
he said.  Saudi Arabia can give and receive 1,200 megawatts, the
U.A.E. 900 megawatts and Qatar 750 megawatts. Nations are now
negotiating to sell power to each other starting from next year
and will be penalized in future if they don’t maintain a minimum
reserve level to support their neighbors in an emergency, al-
Kuwari said.  Oman, which was initially supposed to join the grid through
the U.A.E., will now join the network directly, al-Kuwari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Kuwait at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  