-- 
U.K. Crown Jewels to Help Amsterdam’s Royal Asscher Sell Diamonds in China

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-04-20T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-k-crown-jewels-to-help-royal-asscher-sell-diamonds-in-china.html
Royal Asscher Diamond Co. , which
cut stones set in Britain’s Crown Jewels, will open stores in
China, competing with the Tiffany and Cartier brands as jewelry
demand and production grow in the world’s most-populous nation.  Amsterdam-based Royal Asscher plans to have an outlet in
Beijing by the end of this year and eventually expand to at
least four locations in China with Hong Kong-based partner
 Sparkle Roll Group Ltd. (970) , said Mike Asscher, head of business
development in  Asia  and son of President Edward Asscher.  “Brand image is everything in China, and we have a very
strong story,” said Asscher, a member of the founding family’s
sixth generation. King Edward VII in 1907 asked his great-great-
grandfather, Joseph Asscher, to cut the 3,106-carat “Cullinan
Diamond,” the largest rough diamond ever found, to make the
centerpieces of the British crown and scepter.  China’s spending on luxury clothes, bags, shoes, watches,
jewelry, cosmetics and perfume probably rose 23 percent to 84
billion yuan ($12.8 billion) last year, consultants Bain & Co.
 estimate . Chinese demand helped boost polished diamond prices 10
percent last year, according to  Rapaport Group , a provider of
diamond prices. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA’s Cartier has 34
stores in the country and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  has 14.  Tiffany has gained 30 percent in the year through April 19
in New York trading. Geneva-based Richemont, the world’s largest
jewelry maker and owner of brands including Chloe, Montblanc,
Piaget and Shanghai Tang, climbed 31 percent in the same period.  China Expertise  Underpinning Asscher’s expansion is a jump in expertise and
technology in China for cutting and polishing gem-quality
stones, typified by  Beijing Huapu Diamond Ltd ., which turns as
much as 35 percent of the Dutch company’s rough diamonds into
jewels.  “The quality of workmanship there is now among the best in
the world,” said Asscher in an interview at the Peninsula Hotel
in  Tokyo . He said 55 percent of work is also done in  Russia ,
while stones larger than 2 carats are usually polished by the
company’s most experienced craftsmen in Amsterdam.  Polishing quality in China has improved over the past 10
years as much of the work has become automated using computer-
guided lasers, said Russell Shor, senior analyst at the
 Gemological Institute of America . “China has the expertise and
equipment now” to produce high-quality cuts, he said.  While 90 percent of diamonds sold globally are cut in
 India , those stones are typically 1.5 carats or less, he said. A
carat is one-fifth of a gram.  Royal Wedding  The wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton , scheduled
for April 29, has increased interest in merchandise related to
Britain’s royal family. The occasion may boost U.K. retailers’
sales by 527 million pounds ($862 million) as consumers
commemorate the occasion, Kelkoo shopping website  said  March 15.  China has 960,000 people with personal wealth of at least
10 million yuan each, 9.7 percent more than last year, according
to the  Hurun Report , the researchers who track the richest
people in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The
nation’s luxury consumer is now No. 1 in either market share or
growth, Hurun Report Chairman  Rupert Hoogewerf  said April 12.  Closely held Beijing Huapu polishes stones for 15 clients
including top-tier European, American and Japanese jewelers,
said the company’s owner, Zevi Klausner. He declined to name
other customers, citing client confidentiality.  Beijing Huapu’s factory in the Tianzhu Export Processing
Zone employs 230 workers handling diamonds, according to the
company’s website.  Labor Costs  Workers are paid between $300 a month to $900 a month,
depending on experience and skill, said Klausner, who spent 25
years working in the diamond industry in  Belgium . Labor costs
didn’t drive Royal Asscher’s move to China, Asscher said.  Inside the factory, staff work with computers that guide
diamond powder-coated steel polishing wheels revolving 2,500
times a minute. “You can only polish diamonds with diamonds,”
Klausner said.  One of the most difficult shapes to master is the  Royal
Asscher cut , said Zhang Chunhua, the top polisher at the
facility responsible for bottom halves of “fancy shape” cuts.
Each facet requires as much as two hours of precision work and
only workers with at least five years’ experience are allowed to
work on the Dutch company’s signature shape, which has 74
facets, compared with 58 in the most popular round cut.  Reduced to Tears  “I’ve known workers who’ve quit because the requirements
are so strict,” Zhang said, speaking through an interpreter as
his co-workers played table tennis in the break area. With up to
60 days needed for a single stone, about double the time spent
on round cuts, others have been reduced to tears, Klausner said.  Before being sent to store displays, finished diamonds are
shipped back to Amsterdam for final quality control, Asscher
said.  Founded in 1854, Royal Asscher is entering  China  later than
competitors. Tiffany opened its first store in the Asian nation
in 2001 and Cartier in 1997. Cartier was the most preferred
jewelry brand of Chinese millionaires, according to Hurun Report
 last year .  Closely held Royal Asscher lacks the brand awareness
enjoyed by larger global competitors, GIA’s Shor said. Still,
“they have a good differentiated product that is difficult to
replicate and a strong history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Shanghai at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  