-- 
U.K. Stocks Jump the Most Since December as Miners, ARM Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-20T16:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-k-stocks-jump-the-most-since-january-as-miners-arm-rally.html
U.K. stocks climbed the most in
four months as mining companies rallied with metal prices and
earnings from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, sent
 ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s shares higher.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  all
jumped more than 3 percent in London. ARM, the U.K. designer of
chips that help power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, jumped 5.7 percent.
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  climbed 3.9 percent after reporting
an increase in profit.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  advanced 125.39, or 2.1 percent, to
6,022.26 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London as all but seven of
the gauge’s companies climbed. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 2
percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.5 percent.  “Traders have bought back into commodity stocks, having
seen the price of metals and oil gain over 1 percent,” said
Joshua Raymond, a London-based market strategist at  City Index .
“Better-than-expected first-quarter figures from Intel have
given a broad lift to most technology stocks.”  The benchmark FTSE 100 has recouped all of its losses from
April 18’s selloff after Standard & Poor’s cut its outlook for
the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S. to negative.
Since hitting its 2011 low on March 16, the U.K. gauge has
rebounded 7.6 percent.  Xstrata, which is trading without the right to its latest
dividend, rallied 5.5 percent to 1,530 pence when accounting for
the lost payment. Vedanta, the largest copper producer in India,
gained 3.1 percent to 2,338 pence and Antofagasta, owner of
copper mines in Chile, increased 5.5 percent to 1,390 pence.  Copper, Aluminum Rally  Copper led base metals higher on the London Metal Exchange
as Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. suspended operations at
its Grasberg mine in Indonesia, exacerbating this year’s
expected shortfall. Aluminum jumped to a 32-month high as China
moved to curb production overcapacity.  Mining companies also advanced as gold extended its record-
breaking rally to top $1,500 an ounce after the dollar weakened,
prompting some investors to seek bullion as a store of value.  Ferrexpo Plc (FXPO)  jumped 5.7 percent to 464 pence amid
speculation Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, may
make a takeover approach.  The “shares rose late in the session as rumors swirled
that it may be on the receiving end of a 700 pence bid from
Vale,” said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at Securequity Ltd. in
Sheffield, England. “It is unlikely.”  Ingrid Boon, head of  investor relations  at Ferrexpo,
couldn’t be reached when Bloomberg called her office. A Vale
spokesperson in Rio de Janerio also declined to comment.  ARM Advances  ARM jumped 5.7 percent to 608 pence, pacing European chip
companies higher, after Intel forecast second-quarter sales of
$12.8 billion. Analysts had predicted revenue of $11.9 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reckitt Benckiser rallied 3.9 percent to 3,302 pence after
the maker of Nurofen painkillers reported stronger first-quarter
profit than analysts estimated.  Net income rose 2 percent to 355 million pounds ($582
million), more than the 329.4 million-pound average estimate of
five analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained 14 percent to
2.28 billion pounds as the company sold more personal-care
products including Dettol handwash.  Home Retail Climbs  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , which lowered its forecast for
pretax profit five weeks ago, surged 5.5 percent to 220.8 pence.
The owner of store chains Argos and Homebase reported a 13
percent drop in so-called benchmark pretax profit to 254 million
pounds for the full year. That beat the average analyst estimate
of 250.5 million pounds.  “Much of the bad news is already in the price, with the
shares having fallen 27 percent over the last year,” said
 Richard Hunter , the London-based head of U.K. equities at
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. “Even so, investors are not
convinced by Home’s prospects. The general market consensus
remains that the shares are a sell.”  Borrowed stock of Home Retail’s shares amounted to 18.6
percent as of two days ago, according to Data Explorers, an
indication of short-sellers’ bets against the stock. That’s near
the highest level since at least 2006.  GKN Plc (GKN)  jumped 7.5 percent to 207 pence after RBC Capital
Markets raised its recommendation on the maker of aircraft
components for Airbus SAS to “outperform” from “sector
perform” following an “upbeat” capital markets day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  