-- 
U.S., Canada Need to Maintain Extra Unemployment Aid, OECD Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-20T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-s-canada-need-to-maintain-extra-unemployment-aid-oecd-says.html
Countries like the U.S. and  Canada 
may need to further extend jobless benefits to put a lid on
long-term unemployment as the world economy emerges from the
financial crisis, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.  Long-term job seekers in the U.S., now benefiting from a
December extension in federal aid, make up an “unusually high
share” of the 8.8 percent U.S. jobless rate, the OECD said.  “The case can be made for maintaining the extension until
labor-market prospects have sufficiently improved to prevent
individuals from falling into persistent poverty,” the OECD
said in a report issued in Brussels today.  With the crisis driving up long-term unemployment in at
least 10 countries including the U.S., Britain and  Spain , the
OECD noted that most central banks are keeping  interest rates  at
“strongly expansionary” levels in order to spur  job creation 
as debt-wracked governments rein in spending.  “While monetary policy is still accommodative, fiscal
policy is constrained in many countries by the need to reduce
large public-sector deficits and contain rising debt levels,”
the Paris-based research group said.  Any extension of jobless benefits needs to be coupled with
incentives and training measures to steer the unemployed back
into jobs and prevent them from lapsing into dependency,
according to the report.  Countries such as Germany and  Japan  won OECD praise for
programs that put workers on shorter hours during the crisis,
enabling factories to cut payroll costs as production fell
without pushing up the jobless rate.  “The ability of these countries to cushion the employment
impact of the crisis may offer lessons that could help improve
labor-market resilience to future shocks,” the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  