-- 
U.S. March F.W. Dodge Construction Activity Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-20T21:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-s-march-f-w-dodge-construction-activity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
monthly McGraw-Hill Construction Dodge report.  New construction starts in March came in at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of $404.9 billion, essentially the same
pace as February, according to McGraw-Hill Construction, a
division of The McGraw-Hill Companies. While total construction
was unchanged from the prior month, this steady pattern came as
the result of divergent behavior by construction’s three main
sectors. Nonresidential building in March increased sharply,
following its subdued activity earlier this year, but declines
were registered by housing and nonbuilding construction (public
works and electric utilities). Through the first three months of
2011, total construction on an unadjusted basis was reported at
$88.0 billion, down 10% from the same period a year ago.  The March data produced a reading of 86 for the Dodge Index
(2000=100), the same as February. Since 2009, the Dodge Index
has hovered within the range of 81 and 96. “This period of low-
level stability is looking to be more and more extended, pushing
back the time when renewed expansion for overall construction
activity is likely to take hold,” stated Robert A. Murray, vice
president of economic affairs for McGraw-Hill Construction.
“Public works had initially offset some of the weakness shown by
other types of construction, but it’s now beginning to lose
momentum, given waning support from the federal stimulus act,
tight state budgets, and cutbacks in federal funding included in
the recently approved fiscal 2011 appropriations. While
multifamily housing has strengthened in hesitant fashion, single
family housing continues to be stalled. For nonresidential
building, there’s still the downward pull coming from the
institutional categories, but on the plus side commercial
building seems to have already reached bottom, and the gains for
commercial building in March would appear to be a positive
development going forward. The note of caution for commercial
building is that market fundamentals such as occupancies have
only just begun to improve, and banks remain very cautious with
regard to lending for new projects.” Nonresidential building in
March jumped 25% to $165.5 billion (annual rate). Activity at
the outset of 2011 had been particularly depressed, with the
average for January and February down 14% from the monthly
average for all of 2010. Since the construction start statistics
can be volatile on a month-to-month basis (and this has been
true for nonresidential building in recent months), useful
perspective is often provided by looking at quarterly figures.
In this light, nonresidential building in the first quarter of
2011 was down 2% from the fourth quarter of 2010, depicting a
market that’s still receding but beginning to stabilize.  Most of the nonresidential structure types witnessed gains in
March, reflecting in many cases the boost coming from large
projects. At the top of the list was office construction which
surged 87% in March, lifted by the start of a $1.1 billion  data
center  in  Utah  for the National Security Agency. The next two
largest office projects that reached groundbreaking in March
were a $99 million office renovation at the Jacob Javits
Convention Center in New York NY and a $75 million data center
in Santa Clara CA. The manufacturing plant category in March
climbed 42%, helped by the start of a $900 million semiconductor
plant in  Oregon . Store construction in March rose 37%, supported
by $245 million for work on the retail portion of the Revel
Resort Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City NJ, which obtained
financing to resume construction in February. Warehouse and
hotel construction, up 67% and 43% respectively, were able to
post substantial percentage gains in March with the help of
large projects that were more moderate in scale. Warehouse
construction in March included the start of two Amazon.com
distribution facilities, valued at $48 million and $35 million,
located in  Tennessee . Hotel construction in March included the
start of a $52 million hotel and casino in Wyandotte OK and a
$46 million hotel renovation in New York NY. On the
institutional side, the educational building category rose 13%
after a weak February, aided by the start of a $189 million
facility at  Yale University  in New Haven CT and a $100 million
renovation for a National Institute of Health building in
Bethesda MD. Healthcare facilities in March grew 15%, supported
by the start of a $160 million hospital in Cincinnati OH. For
the smaller institutional categories, gains were posted by
churches, up 26% from an extremely low amount in February, and
amusement-related projects, up 6%. The public buildings category
(courthouses and detention facilities) was flat in March, and
transportation terminals dropped 36%.  Residential building, at $118.1 billion (annual rate), slipped
3% in March. For the first quarter of 2011, residential building
edged up a slight 1% relative to the fourth quarter of 2010. The
March decline came as the result of a decreased amount of
multifamily housing, which fell 21% after a strong gain in
February. The largest multifamily projects that reached
groundbreaking in March were the following - a $92 million
military housing project in Lawton OK, a $72 million apartment
building in New York NY, and a $62 million townhouse project in
Bryans Road MD. Murray noted, “Even with the March slowdown, the
broad trend for multifamily housing is still viewed to be upward,
continuing the improvement that took hold last year.” Single
family housing in March increased 2%, making a partial rebound
after February’s weak amount. By geography, four of the five
major regions showed slight growth for single family housing in
March, with the South Central up 6%, the South Atlantic and the
Midwest each up 2%; and the Northeast up 1%. The West was the
one region to register a single family decline in March, falling
5%. Nonbuilding construction in March dropped 19% to $121.3
billion (annual rate), retreating for the second straight month
after the exceptional amount that was reported in January. For
the first quarter of 2011, nonbuilding construction was down 2%
compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The March plunge for
nonbuilding construction was due in large part to a substantial
decline for electric utilities, which fell 43% from a robust
volume in February to a still healthy amount in March (up 25%
from the average monthly pace for 2010). Large electric power
projects that were reported as construction starts in March
included a $1.1 billion natural gas power plant in  Florida  and a
$1.0 billion solar energy facility in  California . Public works
construction in March registered a smaller decline, sliding 4%
as the result of a mixed pattern by project type. Highway and
bridge construction dropped 9%, continuing to settle back after
January’s heightened pace. Both sewer and water supply
construction registered declines in March, falling 13% and 12%,
respectively. Stronger activity in March was reported for
river/harbor development, up 51% with the aid of a $164 million
shipyard pier replacement project in  Virginia ; and miscellaneous
public works, up 6%. The 10% shortfall for total construction on
an unadjusted basis during the first three months of 2011 was
the result of weaker activity for two of the three main sectors.
Nonresidential building was down 14% year-todate, reflecting
this behavior by segment - commercial building, up 18%;
manufacturing building, up 285%; and institutional building,
down 34%. The institutional year-to-date comparison is still
affected by two very large projects that were reported as
construction starts in early 2010 - the $3.0 billion transit hub
in lower Manhattan NY and the $1.1 billion airport terminal
project at Los Angeles International Airport. If these two large
projects are excluded, then institutional building year-to-date
in 2011 would be down 22% and the nonresidential building total
would be down 3%. Residential building in the first three months
of 2011 fell 14%, given the comparison to single family
housing’s early gains in 2010 that preceded its midyear stall.
Nonbuilding construction in the first three months of 2011 was
unchanged from last year. By geography, total construction in
the first three months of 2011 was the following - the Northeast,
down 30%; the South Atlantic, down 24%; the Midwest, down 9%;
the South Central, no change; and the West, up 7%.  Another view of the current state of the construction market is
provided by looking at twelve-month moving totals, in this case
the twelve months ending March 2011 compared to the twelve
months ending March 2010. On this basis, total construction is
down 5%, as the result of this pattern by sector -
nonresidential building, down 9%; residential building, down 4%;
and nonbuilding construction, down 1%. By geography, the twelve
months ending March 2011 showed this behavior for total
construction - the South Atlantic, down 16%; the Northeast, down
9%; the South Central, down 4%; the Midwest, no change, and the
West, up 3%. 