-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Rose 5.3% Last Week on Purchases

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-20T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-s-mortgage-applications-rose-5-3-last-week-on-purchases.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
rose last week for the first time in a month as a drop in prices
and borrowing costs made homes more affordable.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications increased 5.3 percent in the week ended April 15.
The group’s gauge of purchases climbed 10 percent to the highest
level this year, while the refinancing measure gained 2.7
percent.  Falling  home prices  and the lowest 30-year  mortgage rates 
in a month may be shoring up residential real estate as the job
market improves. Nonetheless, cheap financing hasn’t boosted
home sales enough to change the view of Federal Reserve policy
makers, who have described the housing market as “depressed”
in statements following their last eight meetings.  “Housing affordability is now near record highs, and an
improving labor market should provide a significant tailwind for
demand,” Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York , said yesterday in a note to
clients.      The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan decreased
last week to 4.83 percent, the lowest since the week ended March
18, from 4.98 percent, the mortgage bankers group said.
Borrowing costs reached 4.21 percent in October, a record-low
dating back to when the group’s records began in 1990.  Work began on 549,000 houses at an annual pace in March, up
7.2 percent from the prior month and more than forecast, figures
from the Commerce Department showed yesterday in  Washington .
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, rose 11
percent to a 594,000 pace.  Fed View  At the same time, housing remains the weak link in the
recovery.  “Activity in the housing market continued to be depressed,
held down by the large inventory of foreclosed or distressed
properties on the market and by weak demand,” Fed policy makers
said in minutes of their March 15 policy meeting released April
5.  Supporting their view, confidence among U.S. homebuilders
fell in April, led by a decline in the outlook for sales. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index declined to 16 this month from 17 in March, data from the
Washington-based group showed this week. A measure of sales
expectations for the next six months dropped to the lowest level
since October.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “Today’s consumers remain very cautious, whether they have
concerns about home prices falling further, their job status,
their ability to qualify for a loan, or general confidence in
the economy,” President and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call with analysts on April 5.
“A sustained, broad-based housing recovery will not occur until
we start to experience material job creation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  