-- 
Existing Home Sales in U.S. Rise on Growing Demand for Distressed Property

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-20T16:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/u-s-existing-home-sales-rise-fail-to-recover-ground-lost.html
Sales of U.S. previously owned
homes rose in March as a mounting supply of properties in or
near foreclosure lured investors.  Purchases increased 3.7 percent to a 5.1 million annual
rate, exceeding the 5 million median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . All-cash
deals accounted for 35 percent of transactions, the most on
record, the group said.  Unemployment, falling property values and stricter loan
rules may push the number of households losing their homes to a
record level this year, a sign the market will take time to
recover. Even with last month’s gains, housing may remain a weak
component in the economic recovery that began in June 2009.  “We continue to just tread water along the bottom,” said
 John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “The housing market is fairly
depressed. We think home prices will fall further.”  Stocks climbed as sales at companies from  Intel Corp . to
Yahoo! Inc. exceeded estimates and commodity producers gained.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.3 percent to 1,329.69 at
12:37 p.m. in  New York .  Estimates for March existing home sales ranged from 4.59
million to 5.4 million, according to the median of 74 forecasts
in the Bloomberg survey.  Paying Cash  The share of all-cash transactions is the highest since
monthly tracking began in August 2008,  Lawrence Yun , chief
economist at the Realtors’ association, said at a news
conference today in Washington. Yearly figures before 2008
showed the share at about 10 percent, Yun said.  Distressed properties, which include foreclosures and short
sales, accounted for 40 percent of all deals last month,
according to Yun. Purchases by investors climbed to 22 percent
of transactions last month, up from 19 percent in February.  “This is part of the cleansing process that needs to
occur,” Yun said, referring to distressed sales. “Home sales
are strongest in the very-low price range” of less than
$100,000, he said, reflecting the increase in demand by
investors paying in cash.  Sales rose in three of four U.S. regions in March, led by
an 8.2 percent gain in the South. The West fell 0.8 percent.  The median sales price fell 5.9 percent from March 2010 to
$159,600 last month as less-expensive properties became a bigger
share of the market. Sales of houses priced at $100,000 or less
were up 9.6 percent from March 2010, compared with a 6.3 percent
drop for the market as a whole, the report showed.  More Supply  The number of previously owned homes for sale climbed to
3.55 million. At the current sales pace, it would take 8.4
months to sell those houses compared with 8.5 at the end of the
prior month. Supply in the eight months to nine months range is
consistent with stable  home prices , the group has said.  Federal Reserve officials, in a statement following their
March 15 monetary policy meeting, said that while the “economic
recovery is on a firmer footing,” residential real estate is
still “depressed.” The central-bank committee is scheduled to
next meet April 26-27 in Washington.  Home prices dropped in the 12 months to January by the most
in more than a year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
home values. In 20 cities, prices fell 3.1 percent, the biggest
year-over-year decrease since December 2009, the group said
March 29.  Foreclosures  Some underlying home values are less than the mortgages on
the properties. CoreLogic Inc. last month estimated that about
1.8 million homes were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called
“shadow inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing
homes already on the market.  Cheaper homes and distressed properties are making
homebuilders pessimistic. Builders overall are not optimistic.
The  National Association of Home Builders ’ confidence fell to 16
this month, according to the group’s gauge released this week. A
reading under 50 means a majority of builders view conditions as
poor.  KB Home, the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “We do not anticipate a net profit for 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call
with analysts on April 5. “The economy is continuing to
improve. Even so, this recovery has yet to include significant
job growth and has not spilled over into housing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  