-- 
Udvar-Hazy ‘Ready’ to Buy Back ILFC After IPO for Air Lease

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   L a u r a   L e e
-- 
2011-04-20T22:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/udvar-hazy-says-he-s-ready-to-buy-back-ilfc-from-aig-after-air-lease-ipo.html
Steven Udvar-Hazy, who this week
staged the jet-leasing industry’s biggest initial public
offering, said he’s “absolutely” interested in buying back the
company he sold to  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 1990.  Udvar-Hazy said he tried “very hard” to repurchase
International Lease Finance Corp. from AIG in 2009, when the
lessor was strained by the financing woes that spurred the New
York-based insurer to seek a federal bailout.  “At that point, AIG priorities were focused on repaying
the government obligations,” Udvar-Hazy said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview in New York. “Once the board of
AIG makes the determination of what they want to do with ILFC
and the government backs that plan, then I think we’ll certainly
be ready to sit down at the table.”  AIG said in February it will consider raising funds from
Los Angeles-based ILFC, without giving a timetable for a sale.
Udvar-Hazy left the leasing company in February 2010 and started
Air Lease Corp., whose shares began trading yesterday on the  New
York  Stock Exchange.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment. AIG
has raised more than $50 billion divesting assets including non-
U.S. life insurance divisions since its 2008 bailout. AIG said
this week it agreed to sell a rail-car leasing unit to Perella
Weinberg Partners LP.  ‘Great Company’  “It’s a great company,” Udvar-Hazy said of ILFC.
“Hopefully we can work together at some point in the future.”  Air Lease’s fleet has 53 aircraft, and will expand to 100
planes by the end of 2011 and 500 within the next five years,
said Udvar-Hazy, the chairman and chief executive officer at the
Los Angeles-based company. The “primary growth will be
organic,” Udvar-Hazy said.  Air Lease said yesterday it exercised the full over-
allotment option, meaning the company sold 34.8 million shares
this week to raise $868 million after deducting IPO expenses.  AIG rose 23 cents to $32.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, its first gain after 10 declines.
Air Lease climbed 15 cents to $28.10.  Udvar-Hazy’s sale of ILFC to AIG made him a billionaire.
When the so-called godfather of jet leasing left ILFC last year,
he was managing a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft valued at
roughly $44 billion. Now 65, he said he has no plans to retire.  “This is an exciting business,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Lee in New York at 
 llee17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  