-- 
Human Gut Check Finds Bacteria Sorted in Ways That May Aid in Treatments

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-20T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/human-gut-check-finds-bacteria-sorted-in-ways-that-may-aid-in-treatments.html
Scientists have categorized
trillions of bacteria that live in the human gut into three
types of systems that may one day be used to diagnose and treat
 colon cancer  and inflammatory bowel disorders.  An international consortium of researchers studied stool
samples from residents of  Denmark ,  France ,  Italy ,  Spain , the
U.S. and  Japan  to make the finding, according to a report
published in the  journal Nature . Their analysis found that every
person’s gut bacteria belongs to one of three groups, or
enterotypes, and that variation in gut microbes aren’t related
to race or nation.  Intestinal bacteria are essential for health. They help
convert food into energy and guard against pathogens that cause
sickness. The finding is the first classification of human gut
bacteria, and may one day lead to earlier diagnosis of colon
 cancer , better understanding of bowel disorders such as Crohn’s
disease and of the effects of obesity, the authors said.  “It was a surprise and it’s good news as any
classification helps to digest knowledge,”  Peer Bork , one of
the study’s authors and a researcher at the European Molecular
Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg,  Germany , said in an e-mail.
“Also it generates simple and practical hypothesis toward
digestion and response to drugs.”  Confirming Enterotypes  The researchers first looked at 33 samples from Danish,
French, Italian, Spanish, Japanese and American people. They
confirmed the enterotypes in larger stool samples from 85 Danish
and 254 Americans, Bork said in an e-mail. Using DNA analysis
and computers, the scientists identified three clusters of gut
bacteria that weren’t specific to nationality or continent.  The three enterotypes were classified into groups named for
the predominant  bacteria  in the cluster: Bacteroides, Prevotella
and Ruminococcus. Researchers noted some differences in vitamin
production among the groups. People in the Bacteroides group had
microbes that produced more vitamin C, B2, B5 and H, while the
Prevotella group had more B1 and folic-acid producing bacteria.  The data may be biased because the sample didn’t include
people from remote villages with a traditional diet, Bork said.  “Our knowledge of species and functional composition of
the human gut microbiome is rapidly increasing, but it is still
based on very few cohorts and little is known about variation
across the world,” the report said.  Additional studies may lead to a better understanding of
microbial properties that correlate with health, diet or drug
response, researchers said.  The study was done as part of the metagenomics of the Human
Intestinal Tract collaboration, which aims to understand the
effect of gut bacteria on health. The collaboration includes
European and Chinese research institutions as well as industry
and pharmaceutical companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  