-- 
Munich Re Has Quarterly Loss on Japan, New Zealand Quakes

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-04-20T10:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/munich-re-has-quarterly-loss-on-japan-new-zealand-quakes-1-.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, will report a quarterly loss on costs related to the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  and other natural disasters.  “The losses from natural catastrophes mean that the result
for the first quarter will be clearly negative,” Chief
Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard said in a speech at the
company’s annual shareholder meeting in Munich today. The
reinsurer, which is scheduled to report first-quarter results on
May 9, still expects to post a profit for 2011, he said.  Munich Re last month scrapped its 2.4 billion-euro ($3.5
billion) profit target for this year as it estimated about 1.5
billion euros in claims from Japan. Including other disasters in
the first three months of the year, such as the earthquake in
 New Zealand  and Cyclone Yasi in  Australia , the reinsurer’s
claims from natural catastrophes totaled 2.7 billion euros.  It was “one of the most loss-afflicted first quarters in
the history of reinsurance in terms of natural catastrophes,”
von Bomhard said. Munich Re had “about 14 times our average
expenditure for such losses in a first quarter,” he said.  The economic toll of the Japanese earthquake may be $200
billion to $300 billion, with the disaster costing insurers and
reinsurers $21 billion to $34 billion, according to an April 12
estimate by catastrophe modeler Risk Management Solutions.  Japan was an event that would occur once in 100 years,
while Munich Re calibrates its business to events that occur
once in 1,000 years, von Bomhard said today, adding that the
reinsurer’s biggest risk exposure is to European windstorms.  Year-Earlier Profit  In 2010, Munich Re reported a first-quarter profit of 482
million euros. The company’s claims costs from catastrophes
including the earthquake in  Chile  and Western Europe’s winter
storm Xynthia, rose almost fourfold to about 700 million euros
at the time.  Munich Re advanced 0.9 percent to 114.45 euros as of 12:29
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The shares have declined 2.8 percent
since March 10, the day before the record earthquake and tsunami
hit Japan.  In Japan, where most annual reinsurance contracts are
renewed on April 1, Munich Re said it agreed with some clients
“to hold them covered under earthquake treaties at existing
terms and conditions for a period of a few weeks in view of the
ongoing claims assessments.”  While no figures are yet available on the April renewals,
Munich Re expects general price increases this year, it said.  Share Buyback  The reinsurer said its preliminary claims figures are after
retrocession and before tax. Reinsurers, which help protect
primary carriers such as Allianz SE and Axa SA against the cost
of major claims from disasters such as hurricanes and
earthquakes, limit their own risks by selling parts of them to
other reinsurers in a process known as retrocession.  To court shareholders including  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and asset manager  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Munich Re bought
back 1 billion euros of its own shares before today’s annual
shareholder meeting. The reinsurer will shelve a plan to
 repurchase  another 500 million euros of stock by the 2012
assembly, it said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  