-- 
Union Pacific Profit Trails Estimates as Fuel Costs Rise 33%

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-04-20T20:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/union-pacific-profit-trails-estimates-on-rising-fuel-costs-winter-storms.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest
U.S. railroad by sales, posted profit that trailed analysts’
estimates after fuel prices climbed and winter snowstorms curbed
first-quarter growth.  Net income rose to $639 million, or $1.29 a share, from
$516 million, or $1.01, a year earlier, the company said today
in a statement. Earnings were projected to be $1.31, the average
of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher fuel costs damped profit by 8 cents a share, Union
Pacific said, even with volumes increasing as the economy gained
strength. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s average price for
a gallon of  diesel fuel  jumped 33 percent from a year earlier to
$2.88, the third highest on record.  Union Pacific took advantage of commodity-shipping volume
growth “despite spiking fuel prices and winter weather
challenges across most of the nation’s rail network,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Young said in the statement. The railroad
stopped all Chicago-bound West Coast intermodal trains during an
early February blizzard.  Sales rose 13 percent to $4.49 billion, topping the average
estimate of $4.42 billion from analysts. The company said today
on a conference call it will add about 4,500 employees this year
as the economic recovery boosts shipping demand.  Union Pacific fell $1.25, or 1.3 percent, to $96.07 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
gained 5 percent this year before today.  Volumes, Sales  Volumes advanced 5 percent from a year earlier, led by
gains in chemical and industrial product shipments, Union
Pacific said.  While automotive volumes rose 4 percent, that growth “was
hampered by the February storms that restricted shipments and
closed auto plants,” John Koraleski, executive vice president
of marketing and sales, said on the call.  Sales gains were paced by increases of 15 percent for
intermodal freight, which can move by a combination of train,
truck and ship, and 15 percent from industrial products.
Intermodal shipments accounted for 20 percent of freight revenue
last year and industrial goods made up 16 percent, according to
the carrier’s annual U.S. regulatory filing.  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the third-largest U.S. railroad, reported
earnings yesterday that beat analysts’ estimates. Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe , owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc ., is the second-biggest U.S. railroad by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  