-- 
United Technologies Rises Most Since May as Sales Climb for Pratt, Carrier

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-20T20:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/united-technologies-boosts-lower-end-of-sales-forecast-amid-carrier-gains.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  rose the
most in 11 months after saying 2011 sales will be at the high
end of its forecast, buoyed by rising demand for Carrier air
conditioners and refrigeration and Pratt & Whitney engine parts.  Annual revenue may be $57 billion, up from a previous
forecast of at least $56 billion as pent-up demand stokes growth
in existing divisions, the company said today in a statement.
Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  raised the full-year
profit forecast by a nickel to as much as $5.40 a share.  Orders rose across divisions as Pratt & Whitney logged more
placements for its new geared turbofan jet engine and Carrier
benefited from U.S. residential cooling and refrigeration
demand. Profit was helped by 1 cent a share from currency
translation into U.S. dollars and hedges in  Canada . Hartford,
Connecticut-based United Technologies gets more than half its
sales from overseas, with about one-quarter from  Europe .  “We had anticipated that the first quarter could be
particularly strong, but it was even more impressive than we had
expected, driven by the acceleration of organic growth to 9
percent,” Joseph Nadol, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New
York , said in a note to clients. The company “overcame the cost
pressure that is a concern across the industrial space.”  Share Performance  United Technologies climbed $3.54, or 4.3 percent, to
$85.90 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. That was the biggest advance since May 10 and the
highest closing price since at least 1980, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is still assuming a euro valued at $1.35 for
the year when it gives forecasts, Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said on a conference call with analysts and investors.
United Technologies may see a benefit of about $50 million in
pretax profit if the currency stays around $1.40 for the year,
he said.  First-quarter sales climbed 11 percent to $13.3 billion,
the company said. Net income increased 17 percent to $1.01
billion, or $1.11 a share, from $866 million, or 93 cents.  Analysts projected first-quarter earnings of $1.07 a share
on sales of $12.8 billion, the averages of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s performance “underscores its position as a
best-of-breed diversified industrial,”  Joel Levington , a
managing director with Brookfield Investment Management in New
York, said in an e-mailed statement. Results from Carrier and
 Pratt & Whitney  “were better than we had envisioned,” he said.  Global Economy  United Technologies’ end markets are improving worldwide,
Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said on a conference call
with investors.  “In the U.S., the recent employment and consumer spending
data are encouraging signs of further recovery while Europe
generally remains stable,” he said. Emerging markets “continue
to lead worldwide economic growth and UTC’s businesses are
capitalizing on this opportunity.”  Rising commodity prices may create a net expense of about
$150 million for the year after United Technologies recovers
about $100 million in gross cost increases through raising
prices, Hayes said. The company will use about 90 million pounds
of copper this year and about 500,000 tons of steel, Hayes said
in an interview today.  Commodity Prices  Oil price increases are among the biggest threats because
that can affect the buying power of commercial airlines, he said
on the conference call.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  may hinder
electronics output, a disruption the company expects to absorb
after costs of less than 1 cent a share in the second quarter,
he said.  New equipment orders at Otis rose 17 percent in the first
quarter including a 3 percentage point increase from currency
translation, while commercial equipment at Carrier climbed 26
percent, including a 2 percentage point rise tied to foreign
currency exchange.  Increases in spare-parts orders at Hamilton Sundstrand and
Pratt & Whitney reflect that airlines are operating more flights
and able to pass on price increases to passengers, Hayes said in
an interview.  Spare Parts  The company still sees an increase in spare-parts sales of
this year even with rising  oil prices  possibly curbing airline
purchases in the second half.  “As you think about higher oil prices, typically airlines
don’t change buying behavior for six to nine months so you could
certainly see a back-half slowdown,” Hayes said in an
interview.  Pratt’s geared turbofan engine has won placement this year
on Airbus A320neos ordered by Lufthansa AG, Indian low-cost
carrier IndiGo and lessor International Lease Finance Corp.  In Carrier, refrigerated transport equipment orders rose 60
percent in the quarter, reflecting pent-up demand in container
shipping, even though the underlying demand in food and medicine
markets hasn’t changed, Hayes said.  The company bought back $750 million in stock in the
quarter and spent $106 million on acquisitions. United
Technologies repeated its full-year prediction of $2.5 billion
in share repurchases and said it still has $1.5 billion for
acquisitions.  Hayes played down analyst speculation that the company
would seek to buy Tyco International Ltd., the industrial
conglomerate now based in  Switzerland .  “I can’t say anything specifically about any particular
acquisition target,” Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said in
the interview. “I will say it’s very difficult for any U.S.
multinational to acquire a company based in Switzerland where
the  tax rate  is 15 percent and our rate, the U.S. statutory
rate, is 35 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in New York at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 