-- 
Turkey Rate to Be Unchanged as Basci Takes Over Central Bank, Survey Shows

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-20T08:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/turkey-rate-to-be-unchanged-as-basci-takes-over-central-bank-survey-shows.html
Erdem Basci,  Turkey ’s new central
bank governor, may leave the benchmark interest rate at a
historic low as he waits to see whether his increases to bank
lending costs will rein in a boom in domestic demand.  Basci’s first meeting in charge of the Monetary Policy
Committee will hold the one-week repo rate at 6.25 percent,
according to all 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
will announce its decision at 2 p.m. in Ankara tomorrow.  The central bank is trying to slow economic growth without
raising the benchmark rate and drawing in short-term capital.
Since January, it has held the repo rate at the lowest since the
country began inflation targeting in 2002, and last month made
the third increase in five months to the reserves banks must set
aside, reducing money available to lend to the domestic economy.  “The last round of reserve hikes only took effect last
Friday and the bank will need more time to assess the impact,”
 Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said
in a telephone interview. “It’s possible there may be some
tweaks to the wording of the statement.”  The bank will announce its revised forecasts for inflation
on April 28. Previous Governor Durmus Yilmaz said Feb. 25 that
higher  oil prices , driven by unrest in the Middle East, are
likely to drive the 5.9 percent year-end forecast upward. The
bank’s goal for the year is 5.5 percent.  Basci, a 44-year-old school friend of Deputy Prime Minister
 Ali Babacan , inherits an inflation rate of 4 percent, the lowest
in four decades, and an economy that expanded 8.9 percent last
year. Turkey faces “booming credit” and is among countries at
risk of a banking crisis, the  International Monetary Fund  said
in an April 18 report.  Erdogan Pledge  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who proposed Basci for
the central bank job, is campaigning for a third term in office
in the June 12 parliamentary elections. During his campaign, he
said he aims to triple gross domestic product in 12 years.  Basci says the bank’s mix of low rates and high reserves is
starting to slow loan growth and narrow the current-account
deficit, according to a presentation he delivered in  Washington 
that was posted on the bank’s website April 16.  The economic expansion is attracting imports of raw
materials and  consumer goods . The cumulative current-account gap
for the 12 months through February was $54.8 billion, or about 7
percent of estimated gross domestic product, the bank said April
11. It was the largest 12-month deficit on record. The
government’s medium-term plans forecast a gap of $42.2 billion,
or 5.4 percent of GDP, this year.  The bank’s latest increase to  reserve requirements  raised
the rate for one-month deposits to 15 percent from 10 percent,
sending bond yields up the most in 16 months as banks sold
assets to meet the new obligations.  The higher reserves will damage bank earnings, partly
because the central bank doesn’t pay interest on the money. The
index of banking shares, including lenders such as Akbank TAS,
part-owned by Citigroup Inc., has fallen 1 percent this year,
while the main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  gained 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 