-- 
Turkish Stocks Rise 2nd Day on Earnings, Global Growth Outlook

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-20T15:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/turkish-stocks-rise-2nd-day-on-earnings-global-growth-outlook.html
Turkish stocks rallied for a second
day on the outlook for earnings and after a jump in U.S. housing
indicated the global recovery is intact.  The ISE National 100 Index advanced 0.5 percent to
68,054.04 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. The lira
appreciated 0.7 percent to 1.5184 per dollar. Yields on two-year
benchmark debt increased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 8.62 percent, the RBS Istanbul benchmark bond index
showed.  Turkey ’s first-quarter earnings season has started, with
 Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , the nation’s largest phone company by
sales, reporting yesterday profit that beat analysts’ estimates.
The U.S. Commerce Department said yesterday housing starts
increased 7.2 percent from February to March. Stocks rose
worldwide today as  Intel Corp . forecast higher sales and company
results in  Europe  and Asia beat estimates.  “It looks like it won’t be a bad a year for industrials,”
Nezihi Abay, head of trading at Global Menkul Degerler AS, said
by telephone. “Fund flows into the countries with basically
sound macroeconomic fundamentals like ours will continue.”  Turkish banks, which make up more than 40 percent of the
ISE 100 Index, may report a 14 percent year-on-year increase in
profit in the three months to March, Finans Invest said in a
research note dated April 18. Low yields on securities and
increased reserve requirements may mean that the next three
quarters don’t match the performance of the first, it said.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  and Yapi & Kredi Bankasi are likely to
post the biggest quarter-on-quarter increases in earnings,
Finans Invest said. The shares rose 0.8 percent and 0.4 percent,
respectively.  Ford Otomotiv Sanayi A.S., the Turkish venture of Ford
Motor Co., is likely to report an increase in sales of 49
percent in the first quarter from a year ago, Cemal Demirtas, an
analyst at Oyak Menkul Degerler AS, said by telephone. Tofas
Turk Otomobil Fabrikalari AS, the maker of Fiat SpA cars in
Turkey, will probably report a 10 percent jump in first-quarter
sales, year-on-year, Demirtas predicted, citing strong demand.  Tofas has gained 10 percent so far this year and  Ford
Otomotiv Sanayi AS (FROTO)  has advanced 9.6 percent, outperforming the
 ISE National 100 Index (XU100) ’s 3.1 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  