-- 
Luterma, Estonian Food Producer, Declared Bankrupt by Court

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-20T08:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/luterma-estonian-food-producer-declared-bankrupt-by-court.html
AS Luterma, an Estonian food and
property company formerly named AS Kalev, was declared bankrupt
by a court at the request of a unit of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and a local
water utility.  The Harju County Court ruled yesterday that the company was
bankrupt due to lack of assets and asked that bankruptcy
proceedings be started, Kristina Ots, the court spokeswoman,
said in a phone interview today.  Luterma sold its Kalev Chocolate Factory, Estonia’s biggest
candy maker, to  Norway ’s  Orkla ASA (ORK)  last May. The shares of its
Tere AS dairy subsidiary were moved to a representative account
of the local unit of Nordea AB at the beginning of the year as
loan collateral,  Aeripaeev  newspaper cited businessman Oliver Kruuda, the main owner of Luterma, as saying today. Kruuda is
considering appealing the decision, the newspaper said.  Luterma, which delisted from the Tallinn stock exchange in
2009, has 53.5 million euros ($77 million) in assets on its
balance sheet, of which about 40 million euros is a claim on
bankrupt AS Alta Foods, Luterma’s bankruptcy trustee Veli Kraavi
said in a phone interview. Liabilities amount to 37.5 million
euros, he said.  Swedbank’s main claim against Luterma is for 4.6 million
euros plus interest on arrears, Laura Kaesel, a spokeswoman at
the bank, said in an e-mailed response to questions. AS Tartu
Veevaerk, a utility in Tartu,  Estonia , claims 400,000 euros.  Luterma said in June 2008 it considered an agreement to
sell its food operations to private-equity group Alta Capital
Partners as void after Alta failed to meet a deadline to pay
660.3 million krooni ($61 million) for the chocolate and dairy-
making units.  A unit of Alta Capital said in November Luterma had to
repay 93.9 million krooni that the private-equity group paid
when the initial agreement was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  