-- 
Virgin Media CFO Considers Further Returns to Shareholders

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-20T08:12:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/virgin-media-cfo-considers-further-returns-to-shareholders-at-end-of-2011.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, will consider further
returns to shareholders at the end of 2011, according to Chief
Financial Officer Eamonn O’Hare.  The company, which is more than two-thirds of the way
through a 375 million-pound ($614 million) share buyback
program, said today free  cash flow  more than doubled to 100
million pounds in the quarter ended March.  Virgin Media is generating free cash flow “in excess of
what we need to pay down debt,” O’Hare said today in an
interview. “It’s a conversation for the backend of the year.”  Virgin Media is pushing subscribers to take faster, more
expensive broadband offerings to drive up revenue and said today
it will trial speeds of 1.5 gigabits-per-second in northeast
 London  this month. The Hook, England-based company is currently
rolling out its 100 megabits-per-second broadband service, the
fastest in the U.K.  “The cash will all be returned to shareholders and then
some,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein,
said in a note. Bienenstock estimated Virgin Media may return as
much as 11 billion pounds to shareholders over the next decade.  The company said in July it would also enter into debt and
convertible debt transactions alongside the stock buyback,
bringing its total capital return to 700 million pounds.  Profit Advances  First-quarter operating profit climbed 7.6 percent, the
company said today. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and other charges in the three months
ended March 31 rose to 376 million pounds. Analysts had
predicted operating profit of 377 million pounds, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Virgin Media is planning to partner with  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  to
access part of 830 million pounds in government funding to
expand its high-speed network into rural areas and reach up to 5
million homes.  “Nobody is better placed than Fujitsu to push forward,”
with the network build, O’Hare said today. “The Fujitsu
opportunity really fills a gap for us.”  Virgin Media, which competes with  Rupert Murdoch ’s  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , said in December it will start a Web
TV platform with partner TiVo Inc. to sell additional services.
The offering will provide Web applications such as a catch-up
service from British Broadcasting Corp., videos from Google
Inc.’s YouTube and shopping from online marketplace eBay Inc.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  