-- 
Warsaw Shortlist of Bidders for SPEC May Decide Who Buys Vattenfall Assets

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-20T10:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/warsaw-shortlist-of-bidders-for-spec-may-decide-who-buys-vattenfall-assets.html
The city of Warsaw shortlisted
bidders for SPEC SA, the European Union’s largest district
heating company, in a sale that could determine the buyer of
Swedish utility  Vattenfall  AB’s Polish assets.  The Polish capital picked strategic and financial bidders
from more than 10 offers it received last month, the municipal
government said in an e-mailed statement today, without naming
them or giving the number of companies.  “It seems highly probable that the buyer of Vattenfall’s
assets will be picked from the SPEC shortlist,” Piotr Lopaciuk,
an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, said by phone today. “It’s
natural” that Vattenfall’s Warsaw facilities and SPEC should be
merged, he said.  The bidders have until early June to place binding offers,
the city said. Vattenfall, the Nordic region’s largest power
group, plans to complete the sale of its assets, including heat
and power plants that supply SPEC, by the end of June.  “The buyer of the first asset will be able to pay the most
for the second one because of the synergies,” Lopaciuk said.
“On the other hand, if a buyer for one is picked, competition
to buy the second will cease.”  Lukasz Zimnoch, the Swedish company’s spokesman in  Poland ,
declined to comment when reached by phone today.  “You can see that the two sellers are sort of racing,”
Slawomir Hinc, chief financial officer of  Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , Poland’s largest gas company, which
has expressed interest in both sales, told reporters in Warsaw
today. “It will be harder for the second company to sell.”  Hinc declined to comment on whether his company was
shortlisted for SPEC.  Penta Investments  Penta Investments Ltd., a Czech and Slovak private equity
fund, said March 28 it placed an initial offer for SPEC and
earlier said it’s also looking at the Vattenfall unit. Martin Danko, a Penta spokesman, declined to comment today on whether
the company made the shortlist.  PGE SA, the country’s largest power utility; Fortum Oyj,
the Nordic region’s second-biggest utility; and Dalkia SA
earlier said they were interested in bidding for SPEC. The city
plans to get more than 750 million zloty ($274 million) for its
85 percent stake in the company, while Gornictwo values the
stake at as high as 1 billion zloty.  Vattenfall’s Warsaw assets, which account for about half of
the Polish business that it plans to sell, are valued at 2.8
billion zloty to 3.2 billion zloty by the gas company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  