-- 
Wells Fargo Shares Retreat After First-Quarter Revenue, Lending Decrease

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-20T20:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/wells-fargo-posts-higher-quarterly-profit-as-credit-costs-ease.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, led losers in the KBW Bank Index today after
reporting first-quarter results that included lower revenue and
lending.  Investors and analysts brushed aside the San Francisco-
based bank’s 48 percent gain in net income to a record
$3.76 billion. Instead, the spotlight was on the 5.2 percent
drop in revenue, a decline of more than 5 percent in average
loans outstanding, and an almost 20 percent slide in a gauge of
profit that excludes one-time boosts from reserves.  “Every company is releasing reserves at this point; that’s
why the market is now beginning to focus on revenues rather than
the earnings,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the
 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “Nobody is giving
credit to reserve releases.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, has relied on
reserve releases to bolster income as weak loan demand and new
federal regulations erode fees from overdrafts and threaten to
do the same with debit cards. The release added $1 billion
before taxes to the first quarter’s profit as the bank forecast
fewer losses on lending in the months ahead.  One-Time Gains  Profit amounted to 67 cents a diluted share, compared with
45 cents a year earlier, the company said in a statement.
Revenue was $20.3 billion as fees declined from mortgage
banking. Some analysts filter out the impact of one-time items
by looking at pretax, pre-provision income. By that measure,
profit fell
19 percent from a year earlier to $7.6 billion.  Wells Fargo, ranked fourth by assets among U.S. banks,
declined 7 percent this year on the New York Stock Exchange,
compared with a 3.7 percent drop for the 24-company  KBW Bank
Index. (BKX)  The stock slipped $1.24, or 4.1 percent, to $28.83 as of
4:01 p.m. in New York. The largest shareholder is  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which held a 6.5 percent
stake at year-end.  Mortgage-banking income declined 18 percent from a year
earlier to $2.02 billion. Originations dropped to $84 billion
from $128 billion in the fourth quarter as fewer homeowners
refinanced, according to the bank.  Refinancing Wanes  “We had a huge refi boom in the third and fourth
quarter,” Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan said in an
interview. “Rates ticked up toward the end of the fourth
quarter and throughout the first quarter, so our total mortgage
origination business was down, and that was the primary driver
in the decline of our overall revenue.”  The bank sought to slash mortgage staff by 4,500 as
applications slowed, Sloan told analysts during a conference
call today. More than 2,000 were still on the payroll at the end
of the quarter due to the “required notification period,” said
Sloan, 50. The reductions should be completed by the end of the
current quarter, and the savings will be “a meaningful
number,” he said.  Average loans outstanding fell to $754.1 billion from
$797.4 billion in the same period a year earlier, driven mostly
by a falloff in consumer demand, the bank said. Noninterest
expense rose 5.1 percent to $12.7 billion from $12.1 billion a
year earlier.  Durbin’s Impact  Sloan said the so-called Durbin Amendment, which reduces
fees paid to banks on debit-card purchases, will cost the
company about $325 million each quarter, a 30 percent increase
on the prior estimate. Wells Fargo controlled more than
12 percent of the U.S. debit-card market by purchase volume at
the end of 2009, according to the Nilson Report.  “Lawmakers should take the necessary time to better
understand the direct and indirect consequences of the proposed
reduction in debit-interchange fees on consumers, merchants and
banks,” Stumpf said during the call. “Government price
controls that wouldn’t even enable banks to cover the costs of
providing the service make no sense, particularly for
consumers.”  Wells Fargo is the last of the four largest U.S. commercial
banks to announce first-quarter results. The largest U.S.
lender,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said April 15 that first-quarter
profit fell 36 percent to $2.05 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the second-biggest bank by assets, said April 13 that net income
rose 67 percent to $5.56 billion.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest, said on April 18 that
net income fell 32 percent to $3 billion. JPMorgan and Citigroup
are based in New York, while Bank of America is based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  All four banks were among 14 mortgage servicers that will
be forced to pay homeowners for losses on foreclosures or loans
that were mishandled in the wake of the housing-market collapse,
according to the terms of a settlement with banking regulators
announced last week. JPMorgan said it may face $1.1 billion in
costs tied to the agreements and require an additional 3,000
employees, according to a conference-call transcript.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net .
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 