-- 
Wheat Halts Rally as Rain May Ease Dry Crops in Great Plains, Corn Drops

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-04-20T21:05:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/wheat-halts-rally-as-rain-may-ease-dry-crops-in-great-plains-corn-drops.html
Wheat fell from a two-month high on
speculation that earlier gains were exaggerated as rain may aid
dry crops in the U.S. Great Plains and as lower corn prices
limit demand for wheat as a livestock feed.  Parts of  Oklahoma  and eastern  Texas  may receive 0.25 inch
(0.6 centimeter) to 0.75 inch of rain tomorrow through April 24,
said Mike Tannura, the president of T-Storm Weather in Chicago.
Some of those areas have had less than 10 percent of normal rain
in the past month, National Weather Service data show. Before
today, wheat rallied 5.8 percent over three sessions.  “We do have some chances of rain Thursday and Friday,”
said  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in
Augusta, Kansas. “We’ve had three days of upside in the wheat
market, so to see it sell off at the end of today wasn’t a
shock. We got some pressure from corn, too.”  Wheat futures for July delivery declined 0.25 cent to
settle at $8.2075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, after reaching $8.4375, the highest for a most-active
contract since Feb. 22. The price is up 65 percent in the past
year.  Corn futures for July delivery plunged 2.2 percent, the
most in a week, to settle at $7.405 a bushel on the CBOT.  More than two-thirds of winter crops in Oklahoma and Texas
were in poor or very poor  condition  as of April 17, after months
of dry  weather , the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said. Spring
planting hasn’t started yet in Minnesota and  North Dakota , the
biggest U.S. wheat-producing state, behind schedule from last
year. Much of the area still has  snow  on the ground.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show. The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter of wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  