-- 
Yemeni Officials Consider ‘30 + 60’ Plan to Solve Deadly Political Crisis

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-04-20T13:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-20/yemen-officials-weigh-plan-to-resolve-political-crisis-by-easing-out-saleh.html
Discussions to end a political
crisis in  Yemen  are centered around a plan that would have
President Ali Abdullah Saleh step down within 30 days of it
being announced and guarantee immunity for him, his family and
long-time aides, a Yemeni official said.  Under the so-called 30 + 60 plan, Saleh would transfer his
powers to a deputy and elections would be held 60 days after
that, according to Ahmed al-Soufi, secretary general for the
Yemeni Institute for the Development of Democracy and a media
affairs adviser in the presidential palace.  The threat is that an escalation of the standoff may lead
to more violence in the country, or a deadly military divide
such as the one in  Libya . At the same time, rising social unrest
may strengthen al-Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest
Arab nation, as a base from which to destabilize neighboring
 Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest exporter of crude.  A weak central government in Yemen risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there
hasn’t been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has
become a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  There have been no public comments on the plan from Saleh
or opposition leaders. Al-Soufi said officials from the Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Bahrain , Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait , will
travel to Yemen next week to facilitate negotiations.  Democratic Father  Al-Soufi said one option that supporters of the president
have put forward is for Saleh to oversee the process to hold
elections. “He would be the father of this democratic
process,” he said in a telephone interview from Sana’a, the
capital.  Protests in Yemen calling for an end to Saleh’s rule are in
their third month.  Under Yemen’s state of emergency, the first since a 1994
civil war between the north and south, public gatherings are
banned, the media is subject to restrictions, and the
constitution suspended.  The U.S. has backed Saleh, a key ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, with $300 million a year of military and economic aid.  A total of 109 protesters have been killed since Feb. 11,
according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the Arabic Sisters
Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a. Unicef, the  United Nations ’
Children’s Fund, said at least 26 children have been killed
since early February, according to a statement released today.  Dozens of lawmakers abandoned Saleh’s ruling General
People’s Congress to protest the violence, joining a list of
defectors that includes Cabinet ministers, diplomats, tribal
leaders and senior military officers such as Ali Muhsin al-
Ahmar, commander of the First Armored Division.  Yemen’s conflict with Shiite Muslim Houthis in the north of
the nation has in the past drawn in Saudi Arabia, a Sunni
Muslim-led monarchy that last month sent troops to help suppress
a Shiite-led uprising in another neighbor, Bahrain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  