-- 
‘Cruelty-Free’ Fox Boleros at Saks Spur Fur Comeback in Fall Fashion Sales

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-07-27T16:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/-cruelty-free-fox-boleros-at-saks-spur-fur-comeback-for-fall.html
Flo Fulton is stalking the stores of
 Manhattan  for a white mink jacket, a fur-lined reversible
raincoat and a knitted fur vest.  “I fell in love with fur at a young age,” says the 32-
year-old New York event planner. “A blouse and jeans can look
so chic with a fur.”  Fur is making a comeback because of shoppers like Fulton,
and fox boleros, rabbit-trimmed jackets, as well as coyote
shrugs are showing up at Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and  Saks Inc. (SKS) 
as stores gear up for the fall fashion season.  Last decade, some women stopped wearing fur following an
anti-pelt campaign by People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals. Now younger customers are warming up to fur as the
industry works to farm animals more humanely and market so-
called “cruelty-free” pelts. A renewed interest in fur has
also coincided with a move to dressier, refined fashion, or what
Neiman Marcus’s fashion director calls “ladylike” clothes.  U.S. retail fur sales will grow faster this year than the
3.1 percent gain to $1.3 billion in 2010, predicts Keith Kaplan,
the  Fur Information Council  of America’s executive director. He
didn’t provide a specific forecast.  Designers showed 2,200 fur looks in their fall 2011
collections in  New York , London, Paris and Milan, compared with
384 six years ago, Kaplan said. Oscar de la Renta sent 30 on the
runway in February versus 16 a year earlier while  Vera Wang 
showed 15 versus 6, the council says. The trend also has moved
to labels like the Olsen twins’ The Row that appeal to younger
fashionistas.  Rebounding Luxury  The newfound popularity of fur may help rebounding luxury
retailers as they navigate slower U.S. economic growth. The
material allows them to sell more goods at higher prices, which
can augment their overall sales volume and enhance their
profitability.  Saks President Ron Frasch said earlier this year that
adding fur in the fall season will “dictate” higher prices.
The New York-based retailer has projected that sales at its
stores open at least a year will grow as much as 9 percent in
the second half of 2011 and that its gross margin -- the
percentage of revenue left after the cost of goods sold -- will
increase as much as 50 basis points.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Retailing Index has gained 7.3
percent this year, compared with a 5.9 percent gain for the  S&P
500 .  Fur sales fell since 2005 because of the recession and
warmer winters and only began to recover last year, the  West
Hollywood , California-based trade group says.  ‘Underground’ So Long  “After being underground for so long, fur has got a new
vibe,” says Roseanne Morrison, fashion director of Doneger
Group, a New York-based retail consulting firm. “It’s actually
fun.”  Celebrities also are inspiring shoppers in their 20s and
30s to buy fur, says  designer  Adrienne Landau.  Kate Moss ,
 Jennifer Lopez  and  Catherine Zeta-Jones  are among the better-
known wearers of fur.  The fur business is trying to align itself with a wider
trend toward goods considered “cruelty free,” an industry term
used to refer to a multiple products such as meat, cosmetics and
rugs produced in more humane ways.  Origin Assured  Consumers are 19 percent more likely to buy fur with an
“Origin Assured” label, says the U.K.-based International Fur
 Trade  Federation, which started the independently monitored
initiative almost five years ago. The “OA” label is granted to
certain species sourced from approved  nations  such as the U.S.,
 Canada  and  Denmark  that have regulations specifying humane
trapping methods for wild animals and ensuring farmed animals
are protected from injury and given proper shelter, food and
water.  “Women have always loved fur, and it became, ‘Should I or
shouldn’t I?’” says Landau, whose fashions are sold at
retailers including the Intermix and Saks chains and the Gilt
Groupe Inc. website. “Now it’s, ‘I can wear it. I don’t feel
any guilt.’”  Fifty-six percent of Americans believe wearing fur is
morally acceptable, and 39 percent consider it wrong, according
to Gallup’s annual moral acceptability  survey  released in May.  In the first category is supermodel  Naomi Campbell , who
modeled fur for designer Dennis Basso in his winter 2009 ad
campaign after appearing naked in the PETA anti-fur ads in the
mid-1990s. Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour still wears fur
despite being attacked by anti-fur activists.  PETA has been “the social conscience” for the fur
industry -- which sources from small-scale growers and trappers
-- and has influenced it to be more humane, Doneger’s Morrison
said.  Crueler Production  PETA doesn’t consider the industry reformed. Production
became crueler as it spread to  China , says Dan Matthews, a
Norfolk, Virginia-based senior vice president for campaigns.
China is not an “OA” country.  Fur wearers are a minority with a “cavalier” attitude
toward the suffering of animals, some of which are skinned
alive, he said. PETA counts  fashion guru  Tim Gunn and singer and
fashion entrepreneur  Justin Timberlake  among its supporters.
Stella McCartney is famously anti-fur.  Other design houses are mixing fur with less costly
materials to help raise prices and boost profitability, Morrison
said. The average price of U.S. mink pelts sold at February and
May auctions surged 26 percent to $81.90 from a year earlier,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Neiman Marcus   Fur is such a predominant trend this year that Neiman
Marcus’s fashion director, Ken Downing, highlighted it as a
must-have for the second straight fall season. Among the items
the retailer’s website currently is touting are a $3,980 J.
Mendel fox bolero, a mink collar from Akris for $1,580, and a
Marc Jacobs beaver fur-collared tweed jacket for $2,800.  Laser-cutting and micro-shearing -- which produce finer,
more detailed fur pieces like geometric shapes, and a lower,
velvety pile -- now allow for lighter fur clothing. That makes
possible garments that can go beyond traditional pairings with
evening gowns and be rolled into carryalls, thrown over casual
clothing, and incorporated into layered looks, Landau said.  “Women have a chance to be a little more creative,”
Landau says.  Long-haired varieties and color-saturated furs, in
burgundy, amethyst and emerald are in, Downing said. A novel
silhouette this year is the chubby, a short boxy coat worn in
the 1930s and 1940s, he said.  PPR (PP)  SA-owned Gucci’s collection,
featuring such attention-grabbing looks, stood out, Morrison
said.  “We’ve been wearing yoga pants for so long,” says Marie Driscoll, an apparel equities analyst at Standard & Poor’s in
New York. “You feel completely different when you put on
something sophisticated and grown-up. It’s got romance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 