-- 
Macquarie Scraps Forecast for Trading Unit

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-07-28T03:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/macquarie-sticks-to-profit-growth-forecast.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  scrapped its
profit growth forecast for the fixed income, currency and
commodities division, which accounted for 70 percent of
trading income at Australia’s biggest investment bank last
year, as volatile markets sap market confidence.  The unit’s earnings in the year ending March 31, 2012,
will be “broadly in line” with the previous fiscal year,
Sydney-based Macquarie said today, cutting its April
prediction that profit will grow. Total profit for the bank
is still expected to improve as long as markets don’t worsen,
it said.  Macquarie shares fell close to a two-year low after
Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Moore said the bank’s
customers “were experiencing a lack of confidence” and that
a potential U.S. debt default would be “very bad” for the
lender. Moore, 52, is betting on a rebound in global markets
after expanding in the Americas,  Asia  and Europe, even as
rivals including UBS AG and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  slash
costs.  “It’s a tougher environment out there,” said Jason Teh,
who helps manage about $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in
Sydney. Macquarie is going to “be linked to the volatility
associated with capital markets, and I don’t think things are
going to change much there. You can’t expect exponential
growth” in trading income every year, he said.  Shares Tumble  Shares of Macquarie fell 4.5 percent to A$28.01 at 12:16
p.m. in Sydney, making them the worst performer on the MSCI
Financials Index today. The stock has slumped 24 percent this
year, almost five times the decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index. Goldman Sachs has tumbled 20 percent and UBS has
shed 14 percent.  Moore reiterated today his April prediction that full-
year earnings at Macquarie Capital, which advises on
takeovers, debt sales and stock issues, will be higher than
the previous year, as will profit at Macquarie’s securities
business.  The bank’s funds business will see an increased full-
year profit, Macquarie forecast today, compared with its
prediction three months ago for “in line” earnings.  The overall outlook reiterated Macquarie’s April
forecast that profit in the year to March 31, 2012, will top
the A$956 million ($1.05 billion) reported for the previous
fiscal year. While earnings in the three months to June 30
were ahead of the year-earlier period, they fell from the
previous three months, the bank said in a statement to the
stock exchange.  Other Challenges  Today’s forecast “remains subject to a range of other
challenges including movements in foreign exchange rates,
increased competition across all markets, the cost of our
continued conservative approach to funding and capital, and
regulation, including the potential for regulatory changes,”
Moore said in the statement today.  Investment banks around the world are struggling to
boost earnings as share markets tumble on increased concern
about sovereign debt in  Europe  and the U.S. Last week,
Goldman Sachs, the  U.S. bank  that makes most of its money
from trading, said it will cut about 1,000 jobs after a
plunge in fixed-income revenue that was bigger than analysts
estimated.  Default Risk  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, scrapped its profit
target for 2014 this week and announced cost cuts after
second-quarter profit dropped 49 percent on tumbling earnings
at its investment bank.  Asked what a U.S. debt default would mean to Macquarie,
Moore said “the implications for the business will be bad.”  “It’ll be a place we’ve never been before, so until we
get there, we don’t know” what the full impact would be,
Moore told reporters on a call today.  Macquarie’s dependence on earnings outside its home
market has increased since the 2008 financial crisis, after
it bought brokerages, advisory and asset management
businesses in  North America , Asia and Europe, which accounted
for a record 64 percent of earnings in the six months ended
March 31.  Macquarie’s fixed income, currencies and commodities
business was the single biggest contributor to total profit
in the six months ended March 31 among the eight divisions
the bank details in its earnings reports. The unit added
A$408 million to earnings in the period, when the bank posted
net income of A$553 million.  It also generated A$587 million in trading income,
versus the group total of A$762 million.  `Market Facing' Businesses  Moore said the division is among its so-called “market
facing” businesses that have suffered in the three months
ended June 30 from slumping confidence among clients.  “All the counterparties we deal with basically were
experiencing a lack of confidence” during the bank’s fiscal
first quarter, Moore told reporters.  Founded in 1969 with three employees, the bank pioneered
a business model of buying and pooling assets, listing them
on an exchange and charging fees for managing them. It had a
15,556-strong payroll as of March 31, prompting some analysts
to question whether the bank is overstaffed given current
markets.  The number of employees hasn’t “changed materially”
since the end of March, Moore told reporters today, adding
that unit managers set headcount according to their needs.  Employees  Macquarie needs to cut staff by about 1,000 to restore
its returns to industry levels, according to analysts at
Citigroup Inc. led by Wes Nason in  Melbourne . Nason wrote
this month that Macquarie bankers generate 75 percent to 80
percent of the revenue of their peers at other investment
banks.  While the number of mergers and acquisitions involving
Australian companies has climbed in the first two quarters of
this year from the previous year, Macquarie has slipped in
rankings of arrangers compiled by Bloomberg. The firm was
14th, with a market share of 7.3 percent. Barclays Plc leads
the table with 34.5 percent of the market, according to the
data.  Moore said today while the bank’s M&A market share “is
fine,” the bigger issue is “underlying activity levels.”  Concern about Macquarie is “overstated,” and the
bank’s earnings “should rebound when market conditions
improve,” Victor German, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura
 Australia  Ltd. who rates the shares as “buy,” said this
month.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  