-- 
Madoff Trustee’s Actions to Be Probed by GAO, Representative Garrett Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T23:03:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/madoff-trustee-s-actions-to-be-probed-by-gao-representative-garrett-says.html
The actions of the trustee
overseeing the liquidation of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm will be
investigated by the U.S.  Government Accountability Office , said
U.S. Representative  Scott Garrett , who requested the probe.  The GAO agreed to conduct “a comprehensive evaluation” of
the activities of the trustee, New York lawyer  Irving Picard , as
well as the  Securities Investor Protection Corp.  and the
 Securities and Exchange Commission  in connection with the
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC liquidation, said
the New Jersey Republican in a statement on his website today.  In February, Garrett introduced a bill that would amend the
Securities Investor Protection Act to block Picard from pursuing
“clawback” claims to recover profits from innocent Madoff
investors, he said in the statement. Garrett is chairman of the
House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and
Government-Sponsored Enterprises.  “The public deserves to understand the trustee’s
motivations for excluding so many innocent investors from SIPC
protection, and questions need to be answered regarding the
SEC’s role in this affair,” Garrett said in the statement.
“The trustee’s approach flies in the face of the SEC’s investor
protection mandate, yet the SEC has stood to the side and
allowed SIPC and the trustee to go forward.”  ‘Full Cooperation’  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment. Ailis Wolf, an outside
spokeswoman for the SIPC, had no immediate comment.  “We will provide our full cooperation in conjunction with
any inquiry by the GAO,” Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  In a June 3 letter, Garrett and three other House members
asked U.S. Comptroller General Gene Dodaro to investigate the
conduct of the Madoff liquidation, focusing on questions
including SIPC’s selection of Picard as trustee, the choice of
methods to determine which Madoff investors would recover money
from the SIPC, the cost to pay lawyers and investigators and
details of some of the settlements reached by Picard with
investors.  Picard, in determining how much net equity investors had in
their Madoff accounts, calculates the difference between the
amount they invested with Madoff and the amount withdrawn from
their accounts. Madoff victims have argued that the amount lost
should be based on their final account statements at the time
Madoff was arrested and his firm forced into liquidation, in
December 2008. The method favored by the investors would require
the SIPC to pay them more.  ‘Shine a Light’  “We are pleased the GAO has agreed to shine a light on
SIPC and its trustee’s approach to the Madoff liquidation,”
said Ron Stein, president of the Network for Investor Action and
Protection, in an e-mailed statement. “NIAP continues to have
serious concerns about the trustee’s methods, compensation and
accountability, as well as SIPC’s rubber stamp throughout the
process.”  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history. He’s in a
federal prison in  North Carolina , serving a 150-year sentence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  