-- 
Madoff Liquidator Loses Bid to Sue UBS in Bankruptcy Court

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T22:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/madoff-liquidator-loses-bid-to-sue-ubs-in-bankruptcy-court.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm lost a bid to pursue a $555 million lawsuit against  UBS AG (UBSN) 
in bankruptcy court, according to a court filing today.  A district judge said she would handle the suit along with
a $2 billion lawsuit against the Swiss bank by trustee  Irving Picard , as the two were related.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, seeking a total of
$2.6 billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s
fraud by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to
look the other way” at irregularities. He told U.S. District
Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan this month he would drop some
claims from the smaller, $555 million suit, and ask UBS only to
return money taken from the  Ponzi scheme  before its 2008
collapse.  By doing so, he removed the claims that raised questions
about his “standing” to sue UBS in that case, leaving only an
“intrinsically bankruptcy claim” to recover transfers that
would “ordinarily” be handled by a bankruptcy court, McMahon
said in a written order today. She agreed to UBS’s request that
she handle both cases in district court because Picard alleged
in both cases that UBS didn’t take money out of the Ponzi scheme
“in good faith,” she said.  Jury Trial  “That issue should not be litigated simultaneously in two
separate courts,” McMahon said, referring to allegations that
UBS knew Madoff was running a criminal enterprise. UBS in
addition was entitled to a jury trial which U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  couldn’t handle unless both parties
consented, McMahon said.  McMahon, who also is handling Picard’s $19 billion suit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , had agreed to consider handling
the UBS suits as well because she said they raised similar
nonbankruptcy issues of whether the trustee was entitled to sue
for damages on behalf of Madoff investors.  The cases are Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04212 and 11-cv-
04213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  