-- 
Aetna Raises Forecast as Demand for Medical Care Slides

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T20:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/aetna-rises-after-boosting-forecast.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S.
health insurer, raised its profit forecast and beat analysts’
estimates amid a drop in demand for medical care.  Aetna expects full-year earnings excluding some items of
$4.60 to $4.70, up from an earlier target of $4.20 to $4.30, the
Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer said today in a statement.  Insurers have benefitted from the decline in the
consumption of medical services that has plagued hospital
operators like HCA Corp., which reported lower earnings July 25.
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the third-biggest insurer by enrollment, also
increased its forecast today as membership rose.  Aetna’s numbers show the “story of firm pricing and weak
utilization continues” for insurers, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York , in a note to clients.  Aetna fell 90 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $41.72 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It had gained 37
percent this year.  The company is projecting a rebound in demand for medical
care in the second half as the flu season approaches and
consumers run through their deductibles, Joe Zubretsky, chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview. He said the
insurer has yet to see any signs of higher consumption through
today.  Deductibles Run Out  With the trend toward higher deductibles on plans, there is
a chance that consumers won’t spend their deductibles until the
end of the year, if ever, and the seasonal rise in costs for
insurers may not be felt in the second half, Zubretsky said.
“To assume that at this early stage would be imprudent,” he
said.  Zubretsky and other insurance executives are also debating
whether utilization will ever return to historical levels, given
the gradual shifting of costs onto consumers by employers and
the greater awareness among consumers about how much procedures
and services cost, he said.  “Right now the entire industry is trying to decide whether
the low utilization is the anomalous effect of a bad economy or
the cumulative effect of effective managed care,” Zubretsky
said. “Whether this is the new normal or not, we just don’t
know yet.”  Net income rose 9.3 percent to $536.7 million, the insurer
said in the statement. Profit excluding  capital gains  rose to
$522.8 million, or $1.35 a share, from $450.2 million, or $1.05,
a year earlier. The results beat the $1.08 estimate of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit at  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , in Minnetonka,
 Minnesota , also beat estimates as U.S. unemployment topping 9
percent kept Americans from doctors’ offices. The company was
the first plan to report, on July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Staiti in Boston at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 