-- 
Agility Prosecutors Probing ‘Potential New Charges’ in U.S., Judge Writes

-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-07-27T16:42:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/agility-prosecutors-probing-potential-new-charges-u-s-judge-writes.html
U.S. prosecutors are investigating
“potential new charges” against  Agility (AGLTY) , the Kuwaiti storage
and logistics provider under indictment for overcharging the
U.S. military, a judge wrote.  Agility asked U.S. District Judge Thomas W. Thrash in
Atlanta to reject a federal grand jury subpoena demanding the
appearance of retired U.S. Army General Dan Mongeon, a member of
Agility’s board, according to federal court documents. Thrash,
in an order docketed today, upheld the subpoena.  “The principal purpose of questioning this witness is to
investigate potential new charges,” Thrash wrote. “This is a
proper use of the grand jury.”  Agility was indicted in November 2009 on allegations it
overcharged the U.S. government on a multibillion-dollar
contract to supply food for troops in Kuwait and  Iraq .  Mongeon is also chief executive officer of an Agility unit,
DGS Holdings Inc., according to court documents. Harry Frazier,
an Agility spokesman in the U.S., had no immediate comment on
the judge’s order and said he was contacting the company.  “The vast majority of information General Mongeon knows
about the allegations at issue has been derived solely from
privileged communications with company counsel,” Agility wrote
in its motion to suppress the subpoena.  The U.S. government, in its court filings, wrote that “the
purpose of this subpoena is not to build further evidence for
trial on the existing charges but rather to investigate
additional potential charges.”  The case is U.S. v. Public Warehousing Co., 09-cr-490, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Dunn  in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 