-- 
Mahindra Sees India’s First Cult Brand Aided by Ssangyong SUVs

-- B y   Y o o l i m   L e e
-- 
2011-07-27T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/mahindra-sees-india-s-first-cult-brand-aided-by-ssangyong-suvs.html
At  Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620) , South
Korea’s third-largest maker of  sport utility vehicles , just
about everything that could go wrong did in the past two
decades. The company switched owners four times, faced
bankruptcy and suffered one of the most violent strikes in
modern Korean history in 2009.  Workers in that clash took control of a plant for almost
three months, using iron pipes and Molotov cocktails to battle
air and land police commandos armed with tear gas and water
cannons.  Into this mess, in November 2010, stepped  Anand Mahindra , a
scion of one of  India ’s richest families, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its September issue. His flagship company,
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , bought 70 percent of Ssangyong for
$378 million. M&M is part of Mumbai-based Mahindra Group, a
conglomerate with 110 subsidiaries in banking, finance,
 information technology , real estate and resorts.  Mahindra, the company’s vice chairman and managing
director, says he’s confident that M&M can turn the Korean
carmaker’s run of bad fortune around. He says he’ll invest in
Ssangyong Motor’s people and products.  “I see our relationship with Ssangyong as an inflection
point which is going to contribute greatly to the future success
of the Mahindra Group,” Mahindra says. The takeover of
Ssangyong is part of Mahindra’s drive to make his company a
world-known name in SUVs.  ‘Global Cult Brand’  After acquiring stakes in three tractor makers in the past
six years, Mahindra & Mahindra surpassed Moline, Illinois-based
Deere & Co. as the world’s largest tractor maker by sales volume
in the year ended on March 31, 2010, according to the Indian
company.  “We want to be India’s first global cult brand,” Mahindra
says.  The purchase reflects the growing economic might of India
as its companies pursue acquisitions around the world. Indian
companies made 1,056 international purchases valued at $94
billion from the beginning of 2006 to June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The largest deals are  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ’s $12.8 billion
purchase of London-based Corus Group Ltd. in 2007 and the $10.7
billion acquisition by Indian billionaire Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  of most of the African assets of Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co., or Zain. That compares with just 14
cross-border M&A deals by Indian firms totaling $590.4 million
from 1990 to 2000.  ‘Such an Aspiration’  “Indian companies saw opportunities for international
expansion and were able to get these assets at a time when some
overseas companies were restructuring,” says Nikhil Nath, Hong
Kong-based head of mergers and acquisitions for Asia ex-Japan at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “Several Indian companies, including M&M,
will become truly global companies in the next decade. The
Ssangyong deal shows such an aspiration.”  India’s most acquisitive company is Mumbai-based M&M, which
sells tractors in 35 countries, mostly under its Mahindra brand.
Also India’s largest producer of SUVs, M&M made 28 acquisitions,
valued at $1.2 billion, from the beginning of 2006 to June 30.
Of those, 11 were outside of India, totaling $752.2 million. And
its biggest acquisition to date is Ssangyong Motor.  M&M has been a hit with investors. Shares of the company --
the 15th-largest stock by value on the benchmark Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index -- have risen 33-fold since the
beginning of 2002. They traded at 718.3 rupees on July 27.  ‘People to Rise’  Mahindra and his wife, Anuradha, editor and publisher of
two luxury lifestyle monthly magazines, together own 0.07
percent of M&M, as of March 31, according to Bombay Stock
Exchange data. She also has a 1.97 percent stake in  Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , according to Bloomberg data. The couple’s
shares in the two companies were worth about $160 million as of
July 27.  M&M, which went public in 1956, is the flagship of Mahindra
Group, whose corporate motto is “enable people to rise.” The
listed companies under Mahindra Group had a combined market
value of about $17.6 billion as of June 30, with 119,900
employees in more than 100 countries.  Mahindra, 56, is part of a new, more outward-looking breed
of second- and third-generation executives among India’s
wealthiest families, says Nirmalya Kumar, a professor of
marketing at London Business School and author of “India’s
Global Powerhouses” ( Harvard Business School  Press, 2009).  ‘Wants to Globalize’  “He represents the rising Indian family business that
wants to globalize, modernize, professionalize and be on the
cutting edge of management practices,” Kumar says. “And he is
very committed.”  The most prominent example is  Ratan Tata , chairman of  Tata
Group , India’s largest conglomerate, with 98 companies and sales
of $67.4 billion in the year ended on March 31, 2010. About 57
percent of that revenue came from overseas, according to the
company’s website.  Tata Group was founded by Jamsetji Tata in 1868. Ratan Tata
is a son of Naval Tata, who was adopted into the Tata family.  Mahindra, who completed his Master of Business
Administration from Harvard Business School in 1981, is the
third generation of the Mahindra family to run its enterprise.
His paternal grandfather, J.C. Mahindra, co-founded the company
in his hometown of Ludhiana, Punjab, with his partner Ghulam
Mohammed in 1945.  Name Change  They called it Mahindra & Mohammed. Two years later, India
gained independence from Britain and split into India and
Pakistan, and Mohammed moved to Pakistan. The company then
changed its name to Mahindra & Mahindra -- for Anand’s
grandfather and great-uncle K.C. Mahindra. K.C.’s son, Keshub,
now 87, has been M&M’s chairman since 1963.  M&M, which started life as a steel company in 1945, has
been expanding globally with its compact tractors since 1994,
when it entered the U.S. market by opening a unit in Tomball,
Texas.  M&M has tractor plants in Australia,  China , India and the
U.S. Driven by robust sales of tractors and SUVs in 15
countries, M&M’s revenue surged sevenfold from fiscal 2002 to
361.2 billion rupees ($8 billion) in fiscal 2011, and profit
jumped 46 times to 30.8 billion rupees.  Pawan Goenka, president of M&M’s automotive and farm
equipment division, has overseen much of that sales boom.
Goenka, who was born in  Madhya Pradesh  in central India and has
a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from  Cornell University  in
Ithaca,  New York , worked at  General Motors Co. (GM)  in Detroit for 14
years.  Landmark Project  After joining M&M in Mumbai in 1993, Goenka led the
company’s landmark project to develop an indigenous SUV, the
Scorpio, which has been a windfall for the firm.  Goenka, nonexecutive chairman of Ssangyong’s board, still
lives in India and frequently travels to Korea for meetings.  In keeping with M&M’s ethos of nurturing leaders and
preserving the culture and management of acquired companies,
Goenka has delegated the responsibility of day-to-day management
to Korean executives.  One of his goals is to finally put to rest the past
struggles of the Korean company.  Ssangyong’s tortuous corporate story starts in 1997, the
beginning of Korea’s corporate debt crisis, which would
eventually cause tens of thousands of companies to go out of
business and the economy to shrink by 5.7 percent in 1998.  Ssangyong Group,  Korea ’s sixth-largest conglomerate at the
time, agreed to sell its debt-ridden car unit to Daewoo Group in
December 1997. Two years later, Daewoo, Korea’s No. 3 industrial
group, collapsed under 80 trillion won ($75.5 billion) in debt.  Creditor Banks  Control fell to creditor banks, which put the company under
a rehabilitation plan. In 2004, China’s SAIC Motor Corp. bought
48.9 percent of Ssangyong Motor from creditors for 590.9 billion
won.  That marriage ended in acrimony five years later, when SAIC
decided to give up on the money-losing carmaker and Ssangyong
Motor filed for court receivership.  Once the company was put under  bankruptcy protection ,
workers staged a walkout in mid-2009 when the company said it
would cut one-third of its workforce, or 2,646 jobs. The
employees seized the plant and fought riot police for 77 days.
Some protested from the top of the 70-meter-high (230-foot-high)
factory chimney.  In the past two years, 15 former workers and their
immediate family members have either committed suicide or died
of heart attacks since the strike, police say.  Talking With Union  A year after the strike ended, M&M bought the company. The
new owner chose Lee Yoo Il, who has three decades of experience
at  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , as chief executive officer. Lee had been
appointed by a Seoul court to manage Ssangyong after its
previous owner, Shanghai-based SAIC, decided to drop it.  What distinguishes M&M from Ssangyong’s previous owners,
Lee says, is its global mindset and efforts to communicate with
all employees, especially union members. Lee says he had initial
doubts about M&M taking over ailing Ssangyong. After he met
Mahindra, though, Lee changed his views.  “Even my wife got a crush on him,” he jokes.  One day after M&M signed the contract to acquire the SUV
maker in November 2010, M&M gathered 3,500 Ssangyong workers in
an auditorium. There, Goenka explained, through a translator,
his plan to revitalize Ssangyong. Mahindra also delivered a
speech in a video message. M&M gave everyone an eight-page
handout on the Indian company.  ‘First Time’  “We’ve had a number of owners over the years, but it was
the first time anyone organized such an event,” says Kim Kyu
Han, Ssangyong’s union leader. “Never before did we have such
an attentive audience.”  Apprehensions about yet another foreign owner, one that the
workers had never heard of, have gradually eased, Ssangyong’s
union leader Kim says.  “It’s early days, but there is already a sense of trust
among M&M, management and union,” he says.  Mahindra agrees. He says M&M brings financial stability and
investment to Ssangyong. It also adds engineering for
alternative fuels and electric vehicles, he says. Ssangyong has
technology and 1,071 dealers in 91 countries.  “Each partner is vital to the other partner’s aspirations
and goals,” Mahindra says. “That is why I’m confident that
together we will be able to carve out a successful future.”  Not everyone is as confident. Ssangyong’s management faces
the daunting challenge of developing a new line of models and
upgrading aging factories and equipment, says Lee Hang Koo,
director of the automotive industry at the Korea Institute for
Industrial Economies & Trade, a state-run think tank in Seoul.  ‘Hardly Any Investment’  Ssangyong managed to post only a small profit in two of the
past six years and reported a loss in the first two quarters of
2011.  “This is a company that endured the past five years with
hardly any investment,” Lee says. He estimates that Ssangyong
needs two or three additional SUV models to compete in Korea
after introducing the Korando C this year, its first new model
in almost three years. “There is a lot of ground to make up.”  Mahindra, known for his signature black mustache,
impeccable Western suits with a tie and matching pocket
handkerchief and the eloquence of his speeches, remains upbeat.
He plans to build Ssangyong back to profitability by investing
in research and production. He’s a visionary, Goenka says.  “He looks at the bigger picture and doesn’t get bogged
down by numbers,” Goenka says. “In fact, he hates numbers. He
will want to smell the business, and he gets very enthusiastic
about styling and branding.”  Mahindra has adopted M&A as a key strategy to scale up his
company, making it globally competitive. Mahindra Group has a
team of 12 acquisition specialists to work with different
divisions of the group.  ‘Hearts and Minds’  Goenka says a successful acquisition depends on M&M’s
knowledge of the company it wants to acquire as well as managing
cultural complications after getting the deal done.  “For us, it is very important to win the hearts and minds
of the people who are working for the company,” Goenka says.
“This philosophy of Mahindra has worked well with Ssangyong.”  Mahindra has embraced Twitter to promote his conglomerate
and communicate his views. He had 332,883 followers as of July
27. He recently tweeted with a photo of a street scene during
his trip to Istanbul:  “Istanbul has buildings as old and dilapidated as
Mumbai’s. Trick is to have clean, paved roads & voila, you have
a world city.”  In Mumbai, where he was born and raised, he’s riding the
country’s economic boom and expanding his family’s empire
internationally. As for Ssangyong Motor -- his biggest bet so
far -- investors are watching to see whether he can rebuild the
carmaker, something none of its previous Korean and Chinese
owners could do.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoolim Lee in Singapore at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  