-- 
Air France, Lufthansa Drop on Results; Singapore Also Misses

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T16:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/air-france-klm-first-half-net-loss-narrows-to-304-million-as-sales-climb.html
Air France-KLM Group and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  tumbled as Europe’s top airlines said they’ll rein
in capacity after earnings missed estimates.  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA)  will also slow growth following numbers that came up short.  Air France fell 8.1 percent on a second-quarter operating
loss of 145 million-euro ($208 million) and Lufthansa slid 2.8
percent when profit of 230 million euros failed to meet the 325
million-euro estimate of analysts. Singapore Air, reporting at
the Asian close, missed targets as net income fell 82 percent.  Air France-KLM, expected to report operating profit of 43.4
million euros, will almost halve the pace of seat increases this
winter to cope with high fuel prices and the legacies of unrest
in the  Middle East  and Japan’s nuclear crisis. While Lufthansa
will also revise capacity plans, it still aims to lift annual
earnings, whereas Air France’s target remains to be profitable.  “The impact of some of these events is even bigger than
previously reported,” said Jonathan Wober, an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in  London . “There is also some vulnerability
to the macro-economic environment and the euro situation. But
even if both results came in lower than expected, there’s a big
difference between the two. Air France is more disappointing.”  Demand ‘Flat’  Singapore Airlines, the world’s second-largest carrier by
market value, said today that bookings for the next few months
are almost flat, with traffic hurt by the Japanese disruption
and uncertainty over the world economy posing “significant
challenges” in the key markets of  Europe  and the U.S.  Global  passenger growth  slowed to 4.4 percent in June from
6.8 percent in May, the  International Air Transport Association 
said today. IATA, which predicts a 78 percent drop in industry
net income this year to $4 billion, a 0.7 percent margin, blamed
the slowdown on fuel costs, a sluggish economy and higher taxes.  Air France, Europe’s biggest airline, closed 76 cents lower
at 8.62 euros in Paris, where the Franco-Dutch company is based,
for the steepest drop in five months. The stock has declined 37
percent this year, valuing the business at 2.59 billion euros.  Cologne-based Lufthansa ended the day 41 cents lower at
14.06 euros in  Frankfurt  and has slipped 14 percent this year,
giving a market value of 6.44 billion euros. Both companies
published results after markets closed yesterday.  Crisis-Costs  The European carriers said the aftermath of the Japanese
earthquake and tsunami and political unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa are still weighing on traffic. The crises cost
about 100 million euros at  Air France-KLM (AF)  in the second quarter
and 117 million euros in the first half at Lufthansa, which said
the full-year toll could reach 200 million euros.  The German company will examine winter seating plans in
response to the “new demand climate” and aims to accelerate
restructuring of Austrian Airlines and British Midland. The
main-brand airline will trim winter capacity growth to 6 percent
from a previous plan of 12 percent by using smaller aircraft,
deferring planned routes and shutting the Lufthansa Italia unit.  Lufthansa maintained its target of increasing annual sales
and operating profit beyond last year’s tallies of 27.3 billion
euros and 876 million euros respectively. Quarterly traffic rose
11 percent, Europe’s No. 2 carrier said in a further  statement 
today, as disruption caused by volcanic ash from Iceland eased,
with revenue climbing by the same degree to 7.6 billion euros.  The company, which has its main hub in Frankfurt, is also
wrapping up a program to cut costs by 1 billion euros from 2008.  Better-Placed  Quarterly fuel expenses climbed 16 percent to 1.67 billion
euros at Air France-KLM and 27 percent to S$1.44 billion ($1.2
billion) at Singapore Airlines.  While Lufthansa’s three-month fuel bill rose 22 percent to
1.7 billion euros, the full-year estimate -- 6.8 billion euros
originally -- was cut again to 6.4 billion euros, and the
company says hedging positions benefit it when oil is priced
above $94 a barrel.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at
about $118 today on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “Lufthansa is in a better position,” said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin with an
“outperform” rating on the carrier. “The oil price and the
Middle East and  Japan  crises are taking some of shine off the
overall numbers, but it’s still overall very solid.”  Seats Slashed  Air France-KLM’s statement reiterated its forecast of a
positive operating result for the full year after passenger
traffic rose 9.4 percent in the quarter, spurred by gains of 15
percent in Europe and 13 percent on routes to the Americas, and
revenue advanced 8.7 percent to 6.22 billion euros. Ivory Coast
traffic has also begun to recover after a civil war there, Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said on an analyst call.  Still, the Eurozone crisis and setbacks in Japan and the
Mideast mean markets are “uncertain,” the company said, adding
that it will reduce long-haul winter capacity growth from 5.1
percent to 2.7 percent, including cuts at KLM unit Martinair.
Lufthansa said all of its divisions are “revising their plans.”  Singapore Airlines said management will monitor business
trends closely “and respond appropriately.” Capacity will now
increase 5 percent in the fiscal year that began April 1, a
reduction of 1 percentage point, it said in a statement.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s biggest discount airline,
will cut year-to-year capacity for the first time in its history
for the low season starting in October as fuel costs threaten to
render dozens of routes unprofitable, it said May 23.  Higher Fares  “You could say at first glance that this is negative, but
I’ve always felt that the planned capacity increases were over-
ambitious,” said Per Ola Hellgren, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz,  Germany . Slower growth in seating
may also help airlines boost average fares, he added.  Air France-KLM reported a net loss of 197 million euros for
the quarter versus a year-earlier profit of 736 million euros,
when earnings were boosted by the sale of a stake in the Amadeus
booking system. The adjusted loss narrowed to 212 million euros
from 252 million euros.  Lufthansa’s three-month net income increased 55 percent to
301 million euros and demand and sales are likely to develop
positively as the year progresses, it said, helped by a recovery
in Japan. The German company had a year-earlier operating profit
of 159 million euros and Air France a loss of 132 million euros.  Costs Gap  Singapore Airlines said quarterly net income fell to S$44.7
million, missing the S$127 million analyst consensus, as a 3
percent gain in revenue to S$3.58 billion failed to keep pace
with an 11 percent jump in spending. The main airline unit swung
to a S$36 million operating loss from a S$136 million profit.  The stock declined 0.4 percent to S$14.71 ahead of the
earnings announcement and has fallen 3.9 percent this year.
Singapore Air has a market value of S$17.6 billion, ranking it
second in the  airline industry  only to Air China Ltd.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, Europe’s
third-biggest airline by traffic, formed from the merger of
British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia, reports earnings tomorrow.
The stock was trading 1.4 percent lower today, valuing the
London-based company at 4.29 billion pounds ($7 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  