-- 
IRS Asks Airlines to Refund Tax on Tickets Sold Pre-July 23

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-07-27T22:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/air-travelers-may-get-tax-refund-on-tickets-bought-pre-july-23.html
Air passengers who bought plane
tickets before the airlines had to stop collecting U.S. ticket
taxes for travel on or after July 23 may be entitled to a refund
of tax paid.  The  Internal Revenue Service , in a  notice  posted today on
its website, said it has asked the airlines to repay eligible
customers who request refunds. Those who don’t receive one from
the airlines can submit claims to the IRS under procedures being
developed, according to the statement.  “We agree that passengers are entitled to a refund based
on precedent and case law from previous tax lapses,”  Steve Lott , a spokesman for the  Air Transport Association , said about
uncollected ticket levies.  “But we are puzzled by the IRS guidance on how to most
efficiently get the refund. We believe it’s the IRS’s
responsibility because ultimately it’s the Treasury that has the
tax money, not the airlines,” Lott said in a phone interview.  ATA Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Calio  wrote to IRS
Commissioner Douglas Shulman today urging him to “revise the
public guidance to instruct taxpayers to seek refunds directly
from the service as has been the practice in the past.”  The airlines suspended collection of ticket taxes, and most
raised fares by similar amounts, when the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s revenue-raising authority expired at midnight
July 22, after Congress failed to extend the agency’s funding.
The FAA had been operating under a series of short-term
extensions since its last multi-year funding bill expired on
Sept. 30, 2007.  IRS Position  Carriers aren’t required by law to issue refunds, Frank Keith, a spokesman for the IRS, said. The agency would prefer
they do, Keith said by phone. “The airline is in the best
position to make that happen” because carriers have the needed
records about customers’ ticket purchases and travel dates, he
said.  The IRS may have difficulty devising refund procedures
because electronic tickets do not leave a paper trail that a
passenger may need to prove a purchase, Keith said.  “There is absolutely no loss” to the airlines, Keith
said. They would be able to reduce the amount of taxes they owe
in their next quarterly filing by the amount of repayments they
make, he said.  Legal Precedent  The U.S. Supreme Court in November 1997 let stand two
appeals court rulings that airline passengers must seek refunds
from the IRS if the carriers don’t provide them. The ruling
thwarted efforts to revive class-action lawsuits against
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  by ticket buyers who complained they were
charged for a 10 percent U.S. airline tax that was no longer in
effect when they used their tickets.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier, is referring customers who call or write seeking a  tax
refund  to the IRS so the agency can handle the matter, saidMike Trevino, a spokesman for the Chicago-based carrier. He didn’t
know how many passengers have requested a tax refund.  “At this point, we are recommending passengers contact the
IRS for a refund, since the tax funds are allocated to the IRS
at the time of purchase, not travel,” said Brandy King, a
spokeswoman for Dallas-based Southwest.  JetBlue Refunds  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , based in  New York , posted a  note  on
its website telling passengers it would provide refunds upon e-
mail request for people traveling within the next seven days. It
advised customers to check back later if they are traveling
after the seven-day period.  “We have just seen the IRS updates and we’re in the
process of reviewing our next steps,” said  Tim Smith , a
spokesman for  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines Inc., based in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas . The carrier is not getting a lot of calls from
passengers on the matter, he said.  The IRS move comes a day after Senators Jay Rockefeller, a
West Virginia Democrat, and Maria Cantwell, a Washington
Democrat, urged the airlines in a letter to their Washington-
based trade group to “put all of the profits that they are
making from the lapse of aviation taxes into an escrow account”
to return when Congress reinstates them.  The FAA estimates it is losing $30 million a day in
uncollected taxes. They comprise a 7.5 percent tax on the base
ticket price, $3.70 per takeoff and landing on connecting
flights, $16.30 per person for international flights starting
and ending in the U.S. or $8.20 per person for flights that
begin or end in Alaska and Hawaii, and the 6.25 percent tax on
air cargo.  ‘Deeply Perplexed’  Rockefeller, chairman of the Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, and Cantwell, chairwoman of the
panel’s aviation subcommittee, said they were “deeply
perplexed” by the industry’s move to raise fares by the amount
of uncollected taxes.  They expressed their views in a  letter  yesterday to  Richard Anderson , chief executive officer of  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
chairman of the  Air Transport Association , the carriers’
Washington-based trade group.  The airlines “are merely seeking to function as
responsible businesses that are able to cover their costs,”
Calio, the association’s chief executive officer, responded
today in a letter to Rockefeller and Cantwell. “I would note
that customers are paying the same prices as were in place
before funding was allowed to lapse.”  Calio noted “the extreme financial strain under which
airlines operate” and that “airlines are not able to pass all
taxes and fees onto their customers.”  Congress deadlocked last week after Senate Democratic
leaders rejected the House-passed  bill  to keep FAA programs
operating through Sept. 16.  Democrats opposed the House bill because it would end
subsidized air service to 13 rural communities, including an
airport in  Nevada , which is represented by Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , and another in  Montana , whose senior senator
is Democrat and Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  