-- 
Laird Falls After Cooper Blocked From Doing Due Diligence

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-27T16:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/laird-pledges-dividend-hike-revenue-rise-before-cooper-move.html
Laird Plc (LRD)  fell the most since March
2010 after  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  said the maker of electronic
shields for laptops and flat-screen televisions wasn’t allowing
it to conduct due diligence for a possible raised bid.  Cooper Industries will consider making a bid of 200 pence a
share, 8.1 percent higher than its previous indicative offer of
185 pence a share, subject to being allowed to do due diligence,
the Houston-based company said in a Regulatory News Service
statement today. Laird “continues to refuse to allow” this,
Cooper said in the statement.  Laird shares fell 13.7 pence, or 7.2 percent, to 177.5
pence in London trading, the lowest since Cooper said six weeks
ago it was mulling a bid.  “Based on the conversations over the past two days with
Laird and its advisers, Cooper continues to be concerned that
the board of Laird has a view on the value of the company which
is significantly greater than its own,” Cooper said.  Laird didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Cooper has until Aug. 1 under U.K. takeover rules to say
whether it plans to make a firm offer.  “If the board of Laird is not prepared to engage with
Cooper and provide access to reasonable due diligence ahead of
the date by which Cooper must either announce a firm offer or
withdraw, Cooper will withdraw its interest,” the U.S. company
said in the statement.  The indicative offer, which is 46 percent higher than
Laird’s share price the day before Cooper disclosed its interest
on June 16, values Laird at about 533 million pounds ($871
million), Cooper said today.  Earlier today, Laird promised to raise its dividend by an
average of 24 percent a year until 2013 and organic revenue by
10 percent. It also promised to improve profitability. Laird’s
dividend will rise to 12 pence a share by 2013 from 6.7 pence
last year, the company said in a statement today.  The sales target covers the next three to five years, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Hill said on a conference call.  “We have the absolute overriding objective of increasing
shareholder value,” Hill said on the call. Cooper’s offer “was
not the right place to start.”  Laird has shared some “high-level” information with
Cooper, according to the U.K. company’s statement. Hill declined
to be more specific.  The forecast growth in revenue and dividends is higher than
analysts’ estimates, UBS AG analyst Anuj Krishan said in a note
to clients today. The underlying results were “solid,” said
Krishan, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Laird, which is based in  London , said its first-half loss
widened to 113 million pounds ($186 million), or 42.6 pence a
share, from 12.3 million pounds, or 4.6 pence, a year earlier
after taking a charge of 124.3 million pounds to close its
handset antennae business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 