-- 
Malawi Aid Suspension After Protests May Curb Economic Growth, Investment

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/malawi-aid-suspension-after-protests-may-curb-economic-growth-investment.html
The suspension of U.S. and U.K. aid
to Malawi, which depends on donors to fund as much as 40 percent
of its budget, is likely to deter investment and undermine a
five-year economic boom in the southern African nation.  The U.S. yesterday put a $350.7 million grant on hold after
security forces killed 18 people protesting about fuel shortages
and rising food costs on July 20. The U.K., the biggest donor,
has also cut funding and announced it is reviewing relations
with Malawi after President Bingu wa Mutharika deported its
envoy for criticizing him in a leaked diplomatic cable.  “Growth is likely to be impacted,” Yvonne Mhango, an
economist with  Renaissance Capital , said by phone today from
Johannesburg. “Malawi has been experiencing foreign exchange
shortages for a few years now. It is already experiencing fuel
shortages. That’s going to get worse.”  The world’s biggest producer of the burley variety of
tobacco can ill-afford the loss in donor aid. About 74 percent
of its 15 million people live on less than $1.25 a day,
according to the  World Bank , even after growth averaged 7.25
percent over the past five years. The government has budgeted to
spend 304 billion kwacha ($2 billion) in the fiscal year through
June 2012, a 2 percent drop from the previous year, after
revenue from the tobacco industry declined.  Finance Minister Ken Kandodo estimated on June 3 that the
economy would grow 6.9 percent this year and 6.6 percent next
year, saying higher mining and agricultural output would help
offset a decline in foreign aid.  Growth Forecasts  Opposition parties and civil society groups have threatened
more demonstrations if Mutharika pushes ahead with the arrest of
organizers of last week’s protests. Police fought with tens of
thousands of protesters in the towns of Mzuzu, Lilongwe,
Blantyre and Karonga.  The crackdown prompted the  Millennium Challenge Corp. , a
U.S. government agency, to suspend an accord signed three months
ago.  “At the core of an MCC partnership is the expectation that
countries maintain a demonstrated commitment to political
pluralism, human rights, and the rule of law,” the organization
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “MCC is deeply
concerned by recent events in Malawi.”  Mutharika has offered talks with the protest leaders, while
also telling them that he would “smoke you out.”  “The momentum for change is there,” Mhango said. “The
protests showed people are unhappy with the status quo. People
are not willing to lie down and take it. At this stage it
doesn’t seem they want Mutharika to leave outright, they just
want some sort of reform to ease the increased cost of living.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  