-- 
Tea Party's Way Puts Haley's South Carolina Among Most to Lose

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-27T15:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/haley-puts-shine-on-south-carolina-as-default-credit-cut-looms.html
South Carolina  Republican Governor
Nikki Haley took the Tea Party line two months ago when speaking
about Congressional talks to raise the U.S. debt ceiling.  “The very first thing they need to do is -- is make sure
that they stop raising the debt,” she said May 15 on ABC’s
“This Week” program.  Now, her state may lose its top  credit rating  if U.S.
legislators can’t agree on raising the debt limit. Moody’s
Investors Service placed South Carolina and four other states on
review for a rating cut because their reliance on federal
spending puts them at risk if the U.S. credit grade is lowered
over the debt impasse.  That prompted Haley, a first-term Republican elected in
November with Tea Party support, to distance her state from
 Washington  at a public meeting today meant to promote South
Carolina to bond-rating analysts, including those from Moody’s.  “There is an absolute stark contrast in where we are going
in our financial condition in the state of South Carolina and
where the federal government is going,” Haley, 39, said in
Columbia, the capital. “While they continue to go somewhat in
chaos, we continue to go in a more independent, solid way.”  Other states have gone beyond rhetoric to prepare for a
possible U.S. debt default. California borrowed $5.4 billion
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co . and other banks
this week and  Maryland  postponed $206 million of borrowing
because of the potential credit markets will be disrupted.  Resistance to Boehner  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  met resistance from
his own party today to his proposal to raise the limit. Tea
Party-backed members, including presidential candidate  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , expressed concern the plan won’t cut
enough spending.  The standoff has sparked concern that the U.S. may default
on its obligations and forfeit its AAA mark if an agreement
isn’t reached by Aug. 2. If that happens, Moody’s said on July
19, South Carolina, Maryland,  Tennessee ,  New Mexico  and  Virginia 
-- all with top credit grades -- may also be cut.  “We’re are all aware of the sabers you rattled over that
one,” South Carolina Comptroller General Richard Eckstrom said
to Moody’s analysts at today’s meeting. “You named us and we
think it was a very timely warning to us. The uncertainty that
surrounds what is going on in Washington is a warning that we
certainly take to heart.”  South Carolina has contingency plans to reduce spending if
federal funds are withheld, including dismissing all but the
most essential workers, Eckstrom said.  National Notice  Haley gained national attention last year after defeating
three better-financed Republicans in the race for the party’s
nomination for governor. The former state representative was
helped by endorsements from Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican
vice presidential candidate, and local Tea Party supporters.  Haley went on to beat state Senator Vincent Sheheen, a
Camden Democrat, in November, becoming the state’s first female
governor and the second Indian-American U.S. governor after
 Louisiana ’s  Bobby Jindal , another Republican.  As governor, Haley has met opposition from the Republican-
controlled Legislature and officials of her own administration.
State Treasurer Curtis Loftis called today’s meeting “an ill-
conceived idea” in a telephone interview this week. He didn’t
attend.  While Haley pledged to reduce state government, lawmakers
overrode most of her vetoes in the fiscal 2012 budget, leaving
spending bigger than in 2011. The budget produced by lawmakers
was “wasteful, irresponsible and displays a poor sense of
priorities,” the South Carolina Policy Council, a nonprofit
group that promotes limited government, said  June 24 .  Reversed Stance  Haley lost credibility among legislators when she vetoed a
plan to provide state support for South Carolina’s public-
television network, after previously agreeing to the funding,
said Scott Huffmon, who teaches politics at Winthrop University
in Rock Hill.  Legislators overrode her veto and greeted Republican leader
Kenny Bingham’s criticism of the governor for “wasting this
body’s time” with a standing ovation.  South Carolina’s above-average proportion of Medicaid
spending, and federal procurement contracts that are higher than
the average as a percentage of gross state product, exposes it
to a U.S. downgrade, Moody’s said in its report. It also cited
the state’s “relatively high” capital-market risk because its
variable-rate debt exceeds the national average.  “South Carolina has a large proportion of people on
Medicaid and that’s one part of the state’s profile that makes
it appear potentially more vulnerable to a possible
deterioration of the federal government’s credit,”  Ted Hampton ,
a Moody’s analyst who helps rate the state’s credit, said by
telephone yesterday.  Low Costs  South Carolina’s credit strengths include low costs that
have attracted manufacturers, raising requirements to fund its
reserves and limits on supplemental spending, Moody’s said in a
Feb. 4 report.  A challenge is that the state’s retirement funds held about
69 percent of the assets needed to cover projected liabilities
as of July 1, 2009, Moody’s said. Plans with 80 percent or more
of needed assets are considered adequately funded.  The state expects the funded ratio to rise to 85 percent to
90 percent over the next decade, Bill Blume, director of the
South Carolina Retirement Systems, said at today’s meeting.  South Carolina tied with  Michigan  for the nation’s fifth-
highest unemployment rate in June at 10.5 percent, above the
national average of 9.2 percent. The southern state gained
17,200 jobs from June 2010, while losing 112,500 since 2008,
according to Labor Department data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lacking Opportunities  While Haley has heralded new business announcements by
retailer  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , tiremaker  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,
cookware maker Le Creuset and other companies in recent months,
the jobless rate remains unusually high, said Frank Hefner, an
economics professor at the College of Charleston. The economies
of Charleston and Greenville-Spartanburg are robust, with most
other regions lacking growth opportunities, he said.  “The governor will point out all of the job announcements,
but those aren’t jobs,” Hefner said. “They are companies
saying we plan to hire so many people, but there is very little
accountability on how many they have really hired.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas , at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 