-- 
All Blacks, Springboks Make Four Starting Changes for Tri-Nations Rugby

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-28T02:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/all-blacks-change-four-slot-adam-thomson-at-no-8-for-south-africa-test.html
New Zealand  made four personnel
changes to its starting lineup for Saturday’s Tri-Nations rugby
Test against  South Africa  in Wellington, while Adam Thomson was
chosen at No. 8 to complete the full set of loose forward roles.  Dan Carter,  Cory Jane , Jerome Kaino and Sam Whitelock
replace Colin Slade, Sitiveni Sivivatu,  Liam Messam  and Jarrad
Hoeata, respectively, in the changes from the All Blacks’
season-opening win against Fiji last week.  Thomson, whose previous 18 Tests have come at flanker, was
switched to No. 8 as selectors use the All Blacks’ early games
to assess their backups for the rested Kieran Read before the
Rugby World Cup in September and October.  “If Kieran Read’s playing in a big Test and he gets
injured and we’ve got Adam Thompson on the bench and  Jerome
Kaino  and Richie McCaw playing, one of those guys has to play
8,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said in a news conference.
“We’ve got to be flexible in the roles they play and that’s
what we’re doing.”  In other positional switches, Zac Guildford moves wings
after Jane recovered from a finger injury to take his place on
the right wing. Sonny Bill Williams replaces Ben Smith on the
reserves’ bench.  Australia beat South Africa 39-20 in the Tri-Nations opener
five days ago in Sydney. The Springboks also made four changes
to their starting lineup, handing Gerhard Mostert his Test debut
in place of injured second-rower Flip van der Merwe.  Flanker Jean Deysel will make his first Test start, while
Patrick Lambie and Adi Jacobs replace Gio Aplon and Wynand
Olivier in the backs.  “We have had a few injury challenges on this tour and last
week was not a good start, but we have learned from our game
against  Australia ,” Springboks coach Peter de Villiers said in
a statement. “There have been some frank exchanges this week
and the players know what is expected of them.”  NEW ZEALAND: Mils Muliaina, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Zac Guildford, Dan Carter, Jimmy Cowan, Adam Thomson,
Richie McCaw (captain), Jerome Kaino, Ali Williams, Sam
Whitelock, Ben Franks, Andrew Hore, Wyatt Crockett  Reserves: Cory Flynn,  John Afoa , Jarrad Hoeata, Liam
Messam,  Piri Weepu , Colin Slade, Sonny Bill Williams.  SOUTH AFRICA: Patrick Lambie, Bjorn Basson, Adi Jacobs,
Juan de Jongh, Lwazi Mvovo, Morne Steyn, Ruan Pienaar, Danie
Roussow, Jean Deysel, Deon Stegmann, Alistair Hargreaves,
Gerhard Mostert, Werner Kruger, John Smit (captain), Dean
Greyling.  Reserves: Chiliboy Ralepelle, CJ van der Linde, Ryan
Kankowski, Ashley Johnson, Charl McLeod, Wynand Olivier, Odwa
Ndungane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  