-- 
Ally Financial Sues Former Employee Over Secret Foreclosure Data

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ally-financial-sues-former-employee-over-secret-foreclosure-data.html
Ally Financial Inc., among the five
largest U.S. mortgage originators and servicers, sued a former
employee who moonlighted as a foreclosure defense attorney over
claims she stole confidential information.  Ally terminated the employee, Tanya L. Blackwell, last week
for failing to disclose “a clear conflict” of her dual
employment as a foreclosure specialist for Ally’s GMAC unit and
as a practicing foreclosure defense attorney, according to court
papers filed yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia.  Prior to her termination, Blackwell allegedly improperly
obtained confidential company information including organization
charts for Ally’s foreclosure operations, according to the
complaint.  Blackwell accessed Ally’s protected computers and exceeded
such authorizations as may have been granted, and as a result,
obtained valuable data,” the company said in the complaint.  Blackwell worked in GMAC’s Residential Capital unit in Fort
 Washington , Pennsylvania, as a member of the Collateral
Remediation team, according to the complaint. During her
employment with Ally, Blackwell also operated the Law Office of
Tanya L. Blackwell in Philadelphia and Washington and described
her practice on her LinkedIn web page as a “plaintiff only
firm,” Ally said in court papers.  Ally, based in  Detroit , is seeking a court order barring
Blackwell’s use of the information, which she allegedly sent to
third parties, according to court papers.  Blackwell didn’t immediately return phone messages left at
her law offices in Philadelphia and Washington seeking comment
on the complaint.  The case is Ally Financial Inc. v. Blackwell, 11-cv-4694,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 