-- 
Manchester City Poised to Sign Aguero, Sky Sports Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-27T09:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/manchester-city-poised-to-sign-aguero-sky-sports-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Aguero for City  Sergio Aguero  has arrived in the U.K. for talks on a
proposed move to  Manchester City ,  Sky Sports  reported.  City hopes to sign the Atletico Madrid striker this week
after agreeing on a 38 million-pound ($62 million) fee with his
club, the  Daily Mail  said.  Staying at Arsenal?  Samir Nasri, a target for Manchester City, told Arsenal
he’s staying at the club for the coming season, according to the 
Daily Star .  The chances of Cesc Fabregas remaining at the Gunners have
increased, the Star added, as the player has been “less than
impressed” by Barcelona’s attitude toward signing him.  Toon Targets Defoe  Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  may try to sign Tottenham
striker Jermain Defoe,  the Sun  reported.  Pardew will move for the England player if he fails to
recruit Mevlut Erding from Paris Saint-Germain.  Blues Hit by Freeze  Birmingham is struggling to pay its bills and may have to
sell more players to survive, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Owner Carson Yeung’s assets have been frozen pending a
money-laundering court case in  Hong Kong . He’s denied
wrongdoing.  Torres Supported  Chelsea players have closed ranks to try to protect striker
Fernando Torres after manager Andre Villas-Boas said the media
had an “obsession” with the 50 million-pound Spaniard,  the
Mail  reported.  Petr Cech and John Terry said Torres is one of the best
strikers in the world, even though he’s scored only one goal
since moving from Liverpool in January.  Aquilani Loan Deal  Liverpool agreed to send “flop” midfielder Alberto Aquilani on a season-long loan to Fiorentina,  the Sun  reported.
The Italian, 27, spent the last campaign at Juventus.  Striker Marcos Bueno, an under-17 World Cup winner with
Mexico, has joined the Reds from Pachuca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 