-- 
ArcelorMittal South Africa Falls to Lowest Since Late 2008 on Weak Outlook

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-27T16:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/arcelormittal-south-africa-falls-to-lowest-since-late-2008-on-weak-outlook.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) ,
 Africa ’s largest steelmaker, fell to the lowest in more than two
years in Johannesburg trading after forecasting lower third-
quarter earnings because of a drop in prices and sales volumes.  The stock slumped 6 percent to close at 69.75 rand, the
lowest since March 2009. It was the worst performer on the 164-
member FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index.  ArcelorMittal South Africa posted 470 million rand ($70
million) net income in the second quarter, a 54 percent decline
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on the difference between first-half and first-quarter figures.
Third-quarter earnings will be “substantially lower” because
of a drop in international steel prices and sales volumes, the
Vanderbijlpark-based company said.  “The results were just much worse than we expected,”
Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedgroup Securities, said by
phone. “I think the market was caught by surprise by the cost
pressures the business is under, and their outlook for the third
quarter is extremely negative.”  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker and the
Luxembourg-based parent of ArcelorMittal  South Africa , reported
a 22 percent increase in quarterly profit, beating the average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It forecast
rising shipments in the second half.  “Things have just gone a bit pear-shaped in South
Africa,” Kharva said. Domestic sales were flat and exports
dropped 17 percent in the first six months, compared with a year
earlier, the company said in a statement.  The cost of coking coal increased by 59 percent,  iron ore 
by 23 percent and electricity by 28 percent in the six months,
compared with a year earlier, ArcelorMittal South Africa said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  