-- 
Las Vegas Gets Medical Tourists in Quest for Jobs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/las-vegas-gets-medical-tourists-as-u-s-mayors-aim-to-boost-jobs.html
Las Vegas  Mayor Carolyn Goodman said
she still believes construction and tourism will restore job
growth to her city in the Nevada desert. It just won’t be only
casinos that do it this time.  Las Vegas, America’s  fastest-growing  big city in the past
decade, is building a performing-arts center, a new  City Hall 
and  a museum  devoted to organized crime in its once-sleepy
downtown. The projects add to the two-year-old  Cleveland Clinic ,
a facility devoted to brain diseases that Goodman said attracts
tourists of a different kind: those seeking medical treatment.  “It’s diversifying us economically,” she said in an
interview. “And it’s new jobs.”  While Congress debates plans for raising the country’s debt
ceiling, chief executives of some the nation’s largest
communities are implementing their own economic plans, focusing
on export-related jobs or targeting public-works projects that
make their cities a better place to live and work.  “We don’t have time to be jerking around for another year
and a half,” Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, a 54-year-old
Democrat, told a meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Los
Angeles last week. “The debt ceiling and dealing with the
deficit are very important, but what we need now is a jobs
strategy.”  One-fourth of U.S. metropolitan areas have unemployment
rates above 10 percent, topping the national average, and 48
won’t see job levels return to previous highs until 2020 at the
earliest, the group said in a report last month.  GE in Louisville  Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer, a Democrat, is encouraging
local employers to focus on export opportunities.  General
Electric Co. (GE) , for example, is expanding production of energy-
efficient washing machines and hot-water heaters in the city, a
move made possible through union concessions and tax incentives,
Fischer said.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company is receiving $24
million from state and local governments and will invest $150
million in facilities to create more than 800 jobs by 2012,
according to a GE  statement .  An entrepreneur who co-invented the combination ice machine
and soda dispenser, Fischer, 53, said he tells local
businesspeople they need to sell their products overseas.  “It’s all about the mindset that the world is your
customer,” he said in an interview. “If you don’t have an
export strategy, you’re dead.”  Seattle Tax Incentives  Seattle Mayor Michael McGinn, 51, is promoting a  package  of
tax incentives, regulatory changes and ways to leverage public
and private investments.  Seattle City Light , King County Metro Transit and cable
television provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  are working together to
install high-speed fiber-optic lines in downtown’s historic
Pioneer Square, according to Aaron Pickus, a spokesman for
McGinn.  The mayor, a Democrat and former executive with the Sierra
Club environmental group, is campaigning against an August
ballot measure that would authorize construction of a $2 billion
highway tunnel, arguing it won’t relieve congestion and may
saddle the city with cost overruns.  “We want to cut spending on things that are not working
and invest in things that make this a more livable city,” he
said in an interview.  Population Growth  The population of metropolitan Las Vegas climbed about 42
percent to 1.95 million between 2000 and 2010, according to the
 U.S. Census Bureau . The percentage gain was the biggest in the
country except for two cities with one-tenth the population:
Palm Coast,  Florida , and  St. George ,  Utah .  Las Vegas’s unemployment rate, at 12.4 percent in May, was
second-highest in the nation among cities with more than 1
million residents after Riverside,  California , according to the
 Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Goodman, a 72-year-old independent and the wife of former
Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman, appears to be in constant sales
mode. “When was the last time you were in Vegas?” she asked
people she met at the mayor’s conference.  The city’s real estate is a buying opportunity, Goodman
said, particularly for older people looking for a warm place to
retire. Las Vegas’ median home price was $115,000 in June, down
63.1 percent from its November 2006 peak and back to 1995
levels, according to San Diego-based real estate researcher
DataQuick.  “People can buy in at reasonable levels,” Goodman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  