-- 
Aston CEO Says in Talks With Buyers Interested in Mine Stake

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-27T07:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/aston-seeks-buyers-for-australian-mine-stake-as-itochu-withdraws.html
Aston Resources Ltd. (AZT) , an Australian
coking coal developer, is holding talks with several companies
including Itochu Corp. interested in buying a stake in the A$2.3
billion ($2.5 billion) Maules Creek mine.  “We are talking to a number of parties,” Chief Executive
Officer Todd Hannigan of Brisbane-based Aston said in a phone
interview, declining to name the other companies. He’s also
considering debt, including U.S. bonds, and equity to raise
money to develop the mine.  Aston sold a 15 percent stake in the mine in  Australia ’s
New South Wales state to Itochu,  Japan ’s fourth-largest trading
company, for A$345 million ($381 million) in December, valuing
the project at A$2.3 billion. Six months of exclusive talks with
Itochu about buying an additional stake ended on June 14.  “Itochu and Aston Resources are continuing negotiations,”
said Yasuhiro Terashita, spokesman for Itochu, by phone from
 Tokyo .  Aston, the second-best performing coal producer on the
Australian benchmark index, is developing Maules Creek as coal
prices trade close to a record and Chinese and Indian companies
vie for assets. Aston plans to start output from the mine in the
middle of 2013.  Aston fell 0.9 percent to A$11.05 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading, compared with a 0.8 percent drop in the
Australian benchmark index.  Nathan Tinkler, Australia’s wealthiest person under 40
according to the Business Review Weekly, holds a 32 percent
stake in the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Tinkler bought Maules Creek last year for A$480 million from Rio
Tinto Group unit Coal & Allied Industries Ltd.  Aston’s share of the estimated A$651 million development
cost will be A$553 million. The company has enough funding to
wait as many as nine months to decide whether to sell a stake or
choose other forms of funding, Hannigan said.  The company may raise $300 million to $500 million by
selling bonds in the U.S. to help fund Maules Creek, he said
March 3.  “A U.S. bond sale is a very real option,” he said “It’s
always subject to market conditions, which are choppy now. The
start of next year is an option -- most definitely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  