-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Bid Deserves Approval, States’ Lawyers Say

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-07-27T21:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/at-t-t-mobile-bid-deserves-approval-state-lawyers-say-correct-.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. should be approved by regulators,
according to 11 attorneys general led by Dustin McDaniel of
Arkansas and Mark Shurtleff of Utah.  The state legal officials sent a letter to the U.S. Justice
Department and the Federal Communications Commission urging the
agencies to “expeditiously review and approve the proposed
merger of telecommunications companies AT&T and T-Mobile,”
according to an e-mailed statement today.  “There are significant economic and public benefits to
this merger,” McDaniel said in the statement. “My primary
concern is my hope that federal regulators do not require the
divestiture of much-needed spectrum capacity.”  The merger will create capacity for the combined company,
leading to better phone service and faster data downloads for
consumers, the bipartisan group said. They cited AT&T’s
commitment to deploy high-speed wireless broadband to more than
97 percent of the  U.S. population  as a result of the merger.  The officials said they approved conditions “to protect
competition and the public interest without unduly delaying the
merger or undermining the synergies, economies or benefits of
the merger.”  In addition to McDaniel and Shurtleff, attorneys general
from Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Michigan, Mississippi,  North
Dakota ,  South Dakota , West Virginia and Wyoming signed the
letter.  AT&T is “extremely pleased that 11 attorneys general from
across the country recognize the substantial benefits the merger
would provide to consumers, businesses and rural communities
nationwide,” General Counsel Wayne Watts said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 