-- 
Threat of U.S. Attack by Somali Group Is Concern, King Says

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-07-27T22:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/attack-by-somali-militants-is-cause-for-concern-king-says.html
The threat of an attack in the U.S.
by the Somali Islamic group al-Shabaab is a “real cause for
concern” as it strengthens ties with al-Qaeda, said  Peter King ,
chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.  “They carry out their training together, they supply each
other and they’ve made it clear that they are now linked up,”
the New York Republican said in an interview before his
committee’s third hearing on Muslim radicalization today.  The Somali group became more of a concern for U.S.
counterterrorism authorities after 14 people were charged last
year with providing it with money and other assistance. The
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  has been probing how Somali
Americans in  Minneapolis  and elsewhere have been recruited to
train and fight with the group.  Al-Shabaab has recruited more than 40 Muslim Americans and
20 Canadians, King said at the hearing. Over the past two years,
instances of funding and recruiting for the group have made up
the largest number of “homegrown terror cases filed by the
 Justice Department ,” he said.  Thirty-eight al-Shabaab-related cases in the U.S. have been
unsealed since 2009, King said.  Detroit-Bound Plane  Al-Shabaab’s increasingly evident partnership with al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula, the group behind the attempt to blow
up a Detroit-bound plane on Dec. 25, 2009, makes it even more of
a threat,  King  said. The al-Qaeda affiliate also claimed
responsibility for the October 2010 attempted bombings of air
cargo flights headed for the U.S. from Yemen.  Today’s hearing by King’s panel focused on al-Shabaab’s
attempts to recruit U.S. residents and the al-Qaeda ties. The
committee’s Democrats and some Muslim groups have said that the
radicalization hearings distort the fact that most U.S. Muslims
are law-abiding.  Representative  Bennie Thompson  of  Mississippi , the panel’s
senior Democrat, said the committee should broaden the scope of
the hearing beyond al-Shabaab while still examining the
radicalization of Somali Americans.  “When you single out a particular group, you are not
giving what’s required from an oversight standpoint,” he said
in an interview before the hearing.  Thompson said that while al-Shabaab and al-Qaeda have
links, it “remains to be seen” whether the groups are jointly
trying to recruit Americans or attack the U.S.  East Africa Drought  Today, Thompson said it wasn’t a good time to hold the
hearing because of a drought in East Africa that has left more
than 11 million people needing food aid.  “ Somalia  is currently in the grips of the worst
humanitarian crisis in a generation,”  he said at the hearing.  Over the past few years, dozens of young Somali Americans
have traveled to Somalia to join up with al-Shabaab, which is
fighting the country’s Western-backed government.  At the committee’s first hearing on radicalization in
March, Abdirizak Bihi of Minneapolis described how he had been
discouraged by Muslim religious leaders from working with  law
enforcement  to locate his nephew, Burhan Hassan. The missing man
was one of 20 Somali-Americans recruited by al-Shabaab to fight
in Somalia.  The recruits are hard to track because Somalia, which lacks
a functioning government, is a “black box,” said William
Anders Folk, a former assistant U.S. attorney in  Minnesota .  King said in a statement on the committee’s website that
there hasn’t been “sufficient cooperation” from mosque leaders
within the U.S. in dealing with radicalization.  Monitoring Al-Shabaab  In discussing the annual U.S. Worldwide Threat Assessment,
released earlier this year, Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper said the U.S. was monitoring al-Shabaab to
determine its plans for attacks.  “We remain vigilant that al-Shabaab may expand its focus
from fighting to control Somalia to plotting to attack” the
U.S., Clapper told the  Senate Armed Services Committee  in March.  The FBI has flagged the case of Shirwa Ahmed, 27, who lived
in Minneapolis before going to Somalia, where in 2009 he carried
out a suicide bombing. Ahmed was a naturalized U.S. citizen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  