-- 
Mauritius Stocks Reach More-Than 3-Month Low, Rupee Slips on Risk Aversion

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-07-27T08:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/mauritius-stocks-reach-more-than-3-month-low-rupee-slips-on-risk-aversion.html
Mauritian stocks fell to the lowest
in more than three months and the rupee snapped three days of
increases against the dollar as the deadlock on raising the U.S.
debt ceiling curbed appetite for riskier markets.  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) , the country’s largest lender by
market value, led declines in the 38-member SEMDEX gauge, which
dropped 0.4 percent to 2,030.64, the lowest intraday level since
April 11, by 12:14 p.m. in Port Louis, the capital. The rupee
weakened as much as 0.4 percent to 28 per dollar. The currency
was little changed at 40.5512 per euro.  The administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama 
threatened a presidential veto of House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
two-step plan to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and cut
$3 trillion in expenditure. A vote on the measure had been
scheduled for today and was postponed until tomorrow, before an
Aug. 2 deadline when Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has
said the U.S. will run out of options to prevent a default.  “As U.S. policy makers continue their bickering about a
debt deal, uncertainty has growth in the markets, favoring safe
havens,” analysts at Mauritius Commercial Bank wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients today.  Mauritian Finance Minister Pravind Jugnauth yesterday said
he and four other ministers from his party resigned from the
Cabinet in solidarity with Santi Bai Hanoomanjee, the health
minister who was charged with graft.  “The deadlock on U.S. debt ceiling overrides the local
political turmoil,” Eric Ng, an economist and director of
PluriConseil Ltd., said by phone. “It will take at least two
weeks for a proper assessment of the impact of the finance
minister’s resignation on the local markets.”  Buying prices for the dollar ranged from 27.1592 rupees to
27.3173 rupees, with a selling price of 28.6135 rupees per
dollar, according to indicative rates on  Bank of Mauritius’s
website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  