-- 
Australia Investment Spending Surges 24% on LNG, Access Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-27T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/australia-investment-spending-surges-24-on-lng-access-says.html
Australia ’s business investment
surged 24 percent in the second quarter, led by liquefied
natural gas projects and the government’s broadband network,
according to a Deloitte Access Economics report.  Projects valued at A$357 billion ($394 billion) were
committed or in progress as of June 30, up A$70 billion from the
previous three months, the Canberra-based  research company  said
in a report today.  “Australia’s investment agenda, both in terms of the value
of projects under way and the value of those in the pipeline,
has rarely ever looked better,” it said.  Construction of the Santos Ltd.-led $16 billion LNG project
in Queensland has begun, and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.’s Prelude
LNG project off  Western Australia , worth as much as $12.6
billion, is set to become the first floating platform LNG
project in the world.  Mining accounts for 46 percent of committed projects each
worth more than A$20 million monitored by Access, which was
founded by two former Treasury economists. Surging Asian demand
is stoking investment in resource projects that Australia’s
central bank predicts will last more than a decade.  “The wonder child of the mining sector at the moment is
the burgeoning LNG market, with a grand total (including all
projects either under construction or in the pipeline) of close
to A$250 billion,” Access said in the report. “The Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences notes
more than half the world’s planned additions to LNG capacity is
currently under construction here in Australia.”  Another source of growth is from state-owned NBN Co.
“which is now pressing on beyond test sites with legislation
through Federal parliament and the Commonwealth spending $3
billion in 2011-12,” Access said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  