-- 
Australian Inflation Accelerates, Driving Currency Higher on Rate Outlook

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-27T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/australian-inflation-accelerates-driving-currency-higher-on-rate-outlook.html
Australia’s inflation rate gained
more than economists forecast last quarter, prompting investors
to scrap bets on an interest-rate cut this quarter and driving
up the nation’s currency to a record.  The  consumer price index  rose 0.9 percent in the three
months through June from the prior quarter, led by costlier food,
clothing and health care, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in
Sydney today. That exceeded the 0.7 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. Prices advanced 3.6
percent from a year earlier, more than economists’ 3.4 percent
forecast and the biggest annual gain since 2008.  The report reflects lingering effects of floods and a
cyclone that shut mines and ruined crops in the northeast, with
the cost of bananas soaring 138 percent. The currency surged as
traders wagered for the first time in six weeks on a chance that
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will resume
tightening policy, ending his longest rate pause since 2007.  “It’s a firm number,” said  Michael Turner , an economist
at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney who correctly predicted
the quarterly figure. “The RBA is always going to be
uncomfortable when it comes in above forecast -- even though
there are flood effects still seeping through -- and it
certainly strengthens the case for a rate increase.”  RBC Capital predicts the central bank will raise borrowing
costs in the fourth quarter, Turner said.  Record Currency  The local currency surged to a record $1.1063, from $1.0944
before the data were released, and traded at $1.1042 at 1:28 p.m.
in Sydney. The Australian government two-year bond yield climbed
12 basis points to 4.49 percent, the biggest advance since Feb.
4.  Australia ’s dollar has risen more than 22 percent in the
past year, the second-best performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as investors are drawn by the
developed world’s highest interest rates.  The RBA’s  core inflation  measures, which exclude the
largest price increases and declines, also climbed more than
forecast.  Core inflation, as measured by the central bank’s so-called
trimmed mean gauge, rose 0.9 percent from the previous quarter
and 2.7 percent from a year earlier. Economists forecast a
quarter-to-quarter gain of 0.7 percent and annual rise of 2.5
percent.  The weighted-median gauge of inflation advanced 0.9 percent
in the second quarter, for an annual increase of 2.7 percent.
Economists forecast a quarterly rise of 0.7 percent and annual
increase of 2.5 percent.  Cost of Living  Today’s report showed a measure of clothing costs jumped
last quarter by the most in three years from the prior three
months, a gauge of food prices rose for a third straight quarter
and transportation expenses were the most since 2008.  A 0.6 percent decline in recreation costs was the only main
category to weaken, and it reached the lowest in four years, the
report showed. Education costs were unchanged from the prior
quarter, it showed.  Stevens boosted the benchmark lending rate by 175 basis
points from a half-century low of 3 percent in early October
2009 to November to contain inflation in an economy where
unemployment is below 5 percent and resource companies are
boosting hiring to meet demand from China and  India . Stevens and
his board aim to keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent on average. The RBA meets next week to set rate policy.  “The RBA needs to hike, there can’t be any debate about
that now,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP
Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker.  ‘Contained’  After the report, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said underlying
inflation remains “contained” and attributed almost half of
last quarter’s price gains to fruit costs. Consumer prices
should ease as agriculture production rebounds, he said at a
press conference in Sydney. The dollar’s strength is a “mixed
blessing,” he said.  Finding skilled labor for reconstruction in Queensland, and
flood-damaged eastern states of Victoria and New South Wales,
may become more difficult. A mining boom, to feed  China ’s demand
for raw materials, has caused a worker shortage at a time when
the jobless rate is below 5 percent.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($33 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone. Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this year.  RBA Outlook  The RBA signaled this month that the economy is unlikely to
reach its forecast of 4.25 percent growth this year because a
resumption of coal exports from flooded mines is taking longer
than expected. New forecasts are scheduled to be released Aug. 5.  Australia’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first quarter,
the most since 1991, because of the natural disasters.  In  New Zealand , where the nation’s currency also reached a
record high, a report today showed business confidence rose to a
14-month high in July as record-low  interest rates  and higher
commodity prices bolstered prospects for a recovery.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard may signal tomorrow that
interest rates will need to rise to ensure the quickening
recovery doesn’t fan inflation, economists said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  