-- 
Kandahar Mayor Is Killed in Suicide Bombing While Mediating Land Dispute

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-07-27T07:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/mayor-of-kandahar-killed-in-suicide-bombing-while-mediating-land-dispute.html
The mayor of the southern Afghan
city of Kandahar was killed in a suicide bombing at his office
today, two weeks after the region’s most powerful politician,
President  Hamid Karzai ’s half brother, was assassinated.  Ghulam Haidar Hamidi died as the bomber detonated
“explosives hidden inside his turban during a meeting between
the mayor and local tribal elders over a land dispute,” Zalmai
Ayoubi, the spokesman for the southern province of Kandahar, a
stronghold of Taliban guerrillas, said in a phone interview.
There was no claim of responsibility and Taliban spokesmen could
not be reached for comment.  Ahmed Wali Karzai, who had dominated politics as head of
the Kandahar provincial council, was shot dead July 12 by a
bodyguard the Taliban said it secretly recruited. His killing
underscored security challenges as the U.S. starts transferring
control of some areas to Afghan forces and begins withdrawing
troops from the decade-long war.  Hamidi’s reputation as a hard worker led to him being
“mentioned as a possible replacement for Ahmed Wali Karzai as
provincial council chief,” Attaullah Jan Habib, a member of
parliament from Kandahar, said in a phone interview.  Hamidi had two days ago visited a neighborhood in the north
of Kandahar city, where he ordered the destruction of homes
built illegally by senior tribal figures, Ayoubi said.  “A few people came to the mayor’s office today to talk on
the land issues,” Ayoubi said. “One of the visitors had hidden
explosive materials in his turban and detonated the bomb”
killing Hamidi, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  