-- 
Heathrow Owner BAA Cuts Loss as British Air-AMR Spur Traffic

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T18:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/baa-loss-narrows-as-british-airways-amr-alliance-drives-traffic.html
BAA Ltd., the owner of  London ’s
Heathrow and Stansted airports, narrowed its first-half loss as
traffic was spurred by growth in emerging markets and an
alliance between British Airways and American Airlines.  The net loss at the two London airports was 130.4 million
pounds ($214 million), compared with deficit of 260.2 million
pounds a year earlier, BAA said today in a statement. Sales
advanced 12 percent to 1.07 billion pounds.  Passenger numbers at the London terminals rose 7.1 percent
to 41.4 million, rebounding from 2010 as disruption caused by
volcanic ash from Iceland eased. At Heathrow, traffic was lifted
by joint trans-Atlantic services begun by British Airways and
 AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American in March, together with increasing travel
demand from growth economies including  Brazil ,  India  and  China .  “Some months ago it was European business routes that were
the strongest, but in the most recent quarter it was North
America,” Chief Executive Officer Colin Matthews said in an
interview.  “As the alliances come together they offer good
frequencies, which are really important to customers.”  BAA was last week ordered to sell Stansted, a base for
discount carriers including  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , and an airport
in either Edinburgh or Glasgow after the latest U.K. Competition
Commission ruling in a four-year tussle. The regulator,
reviewing an earlier decision, said a breakup is “fully
justified” and must start within three months.  Fees Complaint  BAA, which sold London Gatwick, the second-busiest U.K.
airport, under duress to Global Infrastructure Partners in
December 2009, has “work to do” before deciding whether to
seek a judicial review of the latest findings, Matthews said.
The unit of Spanish builder  Ferrovial SA (FER)  must apply by Sept. 19.  Dublin-based Ryanair,  Europe ’s No. 1 low-cost airline, said
today in a statement that it has instructed lawyers to file a
complaint with the U.K. Civil Aviation Authority and the
Competition Commission regarding Stansted’s access charges. BAA
uses the airport to subsidize Heathrow, the top European hub,
CEO  Michael O’Leary  said yesterday in an interview in  Rome .  Matthews said today that since BAA’s charges are regulated
by the CAA and by the Commission, there are no grounds for a
claim against it.  “I don’t see any basis at all for a legal challenge,” he
said. “Having said that, I’d much rather be agreeing with
Ryanair than disagreeing. They’re an important customer.”  Bond Issues  BAA, which last month sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds in
its first dollar deal, may offer securities in other currencies
later in the year, Chief Financial Officer Jose Leo said today.  “You can expect us to be issuing after the summer, markets
permitting,” he said by telephone. “We don’t want to be issuing
frequently in every single currency, so going back to the U.S.
market is unlikely to happen in the next nine months to a year.”  BAA has the equivalent of 7.15 billion pounds of bonds
outstanding following its 10 billion-pound purchase by Madrid-
based Ferrovial in 2006. While the U.K. business had a first-
half operating profit of 287.7 million pounds from continuing
operations, its interest payments totaled 499 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  