-- 
Baht Touches 8-Month High After Funds Raise Thai Asset Holdings

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-27T10:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/baht-touches-8-month-high-after-funds-raise-thai-asset-holdings.html
Thailand ’s baht touched an eight-
month high and  government bonds  rose as overseas investors added
to holdings of the nation’s assets to benefit from growth in
 Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  Global funds bought more Thai equities than they sold for
an eighth straight day yesterday, taking this month’s net
purchases to $1.1 billion, according to exchange data. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those of six
major trading partners, dropped earlier to the lowest level
since May as U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Congress remained
at odds over plans to raise the U.S. debt limit and prevent a
default and credit-rating downgrade.  “The baht got support from capital inflows into our stock
and bond markets as money is coming to  Asia  to benefit from the
strong economic fundamentals,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a
foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “The dollar is
weak because of uncertainties on the debt-ceiling issue.”  The baht traded at 29.71 per dollar as of 4:56 p.m. in
Bangkok, little changed from yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 29.67 earlier, matching
yesterday’s strongest level since Nov. 12.  The economy will likely grow 4.1 percent this year, after
having expanded 7.8 percent last year, the central bank said
last week.  The yield on the 5.25 percent bonds due May 2014 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.80 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas investors bought more Thai government debt than
they sold for a sixth straight day yesterday, taking net
purchases for the month to $4.2 billion, according to the Thai
Bond Market Association.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, rose three basis points to
3.69 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  