-- 
Bajaj Allianz to ‘Stay Away’ From Rate-Sensitive Indian Stocks

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-07-27T03:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bajaj-allianz-to-stay-away-from-rate-sensitive-indian-stocks.html
Sampath Reddy, who manages $6.7
billion as chief investment officer for equities at Bajaj
Allianz Life Insurance Co., comments on the outlook for  India ’s
stocks after the central bank yesterday raised its benchmark
 interest rate  by a more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
less than 0.1 percent to 18,532.22 at 9:24 a.m. in Mumbai. The
gauge fell 1.9 percent yesterday, the most since June 20.  On interest rates:  “Inflation continues to be the key concern of the RBI. The
impact of this on overall growth will certainly be there.
Analysts were downgrading corporate earnings forecast for the
last three quarters and the current inflation and interest rate
situation would continue to lead to further downgrade.  From March 2010, the repo rate has been hike by 225 basis
points, but in the same time frame inflation has declined by
only 90 basis points from 10.3 percent to 9.4 percent. Given
that rates have moved up significantly in the last one year, we
believe we are at the end of the rate hike cycle. However, the
rates would continue to be at this level for longer period.  We will continue to stay away from interest-rate-sensitive
sectors for some more time.”  On earnings outlook:  “The consensus earnings estimate was already downgraded by
about 7 percent to 8 percent in the last three quarters. The
consensus estimate of earnings growth for the first quarter of
the year to March 2012 has been at about 8 percent while the
full year growth estimate is about 14 percent to 18 percent.  With policy action not being conducive to high-growth and
interest rates remaining elevated for the remainder of the year,
earnings estimate could witness a downward revision.”  On foreign fund flows:  “Foreign investments could moderate if the attractiveness
of the equity valuations come down with the expectation of a
rebound in growth in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  