-- 
Bank of Ireland Investors Order 60% of Rights Offering Stock

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-27T06:45:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bank-of-ireland-investors-order-60-of-rights-offering-stock-1-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s
largest lender, said investors ordered 1.14 billion euros ($1.65
billion) in its rights offering, equivalent to 60 percent of the
stock on sale.  The Dublin-based bank’s advisers will “use reasonable
endeavors” to find buyers for the shares not taken up, it said
in a statement. The government, which is underwriting the
transaction, said on July 25 it will sell as much as a 37
percent stake in the bank to a group of institutional investors,
limiting its long-term holding in the bank to a maximum 32
percent. The final outcome may be known as early as today, Dan Loughrey, a bank spokesman, said by telephone today.  The rights offering take-up “is positive for the bank,”
said analysts including  Michael Cummins  and  Jim Ryan  at Dublin-
based fixed-income firm Glas Securities, in a note to clients.
“This should result in government ownership of the bank in the
20 percent to 30 percent area.”  Bank of Ireland was ordered by the central bank in March to
raise 4.2 billion euros of equity and 1 billion euros in
contingent capital by the end of July to boost reserves and
cover loan losses after the country’s real-estate bubble burst.  The lender is selling 11.4 billion new shares for 10 cents
each to investors that subscribed to the rights offering, it
said. The stock rose 6.9 percent to 10.9 euro cents in Dublin
trading yesterday.  The bank  said  on July 8 it would raise about 2 billion
euros by inflicting losses on subordinated bondholders, a
further 510 million euros through unspecified “further capital-
raising measures,” and 1.9 billion euros from the rights
offering.  The government plans to sell its stake to 10 institutional
investors from outside the country, three people with knowledge
of the matter said yesterday. U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  and
Toronto-based Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. are among the
investors, Dublin-based broadcaster RTE reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  