-- 
BofA Donates Then Demolishes Houses to Cut Glut of Foreclosures

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-07-27T14:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bank-of-america-donates-then-demolishes-houses-to-get-rid-of-foreclosures.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , faced with a
glut of foreclosed and abandoned houses it can’t sell, has a new
tool to get rid of the most decrepit ones: a bulldozer.  The biggest U.S. mortgage servicer will donate 100
foreclosed houses in the  Cleveland  area and in some cases
contribute to their demolition in partnership with a local
agency that manages blighted property. The bank has similar
plans in Detroit and Chicago, with more cities to come, and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Fannie Mae are conducting or considering their own programs.  Disposing of repossessed homes is one of the biggest
headaches for lenders in the U.S., where 1,679,125 houses, or
one in every 77, were in some stage of foreclosure as of June,
according to research firm RealtyTrac Inc. of  Irvine ,
 California . The prospect of those properties flooding the market
has depressed prices and driven off buyers concerned that
housing values will keep dropping.  “There is way too much supply,” said Gus Frangos,
president of the Cleveland-based Cuyahoga County Land
Reutilization Corp., which works with lenders, government
officials and homeowners to salvage vacant homes. “The best
thing we can do to stabilize the market is to get the garbage
off.”  BofA’s 40,000  Bank of America had 40,000 foreclosures in the first
quarter, saddling the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender
with taxes and maintenance costs. The bank announced the
Cleveland program last month, has committed as many as 100
properties in Detroit and 150 in  Chicago , and may add as many as
nine cities by the end of the year, said  Rick Simon , a company
spokesman.  The lender will pay as much as $7,500 for demolition or
$3,500 in areas eligible to receive funds through the federal
 Neighborhood Stabilization Program . Uses for the land include
development, open space and urban farming, according to the
statement. Simon declined to say how many foreclosed properties
Bank of America holds.  Ohio ranked among the top 10 states with the most
foreclosure filings in June, according to RealtyTrac. The state
has 71,617 foreclosed homes, Cuyahoga County 9,797 and Cleveland
6,778, RealtyTrac said.  The tear-downs are in varying states of disrepair, from
uninhabitable to badly damaged. Simon said some are worth less
than $10,000, and it would cost too much to make them livable.  Unwanted Homes  “No one needs these homes, no one is going to buy them,”
said Christopher Thornberg, founding partner at the Los Angeles
office of  Beacon Economics LLC , a forecasting firm. “Bank of
America is not going to be able to cover its losses, so it might
as well give them away and get a little write-off and some nice
public relations.”  Donating a house may create an income-tax deduction, said
 Robert Willens , an independent accounting analyst based in  New
York . A bank might deduct as much as the fair market value if a
home wasn’t acquired with the explicit intent of knocking it
down, he said.  Wells Fargo and  Fannie Mae  already started donating houses
and demolition funds in Ohio. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
the biggest U.S. home lender, gave 26 properties and $127,000 to
the Cuyahoga land bank, said Russ Cross, Midwest regional
servicing director for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. Since 2009,
Wells Fargo made more than 800 donations, the bank said.  Fannie Mae  Fannie Mae, the mortgage-finance company operating under
U.S. conservatorship, made its first deal with the Cuyahoga land
bank in 2009, and sells houses to the organization at a “very
nominal value,” or about $1 and an additional $200 in closing
costs, said P.J. McCarthy, who heads alternative disposition
programs.  Fannie Mae sold 200 foreclosures to the Cuyahoga
organization in 2010 and has similar programs in  Detroit  and
Chicago. Cleveland is the only city where Washington-based
Fannie Mae contributes $3,500 toward demolition, McCarthy said.  “It’s an economically justifiable transaction,” McCarthy
said. “Holding on to a property that might sell for $1,000 or
$2,000 or $5,000 for several hundred days is not in anybody’s
best interest.”  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, has donated or sold
at a discount almost 1,900 properties valued at more than $100
million in more than 37 states since late 2008, including 22 in
Cleveland, said  Jim O’Donnell , manager of community
revitalization. The majority aren’t demolished, he said.  Nonprofit Role  Citigroup has been donating foreclosures since 2008 through
the National Community Stabilization Trust, according to an e-
mailed statement from Natalie Abatemarco, managing director for
the bank’s office of homeownership preservation. The New York-
based company, ranked third among U.S. lenders, is part of the
Washington-based nonprofit trust’s pilot program that starts in
late August to provide funds for purchases in distressed
neighborhoods, and the money can be used toward demolition,
Abatemarco said.  Demolishing all of Cleveland’s foreclosed and abandoned
properties might cost $250 million, Frangos said. There are as
many as 13,000, according to  Case Western Reserve University  in
Cleveland and Neighborhood Progress Inc., a nonprofit
organization working to counter the effects of foreclosures in
six Cleveland areas, according to its website. The Cuyahoga
County land bank owns about 899 properties and will demolish
about 700 in the next six to seven months, Frangos said.  Blow Them Up  The oversupply of homes once prompted  Warren Buffett ,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
to quip in February 2010 that one solution was to “blow up a
lot of houses -- a tactic similar to the destruction of autos
that occurred with the ‘cash-for-clunkers’ program.’”  Still, the knockdowns aren’t likely to outpace
foreclosures, said  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice
president. Foreclosures may accelerate as banks clear a backlog
caused by soft real estate markets and legal disputes over
tactics used to seize homes.  “These sorts of programs will basically only be nibbling
on the edges,” Sharga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 