-- 
Banxico on Hold Spurs Sales of Longest-Term Bills: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-07-27T21:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/banxico-on-hold-spurs-sales-of-longest-term-bills-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  is stepping up  sales  of its
longest-maturity Treasury bills to tap into growing demand from
investors betting the central bank will hold  interest rates  at a
record low until next year.  The government sold 7 billion pesos ($601 million) of the
securities yesterday, the most since September, the central bank
said on its website. Cetes, as the notes are known, drew bids of
37 billion pesos, or 5.3 times the amount offered. The bid-to-
cover ratio, a gauge of demand that measures the number of bids
divided by bids accepted, was 5.3 times, the highest since
November. The zero-coupon bills yield 4.64 percent, or 445 basis
points more than similar-maturity  U.S. government debt .  Slowing economic growth is keeping inflation near a five-
year low, prompting traders on July 19 to push back estimates
for rate increases for a tenth time this year.  Banco de Mexico ,
the only central bank in a major Latin American country to leave
borrowing costs unchanged in the past year, will wait at least
until March to raise the key rate from 4.5 percent, futures
trading shows. Brazil’s central bank boosted its rate 175 basis
points, or 1.75 percentage point, this year to 12.5 percent.  Mexico’s “central bank is comfortable with the inflation
trajectory,” Jaime Lazaro, who helps manage $39.5 billion at
BBVA Bancomer SA, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico
City office on July 25. “The possibility of an increase in
rates has to go probably until March or April of 2012. If growth
doesn’t return, it could probably be a little longer.”  Growth Outlook  In April, traders expected a rate increase as soon as July.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.28 percent in June from 3.69
percent a year earlier, as food prices tumbled the most in six
years. The rate touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Consumer prices in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy,
rose at annual rate of 6.75 percent in mid-July, the fastest in
six years.  Mexico economic growth is easing as demand weakens from the
U.S., the destination for 80 percent of the Latin American
country’s exports. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America-Merrill Lynch cut forecasts for growth
in the U.S. to 2.5 percent this quarter, down from as much as
3.25 percent.  Mexican central bankers led by Governor Agustin Carstens
said in the minutes of their July 8 meeting that “even when the
risks to lower growth have increased, the balance of inflation
risks have improved.”  Press officials at the central bank and finance ministry
didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  ‘Confidence’  “The central bank has communicated that rates will remain
low for longer than they expected and that gives investors
confidence to invest in longer maturities,” said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “The response to
the investor demand has been to increase the auctions.”  An agreement to raise the debt limit in the U.S. would
bolster growth in the world’s biggest economy, fueling inflation
in Mexico and prompting traders to move forward a rate increase,
said Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million of emerging-
market debt at Silva Capital Management LLC.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress are working to round
up votes for rival debt plans aimed at averting a potential U.S.
default on Aug. 2.  “If an agreement is reached on the debt ceiling in the
U.S., the market is going to start focusing on growth again,”
Urbina said in a telephone interview. “One trusts that a
recovery in the U.S. would spur a recovery in Mexico, leading
investors to think more about the link between inflation and
growth and when the central banks will raise rates.”  Yield Spread  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April fell 2 basis points to 5.04 percent today,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise benchmark
borrowing costs that month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed two basis
points to 129, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point to 112, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 11.6459 per  U.S. dollar .  Rate Differential  The rally in the peso and record-low interest rates in the
U.S. will keep spurring demand for Mexico’s bills,
Interacciones’s Belaunzaran said.  The benchmark U.S. overnight rate is between zero and 0.25
percent, or more than 400 basis points below Mexico’s benchmark
borrowing costs.  Foreigners  held  32 percent of Mexican bills on July 15, up
from 21 percent on June 20, according to the central bank.  “There are so many extra dollars in the market and the
strengthening currency gives you an interest rate that is much
higher than you can find” in the U.S., Belaunzaran said.  -- Editors: Lester Pimentel, Jonathan Roeder  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  