-- 
BAT Operating Profit Rise on Cigarette Prices

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-27T09:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bat-first-half-earnings-rise-on-higher-cigarette-prices-1-.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
 Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, said it expects to reach a
profitability goal a year earlier than forecast and aims to
expand margins by as much as 1 percentage point each year.  BAT is “confident” its operating margin will exceed 35
percent in 2011, Chief Financial Officer Ben Stevens said on a
call with analysts. The company intends to expand its margin by
0.5 percentage point to 1 percentage point each year, he said.
The margin was 33.5 percent last year.  BAT said adjusted profit from operations rose to 2.76
billion pounds ($4.5 billion) in the first half from 2.46
billion pounds a year earlier. That beat the 2.67 billion-pound
median estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
increased 2 percent to 7.44 billion pounds.  The maker of Lucky Strike and Pall Mall cigarettes has
increased prices to offset declining tobacco consumption. BAT
also benefited from increased shipments to  Japan  where rival
production was affected by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
The global cigarette market excluding  China , which is largely
closed to foreign  tobacco companies , will probably shrink by 2
percent in volume this year, the company predicted.  Logo Ban  BAT rose 38.5 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 2899.5 pence at
10:37 a.m. in  London .  The decline of the global cigarette market is decelerating
compared with past years, Chief Executive Officer Nicandro
Durante said on the call.  An Australian parliamentary committee may publish a report
on a proposal to ban logos on cigarette packaging by September,
which could allow the country to implement the measure in 2012,
Durante said. BAT has said it will cut prices to compete with
smuggling and counterfeit trade if the legislation is passed.  Philip Morris International Inc., the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, last week raised its full-year
earnings forecast and posted second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, helped by sales in  Asia .  BAT plans to increase the first-half dividend by 15
percent, the company said.  ’Good’ Acquisitions  Some "good" acquisition opportunities exist, CEO Durante
said in an interview by Cantos, which provides multimedia for
companies.  BAT agreed to buy Productora Tabacalera de Colombia S.A.S,
which owns Mustang, Columbia’s second-biggest cigarette brand,
for $452 million in May. BAT has also received tender documents
to submit a binding bid by Aug. 29 for an 80 percent stake in
 Bulgaria ’s state tobacco company, Bulgartabak Holding, the
country’s asset-selling agency said yesterday.  BAT won’t definitely make an offer for the state-run
tobacco company, said Michael Prideaux, a spokesman.  “It’s a privatization happening in our backyard, so we’ve
joined in to see what’s going on,” Prideaux said. “Just
because we participate doesn’t necessarily mean we’ll make an
offer.”  BAT said in February it planned to buy back 750 million
pounds of shares in 2011. The company bought back 13 million
shares in the first half at a cost of 335 million pounds.  The company’s guidance is based on constant currencies,
Prideaux said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  