-- 
Beltran’s Top Trade Destination Is San Francisco, Betting Site Bodog Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:43:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/beltran-s-top-trade-destination-is-san-francisco-betting-site-bodog-says.html
Carlos Beltran  is likely to help the
 San Francisco  Giants try to defend their World Series title if
traded from the  New York Mets , according to sports gambling
website  Bodog.com .  Beltran, a six-time All-Star who is making $18.5 million in
the final season of a seven-year, $119 million contract, is
likely to be moved before the July 31 trade deadline as the Mets
try to contend on the field and stem financial losses.  If traded, there are 2-1 odds Beltran will be sent to the
Giants, according to Antigua-based Bodog. The Atlanta Braves
have the next-best odds at 3-1, meaning a successful $10 wager
that Beltran joins the Braves’ outfield would net $30 plus the
original bet.  The  Texas Rangers , who lost to the Giants in the 2010 World
Series, are third-most likely to trade for Beltran at 5-1,
followed by the Boston Red Sox and Philadelphia Phillies (15-2
each), and the Cincinnati Reds (15-1), with any other Major
League Baseball team drawing odds of 7-4.  Beltran said two days ago that he would go to an American
League contender even though he does not want to become a
designated hitter, according to the New York Post. The Mets
haven’t publicly said they are going to trade the 34-year-old
outfielder, though manager Terry Collins said this week he has
thought about how he would discuss a Beltran departure with the
players who remain.  The Mets are 52-51, 13 1/2 games out of the National League
East Division lead with four days remaining before the trading
deadline. The Giants lead the NL West by three games.  The Mets play at Cincinnati tonight and tomorrow, then go
to Washington for a weekend series with the Nationals.  Mets’ Finances  New York’s opening day payroll of $119 million was seventh
in the major leagues, according to  USA Today . After receiving a
$25 million emergency loan in November, team owner  Fred Wilpon 
told  Sports Illustrated  in May that the Mets might lose $70
million this season. Wilpon is negotiating to sell 33 percent of
the franchise for $200 million to David Einhorn, head of
Greenlight Capital Inc.  Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz are battling a $1 billion
lawsuit by trustee  Irving Picard  tied to the Ponzi scheme run by
Bernard L. Madoff. Wilpon and Katz repeatedly have denied
Picard’s claims.  Wilpon told the New Yorker magazine in May that the team
overpaid for Beltran, who’s been plagued by injuries during his
time with the Mets, saying, “He’s 65 to 70 percent of what he
was.”  Beltran is batting .289 with 15 home runs, 66 runs batted
and a league-leading 30 doubles this season. He is a career .282
hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 