-- 
Bentley’s $285,000 Classy Ride Offers Rx for Low Blood Pressure

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bentley-s-285-000-classy-ride-reduces-stress-chugs-gas-jason-h-harper.html
Step into the $285,000 Bentley
Mulsanne and odd things happen. Your heart rate drops. The
softball-sized knot between your shoulders shrinks to a marble.  Unlike white-knuckle-driving supercars which cost more than
a house in  Florida , this luxury sedan induces a vastly different
reaction. Breath out, relax. You’re rich, after all.  The Mulsanne demanded that it be put to the ultimate  stress
test . Early on a Monday morning, I drove out of  Manhattan  until
reaching the heart of commuter country in Westchester. I got a
deli coffee and idled until traffic began to shut down to a
bumper-to-bumper clog. Then I turned the British coach back
toward the city.  Stress level: 20 percent, with an excellent chance of
stratospheric surges.  If the best-selling, bullet-shaped Continental coupe is the
modern Bentley, the Mulsanne evokes the era of the horseless
carriage. A completely new model which replaces the Arnage as
the brand’s flagship, the Mulsanne is a good choice if you
aspire to be a modern-day Arthur (either the Camelot king or the
rich playboy portrayed by Dudley Moore).  Owners of the Mulsanne or its competitor, the $246,500
Rolls-Royce Ghost, are of a different ilk than those who drive
the Mercedes-Benz S-Class or BMW 7 Series. There’s an inherent
declaration of check-me-out entitlement.  Upper-Crust Bling  Yet the two brands have a different approach. If the Ghost
wears its extravagance on its bespoke sleeve -- call it upper-
crust bling -- the Bentley has a less showy demeanor.  At 18-plus-feet-long, it’s certainly formidable. It would
be hard to overlook the fantastic upright mesh grill and
headlights the size of salad plates. You can add optional 21-
inch wheels and a flying-B hood ornament. But the beltline is
high and the side windows small, rather like hedging hiding a
Greenwich mansion.  To really be wowed, you have to be invited in. My test car
cost $333,885 with options, and my favorite element was the
interior oak wood, a shade so light it seemed to glow. For
$4,640, it seemed as if all of Sherwood Forest had been used.
Leather? Oh yes, it’s got leather, but it takes a backseat to
all that blinding wood.  In typical Bentley fashion, each knob is burred and every
control has a feeling of mechanical weight behind it. You’ll
find yourself turning stuff on and off just because.  Back-Seat Nap  As I set off into traffic, I glanced at the rear seats,
each of which reclines and has its own temperature control and
folding table (also in wood -- part of a $19,860 premiere
specification package). Good place to nap or read, ignoring the
congestion completely.  But I was in the driver’s seat and was pleased to find that
traffic was actually moving. The seat was top-rate comfortable,
and the steering wheel surprisingly small and well-weighted in
my hand.  The Mulsanne isn’t bad to drive. It’s powered by a 6.7-
liter twin-turbo V-8 with 505 horsepower and 752 pound-feet of
torque. It has a sport setting and even a switch to shut off the
stability control, plus paddle shifters to manually manipulate
the eight-gear automatic transmission (yes, eight).  Speed isn’t the point, though. The sedan handles reasonably
on curves, but the instinct is to slow down and enjoy, not
accelerate.  The air suspension not only absorbs bumps, it banishes them
to a parallel universe. So far my stress level had actually
fallen. Even the minivan loitering in the left-hand lane wasn’t
bothering me.  Gas Guzzling  What would stress me would be trying to find a gas station
in the city, a common occurrence since the Mulsanne manages only
11 mpg in the city, 18 highway. No wonder it gets socked with a
$3,700 gas guzzler tax.  As I knew it must, traffic stopped, so I turned on the Naim
Audio system, which has 2,200 watts, 20 speakers and a price tag
of $7,415. The car went from church silent to full-on  Carnegie
Hall . My  blood pressure  stabilized.  Unlike the Ghost, which I tested around  Los Angeles  and was
always worried about scraping, the Mulsanne’s footprint seems to
shrink in traffic. It’s not easy to squirt into tight openings
in traffic, but at least it’s possible.  More quickly than I hoped, I found myself on Manhattan’s
 West Side Highway . I’d only used the horn twice. I was so
relaxed that I decided to really get wild and exited onto
Broadway toward Times Square, a place native New Yorkers believe
is best avoided even on foot.  Bus Stop  Tourists pointed. Minutes later I’d left behind the cold
light of oversized LCD screens and was skirting past the taxi
wars outside  Penn Station , the Mulsanne’s torque-heavy engine
pulling me by in an irresistible surge. There was no stopping me
now.  Actually, there was, in the form of a stalled bus, blocking
three lanes of traffic. Horns erupted. A bike messenger zinged
past my door. A pedestrian yelled at him.  I rolled down my window, turned up the 20-speaker stereo
and began idly fiddling with those well-weighted controls. I’d
be here for a while.  The Bentley Mulsanne at a Glance  Engine: 6.7-liter twin-turbo V-8 with 505 horsepower and  752 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed ZF automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.1 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 11 city; 18 highway.  Price as tested: $333,885.  Best feature: Magnificent interior.  Worst feature: Thirst for fuel.  Target buyer: Royals and playboys.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 