-- 
Berjaya, Prestariang, Telekom, Uzma: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-27T00:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/berjaya-prestariang-telekom-uzma-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,561.77.      Berjaya Food Bhd. (BFD MK): The Malaysian restaurant
operator agreed to form a joint venture with PT Mitra Samaya to
develop and operate a Kenny Rogers Roasters franchise on Java
Island and Bali,  Indonesia , according to a company statement.
Berjaya Food was unchanged at 86 sen.        Biosis Group Bhd. (BGH)  : The personal-care products
maker said it has fixed an issue price of 50 sen a share for its
private placement of as much as 8 million new shares, it said in
a statement. Biosis rose 1.6 percent to 32 sen.  Prestariang Bhd. (PRES MK): Shares of the Malaysian
communications software company will make its debut on the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange. The company sold shares at 90 sen each in
its initial public offering.       Perusahaan Sadur Timah Malaysia Bhd. (PER MK): The maker of
tin plates used to make cans and other forms of packaging said
profit in the first quarter ended June 30 fell 39 percent from a
year earlier to 14.7 million ringgit ($5 million), according to
a company statement. Perusahaan Sadur, or Perstima, added 0.5
percent to 4.15 ringgit.  Sarawak Cable Bhd. (SRCB)  : The power cables and wires
manufacturer agreed to form a joint venture with the Malaysian
unit of ABB Ltd. to submit a bid for the construction of a
substation in Sarawak state, according to a stock exchange
filing. Sarawak Cable rose 3.2 percent to 1.95 ringgit.       Scanwolf Corp. (SCW MK): The plastics maker said three of
its directors have signed a preliminary agreement to sell their
combined stake of 32 percent to MKL Resources (L) Ltd. for 13.1
million ringgit, according a stock filing. The stock fell 1.1
percent to 44.5 sen on July 25.        Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)  : The national fixed-line and
Internet services provider raised 468.3 million ringgit by
selling 92.36 million shares in  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  ,
according to a company statement. The shares were offered to
foreign institutional investors at 5.07 ringgit each, it said.
Telekom may sell its balance 807 million shares in Axiata the
open market, it said. Telekom was unchanged at 3.99 ringgit.
Axiata rose 0.6 percent to 5.13 ringgit.        Uzma Bhd. (UZMA)  : The oil and gas engineering services
provider said it won a 170 million-ringgit contract to provide
integrated equipment and services for an idle well reactivation
project. Uzma received the contract from Petronas Carigali Sdn.,
it said in a statement. Uzma rose 3.7 percent to 1.98 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  