-- 
Bernanke May Need to Stay ‘Above Politics’ in Debt Standoff

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-07-27T14:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bernanke-may-need-to-stay-above-politics-in-debt-standoff.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has steered clear of the political brawl over raising
the U.S. debt limit. Lawmakers say he should keep his distance.  The central banker would risk angering politicians and
roiling markets should he get involved in talks, recommend a
specific tax and spending plan or repeat the force of his 2008
pleas for a financial rescue, members of Congress from both
parties said. “If you’re the Fed chairman, you’ve got to be
above politics,” said  Jon Kyl , the No. 2 Senate Republican.  Staying above the debt-limit fray may give Bernanke and his
colleagues a freer hand to inject monetary stimulus into a
sputtering  U.S. economy , or remove it later. The Fed’s $600
billion in bond purchases from November to June sparked a
political backlash from Republicans who took control of the
 House of Representatives  in last year’s elections.  “If he were to appear at all partisan, it’s just going to
create ammunition for the opposing side,” said Jim Kochan, who
helps manage $228 billion as chief fixed-income strategist at
Wells Fargo Fund Management LLC in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin .  Bernanke, 57, this year has publicly urged Congress to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling and adopt a long-term plan to reduce
the  budget deficit  without damaging a stalling U.S. recovery.
He’s stopped short of telling lawmakers exactly how they should
do that.  Bernanke’s Warnings  Three years ago, Bernanke’s warnings of imminent disaster
helped spur passage of the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He
told lawmakers in a closed-door meeting of a possible second
Great Depression unless Congress approved a bailout of the
banking system.  Today, while the Fed should be “obviously getting ready”
to consider emergency measures in case of market turmoil,
Bernanke’s public approach so far has been “appropriate,” said
Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank , the senior Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee who was in the 2008
meeting with Bernanke.  “We do not have an immediate crisis,” Frank, 71, said in
an interview. “I don’t think he ought to be scaring people.”  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, didn’t respond to an
emailed request for comment.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Democrats and
Republicans in Congress have been locked in a standoff for
months over what kind of deficit-cutting measures to tie to an
increase in the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The
Treasury Department has said the U.S. exhausts its borrowing
authority on Aug. 2 and risks going into default.  Dueling Visions  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  on July 25 made back-
to-back televised speeches on their dueling visions. Senate and
House leaders are pushing proposals that diverge over whether to
force another showdown early next year.  Bernanke testified before senators July 14 that failing to
raise the debt limit and triggering a cut in the nation’s credit
rating would be tantamount to causing a “self-inflicted
wound.”  “Loss of investor confidence could potentially raise
 interest rates  quite significantly,” making it harder to reduce
the deficit, Bernanke said in a semiannual hearing at the Senate
Banking Committee.  Bernanke has since shied away from commenting or meeting
lawmakers. “The right people are taking the right roles in the
debate,” said Indiana Representative Mike Pence, a Republican
who advocates eliminating the Fed’s legislative mandate for
maximum employment to concentrate only on stable prices.  “The  Federal Reserve  should focus on monetary policy that
protects the dollar and leave other issues to people that are
elected,” Pence said in an interview.  Fed Standing Suffers  The Fed’s standing with the public suffered after it helped
bail out the financial system in 2008 and last year started a
second round of bond-buying that Republicans, including Kyl and
Boehner, then House minority leader, said risked inflation.
Bernanke’s approval rating fell to its lowest level last month
in almost two years of Bloomberg polling on the issue. He faced
the most opposition in history in his Senate confirmation vote
for a second term in 2010.  Investors are betting against a U.S. debt default. Yields
on 10-year Treasuries declined to 2.96 percent as of 10:43 a.m.
in  New York  today from 3.74 percent in February. That compares
with  Greece , where 10-year government-bond yields have traded
above 13 percent for three months as European officials work to
avert a default by the nation.  ‘Strong Statements’  Bernanke has “made strong statements about the importance
of raising the debt limit and also the importance of dealing
with our fiscal problems,” New Mexico Senator Jeff Bingaman, a
Democrat who serves on the Finance Committee, said in an
interview.  Asked if Bernanke should be more forceful in pushing
lawmakers toward a deal, Bingaman said, “I don’t think that’s
his job. I think his job is to give his view when questioned by
the Congress but not to be lobbying the Congress.”  There’s a chance that tougher words to Congress may roil
financial markets, former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  said.
“But to me it’s a chance worth taking,” said Blinder, a
professor at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey , where Bernanke
formerly chaired the economics department. Bernanke’s 2008
warning “scared the bejesus” out of politicians, Blinder said.
“Maybe he needs to do it again.”  Such tactics may backfire, said Maya MacGuineas, president
of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a  Washington 
research group. “That would be so potentially destabilizing to
the very markets we’re trying to find a way to reassure,” she
said.  Political Deadlock  Bernanke’s predecessor once took the initiative to pressure
lawmakers to raise the debt limit.  Alan Greenspan  was credited
with helping break a political deadlock in January 1996 when he
requested a private meeting with then-House Republican Leader
Richard Armey to discuss the issue after Armey indicated
Republicans could push the U.S. into default. Republicans later
backed down.  That may not be the best strategy for Bernanke.  “Sometimes the Fed chairman has to be careful that he
isn’t too involved in the political process,”  Arizona ’s Kyl,
69, said in an interview. “He needs that credibility with
everybody. And there’s not much he could say or do here that
wouldn’t be perceived by one side or the other as unhelpful. I
think he’s smart to stay on the sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  