-- 
BG to Look for Australian Shale Gas With Partner Drillsearch

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-27T17:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bg-to-look-for-shale-gas-in-australia-with-partner-drillsearch.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K. natural-gas
producer exploring for shale gas in the U.S., plans to extend
its search to  Australia  as global demand grows for the cleaner-
burning fuel.  BG’s  QGC  unit agreed to invest A$130 million ($143.5
million) to search for so-called unconventional gas in
Australia’s Cooper Basin, according to a  statement  today from
BG’s partner,  Drillsearch Energy Ltd. (DLS)  Shale gas is held in rock
and extracted by forcing water through layers of sediment.  The partners will develop shale gas in the Cooper Basin to
supply eastern Australia and liquefied natural gas exports,
Drillsearch said. QGC will have a seven-month option to buy 31.6
million shares in Drillsearch, or about 9.9 percent of the
company, at 62 Australian cents a share, a 17 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price.  BG, Britain’s third-largest gas company, is expanding into
Australian shale after almost doubling its output goal for U.S.
shale gas in February, targeting 190,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day by 2015. Producers are adding unconventional
assets, which include shale and coal-bed methane, as rising
demand and technological advances make prospects economically
viable.  “The Cooper Basin is highly prospective for shale gas and
QGC believes it has secured a key position,”  Neil Burrows , a BG
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The partners may drill as
many as six wells by 2015.  BG, based in Reading, England, will be the second non-local
explorer after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to search for shale gas in
Australia. Sydney-based  AWE Ltd. (AWE)  and  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  have also
sought partners for shale exploration.  Drillsearch Jumps  Drillsearch rose 11 percent to 59 Australian cents in
Sydney trading after the announcement, valuing the company at
A$179.5 million. BG shares fell 1.4 percent to 1,465.5 pence in
 London .  QGC will acquire 60 percent of the ATP 940P license,
covering 2,000 square kilometers (770 square miles) in the
Cooper Basin, according to a Drillsearch  presentation  on its
website. The partners will explore the Nappamerri Trough Shale
Gas Fairway, which may hold 85 trillion cubic feet of resources
according to the U.S. Department of Energy, through June 2016.  BG said in February that success in finding further gas
resources may lead it to expand its $15 billion Queensland
Curtis LNG venture in Australia. BG invested $1.8 billion in the
project in the first half of this year, Chief Executive Officer
 Frank Chapman  said yesterday. It plans to ship the first LNG in
2014.  The U.S.’s shale-gas boom propelled the country into first
place among global gas producers in 2009. BG invested $130
million acquiring more shale gas acreage in the U.S. in the
second quarter, Chapman said. Last year, BG and  Exco Resources
Inc. (XCO)  bought the Haynesville and Bossier shale assets in the U.S.
from Southwestern Energy Co., after previously expanding in the
Appalachian Basin with the purchase of Common Resources LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  