-- 
Blackstone Said to Be in Talks to Buy Emdeon for $3 Billion

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-27T22:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/blackstone-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-emdeon-in-3-billion-deal.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is in talks to
purchase  Emdeon Inc. (EM) , a provider of billing systems and software
for health-care companies, for more than $3 billion, including
debt, said a person with knowledge of the deal.  There is no guarantee a deal will be reached, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Emdeon, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , has been a public
company since an IPO in 2009. Previously it was owned by Hlth
Corp., which sold a majority stake to Greenwich, Connecticut-
based General Atlantic LLC for $1.2 billion. Hlth, also the
parent of medical-data site  WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) , sold the rest to
private-equity firm Hellman & Friedman LLC and General Atlantic
for $575 million.  “If this is true, within two years they are going back and
becoming a private company,” said Steven Halper, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, in a telephone interview.
“That’s generally a good thing. The company in the two years it
has been public hasn’t necessarily executed on the bigger game
plan it put out.”  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Tommy Lewis, an Emdeon spokesman, didn’t immediately
return phone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  $1 Billion Sales  Emdeon generated $1 billion in sales last year, up 9
percent from a year earlier, on its systems that help health-
care providers and payers manage claims and billings. The
company’s network includes 340,000 providers, 1,200 government
and commercial payers, 5,000 hospitals, 81,000 dentists and
60,000 pharmacies, according to its website.  As a closely held company, Emdeon could invest in the
business without worrying about reporting quarterly earnings,
said Stifel’s Halper.  The Wall Street Journal reported the discussions earlier
today. Emdeon rose 22 percent to $16.10 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, valuing the company at $1.86
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ,
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  