-- 
Blinding Lasers Replace Guns for Peacekeeping

-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-27T14:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/blinding-lasers-replace-guns-for-peacekeeping.html
The laser’s emerald beam is so
piercingly brilliant that it temporarily blinds and disorients a
would-be assailant. Few attackers would push on toward the
Marine wielding the light-based weapon.  The laser is a new tool for the military as its mission
shifts from combat to nation-building and humanitarian aid in
Iraq and  Afghanistan , activities that can require controlling
crowds, distributing food and policing checkpoints. Marines are
researching and testing similar devices for all services through
a Joint Non-Lethal Weapons Directorate that began in 1996.  The Pentagon’s budget for non-lethal weapons research and
procurement was about $120 million in fiscal 2010, which ended
Sept. 30, according to the directorate’s annual report. The
military is buying spotlights, flash-bang grenades and electric
shock weapons to stun instead of kill, and handheld translators
and extra-loud speakers to warn away attackers.  “Non-lethal weapons can help defuse potential hostilities
by filling the gap between verbal commands and the use of lethal
force,” said Kelley Hughes, spokeswoman for the program, in an
interview at the Quantico Marine Corps Base in  Virginia  on July
19. The program is run from Quantico.  The Pentagon spent more than $20.7 million of the budgeted
amount in fiscal 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government. The Joint Non-Lethal Weapons Directorate’s budget
was $64 million, up 21 percent from $53 million in fiscal 2005.  Warning Devices  The Army spent $8.6 million on non-lethal weapons in 2010,
the Navy, $994,343, and  Air Force , $735,494, according to
Bloomberg data. The Defense Logistics Agency spent $10.3 million
on items such as spotlights to avoid escalation of force, the
data shows.  The biggest non-lethal investment in 2010 was in long-range
speakers. The warning devices can shoot sound hundreds and
sometimes thousands of meters -- as far as 2 miles -- to caution
people to stay back, scare them with loud noise, or to send an
alarm. They also have been used for rescue efforts after the
Japan earthquake and tsunami, and to keep birds away from mining
sites.  The military services spent as much as $7 million in 2010
on such long-range acoustic devices, or LRADs, buying the
majority from closely held ADS Inc., based in  Virginia Beach ,
Virginia. The LRAD is made by San Diego-based  LRAD Corp. (LRAD) , and is
distributed by companies such as ADS.  LRAD posted net income of $5.7 million in the second
quarter of 2011, up from $163,823 in the same period a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. Revenue in that period
rose to $15.5 million from $3.3 million.  Fewer Checkpoint Deaths  Connecting a handheld digital translator, such as the
Phraselator, created by Voxtec International Inc. of Annapolis,
 Maryland , soldiers can communicate with people in their native
languages, according to LRAD.  Optical distracters, such as dazzling lasers and bright
white flashlights, are used to deter approaching vehicles as
well as people. The military spent almost $9,000 on the lasers
and as much as $4.9 million on spotlights in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Pentagon spent more than $11
million on lasers during the last 10 years, the data shows.  Dazzling lasers have helped reduce accidental Iraqi
civilian deaths at checkpoints, according to Bruce Westcoat,
vice president of closely held B.E. Meyers & Co., of Redmond,
Washington, the leading military provider.  Nets and Spikes  Soldiers use the lasers to capture and distract the
driver’s attention if a car doesn’t slow down when signaled to
stop, he said.  The Air Force and other services use Tasers to stun people
into submission, Kelley said. The Pentagon bought all but a few
of its Tasers from Aardvark Tactical Inc., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Closely held Aardvark Tactical, based in
La Verne,  California , is  Taser International Inc. (TASR) ’s distributor
to the U.S. government, according to Stacey Todd, a spokeswoman
for Taser, based in Scottsdale,  Arizona .  Marines have used nets and spikes to slow or stop moving
cars. Within nine months, the non-lethal weapons program plans
to have developed a launcher to shoot a net to entangle boat
propellers.  Soldiers have used rubber bullets and pepper spray to break
up crowds during humanitarian missions when fights have broken
out at food and water distribution points, Navy Lieutenant
Commander Shawn Kelley, spokesman for the directorate, said
during a July 19 interview at Quantico.  ‘Cold Rubber’  “Soldiers did not want to fire on individuals because all
they wanted was food,” he said. “They weren’t trying to
harm.”  To prevent injuries or death, non-lethal weapons require
significant testing and training, Hughes, the Marine
spokeswoman, said.  “An operator needs to know that in extreme cold weather, a
rubber impact round is harder due to the temperature, and
therefore it is going to have a greater chance of injuring an
individual,” she said.  Hughes said the joint directorate plans to push to increase
the number of non-lethal weapons used in the field, in part by
urging companies to develop new types and methods for using
them. The program and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
will host the first major non-lethal weapons conference and
exposition, taking place Oct. 25-27 in Ottawa, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Traci McMillan in  Washington  at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anne Laurent at 
 alaurent7@bloomberg.net  