-- 
BMW Catching Audi in China by Driving X5 SUV Across Mongolian Desert: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-28T09:02:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bmw-catching-audi-in-china-by-driving-x5-suv-across-mongolian-desert-cars.html
For two days in Inner Mongolia, Tom
Liang took a  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  X5 sport-utility
vehicle up 100-meter-high sand dunes and across rocky river beds
past camel cemeteries.  “Driving in the desert brings out all the best functions
of the car,” said Liang, 36, who attended BMW’s first off-road
terrain course held this month in Ordos, northern China. “This
training opened my eyes to what my X5 can do.”  The Munich-based automaker has narrowed its market-share
gap in China with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi since starting driving
courses in 2006 to attract new buyers and build brand appeal.
Rising numbers of wealthy Chinese are boosting sales even as
overall vehicle deliveries slow this year after the government
imposed purchase restrictions to curb congestion.  BMW’s share of the country’s high-end sedan segment has
risen to 24 percent this year from 21 percent in 2006, while
Audi’s has declined to 28 percent from 50 percent, according to
Munich-based Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  Test drives and cross-country expeditions showcase new
technology and expand customer interest, said Lu Yi, head of
sales and marketing at BMW’s  China  import unit, in a July 19
interview in Ordos.  “People want to have technology, they want to have
service, and they want to have a car ready to express
themselves,” said Lu. “You have to find unique new ideas.”  Formula One  The programs also help take motorists like Liang, who
resides in Beijing -- tied with Mexico City as having the
world’s worst commute in an International Business Machines
Corp. survey last year -- outside their mostly urban driving
environments.  BMW started its first China driving course in 2006 on the
Formula One race track in  Shanghai , and a year later held winter
rally racing in northeastern  Jilin province , where temperatures
in January plunge to an average minus 12 degrees (-24 Celsius).  The world’s largest luxury carmaker also began organizing
self-drive expeditions on the mainland in 2006, called
Destination X. Past tours have included routes along the ancient
Silk Road in northwestern Xinjiang region.  A group of 96 BMW drivers will start this year’s
Destination X from the Russian-Chinese border city of Manzhouli
in  Inner Mongolia  to Harbin in northeastern Heilongjiang
province, a journey of 900 miles (1,450 km).  Genghis Khan   In Ordos, home to a mausoleum for 13th-century Mongol
conqueror Genghis Khan, drivers pay 20,000 yuan ($3,100) for the
two-day BMW off-road driving course. They learn to decrease the
tire pressure to gain more traction, to continue climbing and
accelerate up a slope no matter how bumpy the terrain, and to
dig out the front and back wheels when stuck in sand.  BMW will increase its China sales by 48 percent this year,
outpacing Audi’s projected 18 percent growth, and 44 percent for
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, according to estimates by  Westlake
Village , California-based J.D. Power & Associates.  Total vehicle deliveries will grow about 5 percent this
year after surging 32 percent to a record in 2010, according to
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Luxury-car
sales in the world’s largest auto market will expand about 30
percent this year, J.D. Power estimates.  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  raised his
global sales forecast July 12 on buoyant demand from
international markets. The automaker now anticipates sales of
more than 1.6 million vehicles this year, up from a previous
forecast of deliveries in excess of 1.5 million units.  Mercedes, Audi  Audi, whose A6L sedan was the best-selling luxury car in
China last year, has followed suit in introducing more driving
programs. The carmaker offered snow and ice-training courses in
2010 and held an eight-day desert trip in northwestern  Gansu
province , its first-ever self-drive tour in China for owners.
Mercedes started its AMG Driving Academy in the country last
November with race-track courses.  BMW’s X5, which starts at 896,000 yuan ($139,000) in China,
competes with Audi’s Q5 and Mercedes’ M-Class in the high-end
SUV segment.  Audi, whose early entry into China and popularity in
government service gave it the biggest share on the mainland,
saw first-half sales grow 28 percent, delivering 140,699 cars.
Mercedes sold 95,030 units, an increase of 59 percent. BMW’s
first-half sales in China rose 61 percent to 121,614 units.  BMW has gained market share rapidly while being a late
entrant to the Chinese market, said  Ashvin Chotai , managing
director of Intelligence Automotive Asia, which provides
research on the industry.  ‘Favorable Image’  “The brand enjoys a more favorable image among private
buyers, especially younger affluent buyers,” said Chotai, who
is based in  London . More than two thirds of the luxury car
buyers in China are under 45, compared with about 50 percent in
the U.S., he said.  The carmaker topped a poll for the most desired brand in
China, beating out 150 consumer names such as Apple Inc. and
Cartier, according to an online survey by Hong Kong-based Clear
Asia, which advises companies on branding. Mercedes was eighth
on the list, while Audi came in 12th.  “Respondents say BMW is more modern, confident and
ambitious than the other auto brands in the study,” said Oliver Cartwright, regional managing director at Clear  Asia , whose firm
surveyed 2,800 Chinese at the end of 2010. The respondents had
an average age of 31 with a mean annual household income of
about 80,000 yuan.  For Liang, the Ordos training has deepened his brand
loyalty. He switched from an Audi A4 to a BMW 325I in 2008 after
trying out for a Destination X tour.  “After I go for these events, I get more and more
interested in BMW cars,” said Liang. “Whatever car I need, I
will always think of BMW first.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  