-- 
BMW, Dodge Among Most Appealing: Power

-- B y   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-27T18:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bmw-dodge-vehicles-among-most-appealing-in-j-d-power-study.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
Chrysler Group LLC each won three segments in J.D. Power &
Associates’ annual study of the most appealing brands and
vehicles, including many that scored poorly for quality.  Ten of the 20 category winners in the Automotive
Performance, Execution and Layout Study, such as the Ford Fiesta
subcompact and Porsche AG’s Cayenne sport-utility vehicle,
garnered the lowest overall-quality score in J.D. Power’s annual
study of  new-car quality , which measures the average number of
defects in the first 90 days of ownership.  BMW’s X3 sport-utility vehicle and Z4 Roadster sports car
earned segment awards in the APEAL after receiving the lowest
rating for new-car quality a month earlier.  “You can say, ‘I have an issue with the car, the cup
holder isn’t where I’d like, there’s too much brake dust, but I
still love the car,’” Thomas Plucinsky, a BMW spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. “That’s the dichotomy we see between
the two studies.”  Redesigned models with new features tend to score high in
the APEAL study “but may have some teething troubles from an
initial quality standpoint,” Dave Sargent, a J.D. Power vice
president, said in a telephone interview. “The two at some
level kind of work against each other.”  Ford Technology  The Dodge Challenger,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s F-150 light-duty and
Honda Motor Co.’s Ridgeline earned segment awards in both J.D.
Power studies.  Ford fell from fifth to 23rd in the Initial Quality Study
in June after glitches arose in some of its MyFord Touch
dashboard systems. The technology was panned by Consumer Reports
magazine that same month.  The APEAL study, details of which weren’t released to the
public, tells a different story, said Ford Global Quality Vice
President Bennie Fowler.  “What we see in the APEAL survey is that MyFord Touch is
one of the major reasons for purchase,” he said. “You will see
us continue to push the technology envelope.”  The APEAL study surveyed more than 73,000 automobile owners
and lessees about positive aspects of their vehicles, the
 Westlake Village , California-based researcher said.  Porsche was the top brand with a score of 879, followed by
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar with 857 and BMW with 850. Volkswagen
was the top non-luxury brand at 14th with a score of 798.  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  moved up the most, from 28th in 2010 to 15th, with a
score of 793, and its Equus scored the highest in the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  