-- 
BOE’s Miles Says Premature Action on Inflation Risks Volatility

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-27T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/boe-s-miles-says-premature-action-on-inflation-risks-volatility.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David
Miles  said inflation will remain “significantly” above target
through most of 2012 before slowing, and attempts to bring it
back to target sooner may cause “undesirable volatility in
output.”  Inflation “is likely to move higher in the near term,
largely as a result of higher prices for domestic energy, before
coming down again,” Miles said in prepared remarks for a speech
in London today. “There is a risk that the economy could fall
back into recession, though I do not believe this is the most
likely outcome.”  Data yesterday showed the U.K. economy barely grew in the
second quarter, suggesting the central bank will keep rates at a
record low to boost the recovery. While price gains are likely
to be well above the 2 percent target through most of next year,
they’re being driven by temporary factors such as higher energy
costs, a weaker pound and a rise in  sales tax , Miles said.  “In the absence of those things, inflation in the U.K.
would reflect the underlying, domestically generated inflation
pressures” and “that would mean a rate of inflation now pretty
close to zero,” Miles said. “Attempts to keep inflation at the
inflation target in these circumstances may cause undesirable
volatility in output.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and six other
officials including Miles voted to keep the benchmark rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month, arguing economic weakness
may persist for longer than previously thought. Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  kept up their push to raise the
rate by a quarter point, while  Adam Posen  continued his call for
more bond purchases. Inflation stood at 4.2 percent in June.  Unemployment Risk  Tightening policy “sharply” to try to bring inflation
back to near the goal “would probably have required widespread
wage freezes only consistent with much higher unemployment,”
Miles said today in the speech at the  London School  of
Economics.  While the evidence that rising prices are pushing up
longer-term inflation expectations is “mixed,” there is
“little evidence” that it has led to higher wage demands, he
said. “The current degree of slack in the labor market has
reduced the ability of households to negotiate higher wages.
This should contain domestically generated inflation.”  Investors have pushed back expectations for the next rate
increase to beyond June 2012, according to forward contracts on
the sterling overnight interbank average. At the start of last
month, they were betting on a February 2012 increase.  To avoid future financial crises, banks need to hold more
equity and less debt so their leverage is reduced, Miles said.  “Banks have reduced their leverage during the past two
years,” Miles said. “But it is a process that has some way to
go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  