-- 
Boehner Fights Strife Within Republican Party on Veto-Threatened Debt Plan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-27T14:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/boehner-fights-strife-within-republican-party-on-veto-threatened-debt-plan.html
House Speaker  John Boehner , battling
resistance from within his own party as he intensifies a debt-
ceiling standoff with President  Barack Obama , worked to salvage
his plan to tie the nation’s borrowing power to spending cuts
and budget controls.  With less than a week before a possible default, the
Republican-led House remained on a collision course with the
Senate and the White House. The non-partisan  Congressional
Budget Office  said both chambers’ debt-cutting plans fall short
of promised savings. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s plan
would save $2.2 trillion over 10 years, short of its $2.7
trillion goal, the CBO  said  today.  Boehner postponed today’s scheduled House vote on his two-
step plan to raise the debt limit, which the White House said
Obama would veto, after the CBO said it would save just $850
billion rather than the advertised $3 trillion.  “We are glad Congress’s budget referee agrees that the
Senate bill cuts the deficit by $1.3 trillion more than Speaker
Boehner’s bill,” said Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson. “It
becomes clearer by the hour that the Senate bill is the only
true compromise in Congress.”  Treasuries pared losses today as Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said there will be
“massive consequences” if the U.S. loses its AAA credit
rating. The benchmark 10-year note yielded 2.96 percent. Stocks
fell also, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a
third day.  ‘Work to Do’  Boehner, an Ohio Republican who devised his plan after his
debt-reduction negotiations with Obama and congressional
Democrats broke down, said yesterday, “We’re going to have some
work to do to get it passed, but I think we can do it.”  Adding to Boehner’s woes, Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota congresswoman who has said she
won’t back raising the debt ceiling, opposed Boehner’s plan.
“The premise is wrong that we begin with increasing the debt
ceiling,” she told reporters yesterday in Ankeny,  Iowa .  Reid’s budget-cutting plan, according to the CBO report,
falls $200 billion below the $2.4 trillion figure needed to meet
demands that a debt-limit extension through next year’s
elections be accompanied by an equal amount of savings. The
Senate plan would save more than $1 trillion through what
Republicans call a budget gimmick related to a quirk in how CBO
forecasts war costs, according to the analysis.  Budget Committees  Both Reid and Boehner proposed creating a special budget-
cutting committee to help find cuts, for which the CBO refused
to credit any savings because it couldn’t predict whether or how
much the panels would eventually agree to cut.  Three investment firms -- BlackRock Inc., Loomis Sayles &
Co. and Franklin Templeton Investments -- said the U.S. faces
losing its AAA credit rating as the debate continues.  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television.  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat, called the debt crisis “a self-inflicted wound.”  “Rating agencies have told us it’s not only a long-term
debt, but the fact that you are lurching day to day, week to
week, with no resolution on the debt ceiling” that is leading
to a potential downgrade of the AAA credit rating, he said on
Bloomberg Television today.  Treasury Notes  Yields on five-year Treasury notes increased four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.52 percent at 9:16 a.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.5
percent security due in June 2016 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 30/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields advanced four basis points to
2.99 percent. That compares with a 4.06 percent average over the
past decade. Thirty-year bond yields were up three basis points
to 4.31 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index lost 1.4 percent to
1,313.79 at 10:23 a.m. in New York. The S&P has lost more than 2
percent this week as lawmakers moved no closer to reaching an
agreement before an Aug. 2 deadline. The cost of insuring
against default on Treasuries climbed to the highest since
February 2010. Gold traded at a record $1,628.05 an ounce as
investors sought haven assets.  Stick Together  In Washington, House Republican leaders implored their
rank-and-file to stick together. About 20 Republicans have
publicly said they oppose the measure or were leaning toward
voting “no,” leaving little wiggle room for passing the
legislation. The bill needs 217 votes to pass the House, and
Republicans hold 240 seats; they can afford only 23 defections.  No Democrats plan to support the plan, according to a
Democrat familiar with the negotiations.  Boehner’s measure had been designed to raise the debt
ceiling $900 billion while cutting $1.2 trillion in spending
over a decade, then tie a subsequent, $1.6 trillion borrowing
increase early next year to enactment of a package slicing $1.8
trillion from the long-term debt.  Under the  CBO  savings analysis, Boehner’s plan would
violate his promise that any debt-limit boost be smaller than
the cuts accompanying it. The CBO didn’t count the $1.8 trillion
in debt savings, saying it couldn’t predict whether the joint
congressional committee the measure establishes would be able to
produce them.  Some fiscal conservative groups and lawmakers were in
revolt, saying the plan would do too little to slice the debt
and control federal spending.  ‘Dead on Arrival’  Reid has called Boehner’s plan “dead on arrival” in the
Senate. Durbin said today on Bloomberg Television that “it’s
likely” Reid’s plan will be changed to win some Republican
support. Sixty votes are needed for passage, and the Democrats
control 53 votes.  The Boehner plan would promise another debt-limit showdown
in the 2012 election year unless Republicans and Democrats agree
by the end of this year end to reduce deficits.  Obama endorsed Reid’s proposal as “a much better path,”
though it doesn’t include the tax revenue increase that the
president said is needed to address the deficit. He criticized
Boehner’s plan as “kicking the can further down the road.”  He
said the two sides need to arrive at “a fair compromise.”  Obama, who wants a $2.4 trillion boost in the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling -- enough to last until after the November
2012 elections -- has said the two-stage approach is
unacceptable. It would leave uncertainty in the markets and
jeopardize the fragile economy, he maintains. His advisers would
recommend he veto the House bill, according to a statement
yesterday by the White House Office of Management and Budget.  Aug. 2 Deadline  The Treasury Department has said Congress must act by Aug.
2 to raise the debt ceiling or the nation will default. That
would take a compromise that hasn’t materialized in months of
bipartisan negotiations.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia told  House
Republicans  that he understood the debt-limit vote was
difficult, yet the alternatives to Boehner’s plan are worse,
according to a Republican official familiar with his remarks.  Cantor said its defeat would leave lawmakers facing the
choice of a default or legislation that would hand Obama
unilateral authority to raise the debt ceiling without making
any spending cuts, Kingston said.  Republican Divisions  Still, there is growing uneasiness among some Republicans
about Boehner’s plan. Several conservative organizations,
including the Club for Growth, Heritage Action, and the Tea
Party-affiliated FreedomWorks, are opposing the plan and
pressuring lawmakers to do the same. They said the measure fell
short because it doesn’t make congressional passage of a
balanced budget amendment to the Constitution a prerequisite to
raising the debt ceiling.  “The real key is not raising the debt ceiling, it’s taking
care of the long term, getting a solution to the debt crisis,
and I’m not sure this qualifies,” Representative Paul Gosar of
 Arizona , a first-term Republican, said in an interview. “This
isn’t reforming the process.”  And business groups leaned on lawmakers to approve the
plan.  “This legislation is critical,” R.  Bruce Josten , the top
lobbyist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a letter to
lawmakers announcing his organization would count the bill as a
key vote. “Default on debt obligations is not an acceptable
option. The time for Congress to act is now.”  $100 Billion a Year  A loss of the U.S. AAA credit rating would add $100 billion
a year to government costs while dragging down economic growth,
according to Wall Street bond dealers.  A U.S. credit-rating cut would likely raise the nation’s
borrowing costs by increasing Treasury yields by 60 to 70 basis
points over the “medium term,” JPMorgan’s Terry Belton said on
a conference call hosted by the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. Standard & Poor’s, which has
given the U.S. a top ranking since 1941, reiterated on July 21
that the chance of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next three
months and may happen as soon as August.  “That impact on Treasury rates is significant,” Belton,
global head of fixed-income strategy at JPMorgan, said during
the call. “That $100 billion a year is money being used for
higher  interest rates , and that’s money being taken away from
other goods and services.”  ‘Balanced’ Solution  Obama has pressed for a “balanced” solution to the debt-
ceiling debate, including both new revenue and cuts in spending.
House Republicans say they won’t accept taxes. The co-chairmen
of the bipartisan deficit commission that Obama appointed last
year recommended a mix of revenue and spending cuts as the only
meaningful way to address the long-term budget-deficit problem.  The percentage of taxes as a percentage of the nation’s
gross domestic product, at 15 percent, is at its lowest point
since 1950.  A $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan by a bipartisan group
of senators known as the “Gang of Six,” also called for
spending cuts combined with a tax overhaul that would raise $1
trillion.  Reduced  government spending  could subtract 1.5 percentage
points to 2 percentage points from growth in 2012, a drag that
will make it difficult to reduce 9.2 percent unemployment, say
economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  