-- 
Bollard Signals Earlier Rate Rise in N.Z.

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-27T23:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bollard-signals-new-zealand-rates-to-rise-sooner-than-economists-predicted.html
New Zealand ’s central bank signaled
it will raise its benchmark interest rate sooner than most
economists predicted to contain prices as the nation’s economy
recovers from the deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  “Provided current global financial risks recede and the
economy continues to recover, the bank sees little need for the
March ‘insurance’ cut to remain in place much longer,” Governor
Alan Bollard said in a statement today in Wellington after
leaving the benchmark rate at record-low 2.5 percent.  Economists and traders now expect Bollard will raise the
official cash rate at the next review Sept. 15 by half a
percentage-point, after a cut of the same size in March that
helped revive confidence after the Feb. 22 quake in the southern
city of Christchurch. Bollard said the record-high  New Zealand
dollar  gives him scope to delay further rate rises.  “There is no point in removing the insurance cut in
multiple steps,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics at
ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington, who expects a half-point
increase in September. “Beyond that, the RBNZ will pause and
assess the landscape. Global uncertainties remain.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose to 87.22 U.S. cents at 11:06 a.m.
in Wellington from 86.98 cents immediately ahead of the release.
The currency bought 87.66 cents yesterday, the highest since
exchange controls were removed in 1985.  “The current very high value of the New Zealand dollar is
acting as a drag on the economy,” Bollard said today. “If this
persists, it is likely to reduce the need for further cash rate
increases in the short term.”  Rate Forecasts  Economists at ASB Bank Ltd., Royal Bank of  Scotland  and
First NZ Capital also revised their rate forecasts after today’s
statement, expecting a half-point rise in September rather than
no change until December.  Before Bollard’s statement today, five economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News forecast a rate rise in either September or
October, six saw a move in December and four predicted no change
until 2012.  Traders are certain of at least a quarter-point rate
increase in September with a 48 percent chance of a half-point
increase, according to swaps prices from Westpac Banking Corp.  New Zealand’s economy has grown more strongly than expected,
stoked by high terms of trade, Bollard said today, referring to
a measure of income from exports. Still, fragility in global
financial markets highlights the “downside risk” to the
nation’s main trading partners, he said.  Inflation Target  In today’s statement, Bollard said annual consumer
inflation remains above the central bank’s 1 percent to 3
percent target range. Much of the current gains in inflation
have been driven by an October 2010 increase in the sales tax
rate, “and will therefore be temporary,” he said. Wage and
price setters should focus on underlying inflation, which is
currently estimated to be below 2.5 percent, he said.  Bollard’s signal that there aren’t rising inflation
pressures in the economy is “somewhat disconcerting,” said
Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington.  “He suggests that there aren’t any inflationary pressures
in the economy over and above that requirement to remove the
emergency cut, and there will be a lot less need to raise
 interest rates  to cope with those inflationary pressures,” he
said. “I’d beg to differ.”  Thirty-three percent of companies surveyed by ANZ National
this month expect to raise prices in the next three months, up
from 30 percent in June. In a year, annual inflation will be 3.1
percent, according to the survey published yesterday.  Lower Exports  Exports dropped to a five-month low in June amid falling
commodity prices, a report this week showed. Milk powder prices
were at an eight-month low at a July 19 auction, according to
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter.  “There are combinations such as a continually rising
dollar and dropping commodity prices which would be pretty
negative for New Zealand,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said
in an interview with  Radio New Zealand  yesterday. Investors are
seeing the economy as a “safe haven” because of its growth
prospects, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  