-- 
Bouley’s Brushstroke Dishes $135 Toro, Boring Rice: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bouley-s-brushstroke-dishes-135-bluefin-toro-15-rice-pot-ryan-sutton.html
Manhattan  now has an antidote to the
enervating, if beautiful, austerity of kaiseki service that’s
been proliferating at high-end Japanese restaurants around town.  At Brushstroke, the Kyoto-inspired cuisine may be plated
with no more elan than a bowl of spaghetti. Thank David Bouley,
the owner and resident chef Isao Yamada.  Take the summer vegetables. There’s a layer of dashi gelee,
some cauliflower cream, a mound of sea urchin and a few spears
of asparagus. It’s a cool pescetarian parfait as pretty as a
snail. So close your eyes and eat. Hints of sugar, salt, earth
and sea will slither down your throat.  Grilled freshwater eel sits atop a mound of Kabocha squash,
winter melon, okra and burdock. Sweet barbecue sauce coats the
mouth. Tastes like a Tokyo picnic.  NyQuil-colored sauce covers a square of fermented tofu. The
dish stings with the acidity of blue cheese. The texture is a
ringer for foie gras. A vegan triumph.  This is the success that Bouley needed at 30 Hudson, the
address that begat his (failed) Secession and (triumphant)
Danube restaurants. The Klimt-inspired murals have been replaced
by blonde wood. The best seats are at the long sushi bar, where
you’ll pay $85 for 8 courses or $135 for 10. ( Brushstroke  is the
most expensive city restaurant to have opened this year.)  Duck Salad  And the cost can go up for the most unexpected reasons.
Wagyu beef, bluefin tuna and truffles are all available without
supplements. But a big pot of rice with corn and shrimp will set
you back an extra $15. Remember, rice prices are sky high.  Skip the upcharge. The bland hot pot, with its overcooked
shrimp, serves no purpose but to fill the stomach after a few
hours of protein-packed small plates.  An alternative is the lobster roll, less  New England  than
California sushi takeout. The flavors of sweet crustacean were
subdued into a starchy choke hold. There was a decent order of
sushi itself, yielding folds of toro as marbled as Kobe. But the
vinegared rice was room temperature, when the point of nigiri is
the contrast of cool fish and warm grains.  Then again, this is Kyoto, New York-style. That’s why
diners will feast on meltingly tender pork cheeks with green
apple puree -- a dish straight out of Oktoberfest.  Bouley is a master of all things French and German. The
only things Asian about a fantastic duck salad were the Japanese
eggplant and miso-mustard dressing. The funky fowl wouldn’t be
out of place at a Lyonnais farmhouse.  Truffle Sauce  Brushstroke’s mushi custard mirrors the one Bouley hawks at
his fancy flagship next door. A tiny cup of steamed egg with
black truffle sauce, sporting the color palette of a muddy
drain, heightens the delicate flavor of crab with the power of
fungi.  Just as stunning is clam dashi with scallop and lobster
dumplings.  The Bouley service machine is in full force here. Warm
towels begin the meal in cooler months; during last week’s heat
wave, they were chilled.  Sommelier Seju Yang speaks fluent sake -- and so does the
wait staff. Heed their advice, though a $14 Alsatian Riesling
blend has a gentle acid and aroma to match much of the delicate
fare.  Regulars might get extra courses -- perhaps a bowl of corn
soup with mountain yam. Guests in the lounge, who choose from an
a la carte menu, receive the same level of coddling as the prix-
fixe patrons. That lounge menu, by the way, hides a gem of a
dish: braised wagyu with a raw egg yolk. As if fat striated beef
needed any more richness. No matter; it works.  Cap off the evening with soy-milk panna cotta and pine nut-
studded rice paper. Bouley is back, again.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $85 for shorter menu, $135 for a longer tasting.  Sound Level: Reasonable, about 65-75.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Tomato confit cocktail, a highbrow riff on the
Bloody Mary, showing off the fruit in its sweet-savory glory.  Special feature: Cool restrooms (trust me).  Will I be back? More often to the bar.  Brushstroke is at 30 Hudson Street. Information: +1-212-
791-3771;  http://www.davidbouley.com   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 