-- 
BP Seeks Tossing of Spill-Linked Suits Against Managers of Retirement Plan

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-27T19:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/bp-seeks-tossing-of-spill-linked-suits-against-managers-of-retirement-plan.html
BP Plc (BP/)  employees shouldn’t be
allowed to sue the company’s retirement savings plan managers
for investing too heavily in BP stock, because the workers chose
to invest in those shares, company lawyers said.  BP asked a federal judge in Houston late yesterday to throw
out multiple employee suits that seek recovery of millions of
dollars the worker retirement plans lost during last year’s Gulf
of Mexico  oil spill .  The workers claim plan managers should have known the stock
was an “imprudent investment” given BP’s safety and compliance
record before the April 2010 sinking of the Deepwater Horizon,
which sparked the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The
employee suits, brought under the federal Employee Retirement
Income Security Act, or  ERISA , are among hundreds of claims
filed in U.S. courts after the explosion.  “Participants have complete discretion whether or not to
invest in the BP stock fund,” company lawyers said in papers
filed in Houston federal court, where cases are consolidated.
“As a result, the basis for this lawsuit is not that defendants
invested participants’ assets in the BP stock fund, but rather
that defendants allowed plan participants to invest in that
option and did not override participants’ decisions to do so.”  U.S. courts “have routinely rejected such claims” on the
grounds that “employer stock is a presumptively prudent
investment that employees should have the option to own in their
retirement accounts,” according to the filing.  Workers’ Lawyer  “We will vigorously oppose BP’s motion to dismiss,’’ Dona
Szak of Ajamie LLP in Houston, who represents workers in the case,
said today by telephone.  The company faces lawsuits by workers and investors over
the roughly 50 percent plunge in BP’s share price in the weeks
after the spill, caused by the blowout of a BP well off the
Louisiana coast. The cases are consolidated for pretrial
processing before U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison.  BP previously asked Ellison to throw out lawsuits by
investors who claim the company fraudulently misled them about
its safety record and improvements made in safety compliance
following a fatal refinery blast in 2005.  London-based BP also faces more than 350 lawsuits from
thousands of property owners, fishing interests and tourism
businesses claiming economic damage from the oil. Those cases
are before a different federal judge in  New Orleans .  The ERISA case is In re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  