-- 
Brazil Government Measures Fail to Slow June Credit Growth

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-27T16:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/brazil-government-measures-fail-to-slow-june-credit-growth-2-.html
Credit in  Brazil ’s economy last
month continued to expand at its fastest pace of 2011, failing
to respond to efforts by the government to slow its growth.  Total outstanding credit rose 1.6 percent in June to 1.834
trillion reais ($1.17 trillion), the central bank said in a
report distributed today in Brasilia. The pace of expansion
matched the rate seen in May.  Total credit rose 20 percent from a year ago, led by a 50
percent increase in mortgage credit.  “The fact that labor markets are still so strong may
explain continued credit demand,” said  Gustavo Rangel , chief
Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets in  New York , in
response to an e-mailed question. “Wages and employment are
growing fast, and as a result the ability to get into debt is
also expanding.”  Brazil has been adopting measures to slow consumer
borrowing since December, to curb the fastest inflation in six
years and prevent instability in the financial system. The
central bank has raised the benchmark rate five times this year
to try to cool the economy.  The average consumer default rate was unchanged at 6.4
percent. Company loan defaults were also unchanged at 3.8
percent. Defaults are likely to fall in the second half of the
year, due to wage growth and low unemployment, the central
bank’s economic department chief Tulio Maciel told reporters in
Brasilia after the report was released.  Growth Slowed  Credit growth slowed to 1.1 percent in the first 9 working
days of July, compared with the first 9 working days of June,
Maciel said.  Consumer confidence  recovered in June, and in July rose to
its highest level since at least 2005. Unemployment fell to 6.2
percent in June, a record low for the month, down from 7 percent
a year earlier.  The average interest rate charged on consumer loans fell to
46.1 percent in June, from 46.8 percent in May, the central bank
said. The rate on company loans fell to 30.8 percent, from 31.1
percent.  The central bank last week announced a change in the rule
on payroll-deductible credit card payments with long maturities
as a further “prudential” measure. The new rule raises banks’
risk-provisioning requirements for payroll-deductible credit
card operations, which will force them to raise capital
provisions on loans with maturities exceeding 36 months.  Bank Requirements  In December, the central bank raised reserve and capital
requirements to slow credit growth, and in April Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled to 3 percent the so-called IOF
tax on  consumer credit .  Last month, the central bank raised its forecast for 2011
credit growth to 15 percent, from its previous forecast of 13
percent. Today’s report shows that the bank’s forecast was
overly optimistic and is likely to be revised up, Rangel said.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.69 percent at 12:59 p.m.
New York time.  Consumer prices rose 6.75 percent in the year through mid-
July, the fastest pace since 2005. Brazil targets inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  The central bank last week raised its benchmark Selic rate
by a quarter point to 12.50 percent. In a one-sentence statement
accompanying the decision, the bank’s board of directors
withdrew a commitment made in April and June to raise rates for
a “sufficiently long” period.  Traders are betting the central bank will hold rates at its
August policy meeting, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
 interest rate  futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  