-- 
Brazil Charges Tax on Bets Against Dollar as Real Rallies to 12-Year High

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-07-27T16:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/brazil-to-charge-1-tax-on-some-derivatives-transactions-to-stem-real.html
Brazil  imposed a tax on bets against
the  U.S. dollar  and warned it may boost intervention in the
nation’s derivatives market in a bid to weaken a currency that
reached a 12-year high this week. The real declined by the most
in almost three months.  As part of a new round of currency measures unveiled today,
the government levied a 1 percent tax on short dollar positions
in the country’s futures market above $10 million in notional
value. The government may increase the tax up to 25 percent if
needed, according to the decree signed by President  Dilma Rousseff  and published today in the Official Gazette.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that the measures give
the government a “bigger arsenal” of tools to defend itself
from “speculation” that the real will continue to rally amid
global economic uncertainty.  “We’re reducing the advantages enjoyed by speculators, and
we expect the real will weaken or stop appreciating,” Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia. “If we hadn’t taken these measures
we’d have an  exchange rate  who knows where, hurting exporters
and domestic production.”  The measures, the latest attempt by policy makers to ease
capital inflows behind a 48 percent rally in the real since the
end of 2008, are unlikely to reduce the attractiveness of  Latin
America ’s biggest economy to foreign investors, said  Jankiel
Santos , chief economist for Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
Sao Paulo.  “There’s an excess of dollar coming to Brazil, and you may
limit part of that in terms of portfolio flows, but I’m not sure
the structural balance is going to change at all,” Santos said
in a telephone interview.  Record FDI  Investment is pouring into Brazil as the nation develops
offshore oil finds and prepares to host the 2014  World Cup  and
2016 Summer Olympics. Foreign direct investment jumped to a
record $69 billion in the 12 months through June, the central
bank said yesterday.  Even as Brazil takes the lead among regional governments
trying to deter inflows fueled by near-zero  interest rates  in
the U.S., the country’s current account gap narrowed in June to
$3.3 billion, its smallest in 10 months, as high prices for
commodity exports offset a surge in imports.  Latest Moves  Policy makers in Latin America’s biggest economy have taken
steps to ease capital inflows to stem a rally in the real, which
yesterday traded at its strongest level since Brazil abandoned
its peg to the dollar in 1999.  Since last year, the government has tripled a tax of
foreign purchases of domestic bonds, increased reserve
requirements on short-dollar positions and raised levies on
foreign loans.  Today’s measures, while applicable to all investors, will
primarily affect foreign investors who hold the bulk of about
$25 billion in bets against the dollar on  Sao Paulo ’s future
exchange, said Nelson Barbosa, executive secretary at the
 Finance Ministry .  Barbosa said the tax will stem the currency’s 49 percent
rally since the end of 2008 because the bulk of pressure against
the currency comes from futures market, which dwarfs the size of
the spot currency market. No additional currency measures are
expected to be announced at tomorrow’s meeting of the monetary
council, which is comprised of officials from the central bank,
finance ministry and budget ministry, he added.  Hedging Costs  While the measures will raise hedging costs for exporters,
the increase will be offset by a weaker real, said Barbosa.
Short dollar positions held before today can be rolled over
without paying the tax, Barbosa said.  The real declined 1.7 percent, to 1.5656 per dollar, at
12:33 p.m. New York time, the biggest drop since May 4. The real
has rallied the most 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg since the end of 2008.  Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini said the measures,
which the monetary authority helped design, will strengthen the
financial system.  “It’s a measure we’ve been discussing to reducing hedging
against the dollar and in favor of the real during this time and
period when we have ample global liquidity,” Tombini told
reporters in  Rio de Janeiro .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  