-- 
Brazil Is First BRIC to Enter Bear Market as Inflation Drives Down Stocks

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-28T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/brazilian-stocks-approach-bear-market-as-inflation-surges-currency-jumps.html
Brazilian stocks became the first
among the largest emerging economies to fall into a  bear market 
this year as the government adopted new measures to stem
currency gains and inflation quickened.  The Bovespa index dropped 1.8 percent to 58,288.46
yesterday, pushing it down 20 percent from a November high. No
other benchmark equity gauge in the so-called BRIC nations has
declined this year at least 20 percent from the preceding bull-
market peak, the standard definition of a bear market.  Brazil stocks have tumbled as inflation reached the fastest
pace since 2005 even after the central bank lifted interest
rates eight times in 15 months. Lenders dropped as policy makers
raised  reserve requirements  and taxes on consumer loans to slow
credit growth.  “It’s somewhat baffling that it’s doing so badly,” said
Arthur Byrnes, who helps manage $800 million as chairman of
Deltec Asset Management in New York. “People think  Brazil  is
handling the fight against currency appreciation rather
clumsily. I think it’s a buying opportunity. You’re getting near
a point where inflation is going to peak.”  The real tumbled 1.1 percent to 1.5556 per dollar yesterday
after the government said it will levy a tax on some investments
in currency derivatives.  “Brazil has been quite anxious to find ways to control
growth and inflation without putting undue pressure on the
currency,” John Lomax, an emerging-markets strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview from  London . “This is
another example of them trying to find ways to stop the currency
from going up without raising rates.”  Bear Market  The Bovespa is the first benchmark index in the world’s 10
biggest stock markets by capitalization to fall into a bear
market since  Japan ’s Nikkei-225 Stock Average sank more than 20
percent below its 2011 high on March 15 following the earthquake
that damaged nuclear  power plants .  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has fallen 16 percent this
year. Russia’s Micex has advanced 1 percent, while  India ’s
Sensex declined 10 percent and  China ’s Shanghai Composite slid 3
percent.  Homebuilders, retailers,  oil companies  and steelmakers have
been among the Bovespa’s biggest decliners since November’s
peak.  Gafisa SA, Brazil’s third-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
has plunged 51 percent since Nov. 4 as record-low unemployment
drives up labor costs. B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, Brazil’s
largest online retailer, is down 53 percent in that period.
Banco Santander Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s biggest
bank, declined 42 percent.  Underperformance  The Bovespa’s underperformance began last year. The index
rose 1 percent in 2010, its worst-ever performance relative to
MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21 developing nations’ stocks, after
rallying 83 percent in 2009 as Brazil recovered from the global
financial crisis.  MSCI’s emerging-market benchmark has lost 0.2 percent since
the Bovespa’s high on Nov. 4.  Brazil’s real has soared 49 percent since the end of 2008,
the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as the world’s second-highest inflation-adjusted
interest rates lured investors. That has spurred a tug-of-war as
policy makers sought to shore up exporters by weakening the
currency, while rising interest rates lured dollars that
strengthened it.  “The combination of inflation plus currency strength is
creating some real issues,” said Lomax. “If they try to find
ways to bring the currency down, these non-conventional
approaches, that also ends up being bad for equities.”  Inflation  Inflation reached 6.71 percent in June, according to the
national statistics agency. The central bank has increased the
benchmark  interest rate  3.75 percentage points since April 2010
to 12.50 percent.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who has warned of a
“currency war” between developed and emerging economies, in
October tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
investments in Brazil. Mantega had slapped a 2 percent tax on
foreigners’ debt and stock purchases in 2009.  As part of the currency measures unveiled today, the
government levied a 1 percent tax on some net short dollar
positions by investors in Brazil’s futures market. The
government may increase the tax up to 25 percent if needed,
according to the decree signed by President  Dilma Rousseff  and
published today in the Official Gazette.  The Bovespa trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, near the lowest since March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 10.9 for
MSCI’s emerging-market benchmark, the widest gap in more than
two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  