-- 
Brazil Real Slides as Government Taxes Foreign-Exchange Derivative Trading

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-07-27T21:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/brazil-real-slides-as-government-taxes-foreign-exchange-derivative-trading.html
Brazil ’s real declined by the most
in more than a month after the government said it will levy a
tax on some investments in foreign-exchange derivatives, the
latest step in a bid to stem the currency’s rally.  The real dropped 1.1 percent to 1.5556 per dollar, the
biggest decline since May 11, from 1.5391 yesterday. It earlier
fell as much as 2 percent to 1.5704 per dollar, the largest drop
since June 2010.  Brazil took further action to end a rally in the real after
efforts to weaken the currency this year failed to prevent it
from reaching a 12-year high against the dollar yesterday. The
real tumbled after Brazil authorized the monetary council to
charge a 1 percent tax on certain derivatives operations and to
raise taxes on futures operations.  “This obviously increases the firepower of the government
to fight a fight against the currency appreciation,” said
 Rogerio Oliveira , an emerging-markets strategist at Morgan
Stanley in New York. “It makes it more expensive to trade the
currency in the derivative market,” he said in a telephone
interview.  As part of currency measures unveiled today, the government
levied a 1 percent tax on some net short dollar positions by
investors in the country’s futures market. The government may
increase the tax up to 25 percent if needed, according to the
decree signed by President  Dilma Rousseff  and published today in
the Official Gazette.  ‘Bigger Arsenal’  “We’re reducing the advantages enjoyed by speculators, and
we expect the real will weaken or stop appreciating,” Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia today. “If we
hadn’t taken these measures we’d have an  exchange rate  who knows
where, hurting exporters and domestic production.”  Mantega said the “bigger arsenal” of tools at the
government’s disposal, designed in coordination with the central
bank, will weaken the real without hurting exporters or other
investors engaged in “legitimate” hedging to protect
themselves against currency losses.  Since last year, the government has tripled a tax on
foreign purchases of domestic bonds, increased reserve
requirements on short-dollar positions and raised levies on
foreign loans.  “The market until now has been of the opinion that the
previous measures weren’t effective against continued inflows
and the still relative attractiveness of the carry trade,”
analysts at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  wrote
in a note to clients today.  Engineering ‘Pain’  “With these latest measures, the government has shown that
it does matter in that they do have the ability to engineer more
pain through an onshore USD squeeze,” RBS said.  Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign investors’
fixed-income purchases in October to limit the real’s advance.
On March 29, the Rousseff administration increased to 6 percent
a tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks.  The central bank said July 11 it would require that banks
make non-interest bearing deposits with the central bank
equivalent to 60 percent of short dollar positions that exceed
$1 billion dollars or their capital base, whichever is smaller.  The new currency derivatives tax “creates difficulties to
increase short positions, but the real should continue its long-
term trend in a slower manner,” said Guilherme Figueiredo, who
helps oversee $1.5 billion of assets as director at M. Safra &
Co. in  Sao Paulo .  50-Percent Rally  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most actively-traded in Sao Paulo today, were
unchanged at 12.47 percent.  The real has rallied 49 percent since the end of 2008, the
most among emerging-market currencies, curbing exporters’
profits and swelling the nation’s current-account deficit.  Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini said the measures,
which the monetary authority helped design, will strengthen the
financial system.  “It’s a measure we’ve been discussing to reduce hedging
against the dollar and in favor of the real during this time and
period when we have ample global liquidity,” Tombini told
reporters in  Rio de Janeiro .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  