-- 
British Olympic Team Counting on Home Advantage to Boost Medals in London

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-27T23:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/british-olympic-team-counting-on-home-advantage-in-2012-to-boost-medals.html
Four years ago, Bobby White was a
semi-professional goalkeeper at a small  soccer club  in  England .
Twelve months from now he’ll lead the British handball team on
home soil at the 2012  London  Olympics.  White has gone from an also-ran at Newport Pagnell Town FC,
located about 50 miles north of London, to captain of the
British handball team, thanks to the U.K. Sport program
“ Sporting Giants .” It was aimed at finding talent for the
country’s Olympic handball, rowing and volleyball teams, and
male applicants had to be at least 1.9 meters (6-foot-2) tall,
aged 16-25 and have some sort of athletic background.  “I didn’t really have any expectations when I sent in the
application form,” White, 28, told a small group of reporters
earlier this month. “But I thought, ‘Why not?’ I’ll give it a
go, I’d love to represent my country at an  Olympic Games , and
especially a home Games.”  White will be part of a 550-member team, the biggest-ever
British Olympic squad, which is expected to deliver a record
medal haul. Like White, 70 percent will be competing in their
first Olympics.  When London won the bid to host the Games, Britain was seen
reaching the top four in the overall medals table in terms of
golds won. Team  Great Britain  achieved that aim ahead of
schedule in 2008 by finishing fourth in Beijing with 19 golds
and 47 total medals from 11 sports. China led with 51 golds,
followed by the U.S. with 36 and Russia with 23.  The 2012 team is “on track to achieve our goal of
finishing in the top four in the Olympic medal table” and is
likely to win more medals than in Beijing,  U.K. Sport  Chief
Executive Liz Nicholl said in an e-mailed statement. U.K. Sport
spends about 100 million pounds ($164 million) of public funds a
year in high-performance sport in Britain.  Moved to  Denmark   After being invited to a trial in May 2007 to test his
athletic skills, White was picked out of 2,500 people for the
Sporting Giants program. In 2008, he moved to Denmark -- which,
unlike the U.K., has a strong culture in handball, a seven-a-
side game -- to train with the British team and played his first
international match in Oman later that year. A goalkeeper in
handball as well as soccer, he was made team captain last month.  Britain is counting on home support to boost its medal haul
as hosting the Olympics can improve team performance by as much
as 25 percent, according to a U.K. Sport study that looked at
100 world or European championships across 14 Olympic sports.
Those where judges play a role, such as boxing, judo and
dressage, as well as swimming, rowing and athletics, all
benefited from home crowds.  ‘Tight’ Medals Table  Most British athletes are likely to compete in front of
full stadiums, as tickets for the third London Olympiad after
1908 and 1948 have been going fast.  After two rounds of sales, more than 3.5 million tickets
have been purchased and about 850,000 successful applications
have been made for tickets, according to the London organizing
committee, or LOCOG. Only soccer, volleyball and wrestling
tickets remain.  “We can look forward to good British performances in
London in a year’s time,” LOCOG chairman and double Olympic
gold medalist runner Sebastian Coe said on a conference call.
“But the medals table will be tight. The German national
Olympic team will probably be one of the strongest teams that I
can remember for many years.”  Germany  finished fifth behind Britain in the medal table in
Beijing, taking home 41 medals, including 16 golds.  Home advantage can also be a disadvantage, said David Luckes, a three-time British hockey Olympian.  “Competing at home can provide that inspiration of having
thousands of people roaring you on,” Luckes, head of sport
competition at LOCOG, said in an interview. “It may give you
that little bit of added momentum. But it also gives you a lot
of pressure. You are competing in front of all your friends and
family. Things like that can weigh heavily on certain
competitors.”  Individual Sports  The British media have been mainly focusing on athletes in
individual sports, such as world heptathlon champion Jessica
Ennis, 25, and 2009 diving world champion Tom Daley, 17.  “There is a lot of pressure on these young stars,” Colin Jackson, a silver-medal hurdler at the 1988 Seoul Olympics, said
in an interview. “But they are the type of people who will
really enjoy that home advantage, knowing the enthusiasm of the
nation behind them. They are skilful enough to be able to switch
off the pressure, but to come together when it really matters in
their performance.”  Unlike Daley and Ennis, White isn’t expected to win a
medal.  “We’re being realistic in our targets, we’re aiming for a
top-eight finish out of 12,” he said. “We know we are up
against it. But if we get drawn against one of the weaker
European sides in the quarterfinals, who knows what can
happen?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  