-- 
Brokerage IRAs, Trader-Tracking, Patent Law, SunTrust Settles: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/brokerage-iras-trader-tracking-patent-law-suntrust-settles-compliance.html
Brokerage firms may drop millions of
individual retirement account holders if a proposed U.S. Labor
Department rule takes effect, a lobbying group said yesterday.  The  Labor Department  wants to expand the scope of fiduciary
responsibility to protect those saving for retirement from
conflicts of interest, such as recommending investments with
higher fees. The rule would require investment professionals who
advise employers and workers with retirement savings plans such
as 401(k)s or IRAs to act in the best interest of their clients.  The change may cause financial firms to offer fewer
investment options in retirement accounts and shift to a fee-
based model used by investment advisers, which may increase
costs, Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice president for public
policy and advocacy at the  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association , said at a  Washington  hearing before the
 House Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions .  Assistant Secretary of Labor Phyllis Borzi said at the
hearing that the broker concern “is perhaps due to a
misunderstanding.” Exemptions already exist in Labor Department
rules that would allow brokers to continue to provide
securities, mutual funds and annuities to IRA owners, Borzi
said.  Employers generally are held responsible for making sure
their retirement plans operate in the best interest of
employees. The proposed Labor Department regulation would apply
a fiduciary standard to firms that advise plan sponsors and
investors about investments even if they don’t give that advice
regularly.  The Labor Department rule also may apply to advice given to
savers when they are leaving a job and trying to decide whether
to roll their money into IRAs.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Adopts System to Seek Abuses Among Biggest Traders  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is establishing
a system for monitoring the behavior of high-frequency trading
firms and  hedge funds  under new reporting standards for the
most-active market participants.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to adopt a tracking
system for firms that buy and sell at least 2 million shares a
day. The system, initially proposed three weeks before the May
2010 crash that temporarily erased $862 billion in U.S. share
value, aims to use technology to help guard against market abuse
and manipulation.  For more, click here.  SEC Replaces Credit Ratings as Short-Form Eligibility Standard  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission voted to cut
credit ratings from eligibility requirements yesterday for firms
seeking fast-track approval for securities offerings.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 at a meeting in Washington
yesterday to replace credit ratings as a gauge of
creditworthiness with standards including whether a firm has
issued $1 billion of non-convertible securities over the prior
three years.  Banks Try Clout in Congress to Fight Financial Patent Owners  Software maker Trading Technologies International Inc. is
among companies that say the validity of patents they spent
years establishing may be threatened by legislation nearing
final approval in Congress.  Patents covering financial business methods, such as those
held by Trading Technologies for ways to connect to electronic
exchanges, would face an additional layer of government review
under the bill, which would mark the biggest overhaul of the
U.S. patent system in at least 50 years.  Banks and insurers contend the added scrutiny is needed to
weed out patents of questionable validity that are being used to
extract multimillion-dollar damage awards through lawsuits.
Owners of business-method patents say financial-services
companies are using their clout in Washington to avoid paying
for using someone else’s inventions.  The proposal would help banks, retailers, airlines and
hotels defend lawsuits by companies known as non-practicing
entities, or NPEs, that use patents to generate royalties rather
than make products, Peter Freeman, vice president of the
Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based trade group,
said in an interview.  Business-method patents, which protect techniques including
ways to run an organization or sort financial data, have been
around as long as the patent system itself, with the first
issued in 1799 for a way of detecting counterfeit notes.  Banks have obtained business-method patents, such as one
issued to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for “automatic online sales
risk management,” or one received by Bank of America for a
“bank card fraud protection system.”  Bank of America said it
had no comment, and Goldman Sachs didn’t respond to requests for
comment on the legislation.  The disputed provision would apply only to patents related
to data-processing for financial products or services that are
in litigation.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SunTrust Agrees to Pay $5 Million in Auction-Rate Settlement  SunTrust Banks, Inc., the 10th biggest U.S. bank by assets,
agreed to pay $5 million to resolve regulatory claims that it
misled investors about the risks of auction-rate securities
before the market froze three years ago.  Two of SunTrust’s brokerage units marketed the securities
as “safe and liquid” even though the firm knew as early as
2007 that stresses in the market raised the risk that auctions
might fail, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said in
a statement yesterday. Prior to the collapse, SunTrust failed to
disclose the increased risks to its sales representatives, while
encouraging them to sell the products to reduce the firm’s own
inventory, Finra said.  The Atlanta-based bank has repurchased about $643 million
of the securities from investors, Finra said.  Auction-rate securities are typically municipal bonds,
corporate bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
reset periodically through auctions. Lawsuits by state
regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission have led
to the return of at least $60 billion to individual investors.
According to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, about
$55 billion of the debt remains outstanding.  For more, click here.  FTC Said to Ready Oil Company Subpoenas in Gas Price Probe  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is preparing to issue
subpoenas to  oil companies  and refiners as it probes rising
gasoline prices, a person familiar with the matter said.  The FTC called oil companies and refiners in the past three
to four weeks to alert them to stand by for the subpoenas, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the calls were
confidential.  President Barack Obama announced in April an interagency
task force to investigate potential fraud in oil markets as a
possible cause for the run-up in fuel costs. Five Democratic
senators sent a letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz on May 17
asking the agency to look into gasoline-price increases, saying
reports at the time indicated U.S. refiners were restricting
production to boost prices.  The FTC will “take action whenever we find wrongdoing,”
Leibowitz said at the time. FTC spokesman Mitch Katz declined to
comment yesterday because the investigation isn’t public.  The FTC’s Bureau of Economics regularly scrutinizes price
movements in about 20 wholesale regions and almost 400 retail
points across the country, according to the agency’s website.  Foreclosure-Deal Releases Draw State Resistance Amid Probes  Three states conducting their own probes of residential
mortgage practices are resisting broad liability releases sought
by banks to settle a nationwide foreclosure investigation.  The banks, in settlement talks with state and federal
officials, are seeking releases that would protect them from
future legal liabilities. Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha
Coakley  said July 25 she won’t endorse a deal that includes
certain releases.  New York  and Delaware have raised similar
concerns over terms of a possible deal.  All three states are conducting investigations tied to
mortgage operations of banks. Delaware and Massachusetts
officials say a settlement shouldn’t release banks from some
claims, including those related to bundling mortgages into
securities, while the inquiries continue.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers over their servicing
and foreclosure practices. Attorneys general from all 50 states
began investigating the practices last year.  Delaware is also investigating the Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc., or MERS, according to a person
familiar with the matter. MERS is a national mortgage database
used by banks.  For more, click here.  Courts  Bundesbank, Lehman Battle Over $4.2 Billion CDO Default  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  asked a U.K. judge to block
 Germany ’s central bank from seizing control of a 2.9 billion-
euro ($4.2 billion) securitization vehicle set up weeks before
Lehman’s collapse.  Lehman in July 2008 packaged a group of loans and sold 2.1
billion euros of senior notes in the security to the Bundesbank.  The central bank’s lawyers told a London court yesterday
that the securitization, known as Excalibur Funding No. 1, had
been in technical default since January. Lawyers for Lehman,
which holds 722 million euros of junior debt in Excalibur,
argued it has enough cash to meet obligations.  Under the terms of the 2008 securitization deal, if
Excalibur defaults, the Bundesbank as senior noteholder could
force it to sell assets and return cash to investors. New York-
based Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets
of $639 billion, sparking a global contraction in the credit
markets and a flurry of litigation around the world.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman Holdings,
declined to comment on the case. A Bundesbank spokesman said the
bank wouldn’t comment on pending court decisions.  A decision is expected next week.  Separately, a Lehman Brothers unit lost a case at the
U.K.’s highest court over whether it should be paid before
bondholders in two swap agreements.  The  Supreme Court  dismissed a ruling from 2009 that
Lehman’s claim to collateral shouldn’t take precedence over
noteholders. The court said the underlying contract in the case
should be upheld unless there was an intention to evade
insolvency laws.  The case in  Europe  is LB RE Financing No.3 Ltd. v.
Excalibur Funding No.1 Plc, 11-01164, U.K. High Court of Justice
(Chancery Division).  The U.S. case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. BNY
Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., 09-01242,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Sky Capital Founder Mandell Convicted in $140 Million Fraud  Sky Capital Holdings Ltd. founder Ross Mandell was
convicted of operating what the U.S. said was an eight-year
scheme that defrauded investors out of $140 million.  Mandell, 54, of Boca Raton,  Florida , was found guilty
yesterday by a federal jury in New York of all four counts he
was charged with -- conspiracy, securities fraud, wire fraud and
mail fraud -- after a trial in federal court in Manhattan.  Adam Harrington, 41, of Miami, a former broker at Sky
Capital who was tried with Mandell, was convicted of the same
four counts. The jury began its deliberations July 22.  Prosecutors said the evidence showed the defendants used
the funds for tens of thousands of dollars of personal luxury
expenditures.  Mandell, Harrington and others at Sky Capital also used the
money to pay themselves excessive commissions and pay off other
victims who had lost money through prior purported investment
opportunities, prosecutors argued during the trial.  U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty declined to set a
sentencing date or revoke bail for Mandell and Harrington. The
judge said he wouldn’t rule on prosecutors’ request to jail both
men before sentencing because they pose a flight risk. He gave
defense lawyers until Aug. 5 to file legal papers before issuing
a ruling.  “It’s unjust,” Harrington said about the verdict as he
sat outside the courtroom. “We will appeal.”  Mandell’s lawyer, Jeffrey Hoffman, said after the verdict
that “there are very significant issues for appeal,” citing a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling last year in Morrison v. National
Australia Bank that U.S. securities laws don’t protect foreign
investors who buy stocks on overseas exchanges in a civil case.
The charges against Mandell and Harrington included manipulating
shares.  Four other men were arrested and charged in the case and
have pleaded guilty. Two of them, Robert Grabowski and Michael
Passaro, both former Sky Capital brokers, agreed to cooperate
with the U.S. and testified against Mandell and Harrington.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mandell, 09-cr-00662, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Balestrino Says U.S. Rating Downgrade Is ‘On the Table’  Joseph Balestrino, a fixed-income market strategist at
 Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , talked about the outlook for the U.S.
credit rating and Treasury market amid continued negotiations
over raising the government’s debt ceiling and reducing the
federal deficit.  Balestrino spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
with Margaret Brennan.” Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group
Ltd., also spoke.  Comings and Goings  FDIC, OCC Nominees Face Dodd-Frank Queries From Senate Panel  President Barack Obama’s nominees to head agencies
overseeing the biggest U.S. banks were quizzed over plans for
implementing new regulations at a Senate hearing that provided a
contrast to Washington’s debt-ceiling battle.  Martin J. Gruenberg and Thomas Curry, who helped guide the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. through the 2008 credit crisis,
testified at a  Senate Banking Committee  hearing on Gruenberg’s
nomination to be FDIC chairman and Curry’s selection as
comptroller of the currency.  Gruenberg, a longtime Senate staffer who is serving as
acting FDIC chairman, and Curry, who was nominated as an FDIC
board member by President George W. Bush in 2004, haven’t
inspired the partisan rancor that led Senate Republicans to
block or threaten Obama nominees for the  Federal Reserve  and the
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau .  Curry, 54, who would oversee national banks if appointed,
was asked about his position on capital rules for banks.  “The actual language in Dodd-Frank is a matter of some
controversy,” Curry told the panel. “The principle is clear
that federal law supersedes state law. It is incumbent on the
OCC to maintain its independence as a bank regulatory agency.”  Gruenberg, 58, who has been FDIC vice chairman since 2005,
would inherit the broader authority that  Sheila Bair  fought to
gain for the agency before she stepped down this month. The new
duties expand on the agency’s traditional role insuring deposits
up to $250,000 at about 7,500 banks and overseeing safety and
soundness at nearly 5,000 small and mid-sized lenders.  “The FDIC will also continue to play a leading role in
expanding access to insured financial institutions to all
Americans as a means for economic opportunity,” Gruenberg said
in his remarks.  Date to Run Consumer Bureau as Warren Returns to Harvard  Raj Date, a former banker, will replace  Elizabeth Warren  as
adviser to the Treasury secretary for the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau on Aug. 1, the Treasury Department said
yesterday.  Date, the associate director of the bureau for research,
markets and regulations, will run the day-to-day operations of
the new agency, which officially began work on July 21, Treasury
said yesterday in a statement.  Since her appointment on Sept. 17, Warren has been setting
up the bureau as an adviser to Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner and assistant to President Barack Obama. She has been
on leave from Harvard Law School, and will return there,
Treasury said.  Obama nominated  Richard Cordray , the former Ohio attorney
general, to be the first director of the agency, on July 18.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the bureau’s director must be
confirmed by the Senate.  When a director is in place, the agency officially becomes
an independent bureau within the Federal Reserve. Until then, it
doesn’t have the new powers created by Dodd-Frank, such as the
ability to supervise non-bank financial firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 