-- 
Cargill Defines Food Chain While Assailing Government Hoarding

-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/cargill-defines-food-chain-while-assailing-government-hoarding.html
Cargill  Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Greg Page, who runs the largest agricultural company in the
U.S., has a good idea whom to blame for the global surge in food
prices at the end of 2010: governments.  Page urged 708 delegates and guests at the National Grain
and Feed Association convention in San Diego in March to take
action, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its September
issue. He said government hoarding was the biggest contributor
to the rise in prices, which had soared 15 percent from October
through January and pushed 44 million people into poverty,
according to the  World Bank .  “Ill-timed, ill planned and really a beggar-thy-neighbor
strategy,” Page, 59, said of moves by  Russia  and others to ban
grain exports as droughts and floods helped send stockpiles to
their lowest levels in two generations.  Page warned that further disruptions might ratchet up costs
so much that governments would jump in with more regulations --
not only on grain shipments but also on energy, trade and
financial markets. Such moves could discourage investing in
agriculture and hurt the poor.  “We have to make sure lawmakers share our understanding,”
he said, imploring the executives to increase their lobbying to
keep government hands off agricultural markets.  Private Sector  Cargill is a big fan of the private sector -- and of
privacy, period. Founded in 1865 by William Cargill, son of a
Scottish sea captain, the agricultural-commodities giant is in
its seventh generation of family ownership, a record unmatched
by any other major U.S. firm.  About 100 descendants of William Cargill control the
company, which is based amid the mansions and lakes of
Minneapolis suburb Wayzata, Minnesota.  Shareholder  equity -- the
difference between assets and liabilities on Cargill’s balance
sheet -- almost doubled to $29.5 billion during the 4 ½ years
that ended in November and included the worst U.S. recession in
seven decades.  Including its  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  fertilizer unit, Cargill’s revenue
jumped 15 percent to $91.8 billion in the nine months that ended
in February, the month before Page called for anti-intervention
lobbying. Profit in the period almost doubled to $3.5 billion
from a year earlier as food prices peaked.  ‘They Are the Chain’  Through the planet’s food anxiety, Cargill has kept its
name out of the public eye. There are no Cargill-branded
products in supermarkets, and executives seldom speak with the
press.  Yet, Cargill has a huge hand in feeding the world. With
131,000  employees , it runs one of the country’s largest
operations for converting corn into biofuels, as well as food
for people and animals. It’s the No. 1 U.S. salt marketer and a
top buyer and seller of cocoa and sugar. The No. 2 U.S. beef
producer, Cargill can slice a cow 431 ways and fashion precise
cuts so  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  doesn’t have to hire a butcher for
every one of its shops.  “Cargill sells seed and chemicals to farmers, buys their
grain, transports it to Cargill feedlots, kills the cattle and
sells the beef,” says Dan Basse, president of Chicago-based
research firm AgResource Co.  “They’re not part of the food chain; they are the chain.”  Whitney MacMillan, 81, one of seven Cargill billionaires
and a former CEO of the company, is among the biggest advocates
for staying private, says C. Daniel Clemente. A Virginia lawyer,
Clemente advised family members on governance for 11 years
through 2005 and still speaks with James Cargill II, the
founder’s great-grandson. The marriage of MacMillan’s
grandfather and William Cargill’s daughter, Edna, in 1895 merged
the families and initiated joint control of the business.  Family Dilemma  The Cargills and MacMillans faced a family-control dilemma
when the biggest shareholder, 85-year-old matriarch Margaret Cargill, died in 2006.  MacMillan and other elders opposed selling Margaret’s 17.5
percent stake to fulfill her philanthropic wishes, people
familiar with the situation say. The opponents worried that once
her shares hit the market, younger family members would support
a public offering of the whole company, the people say.  Cargill instead shed its 64 percent stake in Mosaic, North
America’s No. 2 fertilizer company. The split-off satisfied two
sets of interests. Because Mosaic’s market value had surged to
$30.5 billion in May from $6.1 billion when Margaret died, her
trustees accepted the increasingly valuable Mosaic stock in
exchange for her Cargill stake. The move also defused potential
support for an IPO by raising cash for family shareholders.  Respect, Not Passion  Family members and Margaret’s estate received Mosaic shares
worth $11.7 billion in a May 25, 2011, distribution designed to
meet tax-free requirements. Cargill itself added $7.3 billion to
its treasury. Senior managers and an employee stock plan
received a combined $400 million, bringing the split-off’s total
value to $19.4 billion. Cargill’s wealth helped it pull off the
deal and stay private just as commodities giant Glencore
International Plc launched its $10 billion IPO.  “I can’t think of any other company that can release $19
billion without changing ownership,” says  Mark Connelly , a
fertilizer and chemical company analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA in  New York . “If Cargill hadn’t owned two-thirds
of Mosaic, they’d be going public right now.”  Cargill may not dodge an IPO forever. With Whitney
MacMillan’s eventual death, a generation that includes his
daughter, Elizabeth Schmidt, will gain clout, Clemente says.  “Among the younger people I talked with, there was respect
for elders like Whitney,” he says. “There wasn’t a lot of
passion for keeping the company private.”  Page, MacMillan, Schmidt and other family members declined
to comment.  So-called Efficiencies  Patrick Woodall, research director at Washington advocacy
group Food & Water Watch, says consumers and farmers lose when
companies have so much clout.  In meatpacking, four companies --  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) ,
Cargill,  JBS SA (JBSS3)  and National Beef Packing Co. -- controlled more
than 80 percent of U.S. output, according to a 2008  press
release  from the U.S. Department of Justice. The department had
sued JBS to block its proposed acquisition of National Beef.  From 1989 to 2008, the inflation-adjusted price per pound
that Cargill and other middlemen paid beef farmers dropped by a
third, to 80 cents, Woodall says. In comparison, inflation-
adjusted retail prices for a pound of ground beef slipped by
just a penny, to $2.41, Woodall says.  “The so-called efficiencies of the market are profits
squeezed out of farmers but not passed on to consumers,” he
says.  ‘Nourishing People’  Cargill’s ability to shape huge swaths of the food system
rankles Mary Hendrickson, a rural sociology professor at the
 University of Missouri  in Columbia, who has studied food
oligopolies.  When French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire pushed
Group of 20 countries to stabilize prices in June by sharing
grain-reserve information and limiting export restrictions, he
first met with Cargill and other agribusiness giants to get
their backing.  “It used to be the role of national governments to make
sure people had enough to eat,” Hendrickson says. “For-profit
companies are not set up to worry about the 40 percent of the
population that makes less than $2 a day.”  Cargill donates 2 percent of pretax earnings to improving
nutrition, health, education and the environment, according to
its  website.   “Our goal is to be the global leader in nourishing
people,” Page says on the site.  Chance to Dance  In his San Diego speech, Page reiterated support for free-
market policies, including limits on export bans, as the best
way to feed people. That’s because willing buyers and sellers --
not governments -- negotiate prices.  Page said  food safety  keeps him awake at night. Last year,
Cargill settled, for an undisclosed amount, a lawsuit filed by
Stephanie Smith, a Minnesota dance instructor who was paralyzed
after eating a Cargill-produced hamburger tainted with E. coli.
Smith had asked for $100 million plus medical expenses.  In a joint  statement  with Cargill, Smith’s lawyer said the
settlement meant she would have care for life and a chance to
dance again. Cargill said it invested $1 billion to improve
safety. Three months later, it recalled beef in eight states
when three more people became ill.  The world zeroed in on food contamination in May when E.
coli started killing at least 49 people in 13 European
countries. Officials had to test seeds from  Europe ,  Asia  and
 Africa  to identify a potential culprit.  Goldman Sachs of Trading  “We know less and less about where our food comes from,”
Hendrickson says. “This knowledge resides with Cargill and
other big companies.”  Cargill developed its  expertise  over the course of almost
150 years. Early on, the company acquired and transported corn,
wheat and soybeans in the U.S. and converted them to flour, oil
and other food commodities. By 2010, as drought cut Russian
harvests by a third, Cargill was so globally entrenched that it
was able to ship wheat from Europe to Egypt -- the world’s
largest wheat importer -- and supply Europe’s need for  animal
feed  with U.S. corn.  “Cargill is the Goldman Sachs of commodities trading,”
Connelly says. “They have real-time insight into dozens of
markets and use it to add value in all their businesses.”  In 1998, Cargill began a campaign to bolster trading
profits by inventing starches, sweeteners and other products
that command premium prices. Forty percent of Cargill’s revenue
came from trading and 40 percent from food ingredients in the
six months ended on Nov. 30. Cargill focuses mainly on selling
ingredients to  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  and other food makers and
maintains only a handful of retail brands such as Robin Hood
flour.  Spending More on Food  Cargill plans to invest $18 billion during the five years
through 2015, half for discretionary investments such as
acquisitions, according to in-house magazine “Cargill News.”  “No matter where we do business in 66 countries, we see
per capita incomes rising and consumers electing to spend more
on meat, milks, eggs and confection,” Page said in a January
phone interview with Bloomberg News after announcing the Mosaic
split-off. He singled out emerging markets, such as India and
 China .  Truvia Story  Truvia , a Cargill-owned brand of sweetener made from a
sunflower-related plant called stevia, shows Cargill’s global
reach. The company pays 58,000 farmers in China and Argentina to
grow the plant and then processes it in  Mexico , “Cargill News”
says. Private-equity unit CarVal Investors LLC provides loans
for farmers. A retired scientist from Cargill’s seed business
bred stevia variants that resist disease. Cargill’s salt unit,
whose Diamond Crystal brand is in supermarkets, helps with
marketing.  Less than three years after Cargill introduced Truvia, it’s
the second-largest zero-calorie sweetener and is found in
products including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s vitaminwater.  Margaret Cargill’s death wasn’t the first time the families
faced losing power. In 1994, James Cargill, the founder’s
grandson, and his daughter, Marianne Liebmann, came within
minutes of suing to block an employee stock ownership plan that
was shifting control to management, Clemente says. Whitney
MacMillan had allowed the ESOP to be set up that way because he
believed management -- not family -- creates value, Clemente
says.  Some family members challenged MacMillan’s performance as
CEO that year, Clemente says. From 1990 to 1994, cash-strapped
Cargills and MacMillans sold 600,000 shares back to the company
at an average price of $73.30, according to a Wasserstein
Perella & Co. report. Those shares would be worth about $40,000
apiece today based on their valuation in the Mosaic deal.  Margaret’s Trusts  All sides agreed to governance reforms in 1995, says Wayne
G. Broehl Jr., author of “Cargill: From Commodities to
Customers” (Dartmouth College Press, 2008).  The board now consists of six outside directors and five
each from the family and management. Cargill agreed to limit
ESOP voting power and pay dividends equal to 10 percent of
earnings, so family members wouldn’t have to sell shares,
according to Clemente.  The changes created stability until Margaret’s death. In
her later years, William Cargill’s granddaughter set up trusts
to support the Episcopal Church, San Diego Humane Society,
American Red Cross and other charities. Lead trustee Christine Morse had to accelerate gift giving after Margaret’s death or
lose tax-exempt status, Mosaic CEO Jim Prokopanko says.  Saving Ecosystems  All sides were relieved when fertilizer prices rose and
Morse could accept Mosaic shares in return for Margaret’s stake.
Morse declined to comment through spokeswoman Sallie Gaines.  After the  Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies  sells its
Mosaic shares, it expects to rank third in assets in the U.S.,
behind the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  and the Ford
Foundation, Gaines says. Its first major gifts, to protect
coastal ecosystems in western  Canada , Alaska and Micronesia,
came in July, she says.  Mosaic executives welcomed the split-off because the
company couldn’t grow faster while tied to Cargill, Prokopanko
says. He can now consider creating shares to finance the
construction of a $4 billion potash mine. He also may issue
stock or borrow to acquire potash companies in Chile or
phosphate producers in Australia and Mexico.  Page described part of the company’s motivation for the
split-off in the January phone interview.  “We needed to meet the needs of our legacy Cargill
shareholders who’ve expressed an energetic desire to remain
private,” he said.  IPO Debates  Clemente points to James Cargill, who died in 2006 at age
82, as an example of how family members have debated an IPO. He
was so opposed, Clemente says, he argued whenever the question
arose. His wife, Mary Janet, who died last year, said it was
absurd not to sell when the Japanese were buying trophy assets
like Rockefeller Center in the 1980s, Clemente says. James II,
62, is willing to listen to pros and cons, Clemente says.  After seven generations, ties to founder William Cargill
are fading. No family member has a top management job and none
has been as active as Whitney MacMillan in building the company
and insisting that it stay private.  Clemente says he thinks Cargill will go public within 10
years, or sooner if food prices stop surging. If that happens,
Cargill, which has defied the odds by managing to stay private
for 146 years, would reveal more of its hand about what it takes
to feed the planet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lippert in Chicago at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  or
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  