-- 
Central European Media Has Profit Helped by New Media Units

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-07-27T06:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/central-european-media-has-profit-helped-by-new-media-units-1-.html
Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. (CETV) , the east European broadcaster partly owned by Time Warner
Inc., posted second-quarter profit helped by its Media Pro and
New Media units.  Net income from continuing operations for three months
ended June 30 was $812,000 compared with a loss of $52.9 million
a year earlier, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based broadcaster said in
a statement distributed by Globe Newswire today. Revenue rose
23.7 percent to $249.7 million.  “This improvement was driven by our strong brands, leading
audience shares in broadcasting and fast growth in Media Pro
Entertainment and New Media divisions,” Chief Executive Officer Adrian Sarbu said in the statement. The company expects
television advertising markets to grow in the second half of the
year, he said.  Central European Media, or CME as the company is known, has
been battling a slower-than-expected pick up in advertising
spending in all its markets as the economies in the region
emerge from recession. The company said in April it may give
specific earnings guidance for full year in the presentation to
analysts later today.  CME operates TV channels in the  Czech Republic ,  Bulgaria ,
 Romania ,  Croatia , Slovakia and Slovenia. After dropping
unprofitable assets in Ukraine in 2010, it agreed to acquire a
Bulgarian channel. It also bought a Czech distributor of movies
Bontonfilm AS for $11 million.  Time Warner bought a 31 percent stake in the broadcaster
for $241.5 million in May 2009, with the agreement that Ronald Lauder, CME’s founder and non-executive chairman, would vote
Time Warner’s shares in the company for at least four years. It
increased its stake to 34.4 percent on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  