-- 
Central U.S. Bakes as Northeast, Texas May Get Relief

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/central-u-s-bakes-into-august-northeast-texas-may-get-relief.html
A weak tropical system may bring
enough rain to eastern  Texas  to offer some heat relief by the
end of the week while the rest of the country will continue to
bake, said  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group 
LLC.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center gives the system in the
northwestern  Caribbean Sea  an 80 percent chance of becoming a
tropical depression later today. A tropical depression is the
weakest form of the type of storms that also include hurricanes.  The system is getting organized about 50 miles east of
Cancun,  Mexico , and moving west-northwest at 15 miles an hour,
according to the  center’s website .  It “could deliver some cooling rains to far eastern Texas
by Friday, to offer a brief break from the current very hot
pattern there,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling needs. Natural gas
futures slipped for a second day in  New York  yesterday on
forecasts of moderating temperatures that may reduce demand for
the power-plant fuel as air-conditioning use wanes.  Excessive heat warnings and advisories remain in place
throughout the central U.S. from  Iowa  to Texas. In Wichita
Falls, Texas, the temperature has reached 100 degrees or more
Fahrenheit (37.8 Celsius) for 35 days, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Record Temperature  The record in Wichita Falls is 42 days set in 1980,
according to the weather service. The town reached 100 for the
first time this year on April 6.  Yesterday’s high temperature was 109, tying a 1964 daily
record, and the town’s current cooling degree days value for the
month so far is 732. The average cooling degree days value for
the entire month of July is usually 618.  The value, calculated by subtracting a base of 65 degrees
from the daily average temperature, is designed to show energy
demand. The higher the value, the hotter the weather and the
more energy is being used to cool homes and business.  Elsewhere, the temperature reached 105 yesterday in  Fort
Smith ,  Arkansas , the 22nd day in a row the thermometer has
reached 100 or more there, extending a record.  The old record of 17 days was set in July 1934, the weather
service said.  Texas Heat  The temperature reached 102 in  Dallas  yesterday, the 25th
day it has been 100 or higher, according to the weather service.
It is expected to stay above that level for the rest of the
week, according to the latest forecast. The longest streak of
100-degree days there is 42, set in 1980.  Rogers predicts the hot weather will continue in the
central U.S. until at least Aug. 10. The U.S. Northeast will
also be hot through Aug. 5, however there is a chance it may
cool somewhat in the Aug. 6 to Aug. 8 timeframe, Rogers said.  “Confidence is still very low on this potential, but we
have seen brief breaks earlier this summer too,” Rogers said.
“Otherwise, a hot pattern continues to prevail over especially
the Midwest and South-Central U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 