-- 
MCG Capital Is Said to Terminate Efforts to Find Acquirer; Shares Decline

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-07-27T18:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/mcg-capital-is-said-to-terminate-efforts-to-find-acquirer-shares-decline.html
MCG Capital Corp. (MCGC) , a lender to small
businesses, halted efforts to find a buyer, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The Arlington, Virginia-based company may still try to sell
itself later on, said one of the people, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. MCG, which
had a market value of about $448 million as of yesterday’s
close, had hired Stifel Financial Corp. to help find a buyer and
solicited interest from rival business development companies, or
BDCs, people familiar with the situation said last month.  MCG, led by Chief Executive Officer Steven Tunney, has
traded at less than the company’s net asset value for the past
three years, limiting its ability to grow through the sale of
new stock. Excluding a rights offering, MCG hasn’t sold new
shares in four years as rivals such as  Ares Capital Corp. (ARCC) ,
 Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  and Prospect Capital Corp. tapped public
markets.  “The sale may have halted because management believed
there was more upside in MCG and was unwilling to take too steep
of a discount,” said  Michael Turner , an analyst at Compass
Point Research & Trading LLC in  Washington . “The company
doesn’t have a liquidity problem and didn’t have to sell but as
a BDC it needs to be able to raise equity to grow.”  Tunney didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment, nor did Sarah Anderson, a spokeswoman for Stifel.  Business development companies manage closed-end funds that
invest in the debt and equity of small businesses. They get tax
advantages from a 1980 U.S. law that created them, meant to
encourage the growth of small companies. Many BDCs are managed
by private-equity firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC.  MCG fell 20 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $5.61 as of 1:52 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has dropped
17 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  