-- 
Chevron to Supply Tepco With Wheatstone LNG, May Sell Stake

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-27T05:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/chevron-agrees-to-sell-wheatstone-lng-to-tokyo-electric-power.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, agreed to sell Tokyo Electric Power Co. 3.1
million metric tons of liquefied natural gas annually from its
proposed Wheatstone project in Western  Australia .  The fuel will be supplied for as long as 20 years,  San
Ramon , California-based Chevron said in a statement today. The
oil and gas producer is also in talks to sell a stake in the
A$25 billion ($28 billion) venture to the Japanese utility known
as Tepco as part of the accord, Chevron said.  In a preliminary agreement signed in December 2009, Chevron
had said Tepco would buy 4.1 million tons of LNG a year and
purchase an 11.25 percent stake in Wheatstone.  Colin Barnett ,
premier of Western Australia, had at the time valued the fuel-
supply contract at A$90 billion.  Chevron calls the Wheatstone project and its A$43 billion
Gorgon LNG development in Australia the “centerpieces” of its
expansion plans. A final  investment decision  for Wheatstone
remains on schedule for 2011, it said today. The environment
regulator of Western Australia last month recommended approval
for the venture with “stringent conditions.”  Chevron and Woodside Petroleum Ltd. are among suppliers of
Australian LNG that may benefit as countries put plans to build
nuclear reactors on hold after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami crippled Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant,
analysts including Deutsche Bank AG’s John Hirjee have said.  Wheatstone Output  Wheatstone will initially produce 8.9 million tons of LNG a
year when it starts in 2016, Chevron said in March. The project
may eventually have as many as six units producing 25 million
tons of LNG annually, the company said last year.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , also a Gorgon partner, agreed
earlier this year to acquire an interest in Wheatstone. That
transaction left Chevron with 73.6 percent of the project and
gave The Hague-based Shell 6.4 percent. Apache Corp. has 13
percent and Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co. 7 percent.  Apache and Kuwait’s state-owned oil company agreed in 2009
to supply natural gas to Wheatstone in exchange for stakes in
the venture.  Chevron has initial agreements to sell Wheatstone LNG to
Kyushu Electric Power Co. and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  Kyushu also
intends to become a stakeholder, according to Chevron’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 