-- 
China Stock Futures Fall on U.S. Debt Impasse; Vanke May Drop

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T01:30:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/china-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-debt-impasse-vanke-may-drop.html
China ’s stock futures fell,
signaling the benchmark index may drop, as wrangling between
U.S. lawmakers over plans to raise the country’s debt limit
fueled concerns that global economic growth will falter.  China Vanke Co. may pace losses by developers after
Shanghai Securities News said China may publish a new list of
cities that will be required to limit home purchases. CSR Corp.,
which made one of two trains involved in a fatal crash on July
23, may extend its biggest drop in almost three years. Anhui
Conch Cement Co. may advance after Xinhua News Agency said China
may meet a target of starting work on 10 million affordable
housing units by November.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in August, the most
active contract, lost 0.7 percent to 2,959.4 as of 9:28 a.m.
local time. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.5 percent to
2,703.03 yesterday. The CSI 300 Index rose 0.3 percent to
2,977.77.  “The U.S. debt impasse is more of a concern for the
investors than the train crash,” said Wu Kan, a  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Tight
liquidity is restraining the stock market.”  The Shanghai Composite has slumped 3.7 percent this year as
the People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  three times and
ordered lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves six
times to contain inflation, which quickened to the fastest pace
in three years.  Property Stocks  Investors have been focused this week on whether U.S.
lawmakers can agree on a plan raising the nation’s debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline when the country could default on some
of its obligations. A  House of Representatives  vote scheduled
for later today has been called off.  Chinese property stocks may move. The government may
publish a new list of cities that will be required to limit home
purchases by families in two months, the Shanghai Securities
News reported. The eastern Chinese cities of Kunshan, Jiaxing,
Changshu and Yangzhou and the southern city of Zhuhai are likely
to be on the list, the newspaper reported.  The State Council this month said second and third-tier
cities that have seen excessive price gains should restrict the
number of homes each family is allowed to buy, according to the
newspaper.  China’s central bank probably won’t increase banks’ reserve
requirement ratios in July or August, as cash flows from abroad
and  money supply  slowed, China Securities Journal said today in
a commentary on its front page.  Central Bank Bills  Monthly maturing central bank bills in the second half of
the year will average 227 billion yuan ($35 billion), compared
with an average of more than 600 billion yuan in the first half,
reducing pressure on the central bank to absorb cash from the
financial system, according to the commentary written by Ge
Chunhui, a reporter at the newspaper.  China has limited room to increase reserve requirement
ratios as fewer central bank bills will mature in the second
half, the Financial News reported today, citing experts it
didn’t identify. China may raise interest rates at least once by
the end of the year and the increase may be “small,” the
newspaper reported.  Building-related stocks may be active. China may meet the
target of starting work on 10 million affordable housing units
by November, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Vice Housing
Minister Qi Ji. More than half of the 10 million affordable
homes started construction by the end of June, the report cited
Qi as saying.  CSR, China’s largest train maker, has lost 12 percent since
the rail crash on July 23. In the rail disaster, a bullet train
that had broken down after being struck by lightning was rear-
ended by another locomotive. The crash killed at least 39 people
and prompted the government to order a two-month inspection of
rail safety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  