-- 
China Pacific Insurance Shares Fall Most in Year on Carlyle Sale

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-07-27T04:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/china-pacific-shares-fall-on-carlyle-sale.html
China Pacific Insurance Group Co.
fell the most in a year in  Hong Kong  trading as  Carlyle Group 
sells about $1 billion of its holdings in the insurer in the
third such sale since December.  Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest buyout firm, is
offering 250 million Hong Kong-listed shares at HK$30.90 to
HK$31.40 each, a discount of at least 1.7 percent to yesterday’s
close, according to terms of the deal, which were obtained by
Bloomberg News. The stock of China’s third-biggest insurer fell
as much as 5.5 percent, the most since May 25, 2010, and was
down 4.1 percent at HK$30.65 in Hong Kong trading at the break.  Washington-based Carlyle led the group that agreed almost
five years ago to take a 25 percent stake in  China  Pacific Life
Insurance Co., a unit of Pacific Insurance, for 3.3 billion yuan
($510 million). The investment was converted into a stake in the
parent company in 2007, and then into Pacific Insurance’s Hong
Kong-listed shares in 2009 as the insurer sold stock in the
city.  “If there’s no lockup on the remaining shares, concerns
about a further selldown would persist for the near term,” said
Nan Sheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB Kayhian Investment
Co., citing increased supply of the stock. “The impact on
investors’ confidence in the insurer shouldn’t be particularly
big as people knew that as a financial investor the private-
equity firm will exit eventually.”  Carlyle Reward  Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are managing the share sale, two people with knowledge
of the matter said. Dorothy Lee, a spokeswoman for Carlyle in
Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Carlyle sold 215.8 million of the insurer’s Hong Kong
shares at HK$31.50 each on Dec. 30 and 415.2 million of the
shares in January at HK$33.45 apiece, fetching about HK$20.7
billion ($2.7 billion). The sales enabled Carlyle to reward its
investors with a sixfold profit, according to an estimate then
by Ivan Cheung, head of regional insurance at Mirae Asset
Securities H.K. Ltd.  Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, used the opportunity
to boost its “long-term investment” in Pacific Insurance to
2.8 percent, Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann said in
January.  Carlyle had owned about 12 percent of the Hong Kong shares
as of Jan. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, raised $3.63 billion selling almost a tenth of its
stake in China Construction Bank Corp. and about half of its
shares in Bank of China Ltd. on July 5. That was hours after
Moody’s Investor Service said the credit outlook for Chinese
lenders may sour, and sparked a more than 3 percent drop in the
two lenders’ Hong Kong shares the next day.  The Shanghai-based insurer said life insurance premiums
amounted to 54.6 billion yuan during the first half, with
property insurance premiums at 32.2 billion yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  