-- 
China’s Shipping Companies Lobby to Foil Vale’s Iron Ore Fleet Expansion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-28T04:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/china-s-shipping-companies-lobby-to-foil-vale-s-iron-ore-fleet.html
China ’s largest shipping companies
are lobbying the government to foil  Vale SA (VALE3) ’s plan to build a
$2.3 billion fleet of the world’s biggest  iron ore  carriers that
will haul the steelmaking material to the nation.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, should engage
the shipping companies to run the fleet, Zhang Shouguo,
executive vice chairman of the  China Shipowners Association ,
said in a telephone interview. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale is
building 19 of the 400,000-ton vessels and will control another
16 under long-term contracts, aiming to stabilize freight costs
and iron ore prices.  “Let the shipping industry do the transport thing,” said
Zhang, who was a former deputy director of the water transport
division of China’s Ministry of Transport. “Vale is seeking to
control the freight market as it has done with iron ore
prices.”  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity transportation
costs, slid for a 14th day yesterday in  London  because of a glut
of iron ore carriers competing to transport the steelmaking
ingredient. Iron ore prices have more than tripled in the past
three years and reached a record $191.90 a ton in February,
according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Vale Brasil, the first in the fleet, will “undoubtedly”
go to China whenever Vale needs to send iron ore to its biggest
customer, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said July 19.
The vessel was diverted from its original destination in China
to  Italy  on its maiden voyage because of draft restrictions at
the port and a request from a European iron ore customer.  Vale fell 0.7 percent, the most in two weeks, to 45.85
reais yesterday in Sao Paulo trading. The stock has fallen 5.5
percent this year.  The company is spending $8.1 billion on the fleet including
$5.8 billion for a 25-year transportation contract with STX Pan
Ocean Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest bulk-shipping company, for
seven more. Vale also needs to pay fuel costs for the ships it
owns.  No Approval  Chinese regulators haven’t approved any of its ports to
increase accommodation capability to more than 300,000 dead-
weight tons for dry bulk carriers because of safety and
environmental concerns, Zhang said.  “Many shipping companies may incur losses because of the
monopoly on the route,” he said. “We’ve made it clear to the
government that we object to the major cargo owners building
their own fleets.”  The association, which represents 85 percent of China’s
total shipping capacity, is trying to seek cooperative shipping
contracts with Vale, Zhang said, without elaborating. Should the
need arise, it may also ask the government to investigate
whether Vale breached the Chinese regulations against market
manipulation or monopoly, he said.  A Vale official in  Rio de Janeiro , declining to be named
according to corporate policies, said the company won’t comment.  Valemax Fleet  The global fleet of bulk carriers will expand 13 percent
this year, according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit
of the world’s largest shipbroker. That compares with the 4
percent growth it forecasts for shipping commodities by sea.  The so-called Valemax vessels, which are triple the length
of a football field, are scheduled to join the fleet by the end
of 2013, Vale said this month. The second ship, Vale China, will
start operating within two months, Ferreira said.  Chinese ports of Dalian, Dongjiakou and Majishan have the
capacity to receive the carriers that are able to haul 400,000
ton cargoes, Vale said June 21. China’s Ministry of Transport
didn’t answer questions sent by Bloomberg via fax.  The cost of shipping iron ore from Tubarao in  Brazil  to
China’s Qingdao port, the main destination for dry bulk
shipments, has fallen 82 percent to $19.454 a ton from a record
of $108.746 on June 4, 2008.  Iron-ore Prices  Vale,  Rio Tinto  Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
three-largest iron ore producers, abandoned a 40-year custom of
annual pricing last year in favor of quarterly agreements as
spot iron ore prices rose. Steelmakers had called for regulators
to investigate an “oligopoly” among the iron ore exporters
that inflated prices.  Vale wants to increase sales in  Asia  as it competes with
BHP and Rio Tinto for clients in China,  Japan  and other
countries in the region. BHP and Rio Tinto ship most of their
ore from ports in  Australia . Brazil, where Vale produces the
bulk of its supplies, is three times further from Asian markets
than Australia.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  