-- 
China’s 29% Jump in Industrial Profit to Spur Growth by Fueling Investment

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T02:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/china-s-29-jump-in-industrial-profit-to-spur-growth-by-fueling-investment.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits grew at a faster pace even after the government raised
 interest rates  and tightened credit to counter inflation.  Net income climbed 28.7 percent in the first six months to
2.41 trillion yuan ($374 billion) from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. That compares with a
27.9 percent gain in January through May.  Climbing profits for companies such as Anhui Conch Cement
Co., the nation’s biggest cement producer, fuel investment that
is underpinning the expansion of the fastest-growing major
economy. The International Monetary Fund forecasts that gross
domestic product will rise 9.6 percent this year, also bolstered
by a government plan to build millions of low-cost homes.  Profit growth will “stay high in the second half,” said
Wang Jun, a researcher at the  China  Center for International
Economic Exchange, a government-backed research agency. “A sharp
slowdown in economic growth is unlikely in the near term”, Wang
said before today’s release.  Gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent in the second
quarter, the least in almost two years. Nouriel Roubini, the co-
founder and chairman of New York-based Roubini Global Economics
LLC, said yesterday in  Shanghai  that a hard landing for China is
a “very low probability” in the short term. He has more
concerns about the outlook after 2013.  Monetary Tightening  The bureau’s data covers companies with annual sales of at
least 20 million yuan in 39 industries, including oil and gas
exploration, chemical engineering, transportation equipment
manufacturing, telecommunications, and power generation.  China has raised rates five times since mid-October and
pushed bank reserve requirements to a record, leading small and
medium-sized businesses to report a funding squeeze. Signs of an
economic slowdown include a possible contraction in
manufacturing this month, indicated by the preliminary reading
for a purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics.  Anhui Conch Cement said July 14 that six-month profit
likely jumped more than 200 percent on higher prices. In
contrast, power producer Shenzhen Energy Group Co. reported a
decline on rising fuel costs.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  