-- 
China Says First Aircraft Carrier for Research, Training

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-28T02:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/china-says-aircraft-carrier-for-research-training-after-refit.html
China  said a Soviet-era aircraft
carrier it has been refitting will be used for scientific
research and training, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing the  Defense Ministry .  It was the first time China has officially confirmed it’s
pursuing a carrier program, Xinhua said. Geng Yansheng, a
ministry spokesman, spoke at a press conference in Beijing, it
reported. The country is building two carriers at the Jiangnan
shipyard in  Shanghai , Reuters said separately, citing an
unidentified person with ties to the Communist Party leadership.  Chinese leaders have talked for decades of plans to acquire
what they call “aircraft mother ships” as part of their
military modernization. Such a fleet would expand China’s power
in the region at a time of growing concern that territorial
disputes with Asian neighbors including  Japan ,  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines  may boil over into conflict.  “The warship has no problem with sailing since it has been
docked in the sea, and the time for its maiden experimental
voyage depends on the schedule of the refit,” Senior Colonel
Geng said yesterday, according to Xinhua. “As an important part
of the whole research and training program, training for
carrier-borne aircraft pilots is also in progress.”  No Comment  A person answering the phone at Jiangnan Shipyard Group
Co.’s general office declined to comment and refused to transfer
the call to Nan Daqing, the shipyard’s general manager. An
official who answered the phone at the information office of the
Ministry of National Defense declined to comment on the Reuters
report. He also wouldn’t give his name.  China’s reconstruction of the Soviet-era carrier, while not
a concern to the U.S., is raising alarms in the region as a
symbol of the Asian nation’s military expansion, U.S. Navy
Admiral Robert Willard said in April.  Xinhua posted photos of the carrier, the Varyag, on a
website in the same month, according to the New York Times. In a
photo caption, Xinhua cited the military analysis magazine Kanwa
Asian Defense Review in  Canada  as saying the ship will set sail
this year, the Times reported.  No Strategic Change  Geng said yesterday that the pursuit of an aircraft carrier
program won’t change the Chinese navy’s strategy of inshore
defense, Xinhua said. Rebuilding the carrier is a long-term
project and it will take time before it is operational, he said.  The refurbished ship may serve as a test-and-evaluation
platform, Willard told the  Senate Armed Services Committee  in
April. There must be “a long period of training and development
and eventual exercising preceding any operational capability,”
Willard told the committee.  The U.S., which has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since
World War II, has defense treaties with Japan,  South Korea , the
Philippines and  Thailand , and guarantees  Taiwan ’s security.
China has bolstered its forces over the past decade, procuring
nuclear-powered submarines and developing an aircraft carrier,
according to a U.S. Defense Department report in August.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week warned
that escalating tensions in the South China Sea risk disrupting
sea routes she said were vital to international trade.  Two Chinese Su-27 fighter jets crossed the unofficial
centerline of the Taiwan Strait briefly on June 29 during a
routine training mission, Taiwan’s Ministry of National Defense
said in a statement July 26. It said the act wasn’t considered a
“deliberate provocation.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 Ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  