-- 
Chinese Prosecutors to Investigate Rail Crash

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T11:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/chinese-prosecutors-to-investigate-high-speed-railway-crash-1-.html
China ’s top criminal prosecutor has
dispatched investigators to help probe the high-speed train
crash that killed at least 39 people and has already led to the
firing of three government officials.  The official Xinhua News Agency reported the  Supreme
People’s Procuratorate’s  decision to send the team today, citing
an unidentified official at the agency. China’s State Council,
the nation’s cabinet, had earlier established its own group to
probe the crash, Xinhua reported.  Pictures of the accident that left a derailed train car
dangling from a bridge above three others that had crashed to
the ground have been splashed across domestic newspapers and
television broadcasts, prompting widespread criticism of railway
safety standards. China in February removed Liu Zhijun, an
advocate of high-speed rail, as railway minister and began
investigating him for bribe-taking, Xinhua reported at the time.  The State Council today also called for safety checks to be
conducted on railways, coal mines, construction sites, the
hazardous chemicals industry, roads and bridges. The high-speed
rail crash and other accidents this month, including a fire on a
bus that killed 41 people and a bridge that collapsed in  Fujian
province , showed loopholes in safety management and a lack of
responsibility by some local governments, it said.  The Supreme People’s Procuratorate is  responsible for 
investigating crimes including negligence of public duty,
embezzlement and bribery, according to the Chinese government’s
website. It reports to China’s legislature, the National
People’s Congress.  The agency has led probes into the role of government
officials in food-safety scandals and in other accidents,
including a 2009 explosion at a coal mine in Heilongjiang
province that killed more than 100 people.  Senior Leaders  Senior Chinese leaders including President  Hu Jintao  and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for “all-out” efforts to rescue
passengers shortly after the accident on July 23 in the eastern
province of Zhejiang. Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang visited injured
passengers at three hospitals in the city of Wenzhou a day after
the crash, according to Xinhua.  After the accident, Long Jing was fired as head of the
Shanghai Railway Bureau, along with deputy chief He Shengli and
Li Jia, head of the bureau’s Communist Party committee, Xinhua
reported, citing the rail ministry. The Shanghai bureau oversees
rail operations in the area of the crash.  Authorities set compensation for victims killed at 500,000
yuan ($77,600) each, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified official.  A July 25 editorial in the  China Daily  called for the rail
ministry to learn the lessons that passengers “taught with
their blood.” The Shanghai Business Daily in a July 26
editorial called for reforms at the ministry.  The Global Times in a  July 26 editorial  compared the rapid
construction of high-speed railways to the so-called “Great
Leap Forward” policy of the 1950s and called for shifting
China’s focus from the speed to the quality of development.  -- John Liu . With assistance from Charles Li in Beijing. Editors:
Ben Richardson,  Mark Williams   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
John Liu in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7565 or  jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at   gturk2@bloomberg.net  