-- 
Citigroup Says $430 Million Madoff Lawsuit Isn’t ‘Plausible’

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T18:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/citigroup-asks-bankruptcy-judge-to-reject-430-million-madoff-trustee-suit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , sued by the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm to recover $430 million pulled
from the Ponzi scheme before it collapsed, asked a bankruptcy
judge to throw out the lawsuit.  The trustee doesn’t allege and can’t claim that Citigroup
had “actual knowledge” of Madoff’s insolvency or that any
money received was taken with a “fraudulent purpose,” the New
York-based bank said in a filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Manhattan. The bank also rejected the trustee’s
assertion that it should have detected the fraud at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  “The trustee offers no plausible reason why financial
institutions such as the Citi defendants would place hundreds of
millions of dollars with a feeder fund to a Ponzi scheme so as
to obtain fees,” Citigroup said in the filing. “The only
plausible explanation is that the Citi defendants, like many
others, were deceived by Madoff’s fraud and lost millions as a
result.”  The trustee,  Irving Picard , is demanding the return of
transfers of $430 million to Citigroup from two feeder funds
that invested with Madoff, the Rye Select Broad Market Prime
Fund LP and Fairfield Sentry Ltd. He said in a complaint
unsealed in February that a Citigroup executive “concluded” by
June 2007 that returns reported by Fairfield Sentry couldn’t
have come from the publicized trading strategy.  Whistleblower  The executive reached his conclusion after meeting with
 Harry Markopolos , an analyst and whistleblower who also alerted
U.S. regulators to the fraud, Picard said. Madoff was arrested
in December 2008.  “The trustee largely relies on the combination of widely
known but innocuous information about BLMIS, along with obscure
economic discrepancies developed by the trustee and his experts
over the past two years,” Citigroup said in the filing.  The bank’s transactions with the feeder funds consisted of
a margin loan to the Prime fund that was repaid in March 2008,
and a swap and securities sale with Fairfield Sentry, Citigroup
said. Those transactions are protected by so-called safe-harbor
laws, designed to uphold securities contracts, and can’t be
undone, it said.  Around March 2008, Citigroup had “red flag information”
that Madoff was making fraudulent transfers from an unidentified
employee whose previous firm had blacklisted Madoff-related
investments, Picard said in the lawsuit.  Unwinding Trades  Soon after, the bank’s Citibank unit began to unwind its
Madoff trades and rid itself of its remaining Madoff exposure,
he said.  “The complaint is devoid of any well-pleaded factual
allegations that Citibank’s decision, reached in the late winter
or early spring of 2008, was motivated by concerns that BLMIS
was insolvent or engaged in a  Ponzi scheme ,” the bank said in
its filing.  Picard deemed it a sign of “bad faith” that Citigroup met
with Madoff in 2006, the bank said.  “In multiple other complaints, the trustee alleges the
exact opposite -- that it was Madoff’s refusal to meet with a
transferee that was a ‘red flag’ indicative of fraud,”
Citigroup said.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said Citigroup’s
move to dismiss the suit was expected and the trustee would
respond “at the appropriate time.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined
to comment beyond yesterday’s filing.  Kingate Global  Separately, Picard has named an affiliate of the bank, Citi
Hedge Fund Services Ltd. of Bermuda, in a $975 million suit
against feeder fund Kingate Global Fund Ltd., saying it took
fees of more than $4 million from Kingate.  While Citigroup is fighting Picard in  bankruptcy court , at
least four banks have taken their Madoff cases to district
court. U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan is
handling Picard’s $19 billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and claims of $2.6 billion against  UBS AG. (UBSN)   U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff is handling Picard’s
$9 billion suit against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds, and
a $59 billion suit against UniCredit SpA, Bank Medici AG, its
founder, Sonja Kohn, and dozens of Italian and Austrian parties.  Madoff, whose Ponzi scheme cost investors about $19 billion
in principal, is serving a 150-year prison sentence in Butner,
North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Citibank, 10-05345, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  