-- 
Clariant Drops the Most in 3 1/2 Years on Profit Miss

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T14:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/clariant-drops-most-in-five-months-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
(Corrects to say the drop is the most in 3 1/2 years in
first paragraph.)  Clariant AG (CLN)  dropped the most in more
than 3 1/2 years in Zurich trading after the Swiss chemical
maker reported second-quarter profit that missed analyst
estimates.  Clariant plunged as much as 16 percent to 13.00 Swiss
francs, its biggest decline since November 2007. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization declined 9.5
percent to 241 million francs ($301 million). JPMorgan analysts
predicted 293 million francs.  The purchase of German catalysts maker Sued-Chemie for $1.5
billion in April failed to offset a stronger franc and a 14
percent jump in raw-material costs. Chief Executive Officer
Hariolf Kottmann said today an efficiency drive that’s
transferring production of paper and textile chemicals from
 Switzerland  to Spain and  Asia  is almost one year ahead of
schedule.  “With the group digesting the Sued-Chemie acquisition, this
reversal in profitability is unwelcome, though assuming the
currency position deteriorates no further it remains
manageable,” RBS analyst Jonathan White said in a note.  The Muttenz, Switzerland-based chemical maker was trading
at 13.17 francs as of 4:30 p.m., down 14 percent. The company
has lost 30 percent this year, cutting its market value to 3.9
billion francs.  Clariant has raised selling prices by about 7 percent,
enough to cover higher raw-material costs this year, Kottmann
said. The CEO is pursuing a price-over-volume strategy to
improve profitability rather than squeeze the company for short-
term gain, he said in an interview.  Signs of Slowdown  The company is seeing the first signs of a slowdown in
demand in some businesses, with the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe  and a slow economic recovery in the U.S. leading to
“market caution,” it said.  The CEO is in the midst of a strategic review following the
purchase of Sued-Chemie, analyzing units for their growth
potential. While textile and paper-chemical businesses are
underperforming now, the restructuring moves will help transform
these units into “new revenue drivers,” Kottmann said in an
interview.  Clariant is still gauging what position it should have in
surfactants, which is linked to intermediate chemicals, he said.  “You have to distinguish between business units that
perform well and business units that don’t do well,” Kottmann
said. “We are evaluating what we have at the moment. We need
the entire year before coming to a conclusion.”  Clariant has also pursued bolt-on acquisitions, purchasing
Octagon Process in March to add chemicals used in the  aerospace
industry  and Prairie Petro-Chem in April to expand in oil
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 