-- 
Colombia’s Sura Drops as S&P Says ING Asset Purchase May Spark Cut to Junk

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-27T20:09:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/colombia-s-sura-slides-as-s-p-says-ing-asset-purchase-may-spark-downgrade.html
Colombia ’s Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana fell the most in a month after  Standard & Poor’s 
said it may cut the company’s ratings to junk after it agreed to
pay $3.9 billion for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Latin American assets.  Grupo Sura, as the Medellin-based company is known, fell
2.2 percent to 35,400 pesos at 4:02 p.m. New York time. It
earlier plunged as much as 5.4 percent, the most since June 13.  Sura, whose Bancolombia unit is the country’s largest bank,
agreed this week to pay about 2.7 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
for most of the Latin American insurance operations of ING
Groep.  “There is still some uncertainty as to where they’re going
to get all the resources,” said Mauricio Restrepo del Toro,
analyst at brokerage Bolsa y Renta. “They plan to issue shares,
plus funds they already have, and the rest may be debt.”  Bancolombia plans to sell as much as 800 billion pesos of
bonds, the company said yesterday in a filing to the Colombian
stock exchange.  S&P put ratings of Sura, including the BBB- global scale
corporate credit rating and the BBB- senior unsecured debt
rating, on CreditWatch “with negative implications,” the
ratings company said in a statement.  S&P said “the incremental indebtedness” from the planned
acquisition could weaken the company’s credit profile. BBB- is
S&P’s lowest investment-grade rating.  The sale includes ING’s pensions, life insurance and
investment management operations in  Chile , Colombia,  Mexico ,
Uruguay and  Peru .  Bridge Loan  Sura will pay ING about 2.62 billion euros in cash and
assume 65 million euros in debt, according to an ING statement
July 25. The company plans to use a bridge loan from six
international banks in the transaction, Andres Bernal, Sura’s
Vice-President of investment said yesterday, without giving
further details.  The company’s shareholders approved plans to offer as many
as 131 million preferred shares and allow for conversion of up
to 10 percent of existing common shares into preferred shares,
according to a regulatory filing last month.  Sura will gain more than 10 million customers and 49
billion euros of assets under management from the transaction,
which the companies expect to close at the end of this year. S&P
said it will “resolve” the CreditWatch once the transaction
takes place.  A Sura spokeswoman did not immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  