-- 
Conoco Profit Exceeds Analysts’ Estimates as Crude Rises

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-07-27T20:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/conocophillips-profit-declines-after-year-earlier-gain-on-sales-of-assets.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the U.S. oil company
that plans to spin off its refining business in 2012, reported
lower second-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’
expectations as higher crude prices and refining margins helped
compensate for shrinking production.  Net income fell to $3.4 billion, or $2.41 a share, from
$4.16 billion, or $2.77, a year earlier, when asset sales
boosted earnings, Houston-based ConocoPhillips said today in a
statement. Per-share profit, adjusted for one-time gains or
losses, was 20 cents more than the average of 20 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings from producing oil and gas climbed 72 percent,
excluding one-time items, from a year earlier to $2.5 billion in
the second quarter. Daily output of oil and natural gas fell 5.4
percent, largely because of an asset-sale program announced in
2009. Oil futures in  New York  averaged $102.34 a barrel in the
second quarter, 31 percent higher than the $78.05 a barrel a
year earlier.  “The robust crude-oil pricing environment certainly helped
the E&P (exploration and production) side of the house and the
improved refining margins also helped,” said  Gianna Bern ,
president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in  Chicago .  Refining Spinoff  The company said July 14 that it plans to separate its
refining and marketing holdings into a new publicly traded
company in the first half of next year. Conoco said that
segment’s earnings, excluding one-time costs and gains, rose to
$740 million from $720 million.  “The jury will be out as to whether the spinoff ultimately
does add to  shareholder value ,” Bern said.  ConocoPhillips fell 48 cents to $73.13 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares are trading below
the $74.40 closing price on July 13, the day before the company
announced plans for the refining spinoff.  “The reaction that we’ve seen so far doesn’t really
influence any of our views about what we think is going to be
the right long-term answer,” Chief Financial Officer Jeff
Sheets said today in a telephone interview.  ConocoPhillips expects to have sold as much as $17 billion
in assets by the end of 2012, including about $7 billion sold
last year, as it plans continued share repurchases and growth.  Well-Positioned  “ConocoPhillips is operating very well across the board
and they’re positioning the company ahead of the spinoff to be
two strong companies,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
 Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  who has a “buy” rating on
ConocoPhillips shares and doesn’t own any.  ConocoPhillips hasn’t yet decided where some of its assets
will go when the separation occurs, including a chemicals joint
venture with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and a pipeline venture with Spectra
Energy Corp.  Overall revenue in the second quarter climbed 34 percent
from a year earlier to almost $67 billion. The company’s
chemicals earnings, excluding one-time costs and gains, rose 44
percent to $199 million, while pipeline profits more than
doubled to $130 million.  The company has said production of oil and gas isn’t
expected to rise until 2013. Daily output for this year may be
1.63 million to 1.65 million barrels of oil equivalent, Sheets
said today on a conference call with analysts and investors.
That’s less than an earlier forecast of about 1.7 million
barrels a day that didn’t factor in unrest in  Libya  and certain
asset sales.  North American Production  ConocoPhillips said it has shifted production from North
American natural gas to output with higher margins, such as oil-
sands crude and petroleum liquids. The company said it has added
some 340,000 acres this year in developing North American
projects.  ConocoPhillips leads major U.S. oil companies in reporting
second-quarter earnings.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil
company, plans to release results tomorrow, and Chevron Corp.,
the second-biggest company, is scheduled to issue a quarterly
report on July 29.  In addition to asset sales, ConocoPhillips this year
completed the sale of its 20 percent stake in OAO Lukoil, a
Russian oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net .
msg edw 