-- 
United’s Newark Hub Bears Brunt of 24 Cancellations After Pilot Shortages

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-07-27T21:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/continental-airlines-cancels-24-flights-on-sickout.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s
Continental Airlines unit canceled 24 flights today because of
crew shortages, mostly from the carrier’s hub at  New Jersey ’s
 Newark airport .  A so-called sickout occurred among pilots, news website
Click2Houston.com reported.  Megan McCarthy , a United Continental
spokeswoman, confirmed the shortage, flight totals and locations
by telephone while saying the airline wasn’t speculating on the
cause of the absences.  Continental’s chapter of the  Air Line Pilots Association 
union has said that it has a shortfall of at least 200 pilots,
and that its members had to fly extra trips to cover the
schedule. A union spokeswoman, Amy Flanagan, declined to comment
on the flight cancellations.  United Continental was formed when UAL Corp.’s United and
Continental Airlines Inc. merged in October, forming the world’s
largest carrier. The Chicago-based company’s airlines must
operate separately until they receive a joint certificate later
this year from the  Federal Aviation Administration .  A July 14 agreement between United Continental and unions
for the separate subsidiaries cleared the way for offering 201
pilot vacancies at Continental, which was based in Houston
before the merger, to furloughed United pilots. The pilots would
start training in September and wouldn’t begin flying until
year’s end, Continental’s union chapter said at the time.  United and Continental together fly more than 5,700 flights
a day and have about 9,900 pilots among their 86,000 employees.  Pilot Sickouts  Pilot sickouts can result in court orders prohibiting
employees from taking those actions.  United won an appeals court ruling in March 2009 barring
pilots from a work slowdown that led to 329 canceled flights
over two months. The United pilots union testified that an
increased number of sick calls during that period was “purely a
coincidence” and wasn’t a coordinated effort.  In February 1999, American Airlines pilots called in sick
over 11 days to protest plans to add pilots from Reno Air Inc.
to their seniority list. American was forced to cancel 6,600
flights, costing parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  $250 million and snarling U.S.
air traffic. A federal judge later ordered the  Allied Pilots
Association  to pay American $45.5 million in damages.  United fell 70 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $18.06 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have tumbled 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  