-- 
Container-Ship Plunge Signals U.S. Slowdown

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-28T09:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/container-vessel-rates-plunge-signaling-slowdown-in-u-s-freight-markets.html
Plunging rates for chartering
container vessels that carry sneakers, furniture and flat-screen
TVs may signal a U.S. consumer slowdown and losses for shipping
lines in what is traditionally their busiest time of the year.  Fees for hiring vessels have fallen 9.3 percent since the
end of April, according to the Howe Robinson Container Index,
which tracks charter rates for a range of vessels. Last year,
the index surged 56 percent in the period, as lines added ships
on demand from U.S. and European retailers restocking for the
back-to-school and holiday shopping periods.  “The troubling part is that charter rates are falling in
the peak season,” said  Johnson Leung , head of regional
transport at Jefferies Group Inc. in Hong Kong. “Sentiment
among consumers and retailers isn’t very strong.”  Lines including Hanjin Shipping Co.,  Orient Overseas
(International) Ltd.  and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. have also
delayed the introduction of peak-season surcharges on Asia-U.S.
routes by about two months as U.S. unemployment above 9 percent
and slowing sales of new homes damp demand. Combined inbound
container traffic at  Los Angeles  and  Long Beach , the two busiest
U.S. ports, dropped 4.6 percent last month, the first decline
since January 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Dire’ Situation  “The delay in imposing peak-season surcharges shows how
dire the situation is,” said Um Kyung A, a Shinyoung Securities
Co. analyst in  Seoul , who cut her rating on Korean shipping
lines to “neutral” from “overweight” yesterday. “The  U.S.
economy  isn’t recovering fast enough to help increase demand.”  China Shipping Container Lines Co., the nation’s second-
biggest cargo-box carrier, fell 6.9 percent, the biggest drop in
almost two years, to close at HK$2.17 in Hong Kong. China Cosco
Holdings Co., the nation’s largest, declined 3.7 percent to
HK$5.50. Hanjin Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s largest container
shipping company, dropped 4.3 percent, the steepest drop in more
than two weeks, in Seoul.  U.S. orders for durable goods unexpectedly dropped 2.1
percent in June, the Commerce Department said yesterday, as
companies lost confidence in the strength of the recovery.  The cost of shipping 40-foot containers to the U.S. West
Coast from  China  has slumped 42 percent over the past year to
about $1,600 per box, according to data from Clarkson Securities
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker. Derivatives show
the price won’t exceed $1,962 before the end of next year.  Shorter Periods  Concerns about the sustainability of economic growth are
also contributing to container lines renting ships for shorter
periods. Average charter lengths have declined to seven months
from 10 months at the beginning of the year, according to
 Alphaliner .  U.S. retailers have slowed imports after inventories
reached the highest since January 2009 in May, according to
Commerce Department data. Their container shipments likely
declined 0.8 percent from a year earlier in June, and they will
probably drop 1.3 percent this month before rising 0.6 percent
in August, according to the Washington-based  National Retail
Federation .  Shipping lines are also contending with fuel costs that
have jumped 53 percent in a year in Singapore trading, alongside
a rise in  oil prices , and an expanding global fleet. There were
5,056  container ships  afloat at the start of July, compared with
4,968 at the start of January, according to shipbroker Clarkson
Plc. Total capacity increased 5 percent in the period to 14.89
million boxes.  First-Half Loss  Rising fuel costs and declining rates mean that China
Shipping will likely report a first-half loss, it said yesterday.
Hong Kong-based  Orient Overseas  last week said the full-year
outlook was “disappointing.”  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) ,  Japan ’s third-biggest shipping
line, has also made losses on some container routes, President
Jiro Asakura said in an interview last month.  “Container rates have fallen slightly short of our
expectations,” he said. The shipping line has plunged 30
percent in a year in Tokyo trading. In  Hong Kong , Orient
Overseas has slumped 25 percent and China Shipping Container has
tumbled 24 percent.  Lines including K-Line, Orient Overseas, Mitsui O.S.K. and
Hanjin Shipping are seeking to impose peak-season levies of $400
per 40-foot containers for shipments to the U.S. west coast from
 Asia , beginning on Aug. 15. Surcharges of that size were
expected to be introduced June 15, according to a  statement  last
year from the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement. The group,
comprising 15 lines, has limited antitrust protection, which
enables it to advise on rates and surcharges.  Retail Inventories  Freight rates may rise later in the year as U.S. retail
inventories are still low by historic standards. May stockpiles
were 7 percent down from three years earlier. That could help
cause retail container imports to jump more than 10 percent from
last year in September, October and November, according to the
 National Retail Federation .  Retailers have pared stock levels as they “are so fearful
of getting stuck with inventory” after losses during the 2009
slump, said Barclays Capital analyst Jon Windham. “That means
more people will be trying to stuff in cargo later in the
year.”  Shipping lines have also cut services in a bid to boost
rates. Mitsui O.S.K. and partners APL Ltd. and Hyundai Merchant
Marine Co. suspended an Asia-U.S service earlier this month.
Compania Sudamericana de Vapores S.A. has also halted a similar
route. A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S, Mediterranean Shipping Co. and
CMA CGM, the world’s three largest container lines, also delayed
the start of a joint Asia-U.S. service to next year from May,
according to Alphaliner.  Expanding Fleet  Overall, shipping lines have cut Asia-Europe capacity by
3.5 percent and trans-Pacific space by 3.9 percent, according to
Um. The size of the laid-up container fleet may also more than
double to a capacity of about 400,000 20-foot containers by the
end of this year from 120,000 boxes, according to Alphaliner.  Still, with the overall fleet expanding as new ships enter
service, that may not be enough to revive earnings, Um said.  “Any hope of a rebound in the container-shipping industry
has been pretty much washed away for this year,” she said.
“Demand hasn’t improved much, while capacity and fuel costs
have jumped at a much faster pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 