-- 
Corn Rises on Concern That Heat Damaged U.S. Crop; Soybean Futures Decline

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T19:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/corn-soybeans-fall-in-chicago-as-midwest-rain-may-boost-developing-crops.html
Corn rose to a one-week high on
speculation that hot, dry weather has caused irreversible damage
to the crop in the U.S., the world’s biggest producer and
exporter. Soybeans fell for the second time in three days.  Temperatures will be about 8 degrees Fahrenheit above
normal the next week in the Midwest and South, increasing stress
on crops, according to  T-Storm Weather . For most of the Midwest,
average overnight lows in July will be the highest since the
1930s, the  Commodity Weather Group LLC  said in a report.  “We have heat coming back into the Midwest, and that will
hurt crops that lack adequate moisture,” Jeff Beal, a market
analyst for Rockford, Illinois-based Gulke Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “While the hottest and driest conditions
are staying south of the biggest growing areas, the high
nighttime temperatures probably already hurt yields.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 4.75 cents, or 0.7
percent, to close at $6.915 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $6.93, the highest
since July 20. The most-active contract has gained 83 percent in
the past year amid declining global supplies.  World inventories before the start of the Northern
Hemisphere harvests are projected to fall 16 percent to 120.88
million metric tons from a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said earlier this month.  “There’s just no supply margin for U.S. crop losses,”
Beal said.  Soybeans fell on speculation that plants can withstand the
heat and dryness better than corn, Beal said. Rains in August
may offset hot temperatures and boost yields, he said.  Soybean futures for November delivery dropped 8.25 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to $13.805 a bushel on the CBOT. The oilseed
gained 43 percent from a year ago on record Chinese demand for
U.S. supplies.  Corn is the top U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in 2010,
followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  