-- 
Corn Drops as Rainfall in U.S., China Eases Concerns on Crop Yield Losses

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-27T09:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/corn-declines-as-rains-in-u-s-china-ease-concerns-on-crop-yield-losses.html
Corn declined as rain and cooler
weather in growing areas of the U.S. eased concerns about yield
losses. Wheat retreated after  Egypt  said it bought Russian
grain.  Rains in the U.S. northern and southern plains and North
China may favor development of corn and soybean crops, Telvent
DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. As much as 1.25 inches of
rain is expected through today in parts of Iowa, the biggest
producer of corn and soybeans, according to Accuweather.com.  “The market will still react to weather” though the crop
will be more resilient to hot weather in July than in August,
Victor Thianpiriya, an agricultural commodity analyst at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said by phone from
 Melbourne . Inadequate rains in Illinois, the second-biggest U.S.
grower, will “keep the market a little bit on the edge.”  December delivery corn fell 3.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$6.8325 a bushel at 10:14 a.m. London time on the  Chicago  Board
of Trade. Soybeans for November delivery were little changed at
$13.9025 a bushel in Chicago.  Wheat fell after Egypt, the world’s biggest importer of the
grain, shunned U.S. and European Union supplies in favor of
Russian grain. The North African country yesterday agreed to
purchase 120,000 metric tons of Russian milling wheat, said
Nomani Nomani, vice chairman of the state-run  General Authority 
for Supply Commodities.  “Egypt is going to continue to buy wheat from Russia, not
from the U.S. or the EU,” said Izabela Dabrowska, a senior
agricultural markets analyst at Warsaw-based BGZ Bank. “For
sure it affects the sentiments on the market.”  Wheat for September delivery retreated as much as 0.5
percent to $6.9075 a bushel, before trading at $6.9325. Milling
wheat for November delivery fell 0.4 percent to 193.50 euros
($280.50) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  