-- 
Creative Diplomacy Puts U.S. on Side of Syria’s Protesters: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-27T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/creative-diplomacy-puts-u-s-on-side-of-syria-s-protesters-view.html
Syrian human rights activists told
Bloomberg News that on July 22 more than 1 million Syrians took
to the street, defying the government’s stepped-up security
measures, to demand an end to the dictatorship of President
Bashar al-Assad.  With demonstrations growing, and no stronger options
possible, the U.S. and its Western allies should use creative
diplomacy to support Syrians seeking democratic change.  The uprising in  Syria  presents supporters of the Arab
Spring with a dilemma. Protesters seeking to end the Assad
family’s rule pour into the streets day after day. They are met
with brutality by the government’s security forces. About 1,900
unarmed demonstrators have been killed, and 12,000 arrested
according to Syrian human rights activists. Assad seems willing
to destroy his country in order to save his regime. Although
Western governments sympathize with the demonstrators, they have
done little in response to the crackdown.  The painful truth is that the U.S. and its allies have few
ways to coerce Assad into wholesale reform of Syria’s political
system. Russia and  China  would probably block any move in the
 United Nations Security Council  to enact economic sanctions.
With  NATO  engaged in Afghanistan and  Libya , no realistic
military option exists. What remain are symbolism and creative
diplomacy. Although symbolism will not force Assad to stop
killing his people or force him from power, it can bolster the
Syrian people’s morale and remind the regime that its crimes
have been seen and will not be forgotten.  Diplomatic history suggests that symbolism should not be
underestimated. In 1940, when the  Soviet Union  invaded and
annexed the Baltic states of  Lithuania ,  Latvia  and  Estonia , the
U.S. and its allies faced a similar dilemma. President  Franklin
D. Roosevelt  knew he could not force Moscow to restore Baltic
independence, but at the same time he did not want to acquiesce
to this aggression. He adopted a policy of not recognizing
Soviet control of the Baltic States. The U.S. froze Lithuanian,
Latvian and Estonian assets, and used them to keep open the
original embassies in  Washington . These modest steps had no
effect on the Soviet occupation, but they did show the Baltic
peoples that the U.S. was on their side. When independence was
restored in 1991, the U.S. nonrecognition policy was hailed as a
factor in keeping alive hope that one day the Baltics would be
free.  Back to Syria today. The Obama administration has wisely
resisted pressure from critics to recall Ambassador  Robert Ford 
to Washington. Ford has doggedly reached out to the Syrian
opposition. Although his recall would demonstrate U.S.
disapproval of Assad’s crackdown, it would prevent using him as
a symbol of U.S. support for the Syrian people. To get his
message out, Ford has bypassed the government-controlled news
media, using his  Facebook page  to condemn the government’s
killing of prisoners, expose its lies and endorse what he
describes as “the right of all Syrians -- and people of all
countries -- to express their opinions freely and in a climate
of mutual respect.”  There is no bigger symbol of the Assad family’s brutality
than the city of Hama. Hama has long been an opposition
stronghold. In 1982 Assad’s father killed thousands of civilians
(10,000 according to the government; 40,000 according to human
rights activists) in response to a previous uprising. On July 7,
a few days after government security forces surrounded Hama,
raising the specter of another bloody massacre, Ford and the
French ambassador visited the town to show solidarity with its
residents. Ford’s bearing witness must have hit a nerve. A few
days later, a pro-regime mob attacked the U.S. embassy with
eggs, tomatoes and rocks, demanding that Ford leave the country.  Ford understands his job is to represent the U.S. to the
Syrian people, not to Assad’s government. His public criticisms
of Assad and his visit to Hama have not prevented the government
from continuing to shoot and arrest its opponents. But they
show, as Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, said,
that the U.S. “stands with those who want change in Syria.”  The  U.S. Senate  refused to confirm Ford, taking the
position that the U.S. should not have an ambassador in
Damascus. Obama had to give him a recess appointment, which will
expire at the end of 2012.  The U.S. should leave no doubt that its sympathies are with
Assad’s opponents. Indeed, Ford’s creative diplomacy and bravery
have become symbols of U.S. opposition to Assad. To force Ford
to leave Damascus now would be to do Assad a favor. Confirming
him, on the other hand, would allow him to speak with the
backing of the full U.S. government.  Syria’s future will be determined in the battle of wills
between the demonstrators on the streets and Assad’s security
forces. We recognize that Ford’s creative diplomacy won’t tip
the balance, but we believe it will put the  United States  on the
right side of Syria’s history.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 