-- 
Cyprus President Christofias Will Ask Ministers to Quit After Moody’s Cut

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-07-28T09:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/cyprus-cut-by-moody-s-on-fiscal-concern-banks-greek-debt-2-.html
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias ordered his cabinet to resign as political discord
deepens after a munitions blast wrecked a main power plant and
Moody’s Investors Service cut the government’s credit rating.  Christofias requested and received the resignations of his
government ministers today, spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  told
reporters in Nicosia. The president wants to consult government
parties about the formation of a new administration, which will
happen “soon,” Stefanou said.  Cyprus’s prospects are deteriorating after a blast at a
munitions depot on July 11 knocked out more than half of the
country’s power generation, which Credit Suisse AG estimates may
cost the economy 14 percent of gross domestic product. On top of
that, Moody’s yesterday said there’s a “material risk” that
losses on Greek debt holdings will force the country’s banks to
seek a bailout “over the next few years.”  Cypriot bonds have slumped, pushing their yields close to
the levels on Irish and Portuguese debt. Both countries have
been forced to follow  Greece  in seeking a European Union-led
bailout. The yield on Cyprus’s 10-year bond maturing in February
2020 was at 10.05 percent today from 6.22 percent three months
ago. Yields on similar-maturity Irish and Portuguese bonds are
at 11.16 percent and 10.84 percent, respectively.  Cyprus will not need to ask the EU for help as it has
already covered its financing needs for this year, Stefanou
said.  Crisis Path  Cyprus’s economy, the euro area’s third-smallest, expanded
1 percent last year and the government posted a budget deficit
equivalent to 5.3 percent of GDP. Public debt is expected to
peak at 62 percent of economic output in 2012, compared with
61.6 percent this year and 60.9 percent in 2010, according to
the Ministry of Finance. Outstanding debt at the end of last
year was around 10.6 billion euros ($15.2 billion).  “We are not at a point where Cyprus is the next to join
Greece, Portugal and Ireland,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “Cyprus is
also tiny compared with other stressed peripheral issuers, and
hence it is more of a sentiment issue than something that
materially affects the path of the crisis.”  Garvey said there is “no immediate need for panic” on
Cyprus’s funding needs.  The east Mediterranean island’s president yesterday asked
the ministers in his coalition government of communist AKEL and
center right DIKO to submit their resignations. His request
followed the resignation of the two remaining DIKO ministers in
his government, who were asked to do so by their party chairman
Marios Garoyian hours earlier.  The July 11 explosion at a munitions depot which knocked
out the Vasilikos power plant accounted 53 percent of total
power generation capacity and has amplified fiscal concerns,
Moody’s said. The rating company downgraded Cyprus from A2 to
Baa1, the third notch above non-investment grade.  On July 26, negotiations between the government and the
rest of Cyprus’s political parties on a proposed austerity
package collapsed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  