-- 
Czech Law on Solar Tax May Face Constitutional Court Scrutiny

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-07-27T17:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/czech-law-on-solar-tax-may-face-constitutional-court-scrutiny.html
A law in the  Czech Republic  imposing
a 26 percent income tax on solar energy producers for three
years through 2014 will face a scrutiny by the country’s top
court.  The law, ruled unconstitutional by the Prague Municipal
Court, will probably be examined by all of the Constitutional
Court’s 15 judges, spokeswoman Jana Pelcova said today. She
didn’t specify when a decision may be expected.  Czech lawmakers passed the law at the end of last year in
an effort to curb a sudden surge in solar plant installations
that threatened to raise electricity prices. The municipal court
pronounced the law unconstitutional yesterday on the grounds
that it retroactively levies tax on the state-guaranteed tariff
of 450 euros ($650) per megawatt-hour for solar energy.  A group of Czech senators has filed a similar complaint at
the constitutional court in March. The court hasn’t yet decided
whether it will view the two complaints as a single case,
Pelcova said.  In addition to imposing a retroactive tax on solar plants
hooked to the grid in 2009 and 2010, the law also raised fees
for plants built on agricultural land and slapped a 32 percent
levy on carbon credits awarded to the companies, which reward
environment-friendly technologies. The government aimed to raise
12 billion koruna ($714 million) through those measures.  “Investors’ calculations comparing the situation before
and after the law show that doing business in this field no
longer makes sense,” said Jakub Hajek, a lawyer representing a
group of Czech and foreign solar energy investors which has
publicly backed the complaints.  Solar capacity in the Czech Republic almost quadrupled to
1,820 megawatts last year as investors raced to connect their
plants to the grid by the end of the year in order to qualify
for incentives. Those who didn’t manage to get connected in time
receive a lower price for their electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  