-- 
Daimler’s Forecast Falls Short of BMW Sales Forecast, Volvo Profit Margin

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-07-27T15:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/daimler-quarterly-operating-profit-rises-23-beating-analyst-estimates.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , failed to keep pace with
competitors in the second quarter, projecting slower sales
growth than  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and posting truck
profits that trailed  Volvo AB. (VOLVB)   The maker of Mercedes-Benz vehicles raised its 2011 sales
target by 50,000 cars, lower than BMW’s increase of 100,000
vehicles. Profit margins for the Stuttgart, Germany-based
company’s trucks unit lagged behind Volvo, the world’s second-
biggest truckmaker after Daimler, by 3.1 percentage points.  Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche, who aims to retake
the luxury-car lead, is building a factory in  Hungary  and
expanding plants in China and the U.S. after being overtaken by
Audi for the number-two spot this year. Mercedes has struggled
to produce enough vehicles to match growth by BMW and Audi. More
capacity would have helped boost sales, Zetsche said today.  “Right now, the delta to Daimler’s peers is widening,”
said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a Credit Suisse analyst in  London .
“They have to make sure that changes. That’s why the stock is
underperforming.”  BMW this month increased its 2011 sales forecast to 1.6
million vehicles from 1.5 million, exceeding Mercedes’s 2015
target. Daimler today said deliveries will probably surpass 1.35
million, compared with an earlier forecast of 1.3 million.
Daimler trucks had a second-quarter operating margin of 7.1
percent compared with Volvo’s 10.2 percent.  Shares Drop  Daimler fell 78 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 51.03 euros in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 0.6 percent this year,
valuing the carmaker at 54.4 billion euros ($78.2 billion).
Munich-based BMW has climbed 20 percent in 2011. Volkswagen,
Audi’s parent, has risen 19 percent.  Daimler’s second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
rose 23 percent to 2.58 billion euros. Net income jumped 30
percent to a record 1.7 billion euros as sales gained 5 percent
to 26.3 billion euros.  “The very good earnings trend is primarily a reflection of
increased vehicle shipments by nearly all divisions,” CEO
Zetsche said. “We now assume that group Ebit will develop more
positively than we previously expected and will very
significantly exceed” last year’s 7.2 billion euros.  A rise of more than 10 percent would be “a good guess,”
he said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  BMW Forecast  BMW, the world’s No. 1 maker of luxury cars, on July 12
projected automotive earnings before interest and taxes of more
than 10 percent of revenue in 2011. Daimler’s Mercedes car unit
had a second-quarter profit margin of a record 10.7 percent,
boosted by higher sales of sport-utility vehicles. BMW, which
reports second-quarter figures on August 2, posted a first-
quarter return on sales of 11.9 percent.  “BMW will be materially better than Mercedes” in the
second quarter, said Ellinghorst, who rates BMW as
“outperform” and Daimler as “neutral.”  Mercedes-Benz brand deliveries in the first-half advanced
9.7 percent to a 611,000 autos. BMW brand sales rose 18 percent
to 690,000 autos, while Audi advanced 18 percent to 653,000.
Backed by a new line of compact cars, Mercedes aims to overtake
rivals in sales and profits.  “We are striving for the highest profitability of the
three and we have reason to believe we will get there,” Zetsche
said in the Bloomberg TV interview. “We clearly take on the
race for volume. Mid-term, long-term, we are sure that we will
be in the hunt for the No. 1 position.”  Surging Demand  Mercedes, BMW, and Audi are battling to meet surging demand
for German luxury cars, spurred by  China ’s growing economy and
rebounding U.S. spending. Factories this summer and winter will
likely suspend normal breaks to meet demand, Zetsche said today.  Daimler said July 21 that it will spend more than $2
billion to boost capacity at Mercedes-Benz’s U.S. plant in
Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , where M-, R- and GL-Class SUVs are made. A
revamped M-Class will hit showrooms in September, followed by a
new version of the B-Class in November, the first of four small
cars being introduced to help trim average emissions and attract
younger drivers.  Daimler reported second-quarter operating profit at the
trucks unit of 474 million euros. Volvo posted Ebit of 5.11
billion kronor ($820 million) in the quarter. For the first half
overall, Daimler’s truck margin was 6.9 percent compared with
Volvo’s 9.8 percent.  Fuso Trucks  The German company, whose Fuso truck brand in  Japan  was
impacted by the country’s earthquake this year, is working to
close the gap with Volvo, backed by a new version of its Actros
long-haul truck and a line of heavy-duty engines,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler’s trucks unit, said today.  Fuso lost 300 million euros to 400 million euros in revenue
the quarter as a result of production stoppages caused by the
disaster, he said.  Daimler today extended the contract of Wilfried Porth, the
management board member in charge of personnel, by five years
through April 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 