-- 
Danish Insolvency Rules Boost Banks’ Funding Costs, Moody’s Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-07-27T14:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/danish-insolvency-rules-boost-banks-funding-costs-moody-s-says.html
Danish banks will have to pay out
higher returns on their debt to attract international investors
as  Europe ’s toughest insolvency laws increase funding costs and
hurt profitability, a Moody’s Investors Service executive said.  Danish lenders are under pressure to refinance 160 billion
kroner ($31 billion) in government-guaranteed debt due in 2012
and 2013 and face elevated borrowing levels after the failure of
banks Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S showed the
government was committed to allowing senior bondholders to share
losses, Moody’s Vice President and Senior Credit Officer Oscar Heemskerk said.  “International investors will look with more scrutiny at
Danish banks,” Heemskerk said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The funding costs of banks and therefore their
profitability going forward are negatively affected by this Bank
Package III.”  The so-called Bank Package III refers to rules Denmark put
in place in October and set a European Union precedent for
senior creditor losses following a bank’s failure.  The difference between the Copenhagen interbank offered
rate and the equivalent rate in the euro area, Euribor, widened
to 7.05 basis points today, the biggest gap in one week. Credit
default swaps on senior debt issued by Danske Bank A/S,
Denmark’s biggest lender, last week touched the highest since
June last year.  “The government has made it very clear that they are
willing to apply this Bank Package III law and, yes, there will
be banks that opt for consolidation and there will be banks that
fail,” Heemskerk said.  Moody’s has downgraded a number of the country’s lenders
since February, including Danske, as it factors out state
support.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 