-- 
DBS Group’s Second-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates as Trading Income Drops

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-07-28T05:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/dbs-group-swings-to-second-quarter-profit-as-lending-demand-fees-increase.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s largest bank, posted second-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates as trading income fell 47 percent and loan
profitability shrank.  Net income was S$735 million ($610 million), compared with
a loss of S$300 million a year earlier when it booked a goodwill
impairment charge at its Hong Kong unit, the Singapore-based
lender said in a statement to the stock exchange. That’s less
than the S$750 million average of six analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS shares slumped as low borrowing costs weighed on income
from lending and the economy shrank in the quarter. Chief
Executive Officer Piyush Gupta aims to expand operations in
markets including China and  India  to tap demand for credit and
financial services in the world’s fastest-growing economies.  “There are some pockets of concern relating to fee-earning
activities such as stock broking,” said Sachin Nikhare, a
banking analyst at IIFL Securities Pte. Ltd. in  Singapore . “The
growth in fee income is less than what we were expecting.”  Shares of DBS fell 0.7 percent to S$15.22 as of 12:50 p.m.
in Singapore. They have advanced 6.3 percent this year.  Non-interest income, which includes its trading business,
slipped 15 percent to S$748 million from a year earlier. Trading
income fell 47 percent to S$146 million, according to the
statement. Income from stock broking declined 19 percent.  Loans Climb  Net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
narrowed to 1.8 percent from 1.84 percent, the bank said.  Gupta said that while he had hoped  interest rates  would
rise in the second half of this year, a weakening global economy
means they are unlikely to expand for at least a year.  “I don’t see rates moving up till well into 2012,” he
said at a press conference in Singapore. “The potential upside
from margin increases will probably come in some time later than
we thought.”  DBS’s loan book grew 16 percent in the second quarter,
driven primarily by corporate debt. Gupta said except for
mortgages, the bank’s loan pipeline isn’t slowing. Net interest
income jumped 12 percent to S$1.2 billion.  Loan growth in Singapore has accelerated this year,
climbing 24 percent in May, the most since September 2008.  DBS’s total loan book rose by S$11 billion over the past
quarter to S$211 billion, helped by growth in trade finance
loans in  China  that may slow, said Gupta.  Trade Finance  “Trade finance growth we saw in the second quarter might
not repeat because of the monetary policy tightening in China,”
he said.  Fee income, which includes earnings from private and
investment banking operations, grew 8.1 percent to S$387 million
from a year earlier.  Singapore’s gross domestic product fell an annualized 7.8
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
when it climbed 27.2 percent, the trade ministry said on July 14.
Last week, the central bank reiterated a prediction that the
economy will expand 5 percent to 7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  