-- 
Bundesbank, Lehman in U.K. Battle Over $4.2 Billion CDO Deal Issued in ’08

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-27T14:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/default-of-4-2-billion-cdo-pits-bundesbank-against-lehman-in-london-court.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  asked
a U.K. judge to block  Germany ’s central bank from seizing
control of a 2.9 billion-euro ($4.2 billion) securitization
vehicle set up weeks before Lehman’s collapse.  Lehman in 2008 packaged up a group of European commercial
real estate loans and sold 2.1 billion euros of senior notes in
the security to the Bundesbank.  The central bank’s lawyers told a London court yesterday
the securitization, known as Excalibur Funding No. 1, has been
in technical default since January. Lawyers for Lehman, which
holds 722 million euros of junior debt in Excalibur, argued it
has enough cash to meet obligations.  Under the terms of the 2008 securitization deal, if
Excalibur defaults, the Bundesbank as senior noteholder could
force it to sell assets and return cash to investors. New York-
based Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with assets
of $639 billion, sparking a global contraction in the credit
markets and a flurry of litigation around the world.  Martin Pascoe , an attorney for Lehman, said the judge must
decide “whether something has happened that could potentially
trigger the complete collapse of this securitization.”  If Excalibur were wound down, Lehman would lose most of the
722 million euros invested in it as a result of losses in the
underlying portfolio of collateralized debt obligations.  Underperform  “In order to get anywhere near the event-of-default test
being fulfilled, it was necessary for the portfolio to
underperform significantly,” said  Antony Zacaroli , a lawyer
representing the German Central Bank.  Twenty-one of the CDOs wrapped into Excalibur were in
default and the portfolio’s performance had worsened since the
beginning of the year, Pascoe said.  Judge Michael Briggs said he would decide the Bundesbank
case next week.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the case. A Bundesbank spokesman said the bank
wouldn’t comment on pending court decisions.  Zacaroli, the Bundesbank lawyer, said there were “unusual
features” in the Excalibur deal that gave Lehman, as holder of
junior or B notes, sway over the assets held in the entity.  “The event of default is the one action where control of
the destiny lies in the A noteholders’ hands,” he told the
court.  Lehman reported a $2.8 billion loss in the second quarter
of 2008 and was forced to raise capital.  ‘A’ Rating  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC gave Excalibur’s
senior notes an ‘A’ rating after the security was issued in
2008. The ratings firm in March lowered its rating to ‘D’,
saying it thought it was unlikely the senior notes would be
repaid in full.  In a separate ruling today, the U.K Supreme Court decided
Lehman shouldn’t receive collateral ahead of bondholders in two
swap agreements, dismissing an appeal by the bank.  Trustees for the noteholders, Perpetual Trustee Co. and
Belmont Park Investments Pty Ltd., argued the investors they
represented were entitled to the collateral after Lehman
defaulted by filing for bankruptcy.  The Bundesbank case is: LB RE Financing No.3 Limited v
Excalibur Funding No.1 Plc and Deutsche Bundesbank and US Bank
Trustees Ltd., U.K.  High Court  of Justice ( Chancery Division ),
11-01164.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  