-- 
Delta to Deepen Seat Cuts After Profit Curbed by Fuel Costs

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-07-27T21:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/delta-air-profit-trails-analysts-estimates-on-rising-fuel-costs.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, plans further seating-capacity cuts
after higher fuel and maintenance costs pulled second-quarter
profit below analysts’ estimates.  Profit excluding certain items was $366 million, or 43
cents a share, the Atlanta-based airline said today in a
statement. That lagged behind the 44-cent average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, and the shares dropped to the lowest intraday
price since November 2009.  Delta’s jet fuel bill jumped by about $1 billion, an
increase of about 39 percent from a year earlier, and aircraft
maintenance and payments to regional partners also rose. Delta
said it will cut capacity by as much as 5 percent after the peak
summer travel season ends to further reduce costs, up from a
previous plan of 4 percent.  “Delta missed, but it was more important that they are
cutting more capacity,” said  Helane Becker , an analyst at
Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New York , who recommends holding Delta
shares. “They can set the example, but then everyone else has
to participate” in trimming available seats.  Delta fell 41 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $7.61 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest price
since November 2009.  Delta is also lowering costs through job reductions;
consolidating facilities; and retiring 140 older less-efficient
aircraft, which will save $250 million in maintenance costs in
the last half of this year.  ‘Modest’ Jet Purchase  More than 2,000 employees accepted voluntary buyout and
early retirement offers, most of them hourly workers, said Eric Torbenson, a spokesman for the carrier. That’s about 3 percent
of the company’s workforce of 80,000.  Delta is considering adding a “modest” number of new jets
to replace the oldest ones it’s eliminating, and will do so only
if that would improve  cash flow  or otherwise benefit the
carrier’s finances, Delta Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson said today on a conference call with analysts.  Asked to clarify what “modest means,” President Ed Bastian said: “Modest means living within our means.” He
declined to give a more specific figure.  In January, Delta said it may order 100 to 200 narrow-body
jets and seek options for 200 more. Delta flew only  Boeing Co. (BA) 
planes before buying Northwest, an Airbus SAS customer, in 2008.  Last week,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  agreed to buy 460
new more-efficient jets, splitting a record order between Airbus
and Boeing.  Airline Earnings  Including $168 million in one-time costs for items such as
severance packages and aircraft retirement, Delta said its net
income declined 58 percent to $198 million, or 23 cents a share,
from $467 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier. Revenue rose 12
percent to $9.15 billion, compared with a $9.14 billion
projection.  Delta is the second of the biggest U.S. carriers to trail
analysts’ earnings estimates for the three months through June.
AMR Corp. last week posted a $286 million loss, or 85 cents a
share, which was wider than the 81-cent deficit estimated by
analysts.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
posted profits last week that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines
Inc. merged in October in all-stock deal, surpassing Delta as
the world’s largest carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 