-- 
Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Merger Threatens Competition, AFME Tells EU

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-27T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/deutsche-boerse-s-nyse-deal-threatens-competition-afme-tells-eu.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of
NYSE Euronext will hurt competition in derivatives and listings,
the exchanges’ biggest customers told the European Union as
regulators weigh extending their probe of the deal.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , a group
that represents banks and brokers including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG,
identified seven areas for further antitrust scrutiny in a
submission to the European Commission obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The companies forecast cost savings of $400 million when
they announced the deal in February. AFME said it “has seen
nothing to suggest that a fair share of any such savings would
be passed on to end users.”  Deutsche Boerse ’s rivals and customers are being asked by
European Union regulators whether its bid for NYSE Euronext,
valued at about $9.3 billion, would reduce competition for
derivatives and equity trading and clearing. The commission, in
a survey with more than 165 questions obtained by Bloomberg
News, has asked what effect the deal to create the largest owner
of equities and derivatives markets would have on access to
market data.  “There are currently major flaws in the competitive
functioning of certain of the markets in which” the companies
operate, AFME said. “The proposed merger would exacerbate these
competition issues as well as raising new ones.”  ‘Competition Issues’  Competition in exchange traded derivatives, with the
exchanges owning  Europe ’s two largest derivatives markets, post-
trade services and Deutsche Boerse’s business model where the
exchange operates all the trading and post-trade parts, are
“competition issues,” AFME said.  Deutsche Boerse’s “historical behavior suggests that,
post-merger, it would have both the ability and the incentive to
charge higher prices and limit entry” for exchange-traded
derivatives, AFME said.  There will also be increased barriers to entry and
decreased competition in listing services if the combination
proceeds in its current form, AFME said.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse, declined to comment.  The commission has set an initial deadline of Aug. 4 to
rule on the transaction.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
chief, said in March that he expects to open an in-depth review
of the “complex deal” after the initial monthlong probe. An
extended review can last as long as 90 working days.  Rob McIvor, London-based spokesman for AFME, declined to
comment on the group’s replies to the questionnaire, as did
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission in Brussels, and
Caroline Nico, a spokeswoman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  