-- 
Deutsche Bank, UBS Cut $2.2 Billion CMBS Deal as Yields Rise

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-27T19:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/deutsche-bank-ubs-forced-to-cut-2-2-billion-cmbs-offering-as-yields-rise.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut a
$2.2 billion sale of commercial-mortgage backed securities by
more than 36 percent as investors pull back amid a rush of
offerings from Wall Street banks.  The lenders, unable to close all the planned loans to be
bundled into the transaction after yields on the debt rose,
reduced the deal to $1.4 billion, according to people familiar
with the sale. The offering is set to be marketed to investors
next month, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the transaction hasn’t been announced.  Banks issued $3 billion in commercial-mortgage backed bonds
last week at the highest yields this year as investors pushed
back on deal terms and debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe  roiled
markets. About $1.4 billion of securities tied to shopping
centers and hotels are being offered this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bottleneck is making it hard for investors to digest
sales, according to Julia Tcherkassova, a mortgage-debt analyst
at Barclays Capital in New York.  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Amanda Williams and UBS’s Torie von Alt declined to comment.  Underwriters accumulate loans over several months to pool
for sale as securities. When yields rise on the bonds, lenders
may not be able to provide the same terms previously offered.  Loss Buffer  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. had to overhaul
one of the deals issued last week after investors demanded more
of a buffer against losses. They increased relative yields on
BBB bonds by 200 basis points to 700 basis points more than
benchmark swap rates on the offering.  Similar debt rated BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, was sold to yield 295 basis points, or 2.95 percentage
points, over the benchmark in February.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the top-ranked
portion of bonds backed by commercial mortgages has risen 5
basis points to 214 basis points over Treasuries since June,
according to  Barclays Capital  data.  More than $21 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have
been sold this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010,
Bloomberg data show. Sales of the debt peaked at $234 billion in
2007, helping fuel a boom in property prices. Issuance plummeted
to $12.2 billion in 2008 as souring subprime-home loans infected
credit markets. The market stayed closed until November 2009,
choking off funding to borrowers with debt coming due.  Deals being sold since sales revived have all been issued
in the private market, shutting out some investors that can only
buy public transactions, according to Tcherkassova from
Barclays. Making the transactions public would broaden the
investor base, she said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its 2011 forecast for sales of
bonds tied to commercial mortgages to between $30 billion and
$35 billion last week as volatile prices curb profitability for
Wall Street banks. The New York-based lender projected in
November as much as $45 billion in new offerings for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  