-- 
Diageo Agrees to Pay $16 Million to Settle Corruption Claims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-27T19:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/diageo-agrees-to-pay-16-million-to-settle-corruption-claims.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , maker of Johnnie Walker
scotch and Smirnoff vodka, will pay more than $16 million to
resolve U.S. regulatory claims the firm bribed officials in
 South Korea ,  India  and Thailand to win sales and tax benefits.  Units of London-based Diageo paid more than $2.7 million in
bribes from 2003 to 2009, recording them as legitimate business
expenses for vendors and private customers, or omitting them
altogether, the Securities and Exchange Commission said today.
The firm made about $11 million in profits as a result of the
payments, the regulator said in an administrative order.  “For years, Diageo’s subsidiaries made hundreds of illicit
payments to foreign government officials,” Scott Friestad,
associate director in the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a
statement. “As a result of Diageo’s lax oversight and deficient
controls, the subsidiaries routinely used third parties,
inflated invoices, and other deceptive devices to disguise the
true nature of the payments.”  Diageo resolved the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act claims
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Payments were made to hundreds of Indian officials who were
responsible for purchasing or authorizing the sale of its
beverages, the SEC said. In  Thailand , bribes of about $12,000 a
month were paid for four years to a government official who
lobbied for the company in tax and customer disputes, according
to the administrative order.  Travel and entertainment expenses were paid for South
Korean officials involved in tax negotiations, the SEC said.
South Korean military officials routinely got gifts from Diageo
employees aiming to win or keep business, the agency said.  “Diageo takes the SEC’s findings seriously and regrets
this matter,” the company said in a statement. “Systems and
controls have been enhanced in an effort to prevent the future
occurrence of such issues and to reinforce, everywhere the
Company operates, a culture of compliance and commitment to the
principles embodied in Diageo’s Code of Business Conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  