-- 
Direct Energie Buys Verbund’s 46% Poweo Stake for $52 Million

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-07-27T12:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/direct-energie-buys-verbund-s-46-poweo-stake-for-52-million.html
Direct Energie , a closely held
French power supplier, will buy 46 percent of domestic rival
Poweo SA from  Verbund AG (VER)  to compete in  Europe ’s second-biggest
electricity market.  Direct Energie will pay 36 million euros ($52 million), or
4.77 euros a share, it said today in an e-mailed statement. The
combined entity will have 1 million residential and business
power and gas customers in  France  and become the third-biggest
power supplier after Electricite de France SA and GDF Suez SA.  Poweo and Direct Energie have fought since 2007 to take
clients from former monopoly holders EDF and GDF Suez. They have
made few inroads and complained that their chances of competing
profitably for electricity customers have been hindered by low
government-set tariffs and EDF’s ability to supply relatively
cheap nuclear power.  Poweo (ALPWO)  has reported net losses since 2007.  Poweo fell as much as 10.9 percent in Paris trading, the
biggest decline in two weeks, and was down 58 cents at 4.94
euros as of 1:59 p.m. local time.  “The price is lower than where Poweo was trading so the
market is adjusting,” Louis Boujard, a Paris-based analyst at
Aurel-BGC, said by telephone. Direct Energie and Poweo may now
have the “minimum” clientele needed to compete effectively in
France, he said.  Biggest Gainer  Verbund rose 2.6 percent to 29.97 euros in Vienna, the
highest intraday price in three weeks. The stock was the biggest
gainer in the Bloomberg European Utilities Index.  EDF lost its monopoly in the French power market four years
ago, and legislation aimed at further opening the market took
effect this month. Verbund blamed the law for its decision to
sell out of Poweo, citing a “disadvantageous rate structure”
that forces EDF to sell nuclear output to rivals at a
government-set price.  Competitors to EDF, including Poweo, Direct Energie and  GDF
Suez (GSZ) , have said the new law may not result in fair competition
because the wholesale price was set too high compared with
regulated rates for household customers.  Poweo shares peaked at 46.35 euros on July 2, 2007, when
France’s household electricity and gas markets were first opened
to competition. They have since slumped 89 percent.  Entry to France  Verbund,  Austria ’s biggest utility, entered France by
acquiring a stake in Paris-based Poweo in 2006, betting that the
liberalization of the French power market would help it gain
customers and boost profit. Laws to open up the industry have
been implemented more slowly than the company anticipated.  The Vienna-based utility said July 1 it was in talks with
potential buyers for its Poweo stake. Since the French utility
is listed on the NYSE-Alternext exchange, a sale of less than 50
percent doesn’t trigger a mandatory offer, Poweo said at the
time. Direct Energie doesn’t intend to acquire additional shares
in Poweo, according to today’s statement.  “The entry into the capital of Poweo marks a successful
development strategy in an opening market,” Montrouge-based
Direct Energie said, adding that its shareholders want to
“build a leading player in the energy sector.”  Direct Energie’s biggest shareholders are Francois 1er
Energie, majority-owned by Stephane Courbit, and Impala SAS,
formerly Louis Dreyfus SAS, according to information on its
 website .  Renewable Asset Sales  Verbund still owns Poweo’s power production and wholesale
distribution unit, which it agreed to take over in December. It
sold its French renewable-energy assets earlier this month and a
stake in hydropower plants in  Germany  in June.  As part of today’s deal, Direct Energie and Poweo will hold
an option for 100 percent of Poweo’s production sites in Toul,
Pont-sur Sambre and Blaringhem, according to Direct Energie and
Verbund. Direct Energie, which was formed in 2003, is developing
an 800-megawatt gas-fired power plant at Hambach, France.  France, Europe’s biggest power market after Germany, used
443 terawatt-hours of electricity last year, according to the
industry regulator. EDF’s 58 French nuclear reactors generated
407.9 terawatt-hours. At the end of March, the country’s
alternative power suppliers -- those that aren’t EDF or GDF Suez
-- had captured a share of just 5 percent of the household
market and about 16 percent of business-customer volumes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 