-- 
Domingo Joins Battle Against Music Piracy as Even His Own Income Declines

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/domingo-joins-battle-against-music-piracy-as-even-his-own-income-declines.html
Tenor Placido Domingo recently
added the role of privateer in Verdi’s “Simon Boccanegra” to
his repertoire. Now, as digital thieves steal his income, he’s
turned from operatic piracy to real-life pirate catching.  Domingo, 70, has been named chairman of the  International
Federation of the Phonographic Industry . As he stated in a
July 26 London press conference, his personal mission will be
to alert governments of the need to fight online piracy with
tougher legislation.  “I was seeing my own royalties diminishing little by
little,” Domingo said at the press conference. “At first, I
thought it was logical. Old records sell less well over time.
Then I stopped receiving any royalties at all, and I knew
there was a problem. On my own, I couldn’t do anything. So
when the IFPI asked me to help them, I immediately said yes.”  IFPI members include  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group ,
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s  Sony Music Entertainment ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s EMI
Music Group, and Warner Music Group Corp. Another member, the
composer and producer Mike Batt, told reporters that the IFPI
had hoped to find a chairman who “knew people.” “Now
instead we’ve found a chairman who knows everybody,” he said.  Domingo’s duties will include meeting prime ministers,
presidents, culture ministers and those able to help legislate
against digital piracy and educate online-music users.  Album Sales  The data released in the IFPI’s report “Recording
Industry in Numbers 2011” make stark reading. Based on
current figures, the estimated cumulative cost of online
piracy in  Europe  in the period 2008-2015 will be 240 billion
euros ($347 billion). Album sales in the global top 50 fell 77
percent over the period 2003-2010.  The trade value of the global digital-music market in
2010 was $4.6 billion, representing 29 percent of record
companies’ revenue worldwide. This is an increase of 1,000
percent since 2004.  Yet the overall value of the global recorded-music
industry has fallen 31 percent over the same period.  Domingo’s home country of  Spain  has suffered badly over
the past 20 years. Almost half of all active  Internet users  in
Spain use illegal music-distribution services. As revenue has
plummeted, investment in new acts has dwindled.  In 2003, there were 10 Spanish debut artists in the top
50. In 2010, there were none. “Piracy means that fewer new
artists can be supported,” said Domingo. “We’re losing our
cultural heritage.”  Copyright Rules  IFPI Chief Executive Frances Moore said that the news was
not all bad. As a result of their campaigning, European
legislation is expected to be passed in September extending
music copyright to 70 years from 50 years.  “I don’t understand why it’s considered alright to
steal,” said Domingo. “Would you steal a pair of shoes from
a shop? Of course not. The situation means millions of dollars
are denied to people who have worked hard. Not only artists:
engineers, producers and technicians too. Some good singers,
if they retire at 50, might face real economic difficulties in
20 years time if they can’t get their royalties.  “I feel passionately about this,” he said. “I’ll speak
from my heart.”  I later ask if the income from the new post will help
offset Domingo’s losses of royalties. “All the terms and
conditions of Maestro Domingo’s contract are confidential,”
said IFPI spokesman Alex Jacob.  The singer already has commitments as a performer,
conductor and administrator. He is the general director of  Los
Angeles Opera , and announced last September his departure from
the same role at  Washington National Opera .  The Washington Post reported in January that the latter
opera company has accumulated debts of $12 million.  Rest and Rust  I asked Domingo, whose motto is “If I rest, I rust,”
whether he was worried that he might be spreading himself too
thinly with his new role.  “No. I’m going to fit meetings around my touring
schedule,” he said. “I like to keep the day of a concert
quiet, so I won’t be able to do much on those days. The rest
of the time, I can.” He paused to consider. “Maybe in an
emergency I could do it.”  Moore’s eyes lit up. “I’ll remind you that you said
that,” she said.  For information about the work of the IFPI and Domingo’s
new role as chairman, see  http://www.ifpi.org .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and 
culture section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 