-- 
Dow Earnings Exceed Estimates as Plastics, Chemicals Gain

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-27T21:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/dow-chemical-s-second-quarter-revenue-operating-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker, reported second-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, led by sales of plastics, caustic soda and
genetically modified seeds.  Net income rose to $1.07 billion, or 84 cents a share, from
$651 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier, Midland, Michigan-
based Dow said today in a statement. Earnings excluding costs
for early debt repayment were 85 cents a share, topping the 79-
cent average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Revenue climbed 18 percent to $16 billion from $13.6 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  is expanding in
 Saudi Arabia  and on the U.S. Gulf Coast to turn low-cost natural
gas into chemicals used in food packaging and auto parts. Basic
plastics was the most profitable unit as sales volumes grew by a
record in the Asia-Pacific region. Earnings from commodity
chemicals more than doubled on sales to paper and alumina
makers.  “The strength continued on the basics side in chemicals
and plastics,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors, said in a telephone interview.
“Volumes were strong across the board in every segment.”  Dow fell 86 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $34.99 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped the most in almost two months. The
shares have gained 2.5 percent this year.  Prices Raised  Excluding divestitures, Dow increased product prices 19
percent from the year-earlier quarter and sales volumes gained 9
percent. Volumes climbed 14 percent in emerging markets and 11
percent the Asia-Pacific region, Dow said.  Price gains outpaced $1.5 billion of higher costs for raw
materials and energy, leading to the ninth consecutive quarter
of margin expansion, Dow said.  “In fast-growing emerging geographies, despite some
inflationary pressures, the rapid expansion of the middle class
continues to drive robust underlying fundamentals,” Liveris
said in the statement.  “On the whole we see growth continuing to gain traction in
developed markets, albeit at a somewhat uneven and jagged pace
given persistently high unemployment in the  United States  and
sovereign debt concerns in  Europe ,” he said.  Profit in the health and agriculture unit climbed 46
percent as demand for seeds and genetic licenses rose 35
percent, Dow said. Profit increased 16 percent in the
performance-systems unit on sales of synthetic rubber and
automotive materials, and performance products advanced 17
percent amid gains in epoxies and polyurethanes. Earnings in
units that supply makers of electronics and paints each
increased less than 1 percent.  Debt Repaid  Dow repaid $1.5 billion of debt in the quarter, bringing
total repayments for the year to $4 billion. Cash and cash
equivalents fell to $2.22 billion on June 30 from $7.04 billion
at year end, meeting Liveris’s February target of using cash to
repay debt, increase shareholder payouts and fund expansion
projects.  “The combination of their strong commodity business, the
success of their specialty businesses, robust cash flows that
are going toward debt reduction, and a modest multiple keep Dow
as our top large cap pick in the space,” John P. McNulty, a New
York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in a
report.  Dow and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. said this week they will
spend $20 billion to build factories for making petrochemicals
from low-cost oil and gas derivatives at the Saudi port of
Jubail starting in 2015. Dow plans to expand production of
ethylene and propylene in Texas and  Louisiana , including
construction of its first U.S. cracker since 1995.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and polyethylene
plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical maker behind
 Germany ’s BASF SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 