-- 
Duke, Penn State Among Group Pushing to Fund Faster Internet

-- B y   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-07-27T20:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/duke-penn-state-among-group-pushing-to-fund-faster-internet.html
A group of 29 U.S. colleges
including Penn State University and  Duke University  called for
private investment to help fund a new generation of high-speed
Internet in communities surrounding their schools.  “Gig.U: The University Community Next Generation Project”
was started today to encourage the creation of broadband
networks that may be “400 to 600 times faster” than existing
Internet service, Lev Gonick, chief information officer at  Case
Western Reserve University  in Cleveland, said in an interview.  The group, which plans to solicit telecommunications
providers for ideas within 90 days, is trying to create a
technology environment that will attract start-up companies and
bolster local economies. With faster networks, there is
potential for “next generation innovation” that may bring
economic growth, said Gig.U Executive Director Blair Levin, who
crafted a government initiative to expand U.S. broadband access
while he worked at the Federal Communications Commission.  “We want to put bandwidth in the hands of people that will
not simply consume it, but also create on top of it,” Levin
said in an interview.  Gig.U intends to analyze the network capabilities in a
university’s surrounding communities and then advocate for more
investment and improvement of those networks, he said.  Schools, Hospitals  Gonick cited the improvements in his university’s  Case
Connection Zone , a test service that gives residents in the
surrounding community access to network speeds more than  250
times faster  than those of average broadband subscribers. The
service has been used for interactive online tutoring services
at the Cleveland Metropolitan School District and the online
monitoring of vital signs of hospital patients.  “I was chief of staff for the FCC during the Clinton
years, and what we saw then was the country went through a
number of what you may call upgrades with wireless and then
Internet,” Levin said. “As it went through each upgrade there
was more and more innovation, more commerce and more
investment.”  Gig.U was developed at the  Aspen Institute , a Washington-
based nonprofit that promotes ways to improve public policy.  In addition Duke and Penn State, members of the group
include West Virginia University,  Howard University ,  University
of Michigan  and University of  Alaska .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 rmac3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  