-- 
Dunkin’ Jumps 47% in First Day After $422.8 Million IPO

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-27T20:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/dunkin-shares-jump-on-first-day-of-trading.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., the
operator of  Dunkin’ Donuts  coffee shops, surged during the first
day of trading after its $422.8 million initial public offering.  The shares rose $8.85, or 47 percent, to $27.85 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, after
earlier gaining as much as 56 percent.  The doughnut seller, with 6,800 U.S. locations, enticed
investors with plans to more than double its U.S. store count in
20 years after outpacing  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s revenue growth last
year. Recently, the Canton, Massachusetts-based chain has sought
to draw customers in the afternoon with snack foods including
pepperoni-stuffed breadsticks.  “We have room to move across the whole country,” Chief
Executive Officer Nigel Travis said in a telephone interview
today. “We have, in the West, a number of customers who try our
brand -- they like the taste of our coffee, they like our
speed.”  The stock was priced higher than the top end of the
marketed range, with 22.3 million shares selling at $19 each
yesterday after being offered for $16 to $18, Dunkin’ said in a
statement.  “Investors are just excited about a new, hot IPO that they
think has room to grow its unit count,” Peter Saleh, an analyst
at Telsey Advisory Group in New York, said today in an
interview. “There are probably a lot of people who are
investing in this name for the long-term growth and the free
cash it generates.”  IPO Proceeds  Dunkin’ planned to use proceeds from the IPO to repay debt
accumulated under the ownership of private-equity firms Bain
Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP,
according to its regulatory filing. The firms paid about $2.43
billion for the company in a 2006 leveraged buyout.  In a letter to investors at the end of March, Carlyle
marked its investment at 1.55 times what it bought the stake
for, putting the enterprise value of the company at $3.5
billion, including $1.8 billion in long-term debt. All three
firms planned to sell shares in the IPO, each cutting their
stake to 26 percent from about 32 percent, according to the
prospectus.  The biggest U.S. IPOs this year have been brought by
private-equity firms. HCA Holdings Inc., the hospital chain
partly owned by KKR & Co. and Bain, raised $4.4 billion in March
in the biggest-ever private equity-backed IPO, according to
London-based Preqin Ltd. Kinder Morgan Inc., the energy-pipeline
company whose owners include Carlyle, raised $3.3 billion in its
February IPO.  IPOs Shelved  ADS Tactical Inc. and Union Agriculture Group Corp. shelved
their IPOs today as uncertainty over a government plan to raise
the U.S. debt limit has sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down for three straight days. The companies were among 12 aiming
to tap the U.S. IPO market this week, Bloomberg data showed.  At the IPO price, Dunkin’s market capitalization is about
$2.4 billion. Completion of the IPO would leave the company with
about $1.48 billion of long-term net debt and $56.6 million of
cash, according to the IPO prospectus, giving it an enterprise
value of about $3.82 billion. That’s about 57 percent higher
than the private-equity firms paid when they bought Dunkin’ from
Pernod Ricard SA.  The $2.4 billion market cap values Dunkin’ at about 4.1
times trailing 12-month sales, compared with 2.7 times for
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  based on its closing share price yesterday.  New England   In the U.S., where most of its stores are in New England
and New York, Dunkin’ plans to open as many as 250 new locations
per year in 2011 and 2012, with a goal of 15,000. The chain has
about 9,800 global locations. Dunkin’ also franchises about
6,500 Baskin-Robbins ice cream shops globally, its filing
showed.  The company was founded when Bill Rosenberg opened his
first restaurant in the 1940s, which was later renamed Dunkin’
Donuts. Revenue at Dunkin’ last year jumped 7.3 percent,
compared with 5.8 percent at McDonald’s, the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, which serves the McCafe line of coffees.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led the Dunkin’
offering. Underwriters have an option to buy an additional 3.3
million shares within 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
{Lee Spears} in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  