-- 
Leap Wireless Said Near Deal to Name Pentwater Nominees to Board

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-27T04:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/leap-wireless-said-near-deal-to-name-two-pentwater-nominees-to-board.html
Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ,
the pay-as-you-go wireless operator, is near an agreement to
name two nominees from  Pentwater Capital Management LP  to its
board, according to a person familiar with the situation.  The Pentwater nominees would expand the board to nine
directors, said the person, who couldn’t be identified because
the agreement isn’t yet public. The nominees are Robert E. Switz
and Richard R. Roscitt, telecommunications-industry veterans,
said the person. The agreement could be announced as early as
today, said the person.  A board presence for Pentwater, which held 4.8 percent of
Leap’s stock at the end of March, may boost the odds that the
San Diego-based company is sold. When Pentwater nominated three
directors for the board in March, the Chicago-based investment
manager criticized Leap for poor strategic decisions, including
not merging with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  in 2007.  Leap shares have dropped 65 percent in the past three years,
giving the company a market value of $1.14 billion. Pentwater
Chief Executive Officer Matthew C. Halbower, who had also been
nominated to join Leap’s board, won’t become a director, the
person said.  In recent weeks, Leap and Pentwater have urged shareholders
to vote for their respective slate of directors.  “Pentwater’s track record reveals its opportunistic short-
term focus and in Leap’s view Pentwater has no interest in
providing value to other stockholders,” Leap wrote in a
securities filing yesterday.  “Many of the claims that Leap is making are false and are
designed to entrench  Mark Rachesky ’s control of Leap Wireless,”
Pentwater wrote in a letter to shareholders yesterday, referring
to Leap Chairman Mark Rachesky.  History of Talks  Greg Lund , a Leap spokesman, declined to comment on a
possible agreement with Pentwater.  After MetroPCS proposed a merger with Leap in 2007, the two
sides abandoned talks because they couldn’t agree on price. Leap
also hired financial advisers last year to examine strategic
options, including with MetroPCS, and again decided to remain
independent, according to  Leap’s financial filing .  Leap fell 27 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $14.48 in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading  yesterday. The stock has gained 18 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  