-- 
Olympic Revival Fizzles in East London as Home Prices Decline

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-07-27T14:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/east-london-olympic-revival-fizzles-as-home-prices-drop-a-year-until-games.html
Prices of homes close to  London ’s
Olympic Park fell over the past year as signs of revitalization
in one of the U.K.’s poorest areas failed to materialize and
overseas buyers focused on more central districts.  Residential property values near the 560-acre (227-
hectacre) site in east London fell as much as 7 percent in the
year through July,  Zoopla.co.uk  said yesterday. Homes near the
Olympic Stadium have risen about 19 percent since the city won
the right to host the 2012 Games five years ago, compared with a
gain of 27 percent across the capital, the real-estate website
said July 25.  “The eastern region is one that has perhaps bypassed the
central London international demand,” Nicholas Leeming,
business development director at Zoopla, said in a telephone
interview. “With the Olympics, you would have thought it might
have responded better.”  Beginning a year from today, the Olympics will be held in
the east London borough of Newham, the sixth-most destitute
district in England out of more than 350 assessed by the
government. London beat Paris and  New York  to host the Games
after telling the  International Olympic Committee  that the
event, to cost an estimated 9.3 billion pounds ($15 billion),
would revive the east of the city.  ‘Smart Investor’  Home values near the Olympic Park will rise after the
construction on the site is complete and when  Europe ’s largest
urban shopping mall,  Westfield Stratford City , opens in
September, said Clive Dutton, Newham borough’s executive
director for regeneration, planning and property.  “What we’re doing is creating a new part of London,”
Dutton said in a telephone interview today. “The smart investor
will look with keen interest on this part of London.”  Luxury-home prices in central London climbed to a record in
June as overseas buyers took advantage of a weak pound and
sought a haven from political and economic instability in their
home countries, broker  Knight Frank LLP  said July 1. By
contrast, the region surrounding Newcastle in northeast  England ,
saw values fall an annual 6.9 percent, the worst-performing area
in England, according to the  Land Registry .  “East London boroughs are much like the national story,”
said Yolande Barnes, research director at property broker
 Savills Plc. (SVS)  “The north-south divide opening up in the country
as a whole actually is an east-west divide in London.”  The average price in Stratford, home of the 80,000-capacity
Olympic Stadium and part of the Newham borough, fell 3.9 percent
to 226,008 pounds in the past year, according to Zoopla. Prices
in neighboring East Ham fell 7 percent to 206,020 pounds.  “The impact of the Olympics on the international psyche
has yet to happen as the games haven’t happened yet,” Barnes
said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 