-- 
ECB Bond-Buying Not Necessarily Over, Gonzalez-Paramo Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-27T20:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ecb-bond-buying-not-necessarily-over-gonzalez-paramo-says-1-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said the ECB won’t
necessarily end its bond-buying program after last week’s
European Union summit, and that  Greece  remains more committed
than ever to reforms.  “We will continue to do whatever we deem reasonable for
the bond-buying program,” Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters in
Santiago de Compostela, in northern Spain today. “The summit
doesn’t mean Greece doesn’t need to make more reforms. It is
more than ever committed to reforms. It might even need to
decide even more aggressive ones.”  EU leaders agreed last week that bondholders will
contribute 50 billion euros ($72 billion) to a new rescue
package, with euro-region governments and the  International
Monetary Fund  putting up a further 109 billion euros. The July
21 accord strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to offer
protection to other euro-region nations, such as Ireland and
 Spain , to avert contagion.  The ECB’s bond-buying program must be considered as
separate from the eventual bond purchases that the rescue fund
known as the European Financial Stability Facility, or EFSF, was
authorized to make by policy makers in Brussels, said Gonzalez-
Paramo.  Spanish Fund  The ECB has always called for an effective EFSF, but
effectiveness isn’t so much a question of volume, said Gonzalez-
Paramo.  The possibility that Spain may need aid from the fund is
not on the table as the nation’s own bank-rescue fund, the FROB,
still has a lot of leeway, Gonzalez-Paramo said.  On the question of whether Greece will default and to what
extent once European officials push through last week’s plan,
Gonzalez-Paramo said that the nature of enhancements for
investors will count in credit event assessments.  “The ECB is the master of the collaterals it takes and it
will make sure it has good collateral in its books,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  