-- 
El-Erian Forecasts ‘Massive Consequences’ From U.S. Downgrade: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-27T19:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/el-erian-forecasts-massive-consequences-from-u-s-debt-rating-downgrade.html
The U.S. faces “massive
consequences” if a failure by lawmakers to lift a ceiling on
the nation’s debt leads to a default and loss of its top rating,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said.  While a credit-rating downgrade likely wouldn’t cause
credit markets to freeze as they did after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, the world’s largest economy
would experience “headwinds” to growth and employment, already
in a crisis, El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “If the U.S. defaults, there would be massive
consequences,” El-Erian said today from Pimco’s headquarters in
 Newport Beach ,  California . “People are concerned, but they sort
of think it’s a very, very low probability, and we would
agree.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the $14.3
trillion borrowing limit is increased by Aug. 2.  Standard & Poor’s , which has given the U.S. a top AAA
ranking since 1941, said on July 14 that the chance of a
downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months and may cut the
rating as soon as August if there isn’t a “credible” plan to
reduce the nation’s deficit. S&P has “set out a very clear
timetable” that may lead to a U.S. downgrade and “will be
accountable whether it sticks to that or not,” El-Erian said.  ‘Explicit Timing’  “S&P is out there with very explicit timing, very explicit
conditions,” he said. “It’s a moment of truth for the rating
agencies just as it’s a moment of truth for  Washington .”  BlackRock Inc., Franklin Templeton Investments, Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Western Asset Management have also said that
the U.S. faces losing its top-level debt rating as officials
struggle to raise the borrowing limit and reduce spending.  House Speaker  John Boehner  postponed today’s scheduled
House vote on his two-step plan to raise the debt limit, which
the White House said Obama would veto, after the  Congressional
Budget Office  said it would save just $850 billion rather than
the advertised $3 trillion. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s
plan would save $2.2 trillion over 10 years, short of its $2.7
trillion goal, the CBO said today.  Pimco Expectations  While Pimco’s “baseline” expectation is that the U.S.
will avoid a default, markets for commercial paper and repos,
used by securities dealers to finance holdings and increase
leverage, are showing signs of concern that the U.S. may miss a
debt payment, El-Erian said.  “The very first thing I do now is I go over to our money
market desk and ask them what you are seeing today,” El-Erian
said. “How’s the repo market operating? Just the functioning of
the market because that is what can really trip an economy. So
far it’s functioning OK, but we’re seeing some pressure.”  Following a U.S. downgrade, the dollar may weaken over time
and equity markets would likely decline, El-Erian said. Yields
on longer-maturity Treasuries may rise relative to those with
earlier maturities on a rating cut amid concern of worsening
 credit quality , he said.  “It’s undeniable that this whole debacle is leading to
lower growth, higher unemployment and more erosion of the U.S.
in the standing of the global economy,”  El-Erian said.  Dollar’s Decline  The Dollar Index is little changed in July and the U.S.
currency weakened against 11 of its 16 most-traded peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Treasuries due in 30
years yield 3.84 percentage points more than those maturing in
two years, compared with a spread of 3.68 percentage points on
May 5, the tightest this year.  The U.S. unemployment rate rose for a third straight month
in June to 9.2 percent, pointing to an economy lacking momentum
entering the second half of the year. Employers added 18,000
workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine months and less than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Bill Gross , the founder and co-chief investment officer of
Pimco, increased holdings of Treasuries and bonds outside the
U.S. last month while cutting money-market securities.  The $243 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross boosted
its investment in U.S. government securities to 8 percent of
assets in June from 5 percent in May. Bonds in developed markets
outside the U.S. rose to 13 percent of holdings from 10 percent.
Cash and equivalents dropped to 29 percent from 35 percent.  Pimco, which has been criticized for missing this year’s
rally in Treasuries, revised how it listed asset holdings last
month to show that its flagship fund held  U.S. government debt .
Gross said he bought 2- to 3-year notes since U.S. bills are
returning close to zero and the purchases shouldn’t be viewed as
endorsement of the Treasury market because yields on longer-
maturity debt are still too low given his outlook for inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  