-- 
Elan Second-Quarter Loss Narrows on Higher Sales of Tysabri

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-27T16:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/elan-second-quarter-loss-narrows-on-higher-sales-of-tysabri-2-.html
Elan Corp.’s second-quarter loss
narrowed as sales of the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri
increased.  The loss was $47.1 million, compared with a loss of $217.9
million for the same period a year earlier, the Dublin-based
drugmaker said in a statement today. The most recent figure
includes a loss on equity method investments of $39.1 million,
which relates primarily to an investment in Janssen Alzheimer
Immunotherapy, Elan said. Analysts predicted a loss of $4.2
million, according to the average of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  About 61,500 patients were taking Tysabri worldwide as of
the end of June, 15 percent more than at the same time a year
ago, Elan said. Margins improved due to cost-cutting in sales
and marketing. The drugmaker still expects revenue of $1 billion
in 2011, excluding a drug technologies unit which it has agreed
to sell to Alkermes Inc.  “We are making progress across all aspects of our
company,” Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin said in an e-
mailed statement.  Revenue for the quarter rose 24 percent to $333.5 million,
beating the $311.4 million average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales of Tysabri rose 30 percent to
$269.3 million.  Elan expects revenue to double to $2 billion over the next
five years, reflecting an average growth rate of 15 percent. The
forecast is “a bit ahead” of investors’ expectations and
explains the stock’s slide this afternoon, Ian Sanderson, an
analyst with Cowen and Co. LLC, said in an interview today.  “For better or worse, the valuation of this company is
going to be based on Tysabri for the next year,” he said.  Elan was little changed at 1.63 euros at the close of
trading in Dublin. Before today, the drugmaker had more than
doubled this year, compared with an 11 percent return in the 17-
company Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  