-- 
Telefonica Czech Says Profit Fell as Clients Spent Less

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 
2011-07-27T14:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/telefonica-czech-says-quarterly-net-fell-as-clients-spent-less.html
Telefonica  Czech Republic  AS, the
country’s largest phone operator, said second-quarter profit
fell as it cut prices to compete with rivals, customers spent
less on calls and regulatory changes eroded revenue.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 was 1.87
billion koruna ($111.4 million), compared with 2.34 billion
koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based company said in an e-
mailed statement. That missed the median estimate of 1.9
billion koruna in a Bloomberg News survey of six analysts.
Revenue declined 7.2 percent to 13.05 billion koruna.  Results “continued to be impacted largely by intense
competition, regulatory measures and a gradual recovery of
household consumption,” Chief Financial Officer Jesus Perez
de Urigen said in the statement. The company maintained
operating income before depreciation and amortization margin
at 42 percent in the first half, Urigen said.  Telefonica Czech has been battling a steady decline in
earnings, which peaked in 2005, by streamlining operations and
laying off employees. The Czech unit of  Spain ’s largest
telecommunications company plans to start deploying fiber-
optic network and next-generation mobile technology such as
long-term evolution, or LTE, to offset a decline in
traditional voice services.  3G Expansion  Telefonica increased its third-generation network, or 3G,
coverage of the Czech Republic to 55 percent, it said. It also
invested in upgrading its fixed-line network to offer VDSL
services to clients. In Slovakia, capital expenditures were
linked to the planned launch of a 3G network in July, it said.  Revenue in Slovakia rose 47 percent to 38.5 million euros
in the quarter, the company said. The unit maintained its
“good commercial momentum” from the previous quarters, the
company said in the statement.  The company today reiterated its full-year guidance for
operating income before depreciation and amortization, or
oibda, and  capital expenditures . Oibda fell 11.2 percent to
5.21 billion koruna in the second quarter. Capital
expenditures rose 10 percent to 1.43 billion koruna, it said.  Telefonica Czech, the former country’s monopoly, was
purchased by Telefonica SA,  Europe ’s second-largest phone
company, in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  