-- 
Telekomunikacja Polska Triples Profit on Emitel Sale, Plans Share Buyback

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-27T07:47:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/telekomunikacja-polska-triples-profit-on-emitel-sale-plans-share-buyback.html
Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS)  said
second-quarter profit tripled on the sale of a broadcasting
unit, allowing  Poland ’s largest phone company to propose a share
buyback.  Net income jumped to 995 million zloty ($361 million) from
325 million zloty a year earlier, the Warsaw-based unit of
France Telecom SA said in a regulatory statement today. That
beat the 782.7 million-zloty estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Telekomunikacja signed a final agreement in June to sell TP
Emitel Sp. z o.o., an operator of television and radio towers,
to Montagu Private Equity LLP for 1.7 billion zloty, adding
about 1.2 billion zloty to pretax profit for the quarter.
Telekomunikacja today proposed an 800 million-zloty buyback,
saying it would allocate about half the proceeds from the
largest Polish acquisition by a private equity firm.  “What’s most important is the buyback; it should have a
positive impact on the price,” Konrad Ksiezopolski, an analyst
at Wood & Co, said by phone from Warsaw today. “The results are
neither great nor bad.”  Telekomunikacja’s shares rose as much as 1.8 percent to a
one-month high of 16.89 zloty at 9:05 a.m. today. The benchmark
WIG20 Index declined 0.3 percent.  Adjusted net income, excluding both the Emitel sale and a
458 million-zloty writedown for a fine imposed in June by
European Union antitrust regulators, was 265 million zloty, the
company said.  Sales Decline  The decline in adjusted profit followed the trend in
revenue, as fixed-line phone sales decreased 8.3 percent to 2.1
billion zloty and mobile segment revenue rose 0.9 percent.  Telekomunikacja expects the trend in total sales to improve
in the second half from the first six months, for which the
company posted a decline of 4.3 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Maciej Witucki said on a conference call. The company plans to
focus on speeding up the trend of broadband  Internet sales , and
the second half has “traditionally” been better for
Telekomunikacja, he said.  Ksiezopolski said he expects an improvement in the
broadband business in the second half. Compared to
Telekomunikacja’s biggest broadband competitor Netia SA, net
additions in the segment remain “poor,” he said.  The operator added 14,000 Internet customers in the second
quarter, increasing its share of net additions to 21 percent
from 10 percent in the first three months of the year. Earlier
this year Telekomunikacja, which has 35 percent of Poland’s
broadband Internet market, started offering services in
cooperation with broadcaster TVN SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  