-- 
Elephant Man Disease Caused by Single Gene That May be Treated, Study Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-07-27T22:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/elephant-man-disease-caused-by-single-gene-that-may-be-treated-study-says.html
(Corrects transposed letters in name of gene in seventh
paragraph.)  Scientists say they have found a
single gene mutation responsible for a rare condition thought to
affect the disfigured “Elephant Man” who toured  Europe  in the
19th century and was the subject of a 1980 film.  Because the gene is also linked to cancer, drugs now in
 development  may one day help similar patients, the researchers
said. The disease, called the  Proteus syndrome , is marked by
uncontrolled tissue and bone growth. It’s named for the shape-
shifting god from Greek mythology, and affects fewer than 500
people globally, according to the  National Institutes of Health .  The single mutation, essentially one misspelling among 3
billion letters that comprise the human genome, occurs during
fetal development and isn’t inherited, said Leslie Biesecker,
the senior author of the report published today in the  New
England Journal of Medicine .  “All patients so far have exactly the same mutation in the
same gene, and it’s never found in unaffected people,” said
Biesecker, chief of genetic diseases research at the National
Human Genome Research Institute, in a conference call with
reporters. “Once the mutation happens, the cells that descend
from that mutated cell display the uncontrolled growth that
characterizes the disorder.”  Researchers said they plan to confirm the diagnosis of
Joseph Merrick, who was played by John Hurt in the 1980 film, by
analyzing his remains. Merrick died in 1890 in  London .  The scientists found that the cells that were unaffected by
the mutation continue to develop, giving the affected child two
separate genomes. It’s difficult to for doctors to diagnose the
condition because, in some cases, only the normal cells were
studied, Biesecker said.  Gene Targeted  The mutation occurs in the AKT1 gene, which has been
linked to tumors and may cause as much as 5 percent of breast
cancers. Companies targeting AKT include  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,
Astra-Zeneca Plc, Zentaris Inc. and VioQuest Pharmaceuticals.
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Tarceva and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Erbitux appear
to work, in part, by hitting AKT, studies have shown.  The researchers sequenced the part of the genome that codes
proteins to pinpoint the mutation in seven patients with Proteus
syndrome. They then tested 22 more patients, finding the
mutation in 26 of the 29 tested. The other three may have the
mutation at lower levels or in different tissues, the
researchers said.  A subsequent analysis of 400 volunteers and thousands of
others whose genomes are kept in public research databases
failed to turn up the mutation in anyone without the condition.  15 Years of Tissue  The researchers did their analysis on tissue samples
removed during surgery to control excessive bone and tissue
growth during the past 15 years, said  Eric Green , director of
the National Human Genome Research Institute. The process took
so long because they needed the technology to mature, he said.  “We are just starting to capitalize on the leading edge of
this genomic revolution,” he said. “Like X-rays that peered
into our bodies in the previous century, the power to routinely
and robustly peer into our genomes will prove revolutionary,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  