-- 
Elton John Grabs Croatian Cellists With Hot Guns N’ Roses Video

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-07-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/elton-john-grabs-croatian-cellists-with-hot-guns-n-roses-video-on-youtube.html
In January,  Luka Sulic  and  Stjepan
Hauser  were two cello players ready to embark on a life in the
world’s classical music halls.  Then they decided to have some fun and record a rendition
of  Michael Jackson ’s “Smooth Criminal” in front of a video
camera.  Thousands quickly discovered it on YouTube. A month later,
a talent scout from Sony Classical approached the duo with a
recording contract. Then  Elton John  asked them to be the opening
act on his current world tour.  “It’s like a miracle, what happened,” said Hauser, 25, in
a telephone interview while en route to a Sarajevo gig. “Elton
John expressed admiration for our music and we were honored
because he’s a living legend. One day we were unknown and now
we’re living the American dream.”  The duo, known as  2Cellos , will bring their energetic
playing style and pop-infused chamber music to  New York ’s Le
Poisson Rouge. They will also celebrate the U.S. release of
their self-titled CD. The 12 cuts are covers of radio-friendly
songs that may make many classical purists shudder. They include
Guns N’ Roses’s “Welcome to the Jungle,” “Where the Streets
Have No Name” by U2, Nirvana’s “Teen Spirit” and “Use
Somebody” by  Kings of Leon .  Hauser said he and his partner, who is 23, grew up
worshiping pop and rock gods such as Jackson, Sting and Bono
like other kids in Croatia. Embracing classical music doesn’t
mean forsaking other genres.  “Classical music is not so popular unfortunately, and what
we’re doing is bringing classical music to a younger audience,”
Hauser said.  Headbangers  The pair have also made a video of “Welcome to the
Jungle,” which has lured more than 1.6 million viewers on
YouTube. The melodic sound of the cello may be prevalent, but
the duo plays the song with a headbanger’s fervor.  “We are both very intense cellists, and we play with
power,” said Hauser, the winner of 21 international and
national prizes. “We are like animals on the cello. We break
the strings and the bows when we play.”  Hauser grew up in the city of Pula, and Sulic was raised in
 Slovenia . Sulic went to  London ’s  Royal Academy of Music , while
Hauser enrolled in Manchester’s  Royal Northern College of Music ,
where he was the last student of Russian cello legend Mstislav Rostropovich before he died in 2007.  The two met in a master class in Croatia. While it was
natural to perform the classics, they decided to play duets of
their favorite rock and pop songs as well.  ‘The Best Part’  Hauser once performed for Prince Charles at  Buckingham
Palace . Now he and Sulic play with Elton John in front of
thousands. They have toured this month with him in  Europe  and
will rejoin him in the fall for shows in the U.S.,  Brazil ,
 Russia  and  Australia .  “We perform in front of all sorts of people, and there are
a lot of screaming girls, and that’s the best part,” Hauser
said.  (2Cellos performs tomorrow at Le Poisson Rouge, 158
Bleecker St. in  Manhattan  at 6:30 p.m. Tickets and information:
 http://www.lepoissonrouge.com/events/view/2478  or +1-212-505-
3474. Tour schedule for 2Cellos:
 http://www.2cellos.com/us/events )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 