-- 
Most Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on U.S. Concern; Lira Rallies

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-27T22:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-earnings-u-s-debt-impasse.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
concern that the U.S. may lose its top  credit rating 
overshadowed signs of improving corporate earnings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.7 percent to
1,148.99 at 4:40 p.m. in  New York , with 465 stocks retreating
and 308 gaining.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index plunged into a bear
Market, falling 1.8 percent and extending the worst
performance this year among major equity markets.  Argentina ’s
Merval index sank 2.9 percent, the most in eight months.  Russia’s benchmark slid for a fourth straight day while
 India ’s Sensitive Index declined for a second day. The lira
strengthened after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the
Turkish currency, this month’s worst performer in emerging
markets, will find a “middle ground.”  Profit growth helped lift the MSCI emerging-market index to
its highest close since July 8 yesterday even as U.S. lawmakers
struggled to reach an agreement to raise the federal debt limit
before an Aug. 2 deadline. Net income at the 100 companies in
the MSCI index that reported results this month rose 20 percent
on average, topping analysts’ estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The emerging markets which do perform best have
currencies which are not overvalued, and where inflation is not
a big problem,” said John Lomax, an emerging-markets strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc, in a phone interview from  London . “We can
no longer treat emerging markets as a homogenous asset class,
but have to pick and choose between the countries.”  Chinese Industry Grows  The  Shanghai  Composite Index rallied 0.8 percent. China
Shipbuilding Industry Co. jumped 3.9 percent in Shanghai and
Beijing New Building Materials Public Ltd. rose 4.3 percent in
Shenzhen. The Chinese statistics bureau said today net income at
industrial companies climbed 28.7 percent in the first six
months from a year earlier, compared with a 27.9 percent gain in
January through May.  Brazil’s Bovespa has fallen 20 percent from a November high
after new measures to stem currency gains and concern that
quickening inflation will squelch earnings growth pushed
the benchmark index down.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , the Brazilian
consumer-goods maker, fell 6 percent to the lowest level in more
than two years.  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , the nation’s third-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, declined 2.6 percent, and has plunged 51
percent since Nov. 4 as record-low unemployment drives up labor
costs. Banco Macro SA, Argentina’s largest lender by market
value, slid 3.9 percent.  Competing Plans  House Speaker John Boehner’s reworked deficit-cutting plan
gained support today among his fellow Republicans, while Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid said his competing proposal to avert
a potential U.S. default offers the only “true compromise.”
The stalemate may cost America its AAA rating, adding $100
billion a year to government costs while dragging down economic
growth, according to Wall Street bond dealers.  “There will be a short-term shock for the market if there
is a credit downgrade or default in the U.S.,” said Danny Yan,
a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Haitong International Asset
Management, which oversees $600 million. “I’m optimistic the
U.S. will find a way to raise the debt ceiling” before an Aug.
2 deadline.  A report today showed orders for U.S. durable goods
unexpectedly dropped in June, raising the risk that a slowdown
in business investment will weigh on the world’s largest economy
in the second half of the year.  Among exporters, Samsung Electronics Co., which gets about
85 percent of its sales abroad, slid 0.6 percent in  Seoul .  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of
computer-memory chips that counts on  North America  for about 27
percent of its revenue, declined 2.9 percent.  Kinsus Interconnect, LG Electronics  Kinsus Interconnect Technology Corp. (3189)  added 4.5 percent in
Taipei after the maker of chips for smart phones said profit in
the second quarter rose to NT$734 million ($25.5 million). In
Seoul,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  rallied 2.6 percent after the world’s
third-largest mobile-phone maker posted losses at its wireless
division that were narrower than analysts had estimated.  India’s Sensex sank 0.5 percent, adding to the 1.9 percent
drop yesterday, when the  Reserve Bank  raised its benchmark
 interest rate  by a more-than-estimated 0.5 percentage point to
quell the highest inflation rate among major Asian economies.
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, declined 1.7
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 296, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  was little changed at 204, according to data provider CMA
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  