-- 
Tepco Falls in Tokyo as Investors May Help Compensation

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-27T04:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/tepco-falls-in-tokyo-as-investors-may-help-compensation-1-.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. fell the
most in seven weeks after a bill before parliament said
stakeholders in the company will be asked to “cooperate” in
compensating those affected by the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant disaster.  While the language in the bill is vague, the wording raises
concern shareholders may lose their capital and lenders may have
to waive some loans, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.
analyst Toshiyasu Ohashi said yesterday when a draft of the bill
was released.  The shares dropped as much as 12.7 percent to 447, on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest decline since June 6. It
traded at 454 yen at 1:09 p.m. The stock is down 79 percent
since the day before the disaster.  The company is due to report earnings at the end of this
month and may post an extraordinary loss of 126 billion yen
($1.6 billion), brokerage MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. said.  “There is no one reason why the shares are falling today,
as it’s probably a combination of the approaching bad earnings
results and government deliberations” about the future of the
company, said Tomohiro Jikihara, a Tokyo-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The company known as Tepco is struggling to contain the
worst nuclear crisis in 25 years after an earthquake and tsunami
in March wrecked the plant north of  Tokyo . The utility agreed to
sell assets worldwide to raise at least 600 billion yen ($7.7
billion) one of the conditions for receiving government support
to compensate about 160,000 people forced to evacuate areas near
the plant.  Bill Deliberations  The bill is being discussed in  Japan ’s parliament and is
likely to be voted on this week. The legislation is needed to
provide a legal framework to pay damages after the disaster, the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  Tepco is considering selling its shareholdings in other
companies, real estate and other so-called non-core assets, the
utility said in a statement today, without giving details.  It was responding to a report in the Nikkei newspaper that
said the company will sell about 230 billion yen of stock it
owns in  KDDI Corp. (9433)  and Recruit Co.  Tepco may also raise 150 billion yen selling its majority
stake in At Tokyo, a data center business, the Nikkei said,
citing a draft restructuring plan it obtained. Tepco said it
wasn’t the source of the plan.  KDDI spokesman Keiichi Sakurai couldn’t be immediately
reached and didn’t respond to voice mail seeking comment.  Tokyo Electric’s shareholdings totaled 325.7 billion yen as
March 31, the company said in a report in June. Tepco’s 8
percent stake in KDDI, the country’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator, is worth 204.8 billion yen, based on the midday
closing price today.  The company has 4.7 trillion yen of bonds due by 2030,
Bloomberg data show. Cash and near cash totaled 2.24 trillion
yen as of March 31.  The utility also owns about 311.9 billion yen worth of real
estate, according to the Weekly Diamond magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  