-- 
Equity Residential FFO Rises 3.3% as Apartment Rents Climb, Vacancies Fall

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-07-27T22:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/equity-residential-ffo-rises-3-3-as-apartment-rents-climb-vacancies-fall.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, said second-quarter
funds from operations rose 3.3 percent as the nation’s rents
climbed and vacancies declined.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, rose to $180.7 million from $174.9 million a year earlier.
On a per share basis, FFO was unchanged at 58 cents, the
Chicago-based real estate investment trust said today in a
statement. The company was expected to have FFO of 60 cents a
share, the average estimate of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  U.S. apartment rents climbed 5.2 percent in the 12 months
through June, as a weak homebuying market fueled demand for
leasing, according to  Axiometrics Inc. , a Dallas-based research
company. REIT landlords are benefiting from a limited supply of
apartments and better job prospects for recent college
graduates, according to Anthony Paolone, an analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  “You look at the economic conditions and they’re not
brilliant, yet the apartment pricing power has been
phenomenal,” he said in an interview before earnings were
released.  While the U.S. unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent,
there’s been “a good amount of job growth” in the 20-to-35 age
group, Paolone said, “and that age cohort has a bigger
propensity to rent.”  ‘Drag on Earnings’  Equity Residential sold more than $1 billion of apartment
properties in the second quarter, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc., taking advantage of investor demand amid the
promise of rent growth. The “stepped up” pace of disposition
creates a “near-term drag on earnings,” Paolone, who has an
“overweight” rating on the stock, wrote in July 22 note to
investors.  FFO, used by REITs, doesn’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.  Equity Residential reported so-called normalized FFO of 60
cents a share, compared with 58 cents a year earlier. Normalized
FFO excludes items that are not comparable from period to
period, such as asset impairments or penalties for early payment
of debt, the company said.  Full-Year Forecast  The company lowered the upper end of its forecast for full-
year normalized FFO because of the increase in property sales,
Chief Executive Officer David Neithercut said in the statement.
The REIT expects $2.40 to $2.45 a share, down from April’s
projection of $2.40 to $2.50.  Second-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Equity Residential fell 1.6 percent to
$62.49 as of 4:15 pm in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares gained 35 percent in the last 12 months,
compared with a 31 percent advance in the Bloomberg REIT
Apartment Index of 14 companies.  (Equity Residential will hold a conference call tomorrow at
11 a.m. New York time. To monitor, go to the investor
information page of  http://www.equityapartments.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  