-- 
German Merck Reports Surprise Loss, Cuts Forecast

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-27T07:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/merck-reports-surprise-loss-cuts-forecast.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  unexpectedly reported a
second-quarter loss and cut its operating profit forecast,
triggering the stock’s steepest decline in 10 months.  Merck fell as much as 4.6 euros, or 5.9 percent, to 72.90
euros in Frankfurt trading, cutting the company’s market value
to 15.9 billion euros ($23 billion). The stock traded at 73.20
euros at 9:04 a.m. in Frankfurt.  The Darmstadt, Germany-based drugmaker is cutting costs,
reevaluating assets and reviewing its pipeline after setbacks
for some key medicines, including the cladribine pill against
multiple sclerosis. Merck appointed a new chief financial
officer last month.  “This is an attempt to clear the decks,”  Jack Scannell ,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  London , said in an
interview today. He has an “outperform” rating on the stock.
“They’re going through the assets and determining what they’re
worth.”  Merck, which bought U.S. biotechnology equipment supplier
Millipore Corp. last year to diversify, had a net loss of 85.9
million euros in the quarter, compared with net income of 183.4
million euros a year earlier. The company also said in a
statement today that operating profit will be about 1 billion
euros this year, less than previously estimated.  Cost Review  Operating costs more than doubled last quarter, lifted by
the integration of Millipore, an impairment loss due to
overcapacity at a Swiss plant and a provision for the remaining
cost of halting the development of cladribine.  “We are striving for leaner processes and we are reviewing
our cost structures,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley
said in the statement.  The German company, which isn’t affiliated with Merck & Co.
of the U.S., had said April 28 it expected operating profit to
rise between 35 percent and 45 percent this year from the 1.1
billion euros reported last year.  Core earnings, which exclude costs such as writedowns and
merger expenses, were 0.94 euros a share, compared with the
1.86-euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 16 percent to 2.6 billion euros,
boosted by the Millipore purchase.  Second-quarter sales at the Merck Serono drug unit rose 2
percent to 1.48 billion euros, according to the statement. Sales
of Rebif gained 5.2 percent to 423 million euros while sales of
cancer drug Erbitux declined 3 percent to 204 million euros.  For 2011 the company expects revenue of between 10 billion
euros and 10.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 