-- 
Hoodlums Repel Aliens; Uday Hussein’s Double; Talking Cat: Film

-- B y   J a c o b   H e n k o f f
-- 
2011-07-27T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/hero-hoodlums-repel-aliens-uday-hussein-s-body-double-talking-cat-film.html
One night in a seedy London
neighborhood, a comet-like object plunges from the sky and
crashes into a parked car, not far from where a nurse is being
mugged by teenage hoodlums.  When the gang leader inspects the wreckage, he’s attacked
by a vicious furry creature. While the nurse (Jodie Whitaker)
escapes, the gangsters track down the beast and beat it to death
inside a shed.  The opening scene of “ Attack the Block ” perfectly sets
the stage for this terrifying horror film in which the bad guys
turn into heroes, mercilessly defending their turf against an
alien invasion.  Writer/director Joe Cornish is a British comedian best
known for his satires and spoofs. But here -- with a few
exceptions -- he’s deadly serious. While Nick Frost and Luke
Treadaway provide comic relief as a bumbling drug dealer and his
best customer, “Attack the Block” is mostly a classic horror
flick, with more gore than goons.  The gang members -- Moses, Pest, Dennis, Jerome, and Biggz
-- are skillfully portrayed by a handful of young drama students
plucked from obscurity by Cornish.  “Attack the Block,” from Screen Gems, opens Friday in New
York,  Chicago ,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  Seattle  and Austin,
 Texas . Rating: ***1/2  ‘The Devil’s Double’  In 1987, Iraqi soldier Latif Yahia was given an ultimatum
by his former schoolmate Uday Hussein: Become my body double or
you and your entire family will die.  Not surprisingly, Yahia agreed to the demand by  Saddam Hussein ’s eldest son. He underwent a series of cosmetic
operations and learned how to walk, talk and act like Uday, a
ruthless, drug-addicted hedonist who treated women like slaves.  Uday would take Yahia to parties and introduce him as “my
brother.” Other times Yahia would pose as Uday to speak to
diplomats and rally troops during the invasion of  Kuwait .
Eventually, Yahia became disillusioned by the violence and
debauchery he witnessed, leading to a shootout in a nightclub.  In “ The Devil’s Double ,” a chilling dramatic film based on
Yahia’s autobiographical novel, Dominic Cooper delivers virtuoso
performances as Yahia and Uday. Despite their nearly identical
appearances, Cooper brilliantly contrasts the brooding Yahia
with the maniacal Uday.  Director Lee Tamahori uses some real footage, including
shots of President  George H.W. Bush  and film of live combat and
dead bodies. But the most disturbing scene recreates a party
where Uday savagely attacks a man who has insulted him.  “The Devil’s Double,” from  Lions Gate , opens Friday in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ‘The Future’  “ The Future ” is narrated by a cat with an injured paw.
The feline’s foot isn’t the only thing that’s broken in this
pretentious, self-indulgent movie about a couple in the throes
of a mid-life crisis.  Sophie, played by writer/director Miranda July, and Jason
(Hamish Linklater, the film’s saving grace) are both approaching
their 40th birthdays when they decide to adopt a cat. “Paw-
Paw” won’t be available for 30 days, a period the couple uses
to re-examine their lives and find a new direction before they
assume the awesome responsibility of owning a cat.  Jason takes an existential approach to his job search and
ends up as a door-to-door tree salesman. Sophie decides to film
a YouTube series called “30 Days, 30 Dances,” but never
completes a single one.  Talking Cat, Moon  July, a multimedia artist who has directed one other
feature, has made a movie that’s as artsy as her name. It gives
Sophie and Jason’s search a significance and symbolism that it
doesn’t earn. The cat narration, voiced by July, and Joe
Putterlik’s talking moon are more distracting than clever.  July confuses silence with profundity. Much of the movie
consists of the couple sitting around staring at each other.
When ambient sound is used it’s often overdone, particularly in
a scene where Jason caresses a corduroy couch with his index
finger.  “The Future,” from Roadside Attractions, opens today in
 New York  and Aug. 5 in Los Angeles. Rating: *  (Jacob Henkoff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jacob Henkoff in New York at 
 jhenkoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 