-- 
EU Wheat Harvest to Fall 1.6% on Lower Area, Crop Unit Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-27T16:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/eu-wheat-harvest-to-fall-1-6-on-lower-area-crop-unit-says-1-.html
The European Union wheat harvest is
forecast to drop 1.6 percent on a decline in the planted area,
while yields will be higher than expected last month after rain
ended a dry period, the bloc’s crop-monitoring unit said.  Wheat production in the 27-nation bloc is forecast to be
137 million metric tons this year, the EU’s Monitoring
Agricultural Resources unit, or MARS, said in a  report  on its
website today, without providing a year-earlier number.  Rain in June relieved a spring drought in northwest  Europe 
that had threatened to slash average yields in the bloc. Rains
in Europe from June 21 to July 20 were above average, with wet
periods in eastern France,  Germany  and  Poland  causing a sizable
rainfall surplus, according to MARS.  “Rainfall from June onwards is considered beneficial for
grain filling of winter wheat,” the crop-monitoring unit said.
“The weather conditions were prosperous for grain maize, tuber
and root crops.”  Soft-wheat acreage fell 1.3 percent, while the EU durum-
wheat area declined 7.3 percent, according to MARS.  The outlook for EU wheat yields was lifted to 5.36 tons a
hectare (2.47 acres) from a June forecast of 5.27 tons and
compared with 5.29 tons in 2010, MARS said. Soft-wheat yields
are forecast up 0.9 percent to 5.6 tons a hectare, compared with
a previous outlook for little-changed productivity.  France , Poland  Yields were boosted by a “beneficial grain-filling phase”
in Germany, France and the U.K., and an improved outlook for
yields in Romania and Poland, the crop unit said.  Rainy days in the last part of July interfered with
harvesting in France and southern Germany, according to the
report. For the period to Aug. 4, rain is expected mainly around
the  Baltic Sea , with lower-than-usual precipitation in the U.K.
and most of Germany, according to MARS.  “The weather will be favorable for harvesting activities
in France, Germany, Benelux and the British Islands,” MARS
said. “Rainfall will hamper these activities in Poland.”  EU barley production is forecast to be 54.2 million tons
and the corn harvest is expected to be 61.2 million tons, the
monitoring unit said, without providing year-earlier figures.  MARS predicted average EU barley yields will advance 0.4
percent to 4.35 tons a hectare, while corn yields may slip 1.1
percent to 6.95 tons. Rapeseed yields are forecast to decline 4
percent to 2.85 tons a hectare.  Beet Yields  Sugar-beet yields in the EU will climb 1.5 percent in 2011
to 68.83 tons a hectare, according to the report.  In Ukraine, wheat yields are forecast at 2.85 tons a
hectare, down 1.9 percent from the five-year average, MARS said.
The country had “intensive rain” of more than 50 millimeters
(2 inches) a day in the east and center at the end of June,
according to the EU crop unit.  “Exceptionally wet periods with heavy rainfall could have
lowered yields by damaging crops and negatively affecting the
access to the fields for harvest operations,” MARS said.  Harvesting of winter grain has started in Morocco, Algeria
and  Tunisia , with favorable weather conditions, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 