-- 
Dollar Climbs From 11-Week Low as Budget Deadlock Spurs Demand for Refuge

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-27T21:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/euro-declines-as-germany-s-schaeuble-says-region-s-rescue-fund-has-limits.html
The dollar advanced from the lowest
level since May against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners as an agreement to raise the debt limit remained
elusive, spurring demand for a refuge.  The greenback rose for the first time in three days against
the euro as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said it’s time
Republicans “face facts” and agree on a compromise plan. The
euro fell against the dollar and Swiss franc after  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered Greece to CC, two steps above default. The
Australian dollar rallied against all of its most-traded
counterparts as consumer prices rose more than forecast.  “People are very nervous, and there is a lot of
uncertainty,” said  John McCarthy , managing director of  currency
trading  at ING Groep NV in New York. “The dollar is benefiting
in some regards from safe-haven.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against currencies including the euro, yen and
pound, rose 0.8 percent to 74.081 at 5 p.m. in  New York , from
73.474 yesterday, after earlier touching 73.421, the lowest
level since May 5.  Brazil ’s real declined the most in more than a year after
the government said it will levy a tax on some investments in
foreign-exchange derivatives, the latest step in a bid to stem
the currency’s rally.  Real Versus Dollar  The real declined 1.1 percent to 1.5556 per dollar, from
1.5391 yesterday. It earlier slid as much as 2 percent to 1.5704
in its biggest intraday decline since June 2010.  Brazil took further action to end a rally in the real after
repeated efforts to weaken the currency this year failed to
prevent it from reaching a 12-year high yesterday. The
government authorized the monetary council to charge a 1 percent
tax on certain derivatives operations and to raise taxes on
futures operations.  The Australian dollar surged to a record against the
greenback today after the Bureau of Statistics said consumer
prices rose 0.9 percent in the second quarter. The median
forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.7 percent gain.  Swaps traders reduced bets on an interest-rate cut in
 Australia  after the report, according to a Credit Suisse Group
AG index.  The Aussie appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.1020 after
reaching $1.1081, the highest level since the currency began
trading freely in 1983.  Dollar Against Euro  The  U.S. dollar  gained 1 percent to $1.4369 against the
euro, from $1.4511 yesterday, after touching $1.4536, the
weakest level since July 5. The greenback gained 0.1 percent to
77.98 yen after touching 77.57, the lowest level since March 17.
The euro dropped 0.9 percent to 112.04 yen.  President  Barack Obama  threatened a veto of House Speaker
John Boehner’s two-step plan to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling and cut $3 trillion in expenditure. A vote on the
measure that had been scheduled for today was postponed until
tomorrow. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
U.S. will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2.  “We’re coming down to the wire, but the reality is that
some sort of a deal will get done,” said  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in New York.
“At the end of the day, something will get done. It’s just a
matter of the scope of the deficit-reduction plan.”  Fed’s Beige Book  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy grew at a slower pace
in more parts of the nation since the beginning of June as
shoppers restrained spending and factory production eased.
Growth slowed in eight of the Fed’s 12 regions, compared with
four in the last survey, the central bank said in its Beige Book
survey released today.  The euro dropped 1 percent to 1.1516 Swiss francs, compared
with the record low 1.1374 reached July 18, as S&P lowered
 Greece ’s rating. The dollar traded at 80.17 Swiss centimes after
falling to a record low 79.96.  Greece will partially default on its debt once European
officials push through a plan that will see bondholders foot
part of the bill of a second bailout agreed to last week in
Brussels, according to S&P. Its cut in Greece’s rating followed
a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service on July 25.  The euro fell earlier against the dollar after  Germany ’s
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a letter to
lawmakers summarizing the results of the summit on July 21 that
his country opposes a “blank check” for the euro-area rescue
fund to purchase bonds on the secondary market.  Message to ‘Troops’  “You had Schaeuble sending a message to his troops saying
the EFSF is not an automatic buyer of peripherals,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , referring to the European Financial
Stability Facility. “There’s a natural tendency for people
wanting to get rid of these positions anyway.”  Bank of  Japan  board member Hidetoshi Kamezaki said today
he’s watching the yen’s recent gains with great caution as they
could damage the economy. The BOJ will take needed policy action
proactively, he said.  Group of Seven nations sold the yen on March 18 after it
rose to a postwar record of 76.25 to the dollar on the previous
day, saying in a statement they wanted to reduce “excess
volatility and disorderly movements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  