-- 
Europe Loan Growth Slowed in June as Crisis Weighed on Economy

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-27T08:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/europe-loan-growth-slowed-in-june-as-crisis-weighed-on-economy.html
Growth in loans to households and
companies in the 17-nation euro area slowed in June as the
region’s fiscal crisis weighed on economic expansion and damped
demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector rose 2.5 percent from a year
earlier after advancing an annual 2.7 percent in May, the
 European Central Bank  said today. The rate of growth in M3  money
supply , which the Frankfurt-based ECB uses as a gauge of future
inflation, slowed to 2.1 percent from 2.5 percent in May.  “Loan growth has recovered but remains low in a historical
comparison because in the euro area as a whole, economic growth
isn’t overly robust,” said Christoph Balz, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “With inflation moving towards 3
percent and excess liquidity in the financial system from before
the financial crisis, the ECB would probably welcome a more
moderate expansion of money supply.”  The ECB lifted its benchmark  interest rate  to 1.5 percent
this month even as economies from  Greece  to Portugal struggle to
grow amid a fiscal crisis that’s threatening to engulf Italy and
Spain. The bank predicts the euro-region economy will grow 1.9
percent this year.  M3 climbed 2.2 percent in the three months through June
from the same period a year earlier, the ECB said. M3 is the
broadest gauge of money supply and includes cash in circulation,
some forms of savings and money-market holdings.  Euro-area inflation probably held at 2.7 percent in July, a
Bloomberg survey of economists shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  