-- 
Euro Crisis to Hurt Korean Companies Most, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-07-27T07:48:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/euro-crisis-to-hurt-korean-companies-most-morgan-stanley-says.html
Companies in Korea, Thailand and
Indonesia are the most at risk of default in Asia should a
worsening debt crisis in Europe dry up dollar flows into the
region, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “The biggest risk to Asian credit markets of a worsening
European debt crisis is a deterioration in global funding
markets,” the New York-based bank’s chief Asia credit
strategist,  Viktor Hjort , wrote in a July 25 note to clients.
“Funding market contagion represents real  default risk .”  Korea South-East Power Co. and Hai Chao Trading Co. are
among companies that postponed bond sales earlier this month,
citing volatile markets, only to resurrect them when conditions
improved. Europe’s debt crisis prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to cut Greece’s credit rating three levels to Ca this
week, its second-lowest ranking. The New York-based company said
the European Union’s latest rescue plan for the nation will
cause substantial losses for investors and amount to a default.  Banking systems in  Asia  that are most exposed include those
with a significant reliance on wholesale, as opposed to deposit,
funding and those in countries where there is limited government
support from foreign exchange reserves, Hjort wrote.  China ’s
“deep deposits” and currency reserves make it the least
exposed, followed by Malaysia, according to the report.  EU leaders reached an agreement on a second rescue package
for Greece worth 159 billion euros ($230 billion) on July 21 and
strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to offer protection
to other euro-region nations in a bid to stamp out contagion
from the crisis.  Markets in Asia remain highly “sensitive” to the euro
crisis, and the U.S. growth outlook, and it’s “difficult to
position a 100 percent Asia credit portfolio without a view on
those global risks,” Hjort wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  