-- 
European Stocks Drop for Third Day; Clariant, Merck Lead Decline

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-07-27T16:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/european-stock-index-futures-decline-clariant-merck-may-fall-on-earnings.html
European stocks fell for a third day
as earnings from  Clariant AG (CLN)  to  Merck KGaA (MRK)  missed estimates and
U.S. politicians wrangled over the nation’s debt limit.  Clariant, a Swiss chemical maker, plunged the most in eight
years. Merck, Germany’s second-biggest drugmaker, dropped 4.8
percent as it reported an unexpected loss. PSA Peugeot Citroen
tumbled 7.6 percent after saying its automotive division may
post a second-half loss.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  led financial shares
lower after  Spain ’s biggest bank said profit declined as Spanish
loan provisions surged.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 1.1 percent to 267.05 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has retreated 8.3
percent from this year’s high in February amid concern that
Europe’s fiscal crisis will derail the economic recovery and
speculation that U.S. lawmakers will fail to agree on increasing
the nation’s debt ceiling by next week’s deadline.  “The earnings season has revealed that weakness in the
global economy remains,”  Philippe Gijsels , the head of research
at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets, said in a phone interview
from Brussels. “There have been some misses in terms of
guidance and this shows us we’re in a mid-cycle slowdown with
companies being held hostage by economic conditions.”  U.S. Rating  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have said they may cut the U.S.’s top-level sovereign
rating if officials fail to resolve the stalemate on the $14.3
trillion borrowing ceiling. The government needs to boost the
cap by Aug. 2 so it can keep paying its bills, according to the
Treasury Department.  “The likelihood of a U.S. sovereign-rating downgrade is
around 50 percent,”  Andrew Garthwaite , the London-based head of
global equity strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
report to clients today. “If there is no increase in the debt
ceiling for a prolonged period -- say 3 months -- with no
agreement in sight, we believe stock markets could easily fall
15 percent.” He predicted that an agreement will be made to
raise the debt limit before next week’s deadline passes.  Profit has missed analyst estimates by an average of 3.3
percent for companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
results since July 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with an average beat of 7.5 percent for members of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the same period.  Durable Goods  Stocks extended losses after a report in the U.S. showed
orders for durable goods unexpectedly dropped in June and
inventories climbed at the slowest pace in a year, evidence that
companies lost confidence in the strength of the recovery as the
second quarter ended. Bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years fell 2.1 percent after a 1.9 percent gain the prior
month that was smaller than last reported, the Commerce
Department said.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 1.2 percent,  Germany ’s DAX
lost 1.3 percent and  France ’s CAC declined 1.4 percent.  Clariant plunged 14 percent to 13.19 Swiss francs, the
largest drop since February 2003. Second-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization declined to 241
million francs ($301 million) from 264 million francs, the
Muttenz, Switzerland-based company said. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts had predicted 293 million francs.  Merck unexpectedly reported a second-quarter loss and cut
its forecast for full-year operating profit. The Darmstadt,
Germany-based company had a loss of 84 million euros ($122
million) in the quarter, compared with net income of 187 million
euros a year earlier, and said operating profit will be about 1
billion euros this year due to one-time adjustments. The stock
sank 4.8 percent to 73.76 euros.  Peugeot Sinks  Peugeot lost 7.6 percent to 27.26 euros after Europe’s
second-largest carmaker abandoned a goal of increasing second-
half earnings at the automotive division.  Bank stocks posted the biggest decline among 19 industry
groups on the Stoxx 600.  Santander retreated 3.2 percent to 7.34 euros as second-
quarter profit dropped 38 percent after Spanish loan provisions
surged and it set aside funds for customers mis-sold personal-
loan insurance in the U.K.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s largest bank, fell 4.3 percent to
1.22 euros and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  lost 5.1 percent to 1.57
euros.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slid 4.3 percent to 42.24 pence
and Banco Comercial Portugues SA retreated 6.7 percent to 30.5
euro cents.  Italy, Spain Bonds  Italian and Spanish government bonds slumped amid
speculation Europe’s aid package may not be sufficient to
prevent contagion. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said the government is against a “blank check” for the European
Financial Stability Facility to buy bonds of troubled euro
members in the secondary market.  Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA (JMT)  slid 5.6 percent to 13.54 euros
even after the Portuguese retailer reported increased profit.
The company said the second half is “expected to be marked by
the sharp drop in consumption and by the increased financial
difficulties of the Portuguese.”   Distribuidora Internacional de Alimentacion SA, the Madrid-
based discount retailer spun off from Carrefour SA this month,
sank 6.3 percent to 3.07 euros.  Alcatel-Lucent SA, France’s largest telecommunications
equipment supplier, dropped 6.9 percent to 3.38 euros as U.S.
rival Juniper Networks Inc. reported sales and profit that
missed estimates.  Meda AB (MEDAA)  rallied 6.7 percent to 75.80 kronor as two people
with knowledge of the matter said Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. approached the Swedish company about a
takeover. The approach was informal and may not lead to a deal,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the situation is private.  Provident Financial Plc (PFG)  climbed 8.4 percent to 1,115 pence
after the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded subprime lender posted
first-half profit that beat analyst estimates as bad loans
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  