-- 
Teva Forecast Leaves Investors Wondering What’s ‘Cooking’ in Last Quarter

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-07-27T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/teva-profit-little-changed-as-rise-in-european-sales-offsets-u-s-decline.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
said third-quarter profit will miss estimates even as it left
the full-year forecast unchanged, leaving analysts wondering
where the generic-drug maker will find more than $1 billion in
added revenue in the fourth quarter.  Third-quarter earnings excluding some costs will be $1.22 a
share, Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said on a conference
call yesterday. That falls short of the $1.35 a share analysts
expected, based on the average of 20 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Yet Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva said it still
expects to meet a full-year target of $4.90 to $5.20 a share.  That implies a quarter-on-quarter sales increase of about
$1.2 billion in the year’s final period, said Gilad Alper, a Tel
Aviv-based analyst for Meitav Investment House Ltd. The $1.70 a
share Teva will need in the fourth quarter to make the middle of
its forecast range is “a lot,” Natali Gotlieb, a Tel Aviv-
based analyst for Israel Brokerage Investment, posted on Twitter
after the statement. “What are they cooking?”  “We’re all struggling a little bit with the trajectory
from here to the end of the year because it’s so back-end
loaded,” Ronny Gal, a New York-based analyst for Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., told Teva executives in the call.  While Teva executives didn’t specify where they’ll get the
money, they’re counting on introducing new products.  ‘A Dozen Launches’  “We anticipate over a dozen launches over the balance of
the year,” including an exclusive generic version of  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa in October, Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai
said on the conference call. The schizophrenia drug had $5.03
billion in sales last year.  The figures don’t include profits from the acquisition of
U.S. biotechnology company  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) , expected to close in
October, Desheh said. This year’s acquisition of a stake in
Japanese drugmaker Taiyo Pharmaceutical Industry Co. will add
about $250 million to second-half sales, he said.  Earnings excluding some costs in the second quarter climbed
0.3 percent to $984 million from a year earlier, Teva said
yesterday.  Teva’s first-half earnings per share totaled $2.14. If the
company earns $1.22 a share in the third quarter, it would need
$1.54 in the fourth quarter to achieve the bottom of its
forecast range for the year, and $1.84 to meet the high end.
Analysts predict $1.60, the average of 20 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Depositary Receipts  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell $1.04, or 2.2
percent, to close at $45.75 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The ADRs
have declined 7.2 percent in the past year including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 21 percent return for the Bloomberg
 Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Teva will get a sales boost from being first to sell
generic Zyprexa, Gotlieb said. The Israeli company’s version of
Johnson & Johnson’s Levaquin has competitors, however, she said,
and because of a settlement the company is unlikely to begin
selling copies of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor this year. She rates
Teva’s shares “buy.”  Possible product targets for Teva include GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s Combivir for HIV, UCB SA’s allergy treatment Xyzal and
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp.’s acne medicine Solodyn, Bill Marth, president of U.S. operations for Teva, said in the
conference call.  Lack of Products  A lack of new products in Teva’s U.S. generic-drug business
accompanied manufacturing problems and uncertainty in the last
two quarters about the future of Teva’s biggest drug, the
multiple sclerosis medicine Copaxone. Teva said it didn’t
introduce significant new generic drugs in the U.S. in the
second quarter, even as sales of its key products in that
segment dropped.  North American sales fell 15 percent to $2.1 billion. Sales
of generic and other drugs excluding Copaxone in the U.S. fell
40 percent to $903 million.  Copaxone sales rose 24 percent to a record $957 million.
Teva raised the price for the third time in 13 months in
January, as the drug faced competition from the first pill
approved in the U.S. for multiple sclerosis,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Gilenya.  Meanwhile, revenue in Europe rose 82 percent to $1.48
billion, helped by the inclusion of sales from  Germany ’s
Ratiopharm, acquired by Teva in August.  “The business is saved by the fact that they’re making big
acquisitions,” said Alper, who rates Teva’s shares “market
perform.” Once Cephalon is added into Teva’s results, he said,
it may be unclear what Teva’s earnings would have been without
the U.S. company.  “Either a gigantic launch, or Cephalon will simply
obfuscate the entire quarter,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  