-- 
Growth Slowed in 8 of 12 U.S. Regions: Fed

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-27T20:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/fed-says-growth-moderated-in-eight-of-12-regions-on-restrained-spending.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the economy
grew at a slower pace in more parts of the country since the
beginning of June as shoppers restrained spending and factory
production eased.  “Economic activity continued to grow,” the Fed said in
its Beige Book survey released today in Washington. “However,
the pace has moderated in many districts.” Growth slowed in
eight of the Fed’s 12 regions, compared with four in the last
survey, the central bank said.  The report underscores Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
message to Congress earlier this month that maintaining record
monetary stimulus is necessary to bolster the economy. Bernanke
left the door open to additional action, including buying more
 government bonds , should the recovery appear in danger of
stalling.  “Economic growth has cooled, not collapsed,” said  James O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New
York . “The Fed is firmly on hold for now. The economy isn’t
weak enough to justify another round of stimulus, nor is it
strong enough for the Fed to rush toward the stimulus exit.”  With unemployment at 9.2 percent, the “economy still needs
a good deal of support,” Bernanke told lawmakers July 13 in
semiannual testimony on monetary policy. Today’s report said the
labor market “remained soft” in most Fed regions.  Debt Concern  The Washington debate over raising the national debt limit
caused some concern. Some companies in the Boston region, which
weren’t specified, said their sales and the  U.S. economy  could
be hurt should Congress and President  Barack Obama  fail to reach
a deal. In the Dallas region, the survey said that “optimism
has been tempered by consumer fear regarding economic and fiscal
policy uncertainty.”  The Beige Book survey, released two weeks before each
policy meeting, is based on information compiled by officials at
the Fed’s 12 regional banks. Today’s report covers June and the
first half of July.  Stocks extended losses, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index down 2 percent to 1,305.07 at 4 p.m. in New York. Yields
on 10-year Treasuries rose to 2.98 percent from 2.95 percent
yesterday.  The Fed districts reporting slower growth included New
York, Philadelphia, Boston, Atlanta, Richmond,  Cleveland ,  Dallas 
and  Minneapolis .  Many regions said manufacturing slowed or held steady,
according to the report.  Consumer spending , which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, showed “modest growth.” Auto
sales slowed.  Durable Goods  Hours before today’s report, the Commerce Department said
orders placed with U.S. factories for durable goods unexpectedly
fell 2.1 percent in June. That suggests companies were losing
confidence in the recovery as the second quarter ended.  The government will release a report July 29 that may show
the U.S. economy last quarter grew at 1.8 percent annual rate,
its slowest pace in a year, as higher fuel costs crimped
consumer spending and supply disruptions from the earthquake in
 Japan  hurt manufacturing. The estimate is the median of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  That pace of second-quarter performance would compare with
the 1.9 percent growth in the first three months of this year
and mark the worst showing since the economy grew at a 1.7
percent pace in the second quarter of 2010.  In the Fed’s survey, retailers in the Fed regions of
 Boston , Richmond, Atlanta and  San Francisco  said sales were
mixed, while merchants in  St. Louis  said sales slowed.  ‘Bargained Hard’  A few retailers in the Richmond region said “mid-price
items languished in recent months and customers bargained hard
for discounts.” Several clothing stores said sales were flat
except for “higher end” items.  In the Dallas region, merchants said sales were up in the
“mid-to-low single digits” from a year ago, according to the
Fed. Retailers expressed concern about the “elevated level of
unemployment” on sales.  Some manufacturers were less optimistic. Automakers in
 Chicago , while recovering from supply disruptions caused by the
March 11 earthquake in Japan, said they weren’t expecting a big
rebound. “Given recently lower sales, contacts reported that
production would likely recover less sharply than previously
expected,” the survey said.  The housing market stayed “weak,” the survey said. New-
home sales dropped 1 percent in June to an annualized pace of
312,000, a three-month low, the Commerce Department said
yesterday.  The survey also showed few forces pushing up inflation.
“Price pressures moderated in many districts,” the Fed said.  Prices Fall  Consumer prices dipped 0.2 percent in June, reversing an
increase of the same size in May, the Labor Department said July
15. For the 12 months ended in June, inflation was 3.6 percent.  Bernanke told Congress that he expects economic growth to
accelerate above 3 percent in the second half of 2011 as energy
prices recede and supply disruptions caused by the disaster in
Japan end.  Even so, Bernanke said central bankers expect unemployment
to decline “gradually.” Fed officials in a June 22 forecast
said the jobless rate would drop to between 8.6 percent and 8.9
percent during the fourth quarter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch say the economy will grow at a 2.5 percent
pace in the third quarter, down from earlier projections of as
much as a 3.25 percent growth.  With projections for economic growth dimming, Cisco Systems
Inc., the world’s largest networking equipment maker, on July 18
said it planned to eliminate about 6,500 jobs worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  