-- 
Fibria Quarterly Profit Rises on Real Gain, Output Increase

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-07-27T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/fibria-quarterly-profit-rises-on-real-gain-output-increase-1-.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
biggest pulpmaker, said quarterly profit rose 67 percent after
the appreciation of the local currency cut its dollar-
denominated debt and pulp production increased.  Net income jumped to 215 million reais ($139.7 million), or
50 centavos a share, from 129 million reais, or 30 centavos, in
the year earlier period, Sao Paulo-based Fibria said today in a
statement. The company was expected to report a profit of 224.3
million reais, excluding some items, according to a Bloomberg
survey of three analysts.  Fibria, led by Chief Executive Officer Marcelo Castelli,
posted a net financial gain of 277 million reais in the second
quarter as the Brazilian real gained 4.4 percent. The valuation
of the real cut the value of its foreign debt, which accounts
for about 80 percent of total debt.  Net operating revenue fell 10 percent to 1.46 billion reais
after the company sold its 50 percent stake in pulp and paper
producer Consorcio Paulista de Papel & Celulose - Conpacel to
Suzano Papel & Celulose SA for 1.5 billion reais in January.
Pulp production volumes rose 9 percent and paper volumes
increased 2 percent in the period, the company said.  Pulp Demand  “Pulp demand is expected to increase with the ramping up
of the new paper machines in  Asia ,” Fibria said in the
statement. “This demand should outpace supply in the short run,
as no new pulp capacity will come onstream.”  Fibria is analyzing offers for its Piracicaba unit in Sao
Paulo state and expects to take a decision on a possible sale
within 15 days, the company said in a separate statement today.  The stock fell 1.4 percent, or 25 centavos, to close at
18.10 reais yesterday in Sao Paulo, extending its decline so far
this year to 32 percent. Results were released before regular
trading hours today.  Fibria was formed by the takeover of Aracruz Celulose SA by
Votorantim Celulose & Papel SA in 2009 after the smaller rival
booked $2.1 billion of losses from wrong-way currency bets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  