-- 
World Cup Soccer Influx Forces Closure of Brazil’s Second-Busiest Airport

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-27T18:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/fifa-influx-means-brazil-has-to-close-its-second-busiest-airport.html
The arrival of soccer’s governing
body in  Brazil  for its first official event ahead of the 2014
World Cup means the country’s second-busiest airport will have
to be temporarily shut.  Rio de Janeiro ’s Santos Dumont International Airport will
be closed for four hours between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. local time on
July 30 as  FIFA  hosts the qualification draw for the next
edition of sport’s most-watched event.  “Air operations in the vicinity of the site will be
interrupted during the ceremony for technical issues,” Brazil’s
civil aviation agency said in statement today. The organization
also made the decision as the equipment used to broadcast the
event “is sensitive to noise, as well as for security
reasons.”  The sound of low-flying aircraft interrupted a news
conference by FIFA President Sepp Blatter at the Marina de
Gloria center today several times.  Santos Dumont International airport receives 43 flights on
Saturdays. The interrupted flights will be transferred to
another airport 40 kilometers away.  “It’s a nightmare for ordinary people: tourists, workers,
families” said Decio Pecequilo, senior trader at TOV CCTVM LTDA,
a stock broker in Sao Paulo.  News anchor Anna Paula Padrao described the decision to
shut down the airport as “absurd” on the Rede Record channel
yesterday. Saint Clair Milesi, a spokesman for the  World Cup ’s
organizing committee, said security concerns meant the airport
had to be shut.  Cape Town   Taxi drivers in  South Africa ’s Cape Town complained before
the 2010 World Cup draw that FIFA’s security measures prevented
them from benefitting from the influx of officials and
celebrities.  Roads were closed around the Cape Town International
Convention Center, where  David Beckham , Oscar-winning actress
Charlize Theron and soccer officials gathered, angering cab
drivers who were expecting to double daily takings.  A fleet of shuttle buses and private cars has been
commandeered by soccer’s governing body to move officials,
politicians and media around the city. Taxi ranks have been
blocked off.  FIFA said today the 32-team World Cup will kick off on June
12 and end on July 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  