-- 
Ford Motor Credit Plans Bond Sale as Ascent to Investment Grade Quickens

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T20:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ford-motor-credit-plans-bond-sale-as-ascent-to-investment-grade-quickens.html
Ford Motor Credit Co., the finance
unit of the second-largest U.S. automaker, sold $1 billion of
notes as analysts project the parent company may regain
investment-grade status in the next six months.  The unit issued 5.875 percent, 10-year senior unsecured
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ford is rated
Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
with “positive” outlooks, Bloomberg data show.  Ford has been slashing debt and boosting cash to regain the
investment grade it lost in 2005, as it ceded market share while
facing rising retirement and health-care costs. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company, which has cut debt by more than $20
billion in the past five quarters, is poised to reach the upper
tier of credit ratings in six months, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts said yesterday.  “To achieve this, we think the company will need to retire
the remainder of its  term loan , negotiate the upcoming UAW
contract without an extended strike and continue to post solid
earnings as it has under below-trend volumes over the past eight
quarters,” JPMorgan analysts  Eric Selle  and Jenna Giannelli
wrote in a July 26 note.  Ford, which traces its roots to 1903, is set to begin
contract talks this week with the  United Auto Workers . The
company retired $2.3 billion of its term loan B in the second
quarter and will have $1.8 billion outstanding after that
payment, Ford said last month.  April Sale  The yield on the notes compares with the $2.75 billion sale
of 5.25 percent 10-year debt from New York-based investment bank
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on July 22 and $375 million issue of
6.125 percent 10-year debt from St. Louis-based discount
brokerage Scottrade Inc. this month.  Bonds rated BB yield 6.1 percent on average, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The average BBB rated
bond, the lowest tier of investment-grade, yields 4.3 percent,
the data show.  Barclays Capital , Goldman Sachs, HSBC Holdings Plc, and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed the sale, Bloomberg
data show.  Ford Motor Credit last tapped the  debt market  for similar
securities in April, issuing $1.25 billion of 5 percent senior
unsecured notes maturing in May 2018, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That represents the lowest coupon on a junk bond
with that maturity this year, the data show.  Those bonds fell to 99.75 cents on the dollar at 1:56 p.m.
to yield 5.04 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘On Track’  Ford said net income fell to $2.4 billion from $2.6
billion a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.  Excluding some items, profit was 65 cents a share, beating
the 61-cent average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
climbed 1.4 percent to $35.5 billion even after last year’s sale
of Volvo Cars.  “When we raised our rating on Ford in February 2011 and
assigned a positive outlook, we expected the North American
market to continue its gradual recovery, and that Ford’s global
automotive operations would generate at least low-single-digit
pretax margins and positive operating cash flow in 2011,” S&P
analysts Robert Schulz and Dan Picciotto wrote in a note
yesterday. ‘Both of these suppositions are on track even though
the sales recovery is more fragile than we assumed earlier in
2011 because of a weak economic recovery.”  Ford Motor Credit also tapped the market last month for $1
billion of five-year secured notes that the company will
exchange for unsecured bonds if its debt ratings are lifted to
investment-grade, Bloomberg data show.  Ford Motor Credit issued $4.5 billion of speculative-grade
bonds last year, the second biggest issuer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ally Financial Inc. sold $6.65 billion of
the debt, the data show. High-yield, high-risk notes are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  