-- 
Broker Gets Two Years Probation for Insider-Trading Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-27T18:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/former-broker-dealer-donna-murdoch-sentenced-to-two-years-of-probation.html
A Philadelphia-based broker-dealer
who pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the U.S. against
two ex-boyfriends was sentenced to two years of probation by a
judge who urged her to turn her life around.  Donna Murdoch, 49, of Philadelphia, a managing director of
Keystone Equities Group LP, pleaded guilty in December 2008 to
15 counts of  securities fraud , one count of obstructing justice
and a charge that she lied to federal authorities. Each count of
securities fraud carried a prison term of as long as 20 years.  “I am placing a lot of faith in what you have just told
me,” U.S. District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum in  Manhattan  said
today as she imposed her sentence. “I hope that you really
intend to turn your life around.”  The judge said later, “I certainly hope that you meant
what you say because you are not a youngster and you have quite
a history.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter said in court
papers that Murdoch provided the government “substantial
assistance” as the “central witness” at the trial of an ex-
boyfriend, James Gansman, a former partner at Ernst & Young LLP
who was convicted of  insider trading  in February 2010.  ‘Model’ Witness  While Murdoch originally lied to federal prosecutors and
agents when they first questioned her about her trades, she
eventually agreed to tell the truth about her crimes, he said.  “Once she made a break from that conduct, she became a
model cooperating witness,” Streeter said. Without Murdoch, the
U.S. wouldn’t have been able to make a case against former
Keystone Equities Chairman Richard Hansen, who later pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and insider trading charges, Streeter said.  When Cedarbaum said she didn’t intend to impose a prison
sentence, Murdoch began to weep.  “I still feel the decision to cooperate was the right one,
given the situation,” Murdoch told Cedarbaum. “I know how hard
I fell down.”  She said later, “I will carry the shame of all my
wrongdoings for the rest of my life. I almost lost everything.”  Cedarbaum directed Murdoch to serve six months of her
probationary term confined to her home. The judge also ordered
her to perform 300 hours of community service and forfeit more
than $392,000 that she earned as a result of her crimes.  AMD Deal  Prosecutors said Gansman tipped Murdoch about seven merger-
and-acquisition transactions involving Ernst & Young clients,
generating illegal profits of more than $300,000. They said in
court papers that he provided the information to her “because
of their close and personal relationship,” knowing she would
buy and sell securities.  Gansman was convicted of tipping Murdoch about transactions
involving Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Spectralink Corp. and K2
Inc., as well as  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s acquisition of
ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006 and others in which she bought
options after learning of pending deals.  The case was part of a U.S. crackdown on insider trading by
federal prosecutors that included Galleon Group LLC co-founder
 Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted in May in a case that also
involved inside trades on the same AMD transaction in 2006.  Since Rajaratnam was charged in October 2009, at least 49
people have been charged with insider trading and 46 have been
convicted in federal court in Manhattan.  Prosecutors also have won convictions of former employees
at firms including Bear Stearns Cos., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Murdoch, 08-cr-00471, 08-cv-04918, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  