-- 
France’s Fonciere des Regions Offers Shares for Rival Paris Office Owner

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-07-27T09:25:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/france-s-fonciere-des-regions-offers-shares-for-rival-paris-office-owner.html
Fonciere des Regions (FDR)  SA, a French
real estate investment trust, made an offer for Fonciere Paris
France SA that values the smaller REIT at as much as 440 million
euros ($637 million) excluding assumed debt. The deal would give
FDR a bigger share of Europe’s largest office market.  FDR agreed to exchange shares and debt with four sets of
investors to give it a 37 percent stake in Fonciere Paris
France, according to a  statement  today. FDR, based in Metz, will
offer the same terms to buy the rest of the company.  Fonciere Paris France owns about 700 million euros of real
estate in and around the French capital, which has the most
 office space  in Europe. FDR made its bid as rents bottom out and
leasing is beginning to pick up, Chief Executive Officer
Christophe Kullmann said.  “This will have a positive impact on our results in
2012,” Kullmann said on a conference call today. Reiterating
earlier statements, he said that profit excluding changes in
asset values and one-time gains and losses, known as recurring
net income, will rise “slightly” this year. Growth will
accelerate by 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012, he said.  FDR fell 86 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 69.70 euros at 11:00
a.m. in Paris. Fonciere Paris France, based in the French
capital, climbed 2.4 euros, or 2.2 percent, to 113.4 euros,
giving the company a market value of 197 million euros.  The offer has been accepted by  Fonciere Paris France (FPF) ’s
managers, who are exchanging their shares alongside other
investors, including insurers Predica and Groupe Covea. This
first stage of the takeover is scheduled to take place in
September, Kullmann said.  Higher Earnings  FDR will offer 13 of its shares for eight Fonciere Paris
France shares. Bonds convertible into Fonciere Paris France
shares will be exchangeable into shares or into FDR’s
convertible bonds. Holders of Fonciere Paris France warrants
will be able to convert 207 of them into eight FDR shares.  Recurring profit rose to 143.6 million euros, or 2.61 euros
a share, in the first half from 139.3 million euros, or 2.75
euros, a year earlier, FDR said. The value of properties owned
by FDR throughout last year, mostly offices in France and  Italy ,
rose by 1.9 percent to 4.21 billion euros. Net asset value
climbed to 81.5 euros a share from 80.8 euros six months
earlier.  Net rental income fell 6 percent to 235 million euros as a
result of disposals, FDR said. Excluding the impact of
acquisitions and asset sales, rents rose 0.2 percent.  Changes in the value of the company’s assets added 91.4
million euros to profit. Net income totaled 315.1 million euros
compared with 100.7 million euros a year earlier.  FDR’s assets includes stakes in Beni Stabili;  Fonciere des
Murs (FMU)  SA, a REIT specialized in sale and leasebacks; warehouse
owner  Fonciere Europe Logistique (FEL)  SCA; and  Fonciere Developpement
Logements (FDL)  SA, a residential investment trust. FDR also has a 12
percent holding in  Altarea (ALTA)  SA, France’s biggest out-of-town big
box retail-park developer, and controls parking lot owner Parcs
GFR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 