-- 
From Dueling Plans, the Path to a Debt-Ceiling Compromise: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-27T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/from-dueling-plans-the-path-to-a-debt-ceiling-compromise-view.html
The debt-ceiling fight looks
hopelessly gridlocked after Monday’s competing televised appeals
by President Barack Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner . But
despite the partisan attacks, compromise is still possible.  It won’t be a transformative grand bargain. It won’t
overhaul the encrusted tax system, or the big entitlement
programs of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. It will
involve mostly domestic spending cuts, and it won’t raise much-
needed new revenue. And it will require yet another panel of
lawmakers to find new spending cuts down the road. But it will
at least avoid a U.S. government default on its obligations.  It may be unedifying, and the cuts may unfairly affect
lower-income Americans more than the affluent, but an agreement
could revolve around the common elements between new plans by
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. They both take as their starting point
$1.2 trillion in discretionary spending cuts over 10 years. Both
would also guarantee a vote in Congress -- amendments and
filibusters would not be allowed -- on future savings that
bipartisan committees recommend.  The biggest difference is that the Boehner plan would lift
the debt ceiling by just $1 trillion for now. The vote would be
followed by a second one next year, as the 2012 election
campaigns are gearing up, and only after Congress adopts an
additional $1.8 trillion in budget cuts. The Reid plan instead
would extend the debt ceiling through the end of 2012 on a
single vote. It promises $1.5 trillion more in spending cuts, to
be approved once the congressional panel completes its work at
the end of this year.  Tricky Politics  Neither proposal is likely to win the full support of
lawmakers within each leader’s camp. Even if all 53 members of
the Democratic caucus vote for his plan, Reid would still need
seven Republican senators to get the 60 needed to cut off
debate. Reid will probably need more than that to compensate for
the loss of liberal Democrats unhappy that his proposal doesn’t
raise taxes and cuts deeply into domestic programs.  The politics for Boehner are even trickier. He has 240
members, and needs 217 votes for passage. He can lose only 23
votes, but with some 60 Tea Party freshmen refusing to raise the
debt ceiling no matter what, Boehner will have to troll for
votes among House Democrats.  Making Tradeoffs  Sound impossible? It shouldn’t be, if each leader yields
enough to pick up the requisite votes needed from the other
party. Boehner, for example, could drop his demand for a two-
step process. That would avoid another confrontation during next
year’s election season. In exchange, Reid could grant
Republicans a vote on a balanced-budget constitutional
amendment, and agree to trigger automatic spending cuts if the
pledged $1.5 trillion in savings don’t materialize. The panel
tasked with finding those savings just may recommend closing tax
loopholes and deductions, or ending costly tax expenditures like
the deduction on home mortgage interest. If so, all the better.  Such a compromise may avert a downgrade of the federal
government’s triple-A rating, which the U.S has had since 1917.
Without that, borrowing costs could rise sharply -- and push the
government further from the goal of putting its debts on a
sustainable path. The  Congressional Budget Office  has estimated
that one added percentage point in  interest rates  on  government
bonds  would increase debt-service costs by more than $1 trillion
over 10 years. Spending cuts might ease the burden a bit, but
there’s no getting around the economic damage a ratings
downgrade would cause.  A U.S. default would be even more calamitous. The House
speaker and Senate majority leader each have recalcitrants in
their camps. But with polls showing that Americans expect them
to work this out together, they should remember that politics is
the art of compromise.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 