-- 
LG Electronics Shares Jump as Mobile-Phone Results Beat Analyst Estimates

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-27T10:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/lg-electronics-shares-jump-as-mobile-results-beat-estimates.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
third-largest maker of mobile phones, climbed in Seoul trading
after the company reported a narrower loss than analysts
estimated at the wireless division.  The mobile-phone division had a loss of 53.9 billion won
($51 million) in the three months ended in June, compared with a
median estimate for a loss of 80.2 billion won in a Bloomberg
News survey of six analysts. That helped total operating profit
rise 25 percent to 158.2 billion won, exceeding the 118 billion
won average of 8 analyst estimates compiled in the past month.  The shares rose as much as 3.8 percent as the results
helped ease concern about the company’s shrinking share in the
mobile-phone market, with consumers flocking to devices from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  South Korea ’s second-
biggest electronics maker is seeking to win back customers with
its Optimus smartphones based on Google Inc.’s Android system,
including a model capable of recording and showing 3-D images.  “Their losses from mobile phones continue to narrow,”
Kwon Sung Ryul, an analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. in Seoul
said. “We’re paying attention to the structural change in their
smartphone business.”  It was the smallest of the five consecutive quarterly
losses at the mobile-phone division, according to the company.  LG rose 2.6 percent to 83,800 won on the Korea Exchange at
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul. The stock earlier had its biggest
intraday jump since June 21.  Optimus  Second-quarter net income fell 87 percent to 108.4 billion
won after the LG Display Co. unit reported a 96 percent plunge
in profit. That lagged behind analysts’ estimate for 198.5
billion won.  In November, the Optimus One became LG’s first smartphone
to sell more than 1 million units, about 40 days after its
debut, the company said. LG in February unveiled the LG Optimus
3D smartphone capable of recording 3-D images, a feature the
iPhone and Galaxy devices don’t offer.  The market for 3-D phones and handsets capable of running
on faster fourth-generation networks will likely expand in the
third quarter, LG said today. LG expects the 3-D handset to sell
1.7 million units by the end of the year, helping it sell 24
million smartphones this year, Park Jong Seok, head of the
mobile business said on July 7.  The company wants to differentiate itself with good
hardware such as the 3-D model by taking advantage of features
it is strong at, such as displays, he said at the time.  Smartphones  LG’s share in the global mobile-phone market declined to
5.6 percent in the first quarter from 7.6 percent a year
earlier, Gartner Inc.  said  on May 19.  To turn around the business, LG Chief Executive Officer Koo Bon Joon, Group Chairman Koo Bon Moo’s younger brother, replaced
the head of the mobile business with Park in October.  LG will continue to reduce output of cheaper basic handsets
to focus on high-end smartphones even if that leads to a decline
in overall handset shipments, Chief Financial Officer David Jung
said at a briefing in Seoul today.  The shift and seasonally weak demand for air conditioners
after summer mean the company’s overall sales and profit will
likely decline in the third quarter from the previous three-
month period, he said.  TV Demand  The home-entertainment division, which makes TVs, had an
operating profit of 90.3 billion won, compared with a loss of
25.8 billion won a year earlier. The median of the six analyst
estimates was for a profit of 103.5 billion won. Sales fell 5.4
percent.  LG is seeking to increase sales of 3-D TVs using a
technology called Film Patterned Retarder, or FPR, an
alternative to the shuttered-glasses approach used by its rivals
including Samsung. LG says its polarized glasses are lighter and
more comfortable to wear, with less eye strain.  The company aims to boost its TV market share to 16 percent
this year from about 12 percent in 2010 with new models, Havis Kwon, head of the business, said in February.  An industry-wide slump in TV demand won’t likely recover at
least until early next year, James Jeong, chief financial
officer of LG Display, said on July 21.  The home-appliance division had an operating profit of 50.7
billion won, dropping from 185.1 billion won a year earlier.
That compares with the 48 billion won median of the six
analysts’ estimates. The drop in profit stems from rising raw
material costs and increasing competition, the company said.  The air-conditioner business also posted a 26 percent fall
in operating profit, LG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 