-- 
Gasoline Falls as Dollar Gains, Stocks Slide on Default Concern

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T19:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/gasoline-fluctuates-as-stockpiles-rise-refiners-reduce-rates.html
Gasoline fell as stockpiles of the
fuel increased, the dollar strengthened and equities slipped
amid concern Congress won’t raise the U.S. debt ceiling ahead of
next week’s deadline to avoid default.  Futures fell as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.8
percent as of 3:33 p.m. in  New York  and the dollar surged 1
percent versus the euro, reducing the investment appeal of
commodities. The Energy Department said gasoline supplies rose
more than expected. Prices advanced earlier on the chance a
storm would threaten Gulf Coast refining.  “The hurricane threat was the only thing keeping gasoline
afloat,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount
Options Inc. in New York. “But you’ve got equities down, the
dollar stronger and the inventory report was pretty bearish
overall.”  Gasoline for August delivery sank 1.13 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $3.1423 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The more actively traded September contract
declined 1.54 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $3.0831. August Nymex
gasoline and heating oil futures will expire at the close of
floor trading July 29.  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s reworked deficit-cutting plan
gained support today among his fellow Republicans, while Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said his competing proposal to avert
a potential U.S. default offer the only “true compromise.”  Less than a week from an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, Congress’s budget
scorekeeper said both measures fall short of their savings
goals, prompting leaders to rework their proposals.  Supply Increase  Futures retreated from a 12-week high after the Energy
Department said that supplies rose 1.02 million barrels to 213.5
million. A survey by Bloomberg News projected a build of 400,000
barrels. Refiners reduced rates 2 percentage points to 88.3
percent. Output of the motor fuel fell 0.6 percent.  Gasoline demand, measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
fell 0.3 percent to 9 million barrels a day, the lowest level in
11 weeks, according to department data. On a four-week average,
consumption was 3.3 percent below a year earlier.  “There’s a lot of bearish news in this report but much of
it had already been absorbed by the market,” said  Sander Cohan ,
an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “You have weak demand, an inventory build. But
refiners are showing a bunch of restraint. They’re not gorging
themselves on the spread.”  Storm Forecast  The National Hurricane Center  forecast  at 2 p.m. in
 Washington  that an area of thunderstorms and heavy rain in the
Caribbean between Cuba and  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula has a
“near 100 percent chance” of becoming a tropical depression or
storm.  The U.S. Gulf Coast accounts for 42 percent of U.S.
refining capacity, according to Energy Department data.  “It could certainly become a strong tropical storm,
possibly a minimal hurricane,” said  Tom Knight , vice president
of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .
“There’s cautious sentiment in the market because we haven’t
had a legitimate threat to the  Gulf Coast  in three years.”  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.698 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for August delivery fell 3.08 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $3.0826 a gallon on the exchange. The
September contract declined 3.07 cents to $3.0944.  Distillate Supplies  Supplies of heating oil and diesel increased 3.39 million
barrels to 151.8 million, the highest level since April 1. The
survey projected a build of 1.63 million barrels.  Demand for the industrial, trucking and home-heating fuels
climbed 1.7 percent to 3.46 million barrels a day. Measured on a
four-week average, demand was 3.5 percent below a year earlier.  Heating oil was lower before the inventory report, falling
after the Commerce Department said durable goods orders dropped
2.1 percent in June, indicating less demand for transportation
fuel. Heating oil is traded as a substitute for diesel.  “A bad durable goods report would take the air out of
diesel,” Cohan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  