-- 
GE, Pratt Add Engine-Making Jobs to Tap Record Plane Production

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-27T22:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ge-pratt-add-jet-engine-jobs-to-tap-airline-fuel-price-angst.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and rival jet-
engine maker Pratt & Whitney are adding more than 2,000 U.S.
jobs as the world’s biggest planemakers ramp up production and
introduce more fuel-efficient aircraft.  GE is adding more than 1,000 U.S. workers, bringing total
employment to 18,000 in states from the Carolinas to Ohio and
 Alabama  amid record output. Pratt & Whitney plans more than 800
jobs, including in its home state of  Connecticut , with 500
engineers tied to geared turbofan engines powering Airbus SAS’s
A320neo and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries.  Airbus, the biggest commercial planemaker, and Boeing Co.,
the second-largest, are building  single-aisle jets  at a record
pace and preparing to boost output of wide-body models including
the  A380 superjumbo  and the  787 Dreamliner  as customers update
fleets with more fuel-efficient jets. GE Aviation announced a
second plant in  Mississippi  yesterday, bringing its workers in
the state to more than 600 by 2016.  “We have to be ready for these ramp rates, and we are,”
 David Joyce , who heads GE’s aviation business, said in an
interview last month. “I spend more time working on production
readiness and manufacturing technologies now than I have in any
previous year.”  Boeing and Toulouse, France-based Airbus are competing for
sales of narrow-body planes, which make up the biggest slice of
the commercial-jet market and have been dominated by Boeing’s
737, the most widely flown plane.  Output of current and upgraded 737 models will probably
reach 50 to 60 planes a month by decade’s end, above the current
goal of 42 by 2014, Boeing Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney
said yesterday.  CFM International , a 50-50 partnership of GE and
Safran SA, makes the only engine available on either plane.  American’s Record Order  Airbus decided to upgrade engines on its narrow-body A320
in December, and the result, the A320neo, has since captured
more than 1,000 orders or commitments to become the fastest-
selling jet ever.  Chicago-based Boeing, which considered building an all-new
plane, decided last week to use its rival’s strategy instead and
captured 200 planes out of a record order for 460 jets from AMR
Corp.’s  American Airlines .  Boeing’s decision to offer only CFM’s Leap-X on its 737
upgrade heightens competition with Pratt & Whitney’s geared
turbofan for placement on the A320neo. The neo offers both
engines, which vaulted Pratt, a unit of  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) , back into the narrow-body aircraft market.  ‘Do or Die’  “For us, this engine was ‘do or die’ in the large
commercial market for the next several decades,” Bob Saia, who
runs new programs for Pratt & Whitney, said during a tour of the
Connecticut manufacturing complex where the geared turbofan
engine will be made. “Four years ago, I had 50 engineers on
this program. This year, we’ll hire 500.”  The A320neo is slated to begin flying in 2015, with the
first jet powered by Pratt & Whitney’s engine, while
Bombardier’s CSeries, with fewer seats, will enter service in
2013. Engines will also be made in Mirabel, near Bombardier’s
Montreal headquarters.  Both Pratt’s geared turbofan and CFM’s Leap-X boast
improvements of about 15 percent greater efficiency than current
A320 power plants. Demand is so high for more fuel-efficient
planes that Airbus in April moved its production timetable up
six months.  Pratt & Whitney  last week widened its forecast for a profit
decline to $100 million as it spends more to ensure its geared
turbofan is ready for production well ahead of time.  Equipment Purchases  “The key here is to get ahead of the curve here and
continue to make these investments to make sure that we’re ahead
of the schedule,” United Technologies Chief Financial Officer
Greg Hayes told investors July 20. “Airbus obviously is anxious
to get the engine out there.”  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE predicted in June, before
Boeing’s order from American, that aviation production would
peak in the next 18 months. Commercial production might climb 13
percent to 2,480 engines in 2012, the company estimated then.
GE’s aviation unit, based outside Cincinnati in Evendale,  Ohio ,
has already added about 1,000 manufacturing jobs in the past 18
months. By 2014, there will be another 1,000 in the U.S.  “The American order in aviation really signals the return
to equipment purchases by U.S. airlines, and I think that’s very
significant,” GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said on
a call with investors July 22.  GE’s wide-body engines, including the GE90, the GP7200 made
in partnership with Pratt & Whitney and the GEnx engine,
versions of which power the 747-8 exclusively and compete with
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc for the 787 Dreamliner, are also
pushing production.  GE’s information technology center in Van Buren,  Michigan ,
is helping develop a way to test-run mass production of
products, including the composite blades in the GEnx engine, to
work out kinks beforehand so that plants don’t have to halt
production once they have begun.  Alternate production methods, like those used in a Durham,
 North Carolina , plant, have teams of workers following each
engine through assembly by serial number rather than using
traditional lines, which shaves costs.  GE Aviation has about 37,000 employees worldwide, while
Pratt & Whitney has about 36,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  