-- 
General Dynamics Profit Rises 2.3%; 2011 Forecast Boosted

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-07-27T20:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/general-dynamics-lifts-forecast-on-profit-up-2-3-.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the maker of
Abrams tanks and Gulfstream  business jets , said second- quarter
profit rose 2.3 percent, aided by a small increase in combat
systems revenue, and boosted its full-year profit estimate.  Profit from continuing operations increased to $666
million, or $1.79 a share, from $651 million, or $1.68 a share a
year earlier, the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company said in a
statement. The average of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for $1.72 per share. Sales fell 2.8 percent to $7.88 billion.  With U.S. defense spending projected to decline or stay
flat in the next decade, Chief Executive Officer Jay Johnson has
said acquisitions are “very important” to General Dynamics,
both to expand its current portfolio and to fill gaps.  The company anticipates “being very acquisitive,”
spending as much as $1 billion on deals in the areas of combat
systems, information technology and aerospace, Johnson said in
June. The company had $2.48 billion in cash and other liquid
securities for the quarter ending March and raised $1.5 billion
July 5 by issuing five-year notes.  The company raised full-year profit to the range of $7.15
to $7.20 compared with earlier estimates of $7 to $7.10 a share.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected profit of $7.13 a share.  General Dynamics fell $1.69, or 2.4 percent, to $68.63 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Debt Ceiling  Negotiations between President Barack Obama’s
administration and lawmakers over U.S. debt limit and budget
deficits will play a role in determining future U.S. defense
spending, Johnson said in a conference call with investors
today.  Obama on April 13 announced cuts of $400 billion in
national security spending through 2023, in addition to the $78
billion five-year reduction in the  defense budget  proposed in
January. Some lawmakers have proposed deeper cuts in defense
spending as part of the budget negotiations.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is conducting a review of
the Pentagon’s long-term spending plans to determine how best to
scale back the department’s budget.  Revenue and profit at General Dynamics’ Aerospace, Marine
Systems, Information Systems and Technology units declined
during the quarter. Earnings at the Aerospace unit, maker of
Gulfstream jets, fell 10.3 percent to $209 million.  Gulfstream’s new G650 model business jet that has resumed
flight tests after an April 2 crash killed four crew members is
still in a “restrictive” phase of testing, Johnson said.
Still, the company expects to deliver 10 to 12 jets later this
year.  Combat Systems  Combat Systems sales rose less than 1 percent, to $2.12
billion, aided by U.S. Army orders for rockets, and profit
gained 1.4 percent to $299 million.  The U.S. Army’s review of its combat vehicle needs will
inform decisions on “all major platforms,” Johnson said on the
conference call.  The company is “bullish” on prospects for its Information
Systems and Technology unit, whose sales fell slightly in the
quarter and profit declined 4.5 percent to $575 million. The
unit is “aggressively taking out costs” to remain competitive,
Johnson said.  The Marine Systems unit, which builds nuclear-powered
submarines and Navy destroyers, intends to bid for the new
family of DDG-51 destroyers, Johnson said. U.S.  Even with the shipbuilding budget under pressure, the Navy
still needs large surface combat vessels. The requirement for
the Navy’s new nuclear submarines also remains “inviolate,” he
said.  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Atlanta at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net 
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 