-- 
Italian, Spanish Bonds Slump on Concern European Aid May Not Be Sufficient

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T16:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/german-bonds-advance-as-u-s-lawmakers-fail-to-resolve-debt-limit-deadlock.html
Italian and Spanish government bonds
declined, increasing the yield relative to benchmark German
bunds, on speculation Europe’s aid package may not be sufficient
to prevent contagion.  German bonds rose for a fourth day and European bank stocks
slid as Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the government
is against a “blank check” for the European Financial
Stability Facility to buy bonds of troubled euro members in the
secondary market. The yield discount investors are willing to
accept for 10-year bunds rather than similar-maturity Treasuries
reached the widest in more than five months as U.S. lawmakers
struggled to reach an agreement over the nation’s debt ceiling.  “If you look into the details of the EU summit decision,
it doesn’t take you long to get to where the weak points are,”
said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “You still have two countries
that are too big to save and are not effectively protected from
negative  market sentiment . The U.S. debt crisis is also a factor
that supports German bunds.”  Italian 10-year bonds yields rose 14 basis points to 5.76
percent as of 4:12 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent security due
September 2021 fell 0.960, or 9.6 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,437)
face amount, to 92.91. Equivalent-maturity Spanish yields were
two basis points higher at 5.98 percent.  Wider Spreads  Ten-year bund yields fell nine basis points to 2.65
percent, after sliding to 2.64 percent, the lowest since July
18. Yields on two-year notes declined seven basis points to 1.27
percent.  Italy’s bonds stayed lower after an auction of 942 million
euros of inflation-linked bonds due in 2021. Investors bid for
1.69 times the amount of securities on offer, at an average
yield of 4.07 percent, compared with a bid-to cover ratio of
1.51 and an average yield on 2.51 percent last time the
securities were sold in May.  The difference in yield between Italian and Spanish bonds
and their German counterparts widened. The Italian 10-year
security yielded 311 basis points more than similar-maturity
bunds, up from 289 basis points yesterday, while the Spanish-
German spread rose to 334 basis points from 322.  The cost of insuring against default on Italian government
debt rose 16 basis points to 291 and  Spain  increased 14 to 337,
according to CMA prices for credit- default swaps.  EFSF Mandate  European leaders declined to increase the size of the 440-
billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility as part of
the array of additional measures to fight the debt crisis
unveiled on last week. The EFSF would have about 323 billion
euros to fend off any speculative attacks against Spain and
 Italy  after contributing to  Greece ’s second aid package,
European officials said at the time.  “The mandate of the EFSF has been extended but the size
hasn’t been increased accordingly,” said Daheim. “You get the
impression that there are too many things the EFSF is supposed
to be doing. The weak points justify spreads between Spain and
Italy and bunds not having narrowed more since the summit.”  In a letter to coalition lawmakers summarizing the results
of the July 21 summit, Schaeuble said of bond buying that “in
the future such purchases must only take place under very tight
conditions, when the ECB establishes that there are
extraordinary circumstances in financial markets and dangers to
financial stability.”  His comments echo Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who said one
day after the summit that she’s opposed to allowing the fund to
engage in “unconditioned” bond-buying in the secondary market.  Bank Stocks  France ,  Europe ’s second largest economy, may not hold a
parliamentary vote on the new package of financial support for
Greece until October, Finance Minister Francois Baroi said.  The French cabinet will clear the plan next week and the
nation’s lawmakers will vote by October, he said today.  The risk of bank writedowns and more contagion from the
debt crisis helped to drag the Stoxx 600 Banks Index down 1.8
percent, led by Italian lenders. UniCredit SpA slid 3.9 percent
while Intesa Sanpaolo SpA dropped 4.2 percent.  Cyprus’s bonds fell after the Mediterranean island was
downgraded by to Baa1 from A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, with
a negative outlook. The yield on the nation’s 6 percent bond
maturing in June 2021 climbed 21 basis points to 10.12 percent.  Two year Irish and Portuguese notes surged, with the rate
on Ireland’s two-year debt plunging 162 basis points to 14.63
percent. Portuguese note yields dropped 55 basis points to 14.53
percent.  Irish Rally  “People are focusing on the fact that the lending rate is
going to be lowered quite substantially” for Ireland and
 Portugal , said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . “We view these two countries as
having much more sustainable debt loads than Greece.”  The yield on 10-year bunds fell to the lowest in more than
a week as investors sought refuge from U.S. market turmoil in
the safest European assets. The struggle over spending cuts may
lead to the U.S. losing its top-level  credit rating , according
to BlackRock Inc. and Loomis Sayles & Co.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have all said they may cut the nation’s top-level
sovereign ranking if officials fail to resolve the stalemate,
which has seen the dollar slide 13 percent this year against a
basket of nine peers.  German  government bonds  handed investors 1.8 percent this
year, compared with 3.5 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 2.3
percent, while Portugal’s have declined 23 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  