-- 
Five German States Report Inflation Accelerated in July

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/german-state-of-saxony-says-inflation-quickened-to-2-5-in-july.html
Inflation in five German states
accelerated in July as food and energy prices rose.  The inflation rate increased to 2.3 percent from 2.1
percent in Bavaria and to 2.7 percent from 2.5 percent in North
Rhine-Westphalia, the states’ statistics offices said today. The
rates in Saxony, Hesse and Brandenburg also climbed.  Economists forecast that German inflation, calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, will hold at 2.4 percent in
July, the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
shows. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release
that report, based on data from six states, later today.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on July
7 said euro-region inflation will stay “clearly above” the
central bank’s 2 percent limit in coming months and signaled
concern that price pressures may fuel wage demands. In  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, rising energy costs are among the
reasons why  consumer confidence  will decline next month, market-
research company GfK said yesterday.  “German inflation should trend back toward 2 percent at
the end of the year,” said Christian Ott, an economist at
Natixis in Frankfurt. “Inflation pressures from higher  oil
prices  should ease and give the ECB less reason to tighten
policy. We don’t expect the ECB to raise  interest rates  again
this year.”  The ECB this month raised borrowing costs for a second time
in 2011, bringing the benchmark to 1.5 percent. The Frankfurt-
based central bank forecasts euro-area inflation will average
2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012.  ‘Relatively Low’  Export demand has helped Germany’s economic recovery gather
strength, giving companies leeway to pass on higher costs. The
Bundesbank raised its 2011 growth forecast last month to 3.1
percent from 2.5 percent and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , on July 12 increased
its profit and sales forecasts for this year.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said earlier this month
that interest rates in the euro area are “still relatively
low,” indicating he sees further room to tighten monetary
policy. The ECB is “committed on its primary goal, which is
 price stability ,” he told public broadcaster ARD.  In the euro region, inflation probably held at 2.7 percent
in July, a Bloomberg survey shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on July 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  