-- 
German Inflation Unexpectedly Rose in July

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-27T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/german-inflation-unexpectedly-rose-in-july.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly accelerated in July as energy
costs increased.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, rose to 2.6 percent from 2.4 percent in June, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in an initial
estimate. Economists predicted the rate would hold steady,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Prices climbed 0.5 percent from the previous month.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
July 7 that euro-region inflation will stay “clearly above”
the central bank’s 2 percent limit in coming months and signaled
concern that price pressures may fuel wage demands. In Germany,
rising energy costs are among the reasons why  consumer
confidence  will decline next month, market-research company GfK
said yesterday.  “We haven’t yet seen the high point of price developments
in Germany -- inflation will creep toward 3 percent in the
coming months,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “The ECB will stay on course and probably
raise interest rates another time in October.”  The ECB this month raised borrowing costs for a second time
in 2011, bringing its benchmark to 1.5 percent. The Frankfurt-
based central bank forecasts euro-area inflation will average
2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012.  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation accelerated to
2.4 percent from 2.3 percent and consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in the month, the statistics office said.  In the euro region, inflation probably held at 2.7 percent
in July, a Bloomberg survey shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on July 29.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said earlier this month
that  interest rates  in the euro area are “still relatively
low,” indicating he sees further room to tighten monetary
policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
205 or  jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  