-- 
GM’s European Unit Opel Is Not for Sale, CEO Akerson Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T20:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/gm-s-european-unit-opel-is-not-for-sale-chief-akerson-says-at-event.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said the company’s Opel unit in Europe isn’t
for sale.  “We don’t comment on speculation, and there’s been a lot
of speculation. But I will say this: Opel is not for sale,”
Akerson told reporters today at a briefing about the start of
contract talks with the  United Auto Workers . The automaker has
lost $14.5 billion in Europe since 1999.  GM said in a July 13  statement  on its website that
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  was
stoking speculation that Detroit-based GM was looking to sell
Opel. The VW chief’s comments followed reports last month in
German magazines  Der Spiegel  and Auto Bild that GM may be
considering a sale of Opel.  European operations would have broken even in the first
quarter without a $395 million charge to goodwill, GM said in
May. The carmaker lost $1.8 billion in  Europe  last year. Opel’s
market share in Europe rose to 7.4 percent from 7 percent for
the first five months of this year.  GM fell 95 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $28.14 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 24 percent this year, and reached their lowest level
since GM’s $33 a share initial public offering on Nov. 18.  Akerson spoke at a briefing with reporters at the company’s
Detroit-Hamtramck vehicle-assembly plant, which builds the
automaker’s Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid car. GM and the UAW
used the plant as the setting for the formal beginning of talks
for a new labor contract to replace the current one that expires
Sept. 14.  Labor Talks  UAW President  Bob King  is negotiating for a deal that
rewards members after the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions that
he says each worker gave since 2005 to help U.S. automakers
survive.  “We’re focused jointly on managing our structural costs,
but at the same time giving opportunity to share in the success
of the company going forward,” Akerson said. GM has “a
reasonably competitive cost structure today,” he said.  King, 64, has pledged to organize a U.S. plant owned by a
foreign automaker this year to expand the union’s bargaining
power beyond GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, plus
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ’s Bloomington, Illinois, plant.  “We certainly wish the UAW success in their efforts,”
Cathy Clegg, GM’s vice president of labor relations, said in
reference to the UAW’s goal for organizing other manufacturers.  Revamping Opel  Opel, based in Ruesselsheim,  Germany , is working with
AlixPartners LLP on tweaking options packages or production
plans to spur higher prices, two people familiar with the matter
said this month.  They are also studying ways to reduce engineering and
manufacturing costs, said the people, who asked not to be
identified disclosing private plans. Some new features include
headlights tuned to high-speed driving on the Autobahn.  Opel Chief Executive Officer Karl Friedrich Stracke in
April predicted an operating profit for the year. The automaker
relies on Opel to engineer small and midsize cars, such as the
Chevrolet Malibu midsize sedan and Cruze compact.  Winterkorn was quoted in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
earlier this month saying that if Opel were for sale, a Chinese
automaker would be more likely than  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to buy it.
The comment “continues a regrettable pattern of fanning
speculation” that Opel is on the sales block, GM said on July
13. The automaker said it is making progress in restructuring
the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  