-- 
GM Volt Supply Poised to Surge in Race With Nissan’s Leaf

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-07-27T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/gm-volt-supply-poised-to-surge-in-race-with-nissan-s-leaf-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , trailing Nissan
Motor Co. in electric-car sales, plans to boost output of its
Chevrolet Volt to 5,000 a month as the automaker seeks to seize
the lead and test consumers’ hunger for plug-in vehicles.  Nissan is winning this year, selling 3,875 of the Leaf in
the U.S. to GM’s 2,745 Volt sales. While Nissan accelerated
production faster than GM, the Detroit automaker will outstrip
its Japanese rival and make 5,000 of the Volt a month as soon as
January, Tony Posawatz, the director of the vehicle line, said
in an interview.  At today’s production levels, both vehicles are in short
supply and the automakers have thousands of consumers on waiting
lists. It’s still unknown whether customers ultimately prefer a
pure electric car like the Leaf or a plug-in hybrid like the
Volt that can travel longer distances, and how many people are
willing to pay for the gas-saving technology.  “This is very much about supply constraints as opposed to
a sales race,”  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS
Automotive, a research firm based in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“Next year will really show true demand for these kinds of cars
and which one wins.”  GM will quickly expand output as its pushes toward a goal
of selling 10,000 Volts in the U.S. this year, Posawatz said. GM
plans to assemble 60,000 next year at its Detroit-Hamtramck
plant, with 45,000 of them earmarked for U.S. buyers.  “It’s fair to say GM underestimated demand for the Volt,”
he said. “By January, the capacity we need will be online.”  Plant Restarted  GM restarted Detroit-Hamtramck this month after shutting it
down in June. The factory was retooled to also produce the
Chevrolet Malibu sedan early next year. U.S. sales of the sedan,
also made in Fairfax,  Kansas , rose 13 percent in the first half
to 122,783.  Nissan builds the Leaf in Oppama,  Japan , and has annual
capacity to make 50,000 of the car next year. The company has
sold 9,687 of them globally through the first week of July,
about 4,000 of them in the U.S., said  Brian Brockman , a
spokesman. The Yokohama-based company expects monthly U.S. Leaf
deliveries to be at about the same rate as in June, when dealers
sold 1,708, he said.  Sales volumes of successful cars are typically measured in
the hundreds of thousands, not the hundreds.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s U.S. dealers delivered 66,520 Prius hybrids in the first
half, even as production was limited by the tsunami in March.
Toyota sold 140,928 Prius and 327,804 Camry cars in the U.S.
last year, while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold 528,349 F-Series pickups.  ‘Too Soon’  The challenge for GM and Nissan will be selling bigger
volumes of Volts and Leafs after electric-car and hybrid
enthusiasts have bought theirs, said Ivan Drury, analyst with
Edmunds.com, a website in  Santa Monica ,  California  that tracks
vehicle pricing and sales data.  “It’s too soon to tell any definite direction in the race
between the two cars,” Drury said. “Even next year it will be
very limited. It’s going to take five to six more years before
we see these cars selling over 100,000 a year.”  The Volt starts at $39,995 after GM dropped the price by
$1,005 in June. The Leaf starts at $35,200 after Nissan
announced a price increase July 19. Both vehicles are eligible
for a federal tax rebate of $7,500.  GM will market the value of the Volt when production
reaches higher levels, Posawatz said. The Volt’s cost of
ownership matches the average car when including the $7,500 U.S.
tax incentive and gasoline fuel savings, he said.  “Early adopters are different from fast followers and they
are different from mainstream buyers,” Posawatz said. “We’ll
have to make certain people understand the value proposition.
We’ll have to get the word out to breach the chasm.”  Slower Start  GM and Nissan began production in December. GM had a slower
production start than the Leaf, as the automaker performed more-
thorough quality checks on put the cars and parts than it
usually does, Posawatz said. The Volt has been attracting new
buyers to Chevy and GM needed to ensure top quality in the model
and that dealers were read to service the car, he said.  GM also tested some of the charging stations with the Volt
to “get the kinks out” before expanding production, Posawatz
said.  Plug-in hybrids like the Volt run solely on electric drive
until the battery runs down, then the gasoline engine starts and
either drives the wheels or charges the battery. Traditional
hybrids need power from the gasoline engine most of the time,
while pure electric cars like the Leaf run solely using electric
motors.  Sold Out  GM and Nissan should be able to sell every Volt and Leaf
they make through at least 2013, said Chris Hopson, an IHS
analyst. IHS predicts that Nissan will sell 35,000 Leafs in the
U.S. next year and 54,000 the next year. Chevy will sell 35,000
to 50,000 of the Volt in 2012, Hopson said, and 67,000 in 2013.  GM expects a boost next year when the Volt is designated as
an Enhance Advance Technology Partial Zero-Emission Vehicle in
California. That will qualify the car for a $1,500 rebate from
the state and drivers will be able to zip by heavy traffic using
carpool lanes on the state’s freeways, Posawatz said.  The 2011 Volt didn’t get the California certification,
because the initial model didn’t meet the state’s warranty and
emissions requirements for plug-in cars.  Both cars will soon face more competition. Next year, Ford
will start selling the C-Max Energi, a plug-in hybrid version of
its C-Max small car and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  will be selling
its i electric car. Honda Motor Co. plans an electric Fit
subcompact and a midsize plug-in hybrid in 2012.  Toyota may pose the biggest challenge when it starts
selling a plug-in hybrid version of its Prius, Edmunds.com’s
Drury said. That car will be able to drive at least 13 miles on
electric power before the gasoline engine kicks in and should
get 50 mpg. Toyota plans to sell at least 16,000 next year, the
company said July 20.  Prius Challenge  Drury said Toyota will be able to capitalize on the
popularity of the Prius and its established brand name to lure
buyers and get current Prius owners to buy the plug-in version
of the car.  “The Prius will take away some Volt and Leaf buyers,” he
said. “It’s too easy of a decision for car buyers to make.”  GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in January that
he wants a car using the Chevy’s Voltec electric-drive
technology for each of GM’s four U.S. brands. GM has backed off
on the push for more Voltec cars, shelving plans for Cadillac
and Buick versions of the Opel Ampera, said two people familiar
with the matter, who were not authorized to speak publicly. The
Ampera is similar to the Volt only with Opel brand styling.  Robert Peterson, a GM spokesman, declined to comment on
unannounced product plans.  More Leafs  After GM takes the production lead early next year, Nissan
is planning to snatch it back by the end of 2012. Nissan will be
able to build the Leaf on the same assembly line as the Altima
and Maxima sedans at its plant in Smyrna,  Tennessee , with
capacity to build 150,000 of the Leaf for the U.S. and for
export. In 2013, Nissan will add capacity for 50,000 more Leafs
at a plant in Sunderland, U.K.  Moritz  Chevrolet  in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , has about 60 buyers
on a waiting list, said Jim Hardick, a co-owner. He sells every
Volt he gets right off the delivery truck, he said.  “We have more demand than we have cars,” Hardick said.
“I just wish they were more plentiful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  