-- 
Google+ U.S. Visitors Spend Less Time on Site, Hitwise Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-28T00:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/google-visitors-spending-less-time-on-the-site-hitwise-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s new social-networking
service, Google+, saw fewer U.S. visitors last week and users
are spending less time on the site, signaling that its momentum
may be slowing, according to Experian Hitwise.  Total Google+ visits fell about 3 percent to 1.79 million
in the U.S. in the week ended July 23 from the prior seven days,
said  Experian Hitwise , which tracks Web traffic. Google+ visits
had risen 283 percent in the week ended July 16. The average
time spent on the site in the most recent week declined 10
percent to 5 minutes and 15 seconds, the research firm found.  Google+, an online tool started last month that lets users
create and communicate with groups of friends, is the company’s
latest effort to challenge services such as Facebook Inc. and
LinkedIn Corp. Google co-founder  Larry Page , who took over as
chief executive officer in April, announced earlier this month
that Google+ had more than 10 million users -- less than three
weeks after it started.  “We are seeing over 1 billion items shared and received in
a single day,” Page said July 14 on a call with analysts. “So
while we still have a lot of work still to do, we are really
excited about our progress with Google+."  Experian Hitwise ’s research methods, which rely on visits
to websites, don’t include mobile users and third-party
application traffic, according to the New York-based company.  Google+, which aims to help users better organize and
manage contacts and sharing, began a test version on June 28 by
invitation only.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , fell $15.30, or
2.5 percent, to $607.22 today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have risen 2.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  