-- 
Google, InterDigital, Irell & Manella: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-27T11:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/google-interdigital-htc-apple-irell-manella-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  General Counsel Kent
Walker said the smartphone industry is in an arms race for
patents that is hurting consumers and leaving the company to
“sort through the mess” of litigation.  “It’s hard to find what’s the best path -- there’s so much
litigation,” Walker said in a July 25 interview. “We’re
exploring a variety of different things.”  Google, whose Android mobile operating system has been
targeted in at least six legal complaints, is seeking to buy
 intellectual property  that could be used as a defense against
litigation. Google, the world’s largest Internet search company,
is also seeking to curb abuses of the system, calling on
Congress and the Federal Trade Commission to rein in lawsuits,
and asking the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to take closer
looks at patents being used in litigation, Walker said.  “The tech industry has a significant problem,” he said.
“Software patents are kind of gumming up the works of
innovation.”  Google’s competitors have said the  Mountain View ,
California-based company is critical of the patent system
because it has few patents of its own and entered a smartphone
market where companies had been researching and selling products
for years before Android phones went on sale in 2008.  Google has been assigned 728 patents through yesterday,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office database,
mostly for search engine technology. Apple has more than 4,000
U.S. patents, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  more than 18,000, according to
the database.  The Android system is a free, open-source program that
relies on some nonproprietary features Google didn’t create and
allows outside developers to modify the code. That has left the
company vulnerable to claims that it built Android on the backs
of research done by other technology companies.  Google, which had $39.1 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of June, put in an initial $900 million offer in
April to buy the patents of bankrupt phone-equipment maker
Nortel Networks Corp. It was outbid by a group that includes
Apple, Microsoft, and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which all make
devices that compete with Android phones.  Walker wouldn’t say whether Google will bid on InterDigital
Inc. -- an owner of more than 1,300 patents that is exploring a
potential sale -- the digital-imaging patents of  Eastman Kodak
Co. (EK)  or any other portfolio of intellectual property.  “We want to be disciplined about how we approach all this
stuff,” Walker said. “We’re looking for a reasonable
alternative, but we want to make sure Google and the companies
Google partners with aren’t shut out of the opportunity to bring
great new products and features to consumers.”  Oracle Corp., the world’s largest supplier of database
software, contends Android uses its Java programming language,
in violation of patents and copyrights, according to court
filings.  Redwood City , California-based Oracle sued, seeking as
much as $6.1 billion in damages, after Google balked at paying
$100 million for a license to use the technology.  In ruling last week on what type of damages should be
considered, U.S. District Judge William Alsup said “Google may
have simply been brazen, preferring to roll the dice on possible
litigation rather than to pay a fair price.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has patent cases
before the U.S. International Trade Commission that target
Android phones made by Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. Each of those companies has
filed cases against Apple.  Microsoft and Motorola Mobility also have patent suits
against each other, and Microsoft has a pending ITC complaint
against Barnes & Noble Inc. over the Android-based Nook reader.  Winston Yung, chief financial officer of Taoyuan, Taiwan-
based HTC, said in an interview yesterday that the company is
willing to negotiate a settlement with Apple.  Walker said it’s “crazy” that both HTC and Apple phones
could be barred from the U.S. market if a deal isn’t reached.  “Each side can blow the other up on some level --
everybody can block the other’s products from coming to
market,” Walker said. “You create this mutually assured
destruction scenario, but it’s very expensive to get all those
munitions.”  The company is providing support and technical help to
companies that make products for Android and are being sued,
either by rival companies such as Apple and Microsoft, or by
small patent owners that don’t make products.  “We’ll be fine,” Walker said. “We have the resources to
balance the scales here.”  InterDigital Seeks to Halt Nokia, ZTE, Huawei Phone Imports  InterDigital Inc., owner of about 1,300 U.S. patents
related to mobile phones, said it filed a patent-infringement
complaint seeking to block imports of phones made by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
 ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Huawei Technologies Co.  InterDigital filed a case with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington , alleging infringement of seven patents
related to so-called third-generation wireless technology,
according to a statement yesterday. The company also sued the
phonemakers in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , making the
same allegations.  InterDigital, based in King of Prussia,  Pennsylvania , last
week hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Capital  to help
explore a potential sale to take advantage of increased demand
for wireless patents. InterDigital, whose stock has risen more
than 70 percent in the past week, has said its patents are
deeper and stronger than those that Nortel Networks Corp.
auctioned for $4.5 billion in bidding concluded June 30.  “Over the past thirty years, InterDigital has invested
nearly one billion dollars in the development of advanced
digital cellular technologies, creating important innovations,
and helping to drive an industry creating billions of wireless
connections,” Lawrence Shay, head of InterDigital’s patent
holding units, said in yesterday’s statement.  InterDigital said it filed the ITC complaint because Nokia,
ZTE and Huawei refused to pay licensing fees. InterDigital
already had a case against Espoo, Finland-based Nokia at the ITC
that it lost, and is awaiting an appeals court ruling in that
dispute.  “Nokia will take whatever steps are needed to protect its
rights,” Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, said in an e-mail.  A victory in the new case could result in a ban of phones,
USB sticks, mobile hot spots and tablets made by the three
companies. Huawei and ZTE are  China ’s two largest makers of
phone equipment. Both are based in Shenzhen, China.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents. If it
agrees to investigate the complaint, the judge assigned
typically completes the review in 15 to 18 months.  HTC Says Willing to Negotiate With Apple on Patent Dispute  HTC Corp., the Taiwanese smartphone maker locked in a
patent battle with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , says it’s willing to negotiate
with the iPhone maker after both sides scored victories at the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  “We have to sit down and figure it out,” Winston Yung,
chief financial officer of the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company,
said by phone yesterday. “We’re open to having discussions.”  HTC on July 6 announced a $300 million deal to buy S3
Graphics Co., less than a week after that company won an ITC
ruling against Apple over two patents. In a July 15 initial
determination, the same commission ruled in Apple’s favor on two
other patents.  “We are open to all sorts of solutions, as long as the
solution and the terms are fair and reasonable,” Yung said.
“On and off we’ve had discussions with Apple, even before the
initial determination came out.”  Yung said he’s not aware of any formal talks having been
held since this month’s two separate ITC rulings. Carolyn Wu, a
Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately answer
three calls to her mobile phone today.  Apple violates two S3 Graphics patents related to
compression technology, the U.S. ITC said in a July 1 notice.
HTC infringes two Apple patents related to data-detection and
data transmission technologies, the commission ruled July 15.
Both rulings are subject to review.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  China Police Raid 13,000 Counterfeiting Operations, Xinhua Says  Chinese police have raided more than 13,000 operations
since the Ministry of Public Security began a campaign in
November against the production and sale of counterfeit goods,
Xinhua News Agency  said , citing the ministry.  Police have detained almost 30,000 suspects and dissolved
more than 4,900 wholesalers or groups, the official news service
said, citing unidentified ministry officials.  Future IP enforcement activities this year will target
agriculture, medicines, food products and fake versions of
famous brands, Liu Jinguo, vice ministry of public security,
said and Xinhua reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sierra Leone Copyright Infringers Can Get Three Years in Prison  The West African nation of Sierra Leone has passed a
copyright law that puts convicted infringers in jail for three
years, Sierra Express Media  reported .  They also face a minimum fine of 60 million Leones
($13,711), according to Sierra Express Media.  The bill was passed with the support of the Cassette
Sellers Association, a network of music marketers and
distributors that employed 15,000 Sierra Leone youth, according
to the publication.  The new measure, which was passed after three hours of
debate in that country’s parliament, “will change the landscape
of the industry,” Sierra Leone President Ernest Bai Koroma said
and Sierra Express Media reported.  Dress Designer Sherri Hill Wins Destruction of Knockoff Frocks  Sherri Hill , an Oklahoma-based designer  of pageant gowns 
and  prom dresses , settled a copyright infringement case against
a  Los Angeles  wholesaler.  The suit, filed in August 2010 in federal court in Los
Angeles, accused  Nox Anabel Inc.  of infringing the copyrights
for some of her dress designs. She claimed that not only had the
Los Angeles-based company copied the designs, but was informing
its customers that they were getting genuine Sherry Hill gowns.  Hill’s dresses are promoted to prom-goers and pageant
contestants through an annual mailing of as many as 400,000
catalogues in advance of prom and pageant season, according to
her complaint.  She said in court papers that her gowns have been worn by
winners of the Miss U.S.A., Miss America, and Miss Galaxy
International beauty pageants and have been seen in several
teen-oriented television programs.  Nox Anabel will pay Sherri Hill $60,000 and must turn over
its entire inventory of six infringing dresses, according to a
statement from her lawyer,  Joseph Giaconda  of  New York ’s
 Giaconda Law Group PLLC . The company faces further sanctions if
its employees make any commercial use of Hill’s name.  The case is Sherri Hill v. Nox Anabel Inc., 2:10-cv-05871-
GHK-JCG, U.S. District Court, Central District of California.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Counsel  Morgan Chu Accused of Sexual Harassment in Wrongful Firing Suit  Irell & Manella LLP’s high-profile IP litigation partner
 Morgan Chu  was accused of sexual harassment and the Los Angeles-
based firm was sued for wrongful discharge by the former head of
its entertainment practice.  In the complaint filed in Los Angeles Superior Court July
22,  Juliette Youngblood  said she was fired after she confronted
Chu and complained of his conduct at a firm happy hour in late
2009. Youngblood was also a member of Irell & Manella’s IP
practice group.  She accused the firm of treating her unfairly because she
took three maternity leaves, and said that after she accosted
Chu about the alleged harassment, he accused her of lying about
a billing issue.  Neither Irell & Manella’s press contact nor Chu responded
immediately to e-mailed requests for comment.  Youngblood, who after her August 2009 termination started
Youngblood Group PC and says she’s working on movie production
with Mark Burnett, asked the court for money damages, attorney
fees, litigation costs, and extra damages to punish the firm for
its actions.  She also asked for an order reinstating her to her
partnership in the firm.  Youngblood is represented by  Patricia McKibbin Teren  and
Lauren E. Miller of  Teren Law Group PC  of Redondo Beach,
California.  The case is Juliette Youngblood v. Irell & Manella LLP,
BC465977, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 