-- 
Greece’s ATEbank Won’t Take Part in Writing Down Government Debt

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/greece-s-atebank-won-t-take-part-in-writing-down-government-debt.html
Agricultural Bank of Greece (ATE)  SA, a
state-controlled lender, won’t follow European proposals that
would make it write down the value of its 7.9 billion euros
($11.4 billion) of Greek government debt.  The lender, one of eight European banks to fail European
Union stress tests on July 15, won’t take part in the private
sector involvement, or PSI, initiative while efforts to boost
its weak capital position are under way, Chairman Theodoros Pantalakis said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Athens-based ATEbank, as Agricultural Bank is also known,
“is not allowed by EU rules to participate in the PSI for as
long as its restructuring program is on,” Pantalakis said.
“That means that ATEbank cannot participate until the end of
2013.”  EU leaders on July 21 reached an agreement on a rescue
package for  Greece  valued at 159 billion euros, including 54
billion euros in contributions from private investors through
bond exchanges and buybacks. The Institute of International
Finance, which lobbies on behalf of banks, is pressing members
that hold Greek government debt to support the package with the
aim of securing 90 percent participation.  Greece hired  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Deutsche Bank AG and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to be joint dealer-managers responsible for
private-sector involvement in the process, the Finance Ministry
said in a statement today. Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis told Mega TV in an interview yesterday the process
will start in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 