-- 
Greece Hires BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, HSBC for Exchange

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-27T12:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/greece-hires-bnp-paribas-deutsche-bank-hsbc-for-debt-exchange.html
Greece hired three banks to oversee
its voluntary bond exchange and debt buyback plan, part of the
European Union’s plan to stem the sovereign debt crisis.  BNP Paribas SA,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  will
be joint dealer-managers, responsible for private sector
involvement in the aid package, the Athens-based  Finance
Ministry  said in a statement today. The lenders will provide a
committed financing facility to Greece, the ministry said.  Banks, insurers and other private investors pledged this
month to participate in the plan as European Union leaders
struggle to avert the euro area’s first default. The EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  will provide 109 billion euros ($158
billion) between now and 2014, and private investors will
contribute 54 billion euros by bond exchanges and buybacks.  The plan will lengthen the average maturity of privately
held Greek debt to 11 years from six years. Investors that take
part in the program would have to write down the value of their
existing Greek bonds by about 21 percent, according to the
Institute of International Finance, which has led talks between
the EU and investors on the program.  The Greek government said it also retained  Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP  as its international legal adviser and
Lazard Ltd. as financial adviser, according to the statement.  Greek Holdings  BNP Paribas (BNP)  has about 5 billion euros of net exposure to
Greek government bonds, while Deutsche Bank has 1.5 billion
euros and HSBC $1.2 billion, according to data provided by the
banks for the EU stress tests.  The timing of the bond program depends on the government,
which is hiring a team to set up the specifics of the exchange,
IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  has said. Greek Deputy
Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis told Mega TV in an
interview this week the process will start in August.  Investors will have the option to exchange existing Greek
debt into four instruments. Three will be fully collateralized
by AAA-rated zero-coupon securities and have a 30-year maturity,
and the fourth will be for 15 years and partially collateralized
by funds held in an escrow account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 