-- 
Greek Central Bank Head Urges Government to Exceed Targets for Budget Cuts

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 
2011-07-27T11:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/greek-central-bank-head-urges-government-to-exceed-targets-for-budget-cuts.html
Bank of  Greece  Governor  George Provopoulos  called on the government to exceed its budget-
cutting targets to restore investor confidence in the debt-
ridden nation.  The European Union’s second rescue package for Greece
provides “breathing space” that should be used “not only to
put the program back on track, but to go beyond the targets of
the program,” Provopoulos, who sits in the European Central
Bank’s Governing Council, said in an interview in  Athens 
yesterday. “If we did that -- and we certainly can do that --
we would help turn around the psychology of the market.”  Greek lawmakers on June 29 backed a 78 billion-euro ($113
billion) austerity plan that was a condition for receiving
another EU bailout. The program aims to reduce the  budget
deficit  to 1.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2015 from
10.5 percent last year. Spanish and Italian bond yields are
nevertheless rising on investor concern that the crisis will
spread as Greece teeters on the brink of a debt default.  “It will take some time for Greece to overcome its
problems,” Provopoulos said. “Our European partners have gone
the extra step in providing a new adjustment package. Now, the
ball is in our court and we have to work hard, indeed much
harder from now on.”  He said the government “will be successful in fully
implementing the program” and that the country will regain
access to debt markets “sooner rather than later.”  Bond Yields  Greek two-year bond yields, which spiked above 40 percent
on June 20, were at 29 percent today. Italy’s 10-year yield rose
five basis points to 5.70 percent while similar maturity Spanish
yields gained 11 basis points to 6.08 percent.  Euro-area leaders last week approved an additional 159
billion euros in rescue funds for Greece, including 50 billion
euros in projected contributions from private investors.
Greece’s credit rating was this week cut three steps by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the bailout amounts to a default
because of the losses investors will incur.  Under the terms of the package, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has pledged to raise 50 billion euros from state
asset sales and impose levies ranging from 1 percent to 5
percent on wages. He also plans higher taxes on restaurants,
bars and heating oil.  While the  Greek economy  is projected to contract 3.8
percent this year, the Frankfurt-based ECB has twice raised
 interest rates  to stem euro-area inflation.  Monetary Policy   Provopoulos, 61, said the ECB’s benchmark rate is
appropriate at 1.5 percent and there’s no evidence that higher
commodity prices are fueling excessive wage increases, or so-
called second-round effects.  “We don’t have evidence up to now of second-round effects,
while inflation expectations are firmly anchored,” he said.
“We will continue to monitor very closely all developments with
respect to upside risks to  price stability .”  Euro-area inflation is running at 2.7 percent and has been
in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December.  “I expect that inflation will remain above the 2 percent
level in the coming months before falling below that level in
late 2011 and in 2012,” Provopoulos said. Still, “if there are
inflationary pressures we’ll act accordingly, no matter what is
happening on the fiscal front.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Athens at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  