-- 
SEC Said to Be Studying Groupon Operating-Income Accounting in IPO Review

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-27T23:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/groupon-initial-public-offering-may-be-delayed-by-sec-scrutiny-cnbc-says.html
Groupon Inc.’s operating-income
accounting is being studied by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, part of a routine review of the coupon site’s
initial public offering, a person familiar with the matter said.  The SEC is looking at  Groupon ’s adjusted consolidated
segment operating income, or adjusted CSOI, one of the main
criteria the company uses to measure its business, according to
the person, who asked not to be identified because the review
hasn’t been made public. There is no sign that the scrutiny will
delay the IPO, the person said.  Adjusted CSOI excludes non-cash expenses and online
marketing expenses used to attract new subscribers, raising
concern that it may mask Groupon’s costs. CNBC reported today
that the SEC’s review of the company’s nonstandard accounting
may delay the IPO until mid- or late September. The offering was
already slated for after the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 5, so
that wouldn’t represent a delay, the person with knowledge of
the matter said.  The SEC may ask Groupon for more information about how it
accounts for costs such as marketing, said Peter Bible, partner-
in-charge of the public-companies practice at New York
accounting firm EisnerAmper LLP.  Direct Marketing  “The one they could use more disclosure around is direct
marketing,” Bible said. “They probably just need to add more
disclosure explaining why they back it out and not consider it
part of their core operations.”  Groupon, the top online-coupon provider, filed on June 2 to
raise $750 million in an IPO, joining a resurgence of dot-com
startups going public. The Chicago-based company pioneered the
market of daily deals, which let users buy discounted offers at
restaurants, nail salons, dentists and other businesses. Groupon
then splits the revenue with the companies.  Groupon generated adjusted CSOI of $60.6 million in 2010,
according to the company’s IPO filing. The number grew to $81.6
million in the first quarter of 2011 alone.  “We believe adjusted CSOI is an important measure for
management to evaluate the performance of our business as it
excludes certain non-cash expenses and discretionary online
marketing expenses that are incurred primarily to acquire new
subscribers,” Groupon said in the filing.  Brad Williams, a spokesman for Groupon, declined to comment
on the SEC filing process.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, also declined to comment
specifically on Groupon, saying “as a general matter, staff
currently review all IPO filings. The length between a filing
and the registration’s effectiveness is three to six months.”  Separately, Groupon said in a filing on July 14 that it’s
received inquiries from “the attorneys general of various
states regarding the operation of our business under state
laws.”  Groupon’s practice of selling group-discount coupons with
expiration dates is being reviewed by the Connecticut attorney
general for possible violations, according to a statement from
the state’s office at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  