-- 
Ikea’s Factory Workers Vote to Join Union

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-07-27T23:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ikea-s-factory-workers-vote-to-join-union.html
A vote by Ikea’s U.S. factory
workers in  Virginia  to join a union may boost labor as
organizers seek to reverse record-low membership at companies.  Employees at the plant in Danville, Virginia, voted 221-69
yesterday to join the International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers, the  National Labor Relations Board  said.
The factory, run by a subsidiary called Swedwood, makes low-cost
bookcases and coffee tables for sale in Ikea’s 37 blue and
yellow U.S. big-box stores.  The Ikea union victory may help organizing efforts at
companies where management has hired law firms and consultants
to thwart organizing efforts, labor leaders said. Unions
represent a record low 6.9 percent of private sector workers.  “It’s incredibly significant,” said Amy B. Dean, a former
AFL-CIO official and co-author of a book about reshaping the
 labor movement . “This is a victory that will help embolden
workers everywhere.”  Ikea Group Corp. is the world’s second-largest retailer
behind  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which has turned back unionizing
efforts. Ikea, based in Odakra, Sweden, is the world’s largest
home-furnishing retailer. The Machinists union had targeted the
southern Virginia plant since it opened in 2008 with $12 million
in incentives offered by state and local governments.  “We hope this will enable us to put an end to the growing
global outrage over the treatment in Danville and have a rapid
restoration of both social dialogue and social justice,” the
Building and Wood Worker’s International Union said in an e-
mailed statement after the vote.  Worker Decisions  Ikea’s campaign against the union was muted by pledges to
let workers make their own decision on joining a union, a policy
based on labor protections ingrained in  Sweden ’s corporate
culture. The company has a code of conduct called IWAY that
guarantees workers the right to organize and stipulates that all
overtime be voluntary.  “We fully support the right of our co-workers to make this
decision,” said Ingrid Steen, a Swedwood spokeswoman. “We
accept their decision and will work with their union in a
mutually cooperative and respectful manner.”  The union gained support after Ikea workers complained
about low wages, discrimination, long working hours, eliminated
raises, a frenzied pace and mandatory overtime, said Bill
Street, director of the woodworking department for the union who
led the organizing campaign. Workers would find out on a Friday
evening that they’d have to work a weekend shift, and there
would be disciplinary action for workers who didn’t show up.  ‘Plantation-Like Behavior’  “The primary issue that has driven this campaign from the
beginning has been a plantation-like attitude by management,”
Street said. “Mandatory overtime in  New York City  may not be a
huge deal, but in a rural, family oriented small community with
strong religious values, this treatment is unacceptable.”  In addition, six black former employees filed complaints
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claiming they
have faced racial discrimination at the factory.  Steen declined to comment on the union’s statements.  American Rights at Work, a union advocacy group, sent more
than 22,000 letters to Ikea Chief Executive Officer Mikael Ohlsson demanding fair treatment for the employees before the
vote, said Kimberly Freeman Brown, executive director.  “The outpouring of support we saw then, and the results of
today’s vote, are a clear indication of the vital role unions
continue to play in ensuring fairness and respect for workers on
the job,” she said.  Union leaders also highlighted a disparity between work
rules in the U.S. and in Sweden. Fulltime workers in Danville
start at $8 an hour with 12 vacation days, including 8 days set
by the company. Europeans collect a minimum wage of about $19 an
hour and the government mandates five weeks of paid vacation,
Street said.  ‘Different Models’  “For workers in Danville, the knowledge that the company
is capable of meeting a different business model enabled them to
seek an alternative,” Street said.  The Danville union drive was followed by the media in
Sweden, where many company workers are union members. The
largest daily newspaper in  Stockholm  wrote that the company was
behaving in an “un-Swedish way.”  In Danville, the company hired Jackson Lewis LLP, a law
firm that helps businesses block unions, to fight the organizing
effort. The company’s anti-union tactics were limited by not
wanting to hurt their corporate reputation as being progressive,
Street said.  “Virginia has the third lowest union density in any state
in the nation,” he said. “If we can win in Virginia, we can
win elsewhere.”  Virginia is a right-to-work state, where employees aren’t
required to pay union dues as a condition of getting a job.
Patrick Semmens, a spokesman for the National Right to Work
Committee in Springfield, Virginia, questioned the effectiveness
of the new union. “Those workers remain free to exercise their
rights and cut off their dues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  