-- 
Ikea’s Virginia Manufacturing Plant Workers Vote for Union

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-07-27T21:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ikea-s-virginia-manufacturing-plant-workers-vote-for-union-1-.html
Workers at Ikea’s U.S. furniture
factory voted to form a union, a victory for the  labor movement 
seeking to rebound from record-low membership at private
companies.  Employees at the plant in Danville,  Virginia , voted 221-69
today to join the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers, the  National Labor Relations Board  said. The
factory, operated by a subsidiary called Swedwood, makes low-
cost bookcases and coffee tables for sale in Ikea’s 37 blue and
yellow U.S. big-box stores.  “We fully support the right of our co-workers to make this
decision,” said Ingrid Steen, a Swedwood spokeswoman. “We
accept their decision and will work with their union in a
mutually cooperative and respectful manner.”  Ikea Group Corp. is the world’s second-largest retailer
behind  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which has turned back union efforts
by employees. Ikea, based in Odakra, Sweden, is the world’s
largest home-furnishing retailer.  The Machinists union has targeted the plant since it opened
in 2008 with $12 million in incentives offered by state and
local governments.  “The primary issue that has driven this campaign from the
beginning has been a plantation-like attitude by management,”
said Bill Street, director of the woodworking department for the
union who led the organizing campaign. “Mandatory overtime in
 New York City  may not be a huge deal, but in a rural, family
oriented small community with strong religious values, this
treatment is unacceptable.”  Low Wages  Workers complained about low wages, discrimination, long
working hours, eliminated raises, frenzied pace and mandatory
overtime. Workers would find out on a Friday evening that they’d
have to work a weekend shift, and there would be disciplinary
action for workers who didn’t show up, Street said.  In addition, six black former employees filed complaints
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claiming they
have faced racial discrimination at the factory.  Steen declined to comment on the union’s statements.  Complicating the working conditions in Danville is a
disparity between work rules in the U.S. and in  Sweden . Fulltime
workers in Danville start at $8 an hour with 12 vacation days,
including 8 days set by the company. Europeans collect a minimum
wage of about $19 an hour and the government mandates five weeks
of paid vacation.  The company also has a code of conduct called IWAY that
guarantees workers the right to organize and stipulates that all
overtime be voluntary.  “For workers in Danville, the knowledge that the company
is capable of meeting a different business model enabled them to
seek an alternative,” Street said.  ‘Un-Swedish Way’  The Danville union drive was followed by the media in
Sweden, where many company workers are union members. The
largest daily newspaper in  Stockholm  wrote that the company was
behaving in an “un-Swedish way.”  In Danville, the company hired Jackson Lewis LLP, a  law
firm  that helps businesses block unions, to fight the organizing
effort. The company’s anti-union tactics were limited by not
wanting to hurt their corporate reputation as being progressive,
Street said.  With unions representing a record low 6.9 percent of
workers at U.S. companies, and many organizing campaigns
failing, the Ikea vote is a victory for the labor, he said.  “Virginia has the third lowest union density in any state
in the nation,” he said. “If we can win in Virginia, we can
win elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  