-- 
Singh’s Spending Plans May Force India Rates Higher, Central Banker Says

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-27T11:02:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/india-spending-plans-may-lead-to-more-rate-rises-rbi-deputy-governor-says.html
Reserve Bank  of India Deputy
Governor Subir Gokarn signaled that a move by the government to
boost spending on health care and food risks adding to inflation
pressures without steps to pay for it, forcing the central bank
to respond with higher  interest rates .  “If it comes in a way in which government commitments
increase without their ability to finance them, then it is a
problem,” Gokarn said in an interview in his office today in
Mumbai after the RBI raised its benchmark rate a half point
yesterday. “Inflation pressures mount and in which case the
response of the central bank is to use the only instrument that
it effectively has, which is the interest rate.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to expand a health-
insurance program for the poor and introduce legislation next
month to guarantee wheat and rice supplies at subsidized prices
to 70 percent of India’s 1.2 billion people, without specifying
a financing source. The steps may add to demand already fueled
by “very dramatic trends in wage growth,” according to Gokarn.  “Essentially we have a rebalancing of expenditure towards
 government spending  and away from investment, which is the
classic textbook crowding out and that’s clearly a problem,”
Gokarn said. “And if you’re squeezing investment that is also
impairing long-term growth potential.”  Rate Action  The RBI yesterday surprised all 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News with a half-point boost in the repurchase rate to
8 percent. The bank said in a statement that stronger action was
needed in the absence of government steps to damp demand or
efforts to address the nation’s supply bottlenecks.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid 0.5 percent
as of 3:26 p.m. in Mumbai, adding to its biggest loss in five
weeks yesterday after the rate announcement. The rupee advanced
0.4 percent to 44.01 per dollar. The yield on the 7.8 percent
government bond due April 2021 gained 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 8.46 percent. It reached 8.48 percent
earlier, the highest level since September 2008.  Gokarn said the central bank doesn’t aim to “control and
influence” bond yields and that they’re an outcome of the
actions taken to tame inflation. Bond yields are “unnecessarily
high” R. Gopalan, secretary of economic affairs at  India ’s
finance ministry, said in a July 20 interview. Gokarn said the
government may be expressing its “discomfort” at the rate at
which it has to borrow.  Rupee Gains  On the strengthening rupee as a tool to fight inflation,
Gokarn said the value of the currency is “market determined”
and the link between monetary policy and the rupee may not be
that strong in an economy like India’s where there are  capital
controls .  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao was forced to escalate what was
already the steepest increase in borrowing costs among major
Asian economies, after household expectations for inflation
exceeded 12 percent, above the 9.44 percent current pace. The
bank will add another half point to the benchmark rate by the
end of 2011, according to the median estimate of 11 economists
surveyed yesterday by Bloomberg.  The government’s food subsidy costs may climb 67 percent to
1 trillion rupees ($23 billion) once the law comes into force,
Food & Consumer Affairs Minister K.V. Thomas said last month.  Health Coverage  India plans to extend the government’s health insurance
coverage to workers in industries such as asbestos, dolomite and
mica, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in February.  Subbarao, 61, acted yesterday as the central bank elevated
its inflation forecast for the year through March by 1
percentage point, to 7 percent.  Commenting on the debate in the country on whether the
current pace of price gains are the “new normal,” Gokarn said
that there is “a level of inflation above which things could
spiral out of control and our endeavor as a monetary authority
is to make sure that inflation remains below that level.”  While keeping its growth forecast for the fiscal year
through March at 8 percent, the RBI yesterday said that “in the
absence of appropriate actions for addressing supply bottlenecks,
especially in food and infrastructure, questions about the
ability of the economy to sustain the current growth rate
without significant inflationary pressures come to the fore.”  While growth has shown signs of moderation, “there is no
evidence of a sharp or broad-based slowdown as yet,” the
central bank said in its policy statement yesterday.  Demand Driver  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , maker of almost half the cars
sold in India, yesterday reported first-quarter profit increase
of 18 percent that beat analyst estimates because of higher
sales and a jump in unspecified other income.  “Policy makers now have accepted that demand is the
underlying driver of inflation and needs to be brought down to
cool inflation and avoid a hard landing,” said Jahangir Aziz,
an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who previously worked at
India’s finance ministry and the  International Monetary Fund .
“Capacity constraints are much tighter and demand pressures
much higher than they had thought.”  After what could be Subbarao’s final rate decision, the
central bank blamed the government for contributing to inflation,
with its “large fiscal deficit” stoking price pressures. The
RBI July 25 also cited a high share of production capacity in
use, risk of a “wage-price spiral” and “stickiness” in food
costs fanning price gains.  Salaries in the world’s second-most populous nation may
grow this year by an average of 13 percent, the fastest in  Asia ,
according to a March survey by Aon Hewitt LLC.  Subbarao’s Term  Subbarao’s term concludes before the next scheduled rate
announcement on Sept. 16. A former top bureaucrat in the
Ministry of Finance, Subbarao took office in September 2008.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government hasn’t publicly
indicated whether it intends to reappoint him.  “The challenge for the government and the RBI is to ensure
demand is constrained in the short term,” Subbarao said at a
press conference yesterday. He said “fiscal consolidation” is
critical to managing inflation.  “The governor of the RBI has correctly pointed out that to
address the issue of inflation and ensure higher growth, the
monetary and fiscal policies should move in tandem,” Mukherjee
said in  New Delhi  today. “Therefore appropriate measures will
be taken.”  The minister said he doesn’t think the central bank is near
the end of its rate-increase cycle. Mukherjee aims to trim the
budget gap to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending March 31.  Sovereign Wealth Fund  On building a sovereign wealth fund, Gokarn said since
India has a capital-account deficit, it should be concerned
about the fact that “the money that you are using is not your
own.” He said “small” amounts of foreign-exchange reserves
can be used for investment, citing the money that was extended
to the India Infrastructure Finance Co. Ltd.  “But as a strategy and anything approaching the scale at
which other countries have sovereign wealth fund, it really
doesn’t have much traction,” Gokarn said.  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of India’s Planning
Commission, said in a July 19 interview that India is
considering a plan to set aside $10 billion from its foreign-
exchange reserves and create a sovereign fund to secure energy
assets overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  