-- 
India, Pakistan’s Changing ‘Mindset’ to Double Trade Across Kashmir Border

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-07-27T11:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/india-pakistan-s-changing-mindset-to-double-trade-across-kashmir-border.html
India  and Pakistan agreed to expand
trade and travel across their border in divided Kashmir and step
up counter-terrorism cooperation, saying the moves illustrated a
new era in bilateral ties.  The neighbors will double the number of days goods can be
traded across their border in the Himalayan region to four per
week, increase the frequency of bus services and ease
restrictions on travel permits, they said in a  joint statement 
issued after their foreign ministers met in New Delhi.  “It is the desire of both countries to make it an
uninterrupted and uninterruptable process,” Hina Rabbani Khar,
33, Pakistan’s first woman foreign minister and the youngest
holder of the post, said standing alongside her Indian
counterpart S.M. Krishna after talks. A changed “mindset” will
take the process forward, she said.  Kashmir, claimed in full by both India and  Pakistan  since
their independence from British rule in 1947 and the cause of
two of their three wars, remains the biggest hurdle to improved
cross-border relations. Indian Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao
said officials had “expressed our concerns” over Khar’s
meeting yesterday with leaders of separatist groups opposed to
Indian rule in Kashmir.  India and Pakistan are “moving in the right direction”
and steps like those announced today to bring people together in
Kashmir can “go a long way to resolving issues,” said Ashok K.
Behuria, an analyst at the New Delhi-based Institute for Defence
Studies and Analyses.  Regional Security  Improved relations between India and Pakistan are crucial
for stability in  South Asia  and for U.S. hopes of resolving the
decade-old war in nearby  Afghanistan , the U.S.  State Department
has said . That importance increased as President  Barack Obama 
ordered the first withdrawals of American troops that will lead
to an end of the U.S. combat role in Afghanistan by 2014.  Spikes in tension between Pakistan and India risk prompting
Pakistan’s armed forces to shift troops from the fight against
Taliban and allied militants in that country to reinforce the
border with India, say analysts such as Imtiaz Gul, chairman of
the Islamabad-based Center for Research and Security Studies.  While being fully aware of the “challenges that lie
ahead” Krishna said relations are on “the right track.”
Discussions on  Jammu and Kashmir  will attempt to find a
“peaceful solution by narrowing divergences and building
convergences,” he said.  Today’s talks were the first between the foreign ministers
of the nuclear-armed rivals in a year. The previous meeting in
July 2010 exposed deep differences on how to rebuild a  peace
process  shattered by the 2008 attack on Mumbai by Pakistani
gunmen.  July Bombs  While 20 people died in blasts in the same city July 12,
the government in New Delhi has not publicly linked militants in
Pakistan to the bombings.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in Delhi last week,
said the U.S. is encouraged by the dialogue as India and
Pakistan, both of which wield nuclear weapons, bid to build
“confidence between them.”  Peace talks restarted in February with India maintaining it
will continue to insist that Pakistan take action to dismantle
militant groups based on its soil and targeting India. An outfit
calling itself Indian Mujahideen has claimed responsibility for
bombings in Indian cities since 2008.  -- With assistance from Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in  New Delhi .
Editors:  Mark Williams , Abhay Singh  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  