-- 
Indonesian Loan Growth to Beat Government Estimate, Bank Central Asia Says

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-07-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/indonesia-loan-growth-to-exceed-central-bank-forecast-bca-says.html
Indonesia’s loan growth will
probably surpass the central bank’s estimate this year as low
 interest rates  help drive demand in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy, the nation’s largest lender said.  Commercial lending may rise as much as 25 percent, more
than last year’s 23 percent growth and higher than  Bank
Indonesia ’s 2011 estimate of 24 percent, as slowing consumer
prices allow policy makers to hold borrowing costs at a near-
record low, PT Bank Central Asia President Director Jahja Setiaatmadja said in his first interview since being named to
the position in June.  The  central bank  has left interest rates unchanged at 6.75
percent at its past five meetings, helping to boost private
consumption. Gross domestic product will probably expand 6.3
percent to 6.8 percent this year, Governor Darmin Nasution said
on July 12, the highest level since the Asian financial crisis
that started in 1997, according to government data.  “If we look at  Indonesia ’s macro economic growth,
especially with demand for commodities still picking up, that
drives income,” Setiaatmadja said yesterday in his office in
Jakarta. “If people can work and get more income, they will
spend most of their income for  consumer goods . That’s good for
the economy because it will create demand and factories will
start to produce more and more.”  The  International Monetary Fund  projects Indonesia’s growth
at around 6.5 percent in 2011-12. “There are no signs of any
misalignment in the  exchange rate , and export growth is strong -
- including in manufacturing,” the IMF said in a statement
released in  Washington  on July 22.  Interest Rates  Indonesia has refrained from following Asian nations from
China to  India  in raising borrowing costs to damp inflation as
fuel and commodity prices gained. India boosted its benchmark
interest rate to 8 percent July 26, the 11th increase since the
start of last year.  Indonesia’s consumer prices accelerated 5.54 percent in
June from a year earlier after the government declined to raise
fuel prices and a stronger rupiah helped to cut import costs.
The central bank has said it expects inflation of about 5
percent this year.  “I don’t see any possibility that Bank Indonesia will
raise the benchmark interest rate,” Setiaatmadja said. “They
will maintain until the end of this year,”  A slowdown in  China’s economy  that reduced its demand for
commodities such as coal,  palm oil , and rubber could negatively
affect Indonesia’s growth, Setiaatmadja said.  China ’s Impact  “Demand for those commodities is coming from China,”
Setiaatmadja said. “A slowdown in China would have an impact on
commodity prices and also Indonesia’s exports.”  China’s gross domestic product grew 9.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, slowing from 9.7 percent in
the first three months. Inflation, which accelerated to 6.4
percent in June from a year earlier, has exceeded the
government’s 4 percent target every month this year. The IMF
estimates China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent for the full
year, down from 10.3 percent in 2010.  Bank Central Asia, the nation’s biggest lender by market
value, may post lending growth of 20 percent to 22 percent to
about 160 trillion rupiah ($18.9 billion) for the first half of
this year, much of it driven by mortgages and automotive
financing, Setiaatmadja said.  The lender is offering promotional programs to attract
customers for home loans, such as a fixed interest rate for the
first one or two years and a guaranteed maximum for the
remainder of the term, Setiaatmadja said.  It also offers motorcycle financing at a reduced interest
rate to customers who participate in a program in which their
employer deducts their weekly or monthly installment and pays it
directly to the  finance company , he said.  “Some our competitors offer no down payment, but that’s
dangerous,” Setiaatmadja said. “We don’t want to fight on the
down payment side, but we will on the interest rate because we
have the ability to do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  