-- 
Italian Business Confidence Falls to Lowest in Almost Two Years Amid Debt

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-28T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/italian-business-confidence-fell-more-than-economists-predicted-in-july.html
Italian business confidence fell to
the lowest in almost two years in September amid concern that
austerity measures and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will weigh
on economic growth.  The manufacturing-sentiment index dropped to 94.5, the
lowest since January 2010, from a revised 98.6 in August, Rome-
based national statistics institute Istat said today. Economists
had predicted a reading of 98.1, according to the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Istat originally reported
a reading of 99.9 in August.  The mood among executives mirrors Italian consumers’
pessimism as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  implements
spending cuts and tax increases to shield the country from
Europe’s debt crisis. Household confidence fell to the lowest in
more than three years in September amid concern about the
effects of the government’s 54 billion-euro ($73 billion)
deficit-cutting plan, which aims to balance the budget in 2013.  The measures, passed in exchange for European Central Bank
purchases of Italian bonds to stem surging borrowing costs,
didn’t stop  Standard & Poor’s  from lowering  Italy ’s credit
rating for the first time in five years on Sept. 19. Moody’s
Investors Service had said the week before that Italy remained
under review for a downgrade given the “increasingly challenging
economic and financial environment and fluid political
developments in the euro area.”  Last week, both the  International Monetary Fund  and the
government cut their forecasts for Italian growth. On Sept. 22,
the  Finance Ministry  said the euro area’s third-biggest economy
will expand 0.7 percent this year and 0.6 percent next year,
compared with April forecasts of 1.1 percent and 1.3 percent,
respectively. The IMF predicted an expansion of 0.6 percent in
2011 and 0.3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 