-- 
Mitek Opens Up Image-Scanning Technology to Software Developers

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-27T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/mitek-opens-up-image-scanning-technology-to-software-developers.html
Mitek Systems Inc. (MITK) , a document-
imaging company that lets people deposit a check by snapping its
picture with a phone’s camera, plans to let other businesses use
its technology to create their own mobile applications.  Mitek’s character-recognition software, which reads
handwriting and other information, will be embedded into apps
for insurance, real estate and health care, the San Diego-based
company said today in a statement. By letting people use phones
to submit paperwork, the technology could speed up customer
enrollment, automate expense reports or update medical records.  The new Mobile Imaging Cloud service will be delivered to
companies via  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s cloud-computing system, which
hosts programs in data centers. Already, banks such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  use Mitek’s technology to let customers deposit
checks without having to visit a branch. Mitek aims to follow
the example of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Maps service, which is integrated
into hundreds of other companies’ apps.  A social-networking site, for instance, might let users add
friends by scanning photos of business cards. CardMunch, which
offers a similar service, was  acquired  by LinkedIn Corp. earlier
this year.  “People love the convenience of trying to reduce the
number of keystrokes,” Mitek Chief Executive Officer James DeBello said in an interview. “It’s a pain killer.”  Mitek would make money by charging licensing and usage fees
for its technology. The company declined to elaborate on terms.  Billion-Dollar Market?  Sales of software is this area -- either for phones or
conventional scanners -- should reach $1.4 billion in 2015, up
from $163 million last year, according to Harvey Spencer,
founder of New York-based research firm  Harvey Spencer
Associates . Mobile software may grab 30 percent of that market
by 2015, up from less than 10 percent in 2010, he said.  Mitek has contracts to provide mobile-imaging services to
six of the top 10 U.S. banks, DeBello said. The spread of its
technology has helped propel its stock price, which is up more
than sevenfold in the past year. Mitek declined 39 cents to
$8.99 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The company also offers a free app called  Mobile Receipt  in
Apple Inc.’s  App Store . Users of the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad
can snap photos of their receipts to generate an expense report.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and EMC Corp. compete
with the company in the image-scanning market, though Mitek has
the lead in capturing images with phone cameras, Spencer said.  It’s also is the first to offer a cloud version of the
service, DeBello said. “We believe, over time, it will be a big
driver for our growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  