-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara, Pledging Democracy, to Ask Obama for Aid

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-27T17:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-pledging-democracy-to-ask-obama-for-aid.html
Ivory Coast  President  Alassane Ouattara  said he will ask U.S. President Barack Obama in
Washington this week for some of the “massive support” his
country needs after a decade of civil war.  Ouattara, who is scheduled to confer with Obama on July 29,
said the economy of the world’s leading cocoa producer would
contract by 7 percent this year as a result of violence
following the disputed presidential election in November.
Incumbent Laurent Gbagbo, who refused to cede power to Alassane,
was captured in April and Ouattara took office in May.  “Our main task after reconciliation is reconstruction
because the country has been destroyed,” Ouattara told
reporters at the  United Nations  in  New York  today. “In the past
10 years there was no investment. The average growth was 2
percent.”  Ouattara said he will also appeal in Washington for support
from the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund . In
meetings today with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and other
officials and diplomats, he aimed to reassure them of his
commitment to democracy, his plan to prosecute any of his
followers who committed crimes during the conflict, and his
efforts to reconcile with Gbagbo supporters.  “I am the president of all Ivorians,” Ouattara said. “We
want the rule of law. Justice will be for everyone, with no
distinctions.”  Gbagbo, under arrest at a presidential residence in the
northern part of the country, would be treated with “dignity,”
Ouattara said, adding that some criminal charges against him
likely would handled by the International Criminal Court in  The
Hague .  Elections Planned  Ouattara’s plea for aid, including about $25 million to
hold parliamentary elections late this year, came as his
government reported collecting 36 percent more taxes than
projected over the past three months. In addition, cocoa prices
fell in New York today on speculation that supplies from Ivory
Coast will be larger than initially estimated.  Ouattara’s visit to the UN coincided with a vote by the
 Security Council  to extend for a year the mandate of the world
body’s peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast. The UN has 9,417
soldiers and civilian police in the country to monitor its
borders, enforce an arms embargo, protect civilians and assist
with  political reconciliation.  The president said that he expects parliamentary elections
to be held in late November or early December, and that he is
waiting now for Gbagbo’s political party to nominate its share
of members of the national electoral commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  