-- 
James Murdoch Said to Have Backing of BSkyB Board as Payout Options Mulled

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T09:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/james-murdoch-said-to-have-backing-of-bskyb.html
James Murdoch, the son of News Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , is poised to stay on as
chairman of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  as the U.K. pay-
television company’s board reviews options for investor returns 
today, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The younger Murdoch has the backing of key shareholders and
directors of BSkyB, even after his testimony last week to U.K.
lawmakers over the phone-hacking scandal around News Corp.’s now
defunct News of the World tabloid was contradicted by two former
employees, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the talks are private. The 38-year-old’s position at BSkyB isn’t
on the agenda of today’s meeting, one of the people said.  The 14-person board also plans to discuss whether BSkyB
will return cash to shareholders, with a share buyback a more
likely option than a one-time dividend, one person said. A stock
repurchase may follow previous buybacks where  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
voting rights were kept unchanged even though its 39 percent
economic interest in BSkyB would increase, the person said. The
board may also decide not to implement a cash-return program,
the person said.  “It feels that the movement to shift James sideways has
sort of lost some of its urgency,” said Alex de Groote, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in  London . “The Murdochs seem to be
prepared to tough it out.”  News Corp. Survey  BSkyB and News Corp. declined to comment on the possible
outcomes and decisions of today’s meeting, scheduled to take
place at BSkyB’s headquarters in Isleworth, west of London.  The satellite service’s board is meeting as New York-based
News Corp. separately surveys its biggest shareholders on
Murdoch family control, the company’s dual-class stock structure
and the independence of its board, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  The survey results may be shared with the board, said the
people. News Corp.’s goal is to inform and frame shareholder
communications, one person said. Sard Verbinnen & Co., the
public-relations firm hired to respond to phone-hacking and
police bribery allegations at News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit,
has been conducting the conversations. Some investors were
offered to speak with Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey .  ‘Nice Gesture’  “We got a call from somebody early last week indicating
Chase Carey would love to talk to us at some point, but we’re
not in any hurry, we’re fine,” Don Yacktman, founder of
Yacktman Asset Management Co., said in a phone interview this
week. “Obviously they’re concerned about reaction and
everything. It was a nice gesture.”  BSkyB stock dropped 17 percent over seven days before the
hacking allegations forced New York-based News Corp. to shelve
its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7 billion) offer for the 61 percent
it doesn’t already own in the broadcaster.  The shares soared as high as 850 pence before the Guardian
reported on July 4 that News of the World employees intercepted
murder victim Milly Dowler’s voice mails in 2002. They slid 0.3
percent to 712.5 pence as of 10:10 a.m. in London, still 16
percent off their peak this year.  While the hacking incidents took place before  James Murdoch 
started overseeing News International, the News Corp. U.K.
publishing unit that managed the News of the World, he
authorized settlements to hacking victims that are now being
questioned.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp., which owns  Fox News  and the Wall Street Journal
in the U.S., fell 16 cents to $16 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The Class A shares have slid 11 percent since
July 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  