-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Fall on U.S. Goods Orders, Debt Impasse

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-27T23:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/japanese-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-goods-orders-debt-impasse.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures dropped after U.S. durable goods orders unexpectedly
declined amid stalled negotiations between Republicans and
Democrats over raising the federal debt limit.  American depositary receipts of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.,  Japan ’s largest publicly traded bank, lost 1.3
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of Canon
Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker by market capitalization,
sank 1.4 percent after Greece had its debt rating cut by
Standard & Poor’s. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the Australia’s No.
1 oil producer, retreated 1.9 percent after crude prices
declined.  Futures on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,910 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
10,040 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,940
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index lost 1.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
slid 0.6 percent in Wellington.  “In addition to the recent debt impasse in the U.S.,
investors need to be more conscious about the deterioration of
the actual economy,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about
$600 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Risk avoidance is increasing again and that’s a negative
driver for the Japanese market.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. The index sank 2 percent yesterday in  New York , its
biggest decline since June 1, as lawmakers indicated they were
no closer to reaching a compromise on the federal debt limit
ahead of an Aug. 2 deadline for default, while a government
report showed orders for durable goods unexpectedly decreased.  ‘True Compromise’  Equities declined as a debt agreement remained elusive.
House Speaker John Boehner’s reworked deficit-cutting plan was
gaining support among Republicans, while Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said his competing proposal to avert a potential U.S.
default is the only “true compromise.”  The U.S. Commerce Department yesterday said bookings for
goods meant to last at least three years fell 2.1 percent in
June after a 1.9 percent gain in May that was smaller than last
reported. The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a 0.3 percent increase. Demand for
business equipment, including machinery and computers, also
dropped.  Greece  Rating Cut  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy grew at a slower pace
in more parts of the country since the beginning of June as
shoppers restrained spending and factory production eased.
Growth slowed in eight of the Fed’s 12 regions, compared with
four in the last survey, the central bank said.  In  Europe , Greece had its debt rating cut to CC, two steps
above default, from CCC by Standard & Poor’s, which said a
proposed restructuring would amount to a “selective default.”
Greece will partially default on its debt once European
officials push through a plan that will see bondholders foot
part of the bill of a second bailout agreed to last week in
Brussels, S&P said. The outlook on the debt is negative.  The euro depreciated to as low as 111.85 yen today in  Tokyo ,
its weakest level in a week. A weaker euro cuts the value of
European income at Japanese companies when converted into their
home currency.  Crude oil for September delivery fell 2.2 percent to $97.40
a barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since July
18. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six metals
including copper and aluminum slid 0.2 percent, the biggest drop
since July 21.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.8 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the  S&P 500 
and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  The Japanese government is scheduled to release a report on
retail sales at 8:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 