-- 
Japan’s ‘Mr. Yen’ Sees Rise Up to 76 Per Dollar

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 
2011-07-27T10:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/japan-s-mr-yen-sees-currency-rising-to-75-or-76-per-dollar.html
Japan ’s yen may strengthen to as
high as 75 per dollar, a former top  Finance Ministry  official
said as policymakers voiced increased concern about the threat
the strengthening currency poses to the nation’s economy.  The yen “is going to hold in the 70’s range and it could
even go as far as 75 to 76 yen per dollar,”  Eisuke Sakakibara ,
who directed exchange-rate policy at the Ministry of Finance
between 1997 and 1999 and is currently a professor at  Aoyama
Gakuin University , said at a forum in Tokyo today. He didn’t
specify a timeframe for the forecast.  A  Bank of Japan  board member earlier today signaled the
central bank was prepared to “proactively” take policy action
should the yen’s advance threaten growth as the currency
advanced to a four-month high against the dollar. The gains risk
eroding the profits of exporters, a key driver of growth, at a
time when the economy is recovering from a record earthquake.  “We are at a critical point,” in determining the impact
of the yen’s gain on the economy and whether the strengthening
will become a trend or is temporary, BOJ board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki , said at a press conference today in Mie, central Japan.  Japan’s currency rose to 77.58 against the dollar today,
the highest since March 17, on concern lawmakers would fail to
reach an agreement on a plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling
needed to prevent default.  Sakakibara’s comments echoed his June 14 call for the yen
to rise to 75 to 80 in the “not too distant future.” He became
known as “Mr. Yen” during his tenure at the Finance Ministry
because of his efforts to influence the yen rate through verbal
and actual intervention in  currency markets .  Weigh on Recovery  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today he was
monitoring markets closely, reiterated daily remarks he has made
in the past week. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa also said this
week that the yen could weigh on an economy recovering from a
record earthquake.  The Japanese currency’s strengthening past 80 yen to the
dollar is slowing the nation’s economic recovery, Toyota Motor
Corp. President  Akio Toyoda  said on July 19. Nissan Motor Co.’s
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said on July 16 that “the
high yen is definitely a headwind.”  “The yen’s gains could have a negative effect on the
economy,” said Kamezaki, a former executive of Mitsubishi Corp.,
a general trading company. “We shouldn’t rule out any policy
options,” he said, adding there was no need for the central
bank to ease policy further now.  Currency Intervention  Kamezaki said currency intervention by the Finance Ministry
could be effective in combating volatile moves in the foreign-
exchange market. The government hasn’t sold yen since March,
when it stepped in with its Group of Seven counterparts to curb
gains in the yen. The central bank conducts intervention at the
behest of the Finance Ministry.  Exports had only just shown signs of rebounding from the
power and supply constraints resulting from the March earthquake.
Overseas shipments fell 1.6 percent in June, the smallest drop
since the temblor.  Kamezaki said the U.S. debt ceiling and European sovereign
debt problems are affecting currencies. A credit-rating
downgrade and a default in U.S. sovereign debt could be “a
major problem” for Japan’s financial markets, he said.  Shirakawa said in a speech this week that a stronger
currency could hurt corporate sentiment and warranted “careful
monitoring.” The BOJ left the benchmark lending rate between
zero and 0.1 percent at a meeting earlier this month. The board
will next meet on Aug. 4-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Mie at  kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in  Tokyo  at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  