-- 
Japan’s Retail Sales Unexpectedly Rise

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-07-28T00:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/japan-s-retail-sales-unexpectedly-rise-1-1-.html
Japan ’s retail sales rose in June,
exceeding all economists’ forecasts, adding to signs that the
economy is bouncing back from an initial post-disaster plunge.  Sales rose 1.1 percent in June from a year earlier, the
Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The median estimate of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 0.5 percent
decline, with the highest estimate for a 0.6 percent gain.  As manufacturers including Nissan Motor Co. return to full
production, consumers in the world’s third-largest economy are
beginning to contribute to a recovery as well. A stronger-than-
expected job market will also ensure that the spending rebound
will continue, according to Daiwa Asset Management Co.  “We’re beginning to see fewer signs for concern,” said
Noriaki Matsuoka, a Tokyo-based economist at Daiwa Asset
Management Co. “Japan’s consumers are coming back.”  A rebound in domestic demand provides some relief for an
economy whose outlook has been clouded by an appreciating
currency. The yen rose to a four-month high this week, prompting
policymakers to voice increased concern about a stronger
currency hurting corporate sentiment and exports.  The yen traded at 77.96 against the dollar at 9:36 a.m. in
 Tokyo  today. It has risen more than 4 percent in the past three
months. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.1 percent after U.S.
durable goods orders unexpectedly declined and amid an ongoing
stalemate among lawmakers on raising the federal debt limit.  Exceeding Forecasts  It was the first increase in retail sales on a year-on-year
basis in fourth months. Sales increased a seasonally adjusted
2.9 percent from May, today’s report showed, also exceeding
economists’ estimates.  Machinery, which includes household appliances, and cars
led the month-on-month increase. Households rushed to buy flat-
screen TVs in preparation for Japan’s switch to digital
television transmission completed this week.  Sales of TVs more than doubled during the fourth week of
June, according to GfK Marketing Services Japan Ltd., as
consumers replaced older conventional models that can’t receive
digital signals.  Warmer than usual weather also bolstered demand for
clothing at retailers including Fast Retailing Co., the maker of
Uniqlo brand. The company’s sales jumped 3.5 percent in June
from a year earlier at outlets open at least a year.  Air Conditioners  Japanese companies are cutting office air conditioner use
to comply with government requests to save energy in wake of
nuclear plant closures after a March accident in Fukushima.
Employees have been wearing casual clothing and the weather
boosted demand for Uniqlo clothes that absorb sweat.  The temperature in Kumagaya City, north of Tokyo, rose to
39.8 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) on June 24, the
highest on record for the month, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency .  Ministop Co., a Japanese convenience store, said revenue
from beverages and cold desserts grew after June’s hotter
temperatures.  Household confidence rose to a three-month high in June and
pay increased 1 percent in May, reversing two months of declines.
The jobless rate has also slid to 4.5 percent, the lowest in
more than two years.  Those signs are bolstering optimism among the nation’s
retailers as well. Seven & I Holdings Co. raised its forecast
for annual profit 20 percent, citing a quicker-than-expected
recovery at its stores.  Even so, service providers may miss out on the recovery as
households continue to prioritize spending on necessities,
holding back on more discretionary items, according to Daiwa’s
Matsuoka. Restaurants in particular will continue to see lower
sales as the food contamination fears after the nuclear disaster
keep customers away, Matsuoka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  