-- 
Nikkei 225 Declines as U.S. Debt Deadline Looms, Yen Slams Exporters

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-07-27T07:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/japanese-stocks-decline-as-u-s-european-debt-concern-yen-hits-exporters.html
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell as
a political stalemate ahead of a deadline for raising the U.S.
debt ceiling heightened the risk of a default that could roil
credit markets and slow the global economy.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No. 2 bank by
market value, fell 1.2 percent. Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker
that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas, lost 1.9
percent after the dollar weakened against the yen, cutting the
earnings outlook for the exporter. Tokyo Electric Power Co.
plunged 16 percent after the government said the utility’s
stakeholders may be asked to “cooperate” in compensating
victims of the disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  “Investors right now are very conscious of political
uncertainty,” said  Junichi Misawa , head of equity　investment at
Tokyo-based STB Asset Management Co. “The market is more
concerned about political risk than about a downturn in the
economy.”  The Nikkei 225 fell 0.5 percent to 10,047.19 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. The broader Topix lost 0.8 percent to 859.11.
The gauge has slipped 1.7 percent since a post-earthquake high
on July 8 as mounting concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach
an agreement on the debt limit weakened the dollar and hit
Japanese exporters.  Quake Recovery  Declines on the gauge have been limited as companies from
Canon Inc. to Fanuc Corp. raised earnings forecasts amid a
faster-than-expected recovery from Japan’s March 11 quake.  More than 550 of the 1,666 companies listed on the Topix
are scheduled to report earnings this week. Of the 129 companies
that posted results since July 11, 20 beat estimates while 15
missed, according to Bloomberg data.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.4 percent
yesterday in  New York  amid stalled negotiations between
Republicans and Democrats over raising the government’s
borrowing limit ahead a deadline next week. Without legislation
by Aug. 2, the Treasury will be unable to pay its bills,
triggering a default that could damage the  U.S. economy  and the
global recovery.  Banks declined on concern ratings companies may cut the
U.S.’s AAA debt rating. Sumitomo Mitsui sank 1.2 percent to
2,496 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
bank by market value, slid 0.7 percent to 403 yen.  U.S., European Debt  The dollar has fallen 3.5 percent against the yen this
month as the stalemate in the U.S. congress dragged on. The
greenback slid to 77.70 yen today in  Tokyo , the lowest level
since March 17, on concern the U.S. will default on its debt and
face its first downgrade in its top-notch  credit rating . A
stronger yen hurts Japan’s exporters because it cuts the value
of repatriated earnings.  Nissan slumped 1.9 percent to 848 yen. Toyota Motor Corp.,
the world’s biggest carmaker by market value, fell 1.2 percent
to 3,255 yen. Sony Corp., an exporter of consumer electronics
that earns about a half of its revenue in the U.S. and  Europe ,
declined 1.4 percent to 2,036 yen.  Tokyo Electric led power companies lower after a bill
before parliament said stakeholders in the utility will be asked
to “cooperate” in compensating those affected by the nuclear
plant disaster. The utility tumbled 16 percent to 431 yen, its
biggest drop in seven weeks.  The ambiguity of the bill’s language leaves open the
possibility that shareholders may lose their capital and lenders
may have to waive some loans, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
Co. analyst Toshiyasu Ohashi said yesterday after a draft of the
legislation was released.  Geiger Counters  Among stocks that advanced, S.T. Corp., a maker of air
fresheners, surged 15 percent to 1,017 yen, the biggest gainer
on the Topix. The company said on its website it will start
selling Geiger counters for household use in October.  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , a cigarette company majority owned by
the Japanese government, jumped 4.7 percent to 333,000 yen. The
stock advanced for a second-day after Japan’s Vice Finance
Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said on July 25 the government may
sell shares in the company to help raise money for earthquake
reconstruction.  A share buyback by Japan Tobacco could boost earnings per
share by as much as 40 percent in the year through March 2012,
compared with the company’s forecast, according to a UBS AG
report dated yesterday.  Fanuc, the world’s biggest maker of controls that run
 machine tools , gained 1.2 percent after raising its first-half
profit forecast by 11 percent. The company said orders improved
and changes to product designs helped it overcome parts
shortages following the quake.  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,  Japan ’s largest gold producer,
advanced 1 percent to 1,408 yen after futures on the precious
metal rose to a record. Investors sought the safe-haven of gold
to protect their wealth against the possibility of a U.S.
default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 