-- 
Jefferson County Lawyer Kenneth Klee Is ‘Walking History of Bankruptcy’

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/jefferson-county-lawyer-kenneth-klee-is-a-walking-history-of-bankruptcy-.html
Kenneth Klee, then a young lawyer
helping Virginia Republican M. Caldwell Butler rewrite the
federal  bankruptcy code , was about to go on a Mexican vacation
in 1975 when he got a call from his office in the U.S. House of
Representatives.  New York City  was preparing to file bankruptcy in the
middle of a fight with city unions over expensive labor
contracts. Klee was ordered back to  Washington  to quickly draft
the section of the code governing municipal bankruptcies.  One of his contributions to the proposed law made clear
that cities could cancel union contracts, a right that was in
doubt under court rulings at the time, Klee said in an
interview. Giving New York that power helped persuade the unions
to compromise in labor talks, Klee said. The labor deal kept the
city out of bankruptcy.  “Ken Klee is literally a walking legislative history of
bankruptcy,” said New York bankruptcy attorney Martin J. Bienenstock of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, in an interview. Bienenstock
has worked opposite Klee in bankruptcy cases including Texaco
Inc.  Klee, 62, may have a chance to participate in the biggest
municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history this week if Jefferson
County,  Alabama , decides to file for protection from its
creditors. Klee and his Los Angeles law firm, Klee, Tuchin,
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, were hired July 26 to represent the
county. County commissioners may decide today to file.  Jefferson County, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been under fiscal stress for more than three
years after a $3 billion sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during
the credit crisis.  Orange County  Klee helped prepare the case of the current municipal
bankruptcy record holder, Orange County,  California . His law
partner, Lee Bogdanoff, and their former partners,  Bruce Bennett 
and James Johnston, took over after the bankruptcy was filed and
represented Orange County when Klee went to Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , to teach at his alma mater,  Harvard Law School .  Klee grew up in the Los Angeles neighborhood known as
Beverlywood, near  Beverly Hills , and attended public schools
before going to  Stanford University . He later pursued a law
degree because his father told him “you can always go from law
into business, but you can’t go from business into law,” Klee
said. He lives in West Los Angeles.  Lawyers who work for him say Klee maintains a low-key style
even when questioning hostile witnesses.  “He is a consummate gentleman,” said Robert J. Pfister,
one of Klee’s partners. “I have never heard him raise his
voice.”  Tribune  Last year Klee was appointed as an examiner in the case of
Tribune Co., the biggest U.S. newspaper bankruptcy. Klee was
asked to analyze allegations that the company’s bankers,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , knew that if they loaned Tribune
more than $8 billion as part of a 2007 leveraged buyout, it
would fail.  Typically such an examination involves reviewing documents
and testimony collected previously by parties involved in the
bankruptcy. Klee decided his firm would gather the facts
independently, in part by conducting 37 interviews of the key
participants in Tribune’s buyout in 38 days. Witnesses
questioned by Klee included  Sam Zell , the real estate
billionaire who organized the buyout, and  Jamie Dimon , Chief
Executive Officer of JPMorgan.  The report concluded that part of the two-step buyout was
vulnerable to a challenge by creditors. The evidence Klee
collected has been used by all of the creditors who are fighting
about how to reorganize Tribune. The two competing
reorganization plans both rely on his conclusions to bolster
their cases.  County Woes  The report cost about $12 million and took 70 people about
four months to produce, he said.  The woes of Jefferson County intensified when the Alabama
Legislature refused to act after a court struck down a local
occupational tax in March. The tax generated about a quarter of
Jefferson’s general-fund revenue, and losing it forced officials
to put more than 500 employees on unpaid leave.  County commissioners have said that they’re prepared to
file for protection if bondholders, including JPMorgan, don’t
respond this week to a proposal to restructure the sewer debt.  “Do I want to do it? No. Am I willing to do it? Yes,”
said Commission President David Carrington. “The citizens of
Jefferson County deserve closure.”  $4.2 Billion of Debt  Jefferson County has about $4.2 billion of sewer, school
and general obligation debt. That eclipses the amount of
outstanding bond debt issued by Orange County, which filed for
bankruptcy in 1994 with more than $1 billion in debt after it
lost about $1.5 billion in its investment pool.  In a July 21 interview in Birmingham, Klee said an out-of-
court settlement would be best for the county. Still, he said,
the county’s real threat of filing Chapter 9 should get the
attention of the Legislature and creditors.  “I am convinced that this commission has the gumption,”
he said. “They’re prepared to do what they have to do.”  The county has proposed cutting the amount of debt it must
repay to about $2 billion and agreeing to sewer-rate revenue
increases of 8 percent for the next three years. The state would
create a public utility to issue new bonds backed by sewer
revenue and enhance the creditworthiness of the debt.  Previously, debt holders and companies that insure the
bonds proposed refinancing as much as $2.4 billion and raising
sewer fees more than 25 percent for at least three years.  Progress  “There has been progress on negotiations,” said Jennifer
Ardis, press secretary to Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, in an
e-mail. “State officials have been in touch with creditors and
have received some information but are still waiting for more.
Both  David Perry  and the governor feel that we are within
striking distance of a deal but bankruptcy is still a
possibility.” David Perry is the state finance director who is
trying to arrange a deal to avoid bankruptcy.  Commissioners have said they will reject any proposal that
requires them to raise sewer revenue by 10 percent or more.
Sewer rates in the county have increased more than fourfold from
1997 to 2008, they said.  Klee, who’s charging the county $975 an hour, acknowledged
that filing bankruptcy will be expensive for the county and may
last for years. He said it would be the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history, “by far.”  Adjusting Schedules  A Chapter 9 filing by Jefferson County wouldn’t
automatically erase its debt. In previous Chapter 9 cases,
municipalities have repaid creditors in full, while also
adjusting payment schedules and making other modifications.  Forcing creditors to take less than they are owed is
typical in most Chapter 11 bankruptcies.  Jefferson County commissioners are scheduled to meet July
28 at which time they may approve a resolution to file
bankruptcy. The meeting will come a day before the end of a 30-
day standstill period in which the county and creditors agreed
to pursue a settlement.  Jefferson’s fiscal difficulties are tied to a sewer-debt
refinancing that unraveled in 2008, when investors dumped the
county’s floating-rate bonds after companies that insured them
lost their top credit ratings. Banks providing backstop
guarantees that allowed investors to sell their bonds demanded
accelerated payments on $800 million of debt that the county
couldn’t make.  Corruption  The financing and construction of the system was rife with
corruption.  Larry Langford , a former county commissioner, was
convicted of accepting bribes for arranging the 2003 sewer
refinancing with JPMorgan and is serving a 15-year sentence.  Two of his associates pleaded guilty, and two JPMorgan
bankers are fighting Securities and Exchange Commission charges
that they made $8 million in undisclosed payments to friends of
commissioners. The associates owned or worked at local broker-
dealer firms that didn’t do any work on the deals, a refinancing
of the county’s sewer debt, the SEC alleged.  In all, 21 former county officials or contractors have been
accused or convicted of crimes related to sewer-improvement
projects, a federal judge said in 2009.  In Alabama, Klee may find people interested in another part
of his life: a  ministry  he set up that incorporates yoga and
other meditation-related practices. Klee began studying how
meditation and prayer can affect healing in 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  