-- 
Jefferson County Commission Expects Counterproposal From Bond Creditors

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-27T21:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/jefferson-county-commission-waits-for-bond-plan.html
Jefferson County commissioners
expect creditors holding about $3 billion of its debt to offer a
restructuring proposal before a special meeting tomorrow,
President David Carrington said.  Alabama officials told Carrington to expect a counteroffer
to a county plan to repay about $2 billion and increase sewer
rates about 8 percent for the next three years, he said. The
administration of Governor Robert Bentley has been trying to
broker a deal after a refinancing of debt issued to rebuild the
county’s sewer system failed.  County officials said they may file the largest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history if creditors including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  didn’t make a counteroffer.  “If we don’t extend the standstill, I wouldn’t be
surprised if the majority of this commission voted for Chapter
9,” Carrington said, referring to the law that protects
municipalities from creditors during reorganization. The
earliest the county may seek court protection under Chapter 9 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code is early Saturday, when a 30-day
negotiating period ends, Carrington said.  Behind Closed Doors  The county likely will enter a closed session to review the
counteroffer with its lawyers after convening a special meeting
at 2 p.m. New York time tomorrow, he said.  The commission may seek to extend the negotiating period by
seven days to review the proposal, Carrington said. Creditors
must agree to the extension.  Susan Quick, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, the county’s
biggest creditor, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the situation.  JPMorgan will offer concessions “disproportionate” to
those from other banks that hold the sewer bonds, said John Young, a court-appointed receiver who is facilitating the
creditors’ response.  “They’re giving significantly more, per unit of holding,”
Young said in a telephone interview.  Companies that insured Jefferson’s bonds, Syncora Guarantee
Inc., Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) 
also will have to make some payments to the banks, Young said.
How much they pay will be dictated by the financial health of
each. Financial Guaranty’s parent, New York-based FGIC Corp.,
sought bankruptcy court protection in August 2010.  The creditors are working on their proposal, Young said.  Working Hard  “It’s in everybody’s interest to have a negotiated
settlement here,” he said. “We’re working our hardest here to
put the best offer on the table.”  Ashweeta Durani, an Assured Guaranty spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the situation. Representatives of the other two
insurers didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls seeking
comment on the matter.  A key part of the deal may be the state’s willingness to
enhance the credit of a new sewer bond refinancing, which would
reduce the county’s interest costs. Previously, state officials
said that would stop short of a full guarantee of new debt.  The county, home to Birmingham and more than 658,000
residents, has been under fiscal stress for more than three
years after the earlier refinancing collapsed.  Jefferson’s woes intensified when the Legislature failed to
act after a court struck down a local tax on wages in March. The
tax generated about a quarter of Jefferson’s general-fund
revenue, and losing it forced officials to put more than 500
employees on unpaid leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  