-- 
Iberia Airline Loses Bid to End Suit Over Payment for 24-Hour Flight Delay

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-27T17:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/judge-denies-iberia-motion-to-dismiss-chicago-passenger-suit.html
Spain ’s Iberia airline lost a bid
for dismissal of a lawsuit in which it’s accused of denying U.S.
passengers European Union-mandated compensation for flight
delays and cancellations.  U.S. District Judge Joan Lefkow in Chicago today denied
Iberia’s motion to throw out the case, filed in February by two
Illinois residents whose flight to  Athens  in May 2010 was
delayed more than 24 hours.  Iberia argued that it must compensate only for canceled
flights and damages, Lefkow wrote. The airline said EU
Regulation 261, requiring compensation for delays and
cancellations, doesn’t apply to flights originating in the U.S.
under the EU-U.S. Air Transport Agreement.  “The contracting parties only affirmed in the Air
Transport Agreement the ‘importance of protecting consumers,’”
Lefkow wrote. “Thus, the Air Transport Agreement does not
appear to have any bearing on plaintiffs’ claim. But if it did,
in suggesting that consumers should be protected and each
party’s laws should be respected, it actually supports the
applicability of EU 261 to plaintiffs’ flight departing from
 Chicago  and arriving in an EU member state.”  The regulation requires carriers to pay passengers when
flights to or from a member state’s airport are canceled or
delayed more than three hours.  Four Cases  The suit was one of four filed in February in federal court
in Chicago by U.S. passengers seeking EU-mandated compensation
from Iberia, British Airways Plc,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and
Delta Airlines Inc. for delays and cancellations. British
Airways and Iberia combined in January to form International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  The cases are Giannopoulos v. Iberia Lineas Aereas De
Espana SA, 1:11-cv-00775, Polinovsky v. British Airways Plc, 11-
cv-779, Polinovsky v. Deutsche Lufthansa AG, 11-cv-780 and
Volodarskiy v. Delta Airlines Inc., 11-cv-782, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  