-- 
Kenyan Tea Production Declined 16% in First Half Amid Drought, Board Says

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T11:31:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/kenyan-tea-production-declined-16-in-first-half-amid-drought-board-says.html
Tea production in  Kenya , the world’s
biggest exporter of the black variety of the leaves, fell 16
percent in the first half because of drought, the Tea Board of
Kenya said.  Output dropped to 178.4 million kilograms (393.3 million
pounds) in the six months through June, from 213 million
kilograms a year earlier, the Nairobi-based board said in an e-
mailed statement. Exports declined 2.4 percent to 211.7 million
kilograms, it said.  “Lower production was largely attributed to hot and dry
weather conditions experienced during the first quarter of the
year as well as depressed and poorly distributed rainfall
pattern experienced in most tea growing areas during the second
quarter,” it said.  East  Africa  has suffered from two poor rainy seasons that
caused one of the worst droughts since 1950-51, according to the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization . Kenyan
President Mwai Kibaki in May declared the drought a national
disaster.  In neighboring Uganda, Africa’s second-biggest coffee
producer, exports of the beans were 3.7 percent below target in
the 2010-11 fiscal year because of poor rainfall, while Tanzania
said its coffee output may drop 20 percent in the year through
2012 because of drought.  Rift Valley  Tea production was worst affected east of the Rift Valley,
with output falling 18 percent to 70.7 million kilograms, the
Tea Board said. West of the Rift, output declined 15 percent to
126.1 million kilograms, it said.  Pakistan  was the biggest export destination for Kenyan tea,
accounting for 19 percent of the total, followed by  Egypt ,
 Afghanistan  and Sudan, the board said. The four markets took 71
percent of Kenya’s shipments, it said.  “The unprecedented increase in tea exports to Pakistan and
subsequent drop of tea exports to Afghanistan was attributed to
continued reduction of smuggling of commodities into the country
through Afghanistan,” the board said. “The reduced volume to
Egypt was largely attributed to political unrest within the
country at the beginning of the year.”  Tea is the biggest foreign-exchange earner in Kenya, East
Africa’s largest economy, which relies on agriculture to
generate a quarter of its economic output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 