-- 
Kenya Keeps Key Lending Rate Unchanged to Lower Credit Costs, Spur Economy

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/kenya-keeps-key-lending-rate-unchanged-to-lower-credit-costs-spur-economy.html
Kenya’s central bank unexpectedly
left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, saying that
inflationary pressures couldn’t be curbed by tighter monetary
policy.  The Monetary Policy Committee kept the key lending rate at
6.25 percent, the Nairobi-based central bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. Only one of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the decision, with the others predicting an
increase of as much as half a percentage point.  “The committee observed that the tight monetary policy
stance would not achieve the desired results at the moment if
the supply sides of food, fuel and energy were not effectively
being managed,” the bank said.  Policy makers raised rates by a quarter point at their two
previous meetings in March and May to limit price growth. The
increases did nothing to prevent a drought pushing up food costs
and higher international  oil prices  from raising transport
costs. Inflation accelerated for the eighth consecutive month in
June, reaching 14.5 percent, damping personal and corporate
spending.  Inflation Peak  “The central bank believes that inflation will peak soon,
and then come down on its own as food has been a big factor in
raising inflationary pressure,” Phumelele Mbiyo, head of East
African macroeconomic research for Nairobi-based CFC Stanbic
Bank Ltd., said by phone today. Mbiyo predicted the rate would
remain unchanged.  The Kenyan shilling fell to the lowest level since July 12
after the decision, weakening as much as 0.4 percent to 90.75
per dollar in Nairobi, the capital, compared with yesterday’s
close of 90.38. It was trading at 90.68 at 5:30 p.m.  Tighter monetary policy has led at least four Kenyan
lenders to raise their base lending rates since last month, even
as Central Bank of  Kenya  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, President
Mwai Kibaki and Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  appealed to them
to lower borrowing costs to stoke economic growth.  Commercial lending rates currently average 13.9 percent,
while banks pay savers 1.38 percent on their deposits, according
to the Central Bank of Kenya’s website.  The government forecasts that economic growth will ease to
5.3 percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2010, as dry weather
reduces farm output, which accounts for a quarter of the economy
in the world’s largest exporter of black tea.  Economic growth slowed to 0.5 percent in the first quarter
on a seasonally adjusted basis, compared with 2.2 percent in the
previous three months.  It’s a “very disappointing decision by the MPC,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at Standard Chartered Plc
in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “The markets were looking
for a clear sign of their tightening intent, given the mixed
messages of the recent past. They have not delivered this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in London at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  