-- 
Baucus Cautions CEOs on Difficulty of Corporate Tax Rate Cut

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-27T17:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/kimberly-clark-s-falk-says-u-s-tax-code-hinders-companies.html
The income tax rate cut sought by
U.S. corporations will be difficult to achieve even if targeted
tax breaks are eliminated, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said today.  The basic tradeoff of deductions and credits for a lower
rate outlined by President  Barack Obama  and business groups
would reduce the rate only to about 29 percent from 35 percent,
Baucus said. Changes to the tax treatment of interest could push
the rate lower.  “It’s not easy to get the rate down to the levels that
people are talking about, when you say 25 percent corporate rate
or lower,” said the Montana Democrat. “It’s not easy at all.”  Baucus, who has been working on a rewrite of the U.S. tax
code, made his comments during a Senate Finance panel hearing in
Washington at which the chief executive officers of Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  said they would be willing
to trade tax benefits for a reduction in the corporate rate.  Thomas Falk, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Kimberly-Clark, said he would give up the research and
development tax credit and a domestic manufacturing deduction
for a lower corporate rate.  Tradeoffs  “I would trade both of those off for a competitive global
statutory rate,” said Falk, whose Irving, Texas-based company
makes Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues.  After the hearing, Baucus said he wasn’t sure whether in a
tax code rewrite he would aim for a corporate rate closer to 25
percent or 29 percent.  “We have a lot of questions, and, so far, insufficient
answers,” he said.  The hearing illustrated the tensions lawmakers will face as
they consider overhauling the  tax code , and the divide between
companies with high rates and few breaks and those with lower
effective rates that want to protect their deductions.  “We’re clearly going to look at everything,” Baucus said.
“But after we look, we have to make some decisions.”  Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who
chairs the House Ways and Means Committee, has set a 25 percent
target for both the individual and corporate tax rates. He has
said he hopes to release a bill this year.  Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, said she
wants to ensure that U.S. manufacturers are competitive with
their counterparts in other countries and that research
subsidized by the U.S. tax code translates into domestic jobs.  Which ‘To Keep’  “As we’re reforming tax expenditures and looking at all of
this, how should we decide which ones to keep and which ones to
eliminate?” she asked.  Gregory Lang, president and chief executive officer of PMC-
Sierra Inc., a semiconductor company, replied that other
countries offer both low rates and incentives for research that
make them attractive to technology companies.  “We need to be competitive as a country or we stand to
lose something that was invented here,” he said.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the panel’s top Republican,
said he was concerned that the U.S. would erode any simpler tax
system it puts in place, eventually imposing higher rates on a
broader base.  Lower Rates Urged  The tax code must be changed to reduce rates and allow
companies to repatriate earnings without facing U.S. taxes, said
 Mike Duke , president and chief executive officer of  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)   “Lower the corporate rate as much as you can,” Duke told
the committee. “Make the tax base as broad as you can. And move
to a territorial system as quickly as you can.”  Unlike countries with territorial tax systems, the U.S.
uses a worldwide system, in which income earned overseas by
companies with headquarters in the country is taxed. Companies
can defer U.S. taxes until they bring their profits home.  Duke said the U.S. tax system and the residual tax on
foreign earnings hurts Wal-Mart when it competes for retail
sites with companies such as U.K.-based  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and France-
based  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, has proposed
eliminating the tax deferral feature while retaining worldwide
taxation in order to lower the corporate tax rate. His tax
overhaul bill would set the corporate tax rate at 24 percent.  “I personally think it will be pretty hard to get the rate
in the mid 20s if you go to that kind of system,” Wyden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  