-- 
Kosovo Premier Backs Border Seizure, Rejects EU Criticism

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-07-27T11:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/kosovo-premier-backs-border-seizure.html
Kosovo  rejected European Union
criticism over its police seizure of a border crossing with
Serbia that left one policeman killed and reignited tensions
among the two nations.  “We can’t stay indifferent and tolerate forever that
part of our country remains a black hole not only in Kosovo
but also in  Europe ,” Prime Minister Hashim Thaci said late
yesterday, public broadcaster  Radiotelevizioni i Kosoves 
reported. “This is against” the country’s laws and “also
against European principles and values. Our decision is
legitimate, legal and in line with international standards.”  Kosovo police forces on armored vehicles took over one
border crossing with Serbia on July 25, prompting local Serbs
to erect roadblocks at another border point. A policeman died
from a headshot wound after Kosovo forces retreated from the
border post, local media reported today.  Kosovo, recognized as an independent state by 22 of 27
European Union members, is trying to find a balance between
its goal of joining the bloc and taking control over the
northern part of the country where mainly Serbs live.  Serbia ,
which seeks EU candidacy status this year, will need to find a
way to deal with its refusal to recognize Kosovo, a key hurdle
to its own EU aspiration.  Serbia requested a meeting of the  United Nations  Security
Council over the escalation and expects that it will convene
next week, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said in a statement
posted on the government’s  website .  The two nations that were at war over a decade ago have
been engaged in EU-sponsored talks on ways to ease the lives
of their citizens and trade relations. Those efforts were
rattled after Kosovo imposed a trade embargo on Serbian
products in reaction to its larger neighbor’s refusal to
recognize it and the latest police action.  Regional Cooperation  “I call on Belgrade to reflect and Europeanize the
approach towards Kosovo and the region,” Thaci said. “We are
in favor of regional cooperation. We expect others to do the
same.”  The EU criticized Kosovo, saying it didn’t approve of the
action, which the former province failed to consult with the
union or the international community.  The bloc also expressed concern over the escalation of
tensions in northern Kosovo and urged all sides to “restore
calm immediately,” a spokesperson of EU High Representative
 Catherine Ashton  said in a statement yesterday.  Ashton urged Thaci and Serbian President Boris Tadic to
“do all that is necessary to calm down the situation.”  Call for Diplomacy  Tadic, speaking in  Prague  yesterday, said “only
diplomacy can solve problems” in the region, according to his
website. “I appeal to everyone to remain calm and not react
to any provocations.” He condemned the Kosovo police action.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops had to step in
yesterday to mediate the dispute, increasing their visibility
throughout the northern part of the nation. Kosovo is wedged
between Serbia,  Montenegro , Albania and the Republic of
Macedonia.  Helicopters from NATO and the United Nations hovered over
the area yesterday.  In Kosovska Mitrovica, a scene of fighting between Serbs
and Albanians over a decade ago, a bridge still splits the
city into two ethnic areas. Serbian and international police
control the northern part of the bridge, while Albanian
policeman guard the southern part with a big playground
nearby.  “It seems one can normally cross the bridge to go to the
other side,” Isuf Ismeti, a 53-year old Albanian dressed in
ragged clothes, said as he stood on the southern side of the
bridge over Ibar river. “But people are simply afraid now
that this border escalation happened.”  NATO Campaign  NATO drove out Serbian troops from Kosovo with its air
campaign in 1999. Some 6,000 NATO and EU soldiers remain
there.  Most locals seemed more worried about high unemployment
and low wages in this predominantly-Albanian nation of 2
million than the latest escalation. Kosovo has an official
unemployment rate of 47 percent according to the World Bank
data and is the poorest of the former Yugoslav nations.  The country hopes to lure foreign investment to be able
to rebuild its communist-era infrastructure and boost its
economy.  Gross domestic product per capita in Kosovo, which
unilaterally uses the euro since 2002, was $2,500 at the end
of 2007, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
compared with Albania’s $5,700 for the same year. Slovenia,
the wealthiest nation in the region had a per-capita income of
$28,900 in 2007.  “People try to get on with their lives which is quite
difficult as wages are very low,” Ismeti said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  