-- 
Kyushu Electric’s President and Chairman to Forgo Salary

-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-27T09:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/kyushu-electric-president-chairman-to-forgo-salary-from-august.html
Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s
president and chairman will forgo their salaries from August
after the company was reprimanded by  Japan ’s trade ministry for
attempting to influence public opinion on nuclear power.  The two executives will receive no salary “for the time
being,” the company said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today, at the same time it reported quarterly earnings.
The company will hold a board meeting at a later date to discuss
penalties for executives involved in the matter.  Kyushu Electric had its biggest quarterly loss in more than
three years as fuel costs rose 11 percent and its Genkai
reactors remained idled following the disaster at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima plant. The Fukuoka, Japan-based utility
didn’t give a full-year forecast, citing uncertainty over the
future of nuclear power in Japan.  The utility’s stock fell 3.3 percent today to 1,274 yen at
the close of trading in  Tokyo .  The company said it acted “unfairly” in trying to
influence respondents to a television program discussing nuclear
power. Kyushu Electric also said it will form a committee
comprising independent members to look into the matter.  Kyushu Electric asked companies working for it to send e-
mails backing the restart of two reactors at the company’s
Genkai plant in southwestern Japan to an online program
sponsored by the government, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said
earlier this month.  Kaieda, who was earlier urging authorities to agree to the
restart, said so-called stress tests must be carried out on all
reactors idled for maintenance before they go back online.  Kyushu Electric’s loss widened to 8.2 billion yen ($106
million) in the three months ended June 30, from 6.5 billion yen
a year earlier, Kyushu Electric said in a statement.  The company’s operating loss, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, was 9.7 billion yen,
compared with a gain a year earlier, even as sales rose 2.4
percent to 343.9 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 