-- 
Nasdaq OMX Posts Earnings Beating Analyst Estimates as Revenue Increases

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-07-27T20:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/nasdaq-omx-earnings-exceed-analyst-estimates.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity exchange operator, posted second-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates, as acquisitions and
listings services helped boost revenue.  Excluding some items, earnings were 62 cents a share,
exceeding the 60-cent average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, the New York-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue excluding rebates and clearing and other fees
rose 6.7 percent to $416 million.  Nasdaq OMX dropped its bid in May for larger rival  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s equities, options and listings businesses, after the
 U.S. Department of Justice  threatened to block it. While Nasdaq
OMX’s share of American equities and options trading has been
growing, the company will face a bigger competitor in  Europe 
when  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  completes its $9.43 billion purchase of
NYSE Euronext, set to close as early as the end of 2011.  “On an operating basis, Nasdaq continued to perform
well,”  Daniel Harris , a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., wrote in a note after the release. “We continue to
see Nasdaq as an attractively valued way to gain exposure to
capital markets activity.”  Stock Performance  The stock lost 3.3 percent to $23.50 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark measure
of U.S. shares, tumbled 2 percent for the biggest decline since
June 1. It has fallen 10 percent since Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta’s
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  dropped their joint unsolicited
offer for NYSE Euronext on May 16. The company is trades for
10.3 times reported earnings, compared with the S&P 500’s
multiple of 14.5, Bloomberg data show.  Revenue from market technology climbed 35 percent to $46
million from a year earlier, after the company completed its
acquisition of Smarts Group Holdings, a provider of market
surveillance programs for exchanges, regulators and brokers.
Issuer services sales rose 8.1 percent from a year earlier to
$93 million on higher demand from listed companies and as
Europe’s contribution increased.  Nasdaq OMX’s share of U.S. equity trading rose to 22
percent last quarter from 19.2 percent in the first quarter, the
company said today. Its share of the nation’s options trading
also increased, rising to 28.9 percent from 28.7 percent in the
first quarter, according to the statement.  Higher Expenses  Operating expenses for 2011 will be higher than projected
in April, in a range of $910 million to $925 million, excluding
about $40 million in one-time expenses, such as merger-related
costs, the company forecast today. The increase is related to
the weakening in the  U.S. dollar , Chief Financial Officer Lee Shavel said on a conference call today.  While Nasdaq OMX dropped the NYSE Euronext bid, Chief
Executive Officer Bob Greifeld said he does expect mergers and
acquisitions to be part of the company’s future.  “As we evaluate current valuations in the marketplace
today, including our own, we realize there are a number of
external and internal alternatives for capital deployment that
we need to consider in order to maximize returns for our
shareholders,” Greifeld said on the call today.  NYSE Euronext, the largest U.S. exchange operator, is set
to issue its second-quarter report on Aug. 2. The average
analyst projection is for 60 cents a share in profit, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Boerse , based in
 Frankfurt , will post quarterly earnings of 1.09 euros per share
on July 28, according to the average analyst estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 