-- 
News Corp. Said to Survey Shareholders on Murdoch’s Control

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-28T00:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/news-corp-surveys-shareholders-on-murdochs.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is surveying its biggest
shareholders on Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ’s succession and his family’s control of the media
company, said three people with knowledge of the polling.  Shareholders were also asked for their views on the
independence of News Corp.’s board, its dual-class share
structure and its corporate governance, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  The survey results may be shared with the board, said the
people. News Corp.’s goal is to inform and frame shareholder
communications, one person said. Sard Verbinnen & Co., the
public-relations firm hired to respond to phone-hacking and
police bribery allegations at News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit,
has been conducting the conversations. Some investors were
offered to speak with Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey .  “We got a call from somebody early last week indicating
Chase Carey would love to talk to us at some point, but we’re
not in any hurry, we’re fine,” Don Yacktman, founder of
Yacktman Asset Management Co., said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Obviously they’re concerned about reaction and
everything. It was a nice gesture.”  Yactkman, whose company is based in Austin, Texas, has
expressed support for Murdoch and said he views the drop in the
share price as a potential buying opportunity. His firm owned
58.4 million of News Corp.’s nonvoting shares as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Response  Jack Horner , a spokesman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment.  Murdoch, 80, has also received public support from Saudi
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al Saud, the biggest non-family owner
of News Corp.’s voting shares, in recent weeks, while other
investors have sought changes.  Christian Brothers Investment Services, which holds 30,755
Class B voting shares on behalf of Christian institutions, has
sought a separation of the CEO and chairman positions,  Julie
Tanner , assistant director of socially responsible investing,
said last week.  Anne Simpson, a portfolio manager for  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension,
criticized the company’s dual-share structure, according to
reports in the Financial Times and the Guardian.  News Corp., owner of  Fox News  and the Wall Street Journal,
fell 16 cents to $16 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
Class A shares have slid 11 percent since the  Guardian newspaper 
reported on July 4 that News of the World accessed the voicemail
of murdered teenager Milly Dowler.  James Murdoch   James Murdoch, Rupert Murdoch’s son and the executive who
oversees News Corp.’s U.K. businesses, continues to have the
support of directors at  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
where he serves as chairman, two people with knowledge of the
matter said separately.  The younger Murdoch, 38, has the backing of key
shareholders and directors of BSkyB, even after his testimony
last week to U.K. lawmakers over the phone-hacking scandal
around News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World tabloid was
contradicted by two former employees, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Bloomberg  LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units  in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  