-- 
Nissan Profit Beats Estimates as Carmaker Recovers From March Earthquake

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-07-27T08:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/nissan-profit-beats-estimates-as-carmaker-recovers-from-march-earthquake.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-
biggest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the company’s operations recover from the
nation’s worst earthquake.  Net income was 85 billion yen ($1.09 billion) in the first
quarter ended June 30, a decline from 106.7 billion yen a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. That compared with the
60.9 billion yen average forecast of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japanese carmakers are coming back from the nation’s record
earthquake on March 11, which damaged their factories and
suppliers. Nissan, anticipating higher global production, had
stocked electrical components before the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. That positioned it to raise production faster than
Toyota Motor Corp. or Honda Motor Co.  “Nissan’s recovery from the quake was relatively quick
compared to its competitors Toyota and Honda,” said  Tatsuya Mizuno , a director at Mizuno Credit Advisory in Tokyo. “Growth
in the emerging markets is still definitely strong.”  Nissan took a one-time charge of 21.1 billion yen in the
quarter to cover the cost of repairing its facilities. The
strong yen cut Nissan’s operating profit by 55 billion yen in
the quarter. Nissan based its first-quarter on 81.7 yen to the
dollar and 117.4 yen to the euro.  Nissan’s global production rose for a second consecutive
month in June after declining in April. Carmakers are hiring
temporary workers to help fill back orders as suppliers recover.
Toyota Motor Corp. is hiring as many as 4,000 workers as it
prepares to ramp up production in October. Nissan has said it is
hiring as many as 200 temporary workers to help raise output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  