-- 
No Fear in China Options as Prices Drop to Two-Year Low

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-28T10:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/no-fear-in-china-options-as-prices-drop-to-two-year-low-on-economic-growth.html
Traders betting on gains in  China ’s
biggest companies are pushing options prices to the most bullish
level in almost two years on speculation higher interest rates
won’t curb the world’s second-largest economy.  The premium investors pay for puts to sell the iShares FTSE
China 25 Index versus calls to buy has tumbled to 15 percent
from 31 percent on June 22, according to data on three-month
options compiled by Bloomberg, and fell as low as 13 percent
this week. That compares with the average of 20 percent since
the start of 2005 for the U.S.-traded fund tracking Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong.  “It’s almost like there’s no fear in China,” Jonathan Masse, a  money manager  at Walnut Creek, California-based
Baochuan Capital Management LLC, which invests in Chinese stocks
and options, said in an interview. “That’s where the world’s
growth is coming from. People are more confident, so there’s
less need for them to protect themselves from downside.”  China’s economy may lure investors because it is forecast
to grow twice as fast as the entire world this year, said Uri Landesman of New York-based hedge fund Platinum Partners LLP.
The country may expand 9.4 percent, the median economist
estimate compiled by Bloomberg, compared with the International
Monetary Fund’s projection for 4.3 percent global growth as
 Europe  and the U.S. try to reduce budget deficits.  Calls to buy companies in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy are luring buyers after stock valuations tumbled and
speculation increased that inflation is peaking. Volume for
bullish contracts on the iShares FTSE China 25 has jumped 26
percent to 38,181 contracts since June 17, based on the average
from the past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Bullish Plays’  The implied volatility for three-month options trading at a
level equivalent to the ETF’s price has fallen to 24.39 from
28.80 on March 16. That’s near the 4 1/2-year low of 21.25 on
May 26. Implied volatility is the key measure of options prices.  “Investors are taking advantage of low volatility to make
bullish plays,” Cedric Dechavanne, a Hong Kong-based equity
derivatives strategist for Societe Generale SA, said in a
telephone interview. “China equities have underperformed the
rest of  Asia  over the past year, and valuation-wise investors
are starting to think they look appealing.”  The ETF fell 1.4 percent to $42.06 as of 4 p.m. in  New York 
on July 27. It advanced 4.3 percent from July 12, when it
dropped to a 10-month low, through July 26 after China’s economy
expanded more than estimated in the second quarter. It has lost
2.4 percent this year, compared with a 2 percent gain by the
MSCI All-Country World Index and a less than 0.1 percent decline
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Valuations Drop  After lagging behind equities elsewhere, the 25 companies
in the ETF are trading for about 11.4 times reported earnings,
near the 2 1/2-year low of 10.9 reached on July 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings for Chinese industrial companies are rising even
after the government raised  interest rates  and tightened credit
to counter inflation. Net income climbed 28.7 percent in the
first six months to 2.41 trillion yuan ($374 billion) from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its
website on July 27. That compares with a 27.9 percent gain in
January through May.  “Rumors of China’s demise might be a tad bit exaggerated,
and valuations as measured by price-earnings ratios are really
quite attractive,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees $800 million as
president of Oberweis Asset Management Inc. in Lisle,  Illinois ,
said in an e-mail. “The political will and fat wallet of the
central government will likely abate the likelihood of a hard
landing.”  Higher Rates  The Chinese government has raised interest rates five times
since October, boosted lenders’ reserve requirements to a record
level and imposed curbs on property investment and home
purchases. The possibility of a hard landing for  China’s economy 
will increase after 2013 because of an investment boom, rising
bad loans and public debt,  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and
chairman of New York-based Roubini Global Economics LLC, said at
a July 26 forum in  Shanghai .  China’s benchmark stock index could sink below this year’s
low as slowing economy spurs analysts to reduce earnings growth
forecasts by as much as 46 percent, according to UBS AG. China’s
central bank is unlikely to ease its tighter monetary policies
and may keep on raising interest rates to tame inflation that
reached a three-year high last month, Chen Li, head of China
equity strategy at UBS in Shanghai, said in a July 26 report.  Train Collision  The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 3 percent July 25, the
most since Jan. 17, after a high-speed train collision killed at
least 39 people and prompted authorities to order a rail safety
inspection. CSR Corp. and China CNR Corp., the nation’s biggest
train makers, lost more than 8 percent. The crash may become a
“turning point” for the nation’s growth model, spurring a
slowdown in infrastructure spending, Citigroup Inc. said.  Landesman, who oversees about $1 billion at Platinum, said
he remains encouraged about China’s prospects.  “The bull case is that they’re doing better than everyone
else and money has to go someplace, so it’s going there,” he
said in a telephone interview. “‘China Inc.’ is still rolling
along.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  