-- 
Nokia’s Debt Rating Cut to Two Steps Above Junk by Moody’s

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/nokia-debt-cut-to-two-grades-above-junk-by-moody-s-with-negative-outlook.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, had its debt rating cut to two steps above
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited “a severe
weakening” of the Finnish company’s market position.  The senior debt rating was reduced by two steps to Baa2,
the second-lowest among 10 investment-grade rankings, with a
negative outlook, Moody’s said in a statement today announcing
its second downgrade of Nokia in four months. The change affects
about 3.5 billion euros ($5.1 billion) in senior debt.  “This deterioration has been caused by a loss of
competitiveness of Nokia’s Symbian-based smartphone portfolio
and the transition of its operating systems to the Windows Phone
platform,” Moody’s analyst Wolfgang Draack said in the
statement, which also cited “increasing price pressure and gaps
in the company’s mobile-phone portfolio that are now being
filled.”  The company’s handset shipments declined 20 percent to 88.5
million in the second quarter, the lowest quarterly volume in
five years, as it fixed inventory problems and struggled to roll
out new models. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia may also have to
contribute additional capital or funding to its phone-equipment
venture with Siemens AG, Moody’s said.  “Because of intense price pressure, Nokia Siemens Networks
is generating neither material profits nor cash flows,” Draack
wrote, adding that Nokia Siemens may have trouble refinancing
its 2 billion-euro revolving credit agreement before maturity in
June 2012 if it doesn’t have help.  Second-Quarter Loss  Nokia this month  reported  a wider-than-expected second-
quarter net loss of 368 million euros as handset sales in Europe
and  China  slid. The company is facing stiff competition as
smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software eat into its
mid-range feature-phone sales as well as the high end. Nokia
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is transferring Symbian
software development to  Accenture Plc  as the Symbian phone lines
are gradually displaced by new models based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows Phone.  “Moody’s rating action will not have a material impact on
our current financing costs,” Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  said
in a statement. He reiterated Elop’s target of increasing the
company’s net cash and other liquid assets by the end of the
year from 3.9 billion euros at the end of the second quarter.  Bond Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold the company’s 6.75
percent bonds due 2019 rather than government debt spiked after
the company said on May 31 its adjusted second-quarter handset
operating margin could be “around breakeven.” That margin was
 10.9 percent  for the full year 2010. The cost of insuring Nokia
debt soared to a peak of 291 basis points July 20, the day
before Nokia reported earnings, from 120 basis points May 30,
according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  The first Windows Phones are expected to ship in the
fourth quarter, followed by a broader range next year. Elop
announced a program of job cuts in April.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its long-term rating on Nokia to BBB+
on June 9. Moody’s cut its rating to A3 from A2 on April 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  