-- 
North Carolina Fires Football Coach Butch Davis Amid NCAA Investigation

-- B y   L y d i a   W i n k l e r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/north-carolina-fires-football-coach-butch-davis-amid-ncaa-investigation.html
University of  North Carolina 
administrators will explain at a news conference today why they
fired football coach Butch Davis, whose program is being probed
by the  National Collegiate Athletic Association .  Davis, 59, was dismissed to “restore confidence” in the
university and its football program, Chancellor Holden Thorp
said yesterday in a news release. A new coach was not
immediately announced.  “I have lost confidence in our ability to come through
this without harming the way people think of this institution,”
Thorp said in the release. “The only way to move forward and
put this behind us is to make a change.”  Thorp and athletic director Dick Baddour set a news
conference for this morning to discuss the firing of Davis,
whose program is the subject of an NCAA investigation into
whether players violated academic rules and engaged in improper
deals with agents.  Davis joined the Tar Heels in November 2006 after coaching
jobs at the  University of Miami  and the  National Football
League ’s  Cleveland Browns .  School officials said the decision to fire Davis was not
related to any change in the NCAA investigation. The move was
the result of cumulative damage to the university’s reputation
during the last year, the release said.  North Carolina’s football program was accused by the NCAA
of nine rules infractions on June 21. The  Chapel Hill , North
Carolina-based school has 90 days to answer the allegations,
which follow a 12-month probe by the NCAA. School officials were
told to appear before the NCAA’s Committee on Infractions in
Indianapolis on Oct. 28.  Unethical Conduct Accusation  Among the accusations is one of unethical conduct by former
assistant coach John Blake, who resigned in September after the
Tar Heels’ season opener. Blake is accused of lying about his
relationship with former NFL agent Gary Wichard, who died in
March.  “I feel terrible that these allegations occurred under my
watch,” Davis said in a June statement. “The responsibility
for correcting any problems that put us in this position is
mine, and I take that responsibility very seriously.”  UNC finished its 2010-2011 season with an 8-5 record. Davis
met as recently as three days ago with reporters at the Atlantic
Coast Conference’s annual football kickoff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  