-- 
Norway Atrocity May Fail to Dent Nordic Anti-Immigration Support

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m ,   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-27T11:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/norway-atrocity-may-fail-to-erode-nordic-anti-immigration-parties-support.html
Public revulsion at the massacre in
 Norway  committed in the name of combating “Islamization” may
not be enough to check the rise of anti-immigration parties
across the Nordic region.  Anders Behring Breivik, who admitted to carrying out the
July 22 shooting rampage on Utoeya island and car bombing in
central Oslo, is a former member of Norway’s Progress Party,
which campaigns for curbs on immigration. While the party may
suffer at Sept. 12 local elections, any wider political fallout
is unlikely, said Anders Todal Jenssen, a politics professor at
the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim.  “My guess is that this is something so unthinkable for
most people in the Nordic countries that, even though it
happened in a neighboring country, they can’t imagine it
happening in their own,” Todal Jenssen said in an interview.
“Most people will regard it as very unique” and “see this as
a Norwegian situation and a Norwegian problem.”  The rise of globalization and open borders has seen a surge
in support for nationalistic movements across the Nordic region,
as uncertainty and fear of the unknown grip sections of society
in some of the richest countries in  Europe . Parties that press
for restrictions on immigration or over Islam’s influence have
won seats in parliament in Denmark, Norway,  Finland  and, since
September,  Sweden .  Police in Oslo began releasing the names yesterday of the
76 people killed by Breivik as anti-immigration parties in
Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands dashed to condemn his
actions. Breivik’s defense lawyer, Geir Lippestad, said that his
client “has a view on reality that is very, very difficult to
explain.”  ‘A Mobilization’  Parties such as the Sweden Democrats, which want to reduce
immigration by as much as 90 percent, need to hammer home the
message that Breivik’s actions are abhorrent to avoid any voter
backlash, said Ulf Bjereld, a professor of political science at
 Gothenburg University .  Elements of the population have witnessed “a mobilization
against Islam and what people perceive as a multicultural
society in the Scandinavian countries, and of course a certain
type of lunatic is being inspired by these types of ideas,”
said Bjereld. Yet “if the party leadership clearly distances
itself from what’s happened, it’s very possible that it won’t
have any consequences at all” on voter support.  Breivik, who railed against multiculturalism and Islam in a
1,500-page manifesto posted online hours before the attacks,
mentioned some of those parties in the document.  Contempt for Democrats  His references to the Sweden Democrats should not be
“confused with sympathetic views for us as a party,” Jimmie
Aakesson, the party leader, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The mass murderer clearly describes his contempt
for all democrats, including critics of immigration and Islam.”  Soeren Espersen, foreign-affairs spokesman for the Danish
People’s Party,  Denmark ’s third-largest party, said Breivik, the
Red Army Brigade, al-Qaeda, the Muslim Brotherhood and the
Taliban are all “evil forces that, with the help of terror and
violent means, want to kill democracy,” according to a July 25
posting on the party’s website. “The result, if they obtained
power, would be the same -- communism, Islamism, Nazism.”  Sweden, Denmark and Finland all rank in the top 10 richest
countries per capita in the 27-member European Union as measured
by purchasing power. Norway, a non-EU member, was the second
wealthiest country in the world after Luxembourg last year.  Asylum Applications  Coupled with traditions of equality and stability, that may
account for the relative attraction of the Nordic countries to
foreigners. Of 44 countries surveyed by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees last year, Sweden received the most
applications from asylum seekers per head of population. Norway
was fourth, Denmark 10th and Finland 13th.  Even though Norway boasts Europe’s lowest jobless rate and
biggest  budget surplus , it must now acknowledge a threat of
violence more usually associated with less stable societies,
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said.  Across the region, “people are uncertain, insecure,” Pasi Saukkonen, a political scientist at the University of Helsinki,
said by phone. “Society has changed too fast” for many people.
“These parties portray established politicians as corrupt and
dishonest and their own policies as offering a real, simple
alternative.”  The strategy, helped by an electoral system that grants
representation to smaller groups, is proving successful across
the Nordic arc. The Sweden Democrats entered parliament for the
first time at national elections in September, a result
predicted a decade earlier by Stieg Larsson, the author of “The
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” trilogy.  True Finns  In Finland, the True Finns boosted support fourfold in
April elections, making them parliament’s third-biggest party.
Even in opposition, they have wielded that power to press for a
more skeptical stance to bailouts for indebted euro-area
nations. True Finns leader Timo Soini said in his blog yesterday
that Breivik had committed “a terrible crime against humans,
humanity and life.”  The Nordic anti-immigration party that’s had most success
is the Danish  People’s Party , led by Pia Kjaersgaard. It’s
ensured a majority in parliament for the minority government
since 2001 in return for the imposition of stricter immigration
laws. They include measures in 2002 that barred Danes from
marrying and bringing in to the country non-European Union
citizens under the age of 24.  Denmark, an EU member, tightened border controls this month
at the behest of the People’s Party amid an influx to Europe of
refugees from the North African uprisings, prompting a letter
from European Commission President  Jose Barroso  in which he
cited “important doubts” about the move.  Oil Revenue  In Norway, the Progress Party, originally an anti-tax
movement that now campaigns for a “strict immigration policy,”
increased spending on the elderly and the scrapping of a rule
limiting spending of Norway’s oil revenue, has finished second
in each of the last two elections, in 2005 and 2009. Under the
leadership of Siv Jensen it took 22.9 percent of the vote two
years ago, its best ever result, cementing its position as the
largest opposition party. Jensen has said that Norway is in
danger of “sneak Islamization” because of an influx of
immigrants.  Breivik, who became a Progress Party member in 1999 and
paid his membership fees until 2004, said in his manifesto that
he had lost faith in the party’s ability to halt Norway’s
“rapid disintegration.”  “He has nothing to do with our party, he hasn’t been a
member for many years and whatever he believes in has nothing to
do with our party,” Himanshu Gulati, vice-president of the
Progress Party youth organization, said by phone today.  Local Elections  All political parties in Norway have agreed to postpone
campaigning for September’s local elections by about two weeks,
a spokesman for the ruling  Labor Party  said yesterday. Breivik
told a July 25 court hearing that his attack on a Labor youth
camp on Utoeya island and on government buildings in Oslo was
aimed at inflicting the “greatest possible loss” to Labor.  The Progress Party will “have to keep a low profile on the
immigration issue in the upcoming election campaign simply to
avoid being associated with the terrorist attack,” said Todal
Jenssen.  The national outpouring of grief in Norway, shared across
the Nordic region in a minute of silence held two days ago, is
now turning to introspection as the authorities step up their
search for clues to the motives for the attacks.  The region-wide empathy is unlikely to extend to political
change, said Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels.  ‘Cultural Fears’  “National traumas tend to breed cultural fears, which
project onto immigrants or the unknown,” Erixon said by phone.
“The fantastic show of support for open society and the values
of democracy will inevitably fade away and be overshadowed by
suspicion of the unknown.”  For now, Prime Minister Stoltenberg is urging Norwegians to
come together and engage in the democratic process to defeat the
aims of people like Breivik. Norway, at least, won’t be the same
again, Raymond Johansen, the Labor Party’s general secretary,
told reporters yesterday.  “There is no doubt that this will impact Norway and the
political debate in Norway for many years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  