-- 
Police in Norway Extend Terror Probe Across Europe After Breivik Attacks

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t ,   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-07-27T16:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/norway-police-spreads-breivik-terror-probe-europe-wide-after-twin-attacks.html
Norway’s police are contacting their
counterparts across  Europe  as they step up the investigation
into last week’s twin attacks on Oslo and Utoeya island that
killed at least 76 people.  Norwegian authorities asked the Czech police to help in the
probe into the attacks by Anders Behring Breivik, police
spokesman Jan Melsa said by phone from  Prague . The authorities
in Luxembourg are also cooperating with Norway, according to a
government statement, as are the U.K. intelligence services,
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said. Breivik has been charged
with two counts of terrorism.  “That’s been part of the investigation so far: to speak
with intelligence services in different countries, especially in
Europe,” Stoltenberg told reporters in Oslo today. The probe is
looking into “whether there are any links between the man that
is arrested in  Norway  and any groups in other countries.”  Breivik wrote in a manifesto published before the attacks,
the deadliest in Norway since World War II, that he’d been in
contact with the  English Defense League , which says it campaigns
against Islamic extremism, and other groups across Europe. U.K.
police are looking into possible links between British and
Norwegian extremist groups, a spokesman for Prime Minister  David Cameron  said July 25.  ‘Greatest Possible Loss’  Breivik, 32, began eight weeks of pre-trial detention
yesterday after admitting to carrying out the mass shooting on
Utoeya and car-bombing in Oslo’s government district. He said he
intended to inflict the “greatest possible loss” on the ruling
 Labor Party  and halt what he sees as the “Islamization” of
Norway and Europe. Police said they may seek to bring the
country’s first charge of crimes against humanity against
Breivik, with a maximum sentence of 30 years.  The suspect was ordered to spend four weeks in isolation to
avoid all chance of contact with potential accomplices. Breivik,
who earlier said he acted alone, told those questioning him
there were “two cells in Norway and several cells around Europe
and the Western world,” Geir Lippestad, his defense lawyer,
said in an interview yesterday.  “There is nothing that points to new cells as far as we
know,” Siv Alsen, a spokeswoman for the Norwegian Police
Security Service, said by phone today. “What we are of course
investigating is if there are.”  ‘No Evidence’  “We can categorically state that there has never been any
official contact between him and the EDL,” the group, created
in June 2009, said in a statement on its website on July 24.
“Our Facebook page had 100,000 supporters and receives tens of
thousands of comments each day. There is no evidence that
Breivik was ever one of those 100,000 supporters.”  The EDL said “anyone who expresses any extremist beliefs
of any kind” is banned from its site.  In the 1,500-page English-language manifesto posted on the
Internet hours before the killings, Breivik described nine years
of planning for the attacks, which he said would form part of a
crusade against “cultural Marxism” and rising
“Islamization.” He began writing it while he was still a
member of Norway’s opposition Progress Party.  Breivik referred to the EDL throughout the manifesto and
wrote of assistance from “brothers and sisters in England,
France, Germany, Sweden, Austria, Italy, Spain, Finland,
 Belgium , the Netherlands, Denmark, the U.S. etc.”  ‘Names From Facebook’  The suspect e-mailed the manifesto to more than 1,000
people less than 1 1/2 hours before the bomb attack, Tanguy
Veys, a lawmaker from the Flemish nationalist  Vlaams Belang 
party in Belgium, one of the recipients, said on his  Twitter
account .  “He sent it to as many people as possible because he
wanted someone to distribute this book after he was dead,
because he thought he would be killed by the police,” Norwegian
parliamentarian Jan Simonsen, another recipient, said by phone
today. “He said that he got the names from Facebook.”  Armed with a pistol and semi-automatic rifle, Breivik
killed 68 people at the island camp, about 40 kilometers (25
miles) from Oslo. He killed eight more in a car-bombing earlier
that day in the government district of the capital. The search
for victims is still continuing in the waters around Utoeya.  ‘He’s Insane’  “This whole case has indicated that he’s insane,”
Lippestad said yesterday. Even so, “we still have to see the
medical reports.” Breivik said he took drugs to boost his
strength and stamina in the attacks, Lippestad said.  Judge Kim Heger told reporters on July 25 that while
Breivik admitted to the dual attacks, he did not plead guilty.  “The operation was not intended to kill as many people as
possible, but to give ‘a sharp signal’ to the people that can’t
be misunderstood,” Heger cited Breivik as saying in court. “As
long as the Labor Party follows its ideological line and
continues to deconstruct Norwegian culture and import Muslims en
masse they must take responsibility for this treason.”  If convicted on the two counts he’s been charged with,
Breivik could receive a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison,
Norway’s toughest punishment for such a crime. Police said they
might seek to charge Breivik with crimes against humanity, a law
that has never been applied in Norway.  Once Breivik has served his sentence, prosecutors could ask
that he remain incarcerated on the grounds that he might commit
another violent crime. Breivik would then need to be retried
every five years, according to police spokeswoman Carol Sandbye.  ‘So Grotesque’  Norwegian authorities will step up monitoring of extreme
right-wing groups as a result of the attacks, Justice Minister
Knut Storberget said yesterday.  “I view this case as so grotesque and so particular that
it would be odd not to be concerned at any given time that
others might get the same ideas,” he said.  The Norwegian Police Security Service had not placed Breivik
on a watch list or under surveillance after his name appeared on
an Interpol list of individuals who purchased chemicals over the
Internet, according to Alsen.  “The purpose was not to look at the people who were buying
these chemicals, but to look at the companies that were
selling,” Alsen said yesterday. “There was no reason for
further investigation.”  Polish police are questioning the owner of a company that
sold legal chemicals to Breivik, Pawel Bialek, deputy head of
the country’s internal security agency, said earlier this week.  Swedish Link  Breivik bought 150 kilograms (330 pounds) of aluminum in
2010 at a Schenker terminal in Karlstad,  Sweden , the newspaper
Goeteborgs-Posten reported yesterday, citing Schenker spokesman
Pierre Olsson. Breivik collected the aluminum and drove it back
to Oslo, Olsson told the newspaper.  Breivik wrote in his manifesto wrote that he’d ordered
“aluminum powder,” which when “mixed with ammonium nitrate
will increase tertiary-charge sensitivity and increase
demolition power by approximately 10-30 percent.”  Oslo police remain on high alert and the capital’s central
station was briefly evacuated this morning after a suspicious
suitcase was found on a bus. The station was reopened after
nothing was found, according to train operator NSB.  The authorities do not have an estimate for the costs
incurred from the attacks and no decision has been made on
whether to tear down or repair the damaged government buildings,
Stoltenberg said today.  “There is no estimate yet as we are not able to check the
extent of the damage,” Frode Jacobsen, head of communications
at the Ministry of Government, Administration, Reform and Church
Affairs said by phone. “We are talking about 2,000 people that
need to have a temporary location and we have to rebuild or fix
the buildings.”  Offices Relocated  The oil, trade, justice, labor and health ministries and
Stoltenberg’s office were worst hit and have been relocated,
Jacobsen said.  Stoltenberg also announced today that the government had
established an independent commission to review “all aspects”
of the attacks on Oslo and Utoeya.  “I want to emphasize that this is not an inquiry, because
we have great respect for the work personnel have performed --
the  emergency services , police and many others,” Stoltenberg
said. “But it is important that we have a full review of what
has happened.”  The police said separately they would start an
investigation in November into how the operation at Utoeya was
handled, after coming under criticism for taking an hour to
reach the island after being told of the shootings.  Magne Rustad, chief of staff of Nordre Buskerud police
district, said that while the first boat police tried to use to
get to the island encountered engine problems, it did not delay
the operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  