-- 
Oakley Seeks to Beat Groupon With ‘Ticketmaster With Reviews’

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-27T08:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/oakley-seeks-to-beat-groupon-with-ticketmaster-with-reviews-.html
Oakley Capital Investments Ltd. (OCL) 
founder Peter Dubens wants to turn events publisher Time Out
into a “Ticketmaster with reviews,” selling tickets and
bookings for hotels, restaurants and travel worldwide.  The plan will pit Time Out, which publishes weekly cultural
and entertainment guides in 35 cities, against companies such as
Groupon Inc., the top online-coupon provider, and Yelp Inc., a
local-business reviews website. Time Out’s reviews expertise
will entice readers to buy products and services, Dubens, 44,
said in an interview at Oakley’s London office this month.  “It’s a very special brand that’s inbred in our psyche
here in London, and it’s been in  New York  since 1996,” he said.
“Unlike a Groupon or a deal business, which is basically just
shifting out deals to millions of people, Time Out is writing
about what’s relevant and cultural in  London . Oakley is helping
give them the ability to offer those people reading the reviews
the ability to stay on the site and book the ticket.”  Oakley agreed to buy a majority stake in Time Out New York
this year to complete its investment in Time Out London, and
help the listings publisher expand online. The daily discounts
market could be a $3.9 billion business by 2015, up from $873
million last year, according to researcher BIA/Kelsey.  Time Out already provides online daily deals in cities
including London and is looking to add websites for other
cities. The company has the potential to become “much, much
bigger,” Dubens said.  Competitors  Groupon, which is preparing for a $750 million initial
public offering, pioneered the online daily deal business in
2009. Since then, a “substantial number” of competitors have
joined the field, according to a filing linked to its IPO.
Facebook Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and LivingSocial are among its major
domestic rivals, according to the filing.  Julie Mossler, a spokesman for Chicago-based Groupon, said
the company offers merchants everything from web seminars to
case studies to return-on-investment calculators.  “There’s room for more than one site in this space, but
this is what makes us unique,” she said.  Groupon turned down a $6 billion takeover from Google last
year. LivingSocial, the second-largest website devoted to daily
coupons, is selecting investment banks for a $1 billion IPO, a
person with knowledge of the situation said last month. Yelp,
which sells ads next to reader reviews, is exploring an initial
public offering.  Time Out’s strong brand may not be enough to convert
readers into customers, said Dan Cryan, senior broadband analyst
in the London office of IHS Screen Digest.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
skills with CDs and DVDs haven’t helped it make much headway
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes selling digital music, he said.  “This is far easier said than done,” he said.  Brand Expansion  Time Out is expanding from 35 cities to 50, adding places
such as Berlin,  Los Angeles  and Miami, and it’s beefing up
mobile-phone applications that will offer discounts in specific
areas of the cities, Dubens said.  Beyond Time Out, Oakley is interested in acquiring European
or U.S. companies that sell products or services or supply
advice to consumers over the Internet, Dubens said. The price
target is up to 60 million euros ($85.3 million), he said.  Dubens said Oakley hopes to close a deal by September for a
European online classified company that operates in 28
countries. He wouldn’t give a price estimate.  Dubens said he doesn’t think there’s an Internet bubble,
but prices are high enough to make acquisitions expensive.  The private-equity firm now has to get in earlier, or find
industries in transition, said Dubens, who helped found 365
Media Group Plc, an online gambling and information company sold
to  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in 2007 for 102 million
pounds ($167 million).  “When people ask me what we do, I say we look for
wrinkles, things that are slightly quirky, or slightly more
difficult, where we need to roll up our sleeves and help,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  