-- 
Oil Prices Decline on Bets Rising U.S. Stockpiles Show Demand Is Slowing

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-27T11:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/oil-falls-on-bets-demand-is-slowing.html
Oil fell in  New York  on speculation
rising U.S. crude stockpiles indicate fuel demand is faltering
in the world’s biggest consumer of the commodity.  Futures dropped as much as 1 percent after the industry-
funded  American Petroleum Institute  said inventories climbed
3.96 million barrels to 358.2 million last week, the biggest
increase in three months. An Energy Department report today may
show supplies decreased 2 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices failed to settle above $100 a
barrel yesterday on concern the U.S. may default amid a standoff
over the country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  “If the U.S. doesn’t increase the debt ceiling then the
outlook for the economy becomes more subdued and that would
weigh on oil,” said Eliane Tanner, an analyst at Bank Sarasin &
Cie AG in Zurich. “But market fundamentals are quite tight. We
still don’t have the supply problems in the  Middle East  resolved
yet and demand is to remain pretty robust. We expect sideways
trading in a $110 to $120 range for the next few months.”  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as 97 cents to
$98.62 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $98.68 at 12:52 p.m. London time. Futures
have gained 27 percent in the past year.  Brent-WTI  Brent for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as 74 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $117.54 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at an $18.91 premium to New York futures, down from a record
$22.63 on July 14.  “Prices may be range-bound until the American debt issue
is resolved,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivatives sales
manager at broker Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who predicts oil will
trade between $97.50 and $101.50 a barrel this week.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably increased for a second
week, gaining 400,000 barrels in the seven days to July 22,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed before
the Energy Department report today.  Oil rose yesterday after an index of U.S. consumer
confidence rebounded from an eight-month low and the dollar fell
on concern the country may default. A weaker greenback bolsters
the investment appeal of commodities as a hedge against
inflation.  Crude in New York is declining as it may have advanced too
quickly, technical charts suggest. The 14-day stochastic
oscillator is above 80, indicating futures are at so-called
overbought levels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An area of showers and thunderstorms associated with a
tropical wave over the northwestern  Caribbean Sea  has a 40
percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next 48
hours, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an advisory.
The  Atlantic hurricane season  is monitored by the oil and gas
industry because of the potential impact on production areas
including the  Gulf of Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  