-- 
N.Y. Crude Oil Falls on Durable Goods Orders, Unexpected Inventory Gain

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-07-27T19:47:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/oil-falls-in-new-york-after-u-s-supplies-climb-durable-goods-orders-drop.html
Crude oil fell as an unexpected
inventory increase and a decline in durable goods orders
bolstered concern that economic growth is slowing.  Futures dropped 2.2 percent after Energy Department said
supplies gained 2.3 million barrels to 354 million last week. A
2 million-barrel decline was forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Gasoline, diesel and heating oil stockpiles also rose.
Bookings for goods meant to last three years or more fell 2.1
percent, the Commerce Department said.  “There were builds across the board in the DOE report,
which sent oil lower,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron
Hanover Inc., a trading advisory company in  New Canaan ,
 Connecticut . “There are a number of reasons to be bearish right
now. Inventories, durable goods, the debt talks and the dollar
are all putting downward pressure on the market.”  Crude oil for September delivery fell $2.19 to $97.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since July 18. Prices have climbed 26 percent in the
past year.  Brent crude oil for September settlement slipped 85 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to end the session at $117.43 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
was at a $20.03 premium to oil traded in New York, down from a
record $22.63 on July 14.  Supplies of crude oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade,
increased 430,000 barrels to 37.1 million in the week ended July
22, the department said.  Stockpile Release  The Energy Department will deliver 30.64 million barrels of
crude oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve in July and
August, according to its  website . The department will deliver
about 8.7 million barrels this month.  The  International Energy Agency  announced June 23 its
members were offering 60 million barrels of oil from emergency
stockpiles to damp prices, in the first deployment of the
reserves in almost six years. The U.S. accounted for about half
the release.  “Today’s number was a surprise, but shouldn’t have been,”
said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with  Weiss
Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “We’re starting to see the
delivery of over 30 million barrels from the SPR. Commercial
inventories are going to rise now after falling so much in
recent weeks.”  U.S. crude oil supplies fell 22.1 million barrels, or 5.9
percent, in the seven weeks ended July 22, the report showed.  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline inventories rose 1.02 million barrels to 213.5
million. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, surged 3.39 million barrels to 151.8
million, the highest level since April 1.  Refineries operated at 88.3 percent of capacity, down 2
percentage points from the prior week and the biggest decline
since the week ended April 8.  “We had a surprise build and the market dropped,” said
Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in  New
York . “The economic news is horrible.”  Orders for durable goods rose 1.9 percent in May, which was
smaller than reported last month, the Commerce Department report
showed. The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a 0.3 percent increase in June. Orders
excluding transportation equipment rose less than forecast and
demand for business equipment dropped.  “The durable goods number today was lower than expected
and they also cut the previous month’s figure,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research with Blue
Ocean LLC in New York. ‘This is a bad sign for the economy.’’  Slower Economic Growth  The economy grew at a slower pace in more parts of the U.S.
since the beginning of June as shoppers restrained spending and
factory production eased, the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige
Book survey released today in  Washington .  Oil also declined as a stalemate over the U.S. debt ceiling
pushed the government closer to default. BlackRock Inc., Loomis
Sayles & Co. and Franklin Templeton Investments said the country
faces losing its top-level debt rating as officials struggle to
raise the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  House Speaker  John Boehner , battling resistance from within
his own  Republican Party  as he intensifies a debt-ceiling
standoff with President  Barack Obama , worked to salvage his plan
to tie the nation’s borrowing power to spending cuts and budget
controls.  “The debt talks are dragging on and that has got just
about all of markets lower,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP
Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New York. “The dollar is up
on the day, which is probably weighing on oil.”  Equities Drop  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.9 percent to 1,307.12, and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 1.4 percent to 12,321.89.
The dollar rose advanced 1 percent to $1.4363 against the euro,
from $1.4511 yesterday, after dropping as low as $1.4536, the
weakest level since July 5. A stronger U.S. currency reduces the
appeal of dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 468,508
contracts as of 3:13 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 575,757
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  