-- 
Holmes Returns to Jets as Marquee NFL Free Agents Begin to Make Decisions

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T20:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/holmes-returns-to-jets-as-marquee-nfl-free-agents-begin-to-make-decisions.html
Free-agent wide receiver  Santonio Holmes  agreed to re-sign with the  New York Jets  as some of the
 National Football League ’s top available players found roster
spots on the second day of business following the end of a
lockout.  Two days after the conclusion of a 4 1/2-month work
stoppage that yielded a 10-year labor agreement, quarterback
Donovan McNabb was headed to the  Minnesota Vikings  from the
 Washington  Redskins in a preliminary deal, and passer Matt Hasselbeck will sign with the Tennessee Titans, ESPN said.  Former New York Giants receiver Plaxico Burress said he
would meet with his old team to discuss a possible return
following a jail sentence, the Newark Star-Ledger reported.  Holmes’s deal to remain with the Jets was confirmed by a
person familiar with the signing who was granted anonymity
because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
contract is worth $50 million over five years, including $24
million guaranteed, according to ESPN.com.  NFL teams were allowed to begin signing drafted and
undrafted rookies, negotiate with free agents and make trades
beginning yesterday. Free-agent signings can’t officially begin
until 6 p.m. New York time on July 29, meaning teams won’t speak
publicly about their agreements prior to then.  Holmes, 27, joined the Jets last season after catching the
winning touchdown pass for the Pittsburgh Steelers in the  Super
Bowl . He had 52 catches for 746 yards and six touchdowns for New
York in 2010.  McNabb Deal  The Vikings reached a preliminary agreement to acquire the
34-year-old McNabb from the Redskins for a 2012 sixth-round
draft pick and a conditional 2013 sixth-rounder, ESPN reported,
citing people it didn’t identify. The six-time Pro Bowl
quarterback played one season in Washington following 11 with
the  Philadelphia Eagles .  Hasselbeck, a 35-year-old free agent, ended a 10-season
stay with the  Seattle  Seahawks, agreeing on a multiyear contract
with the Titans, ESPN reported. The move came after Seattle
agreed on a deal with former Vikings passer Tarvaris Jackson
yesterday, the sports network said.  Burress was released from prison in June after serving 20
months on weapons charges for accidentally shooting himself in
the leg at a Manhattan nightclub. He told the Star-Ledger that
he planned to meet with the Giants today, with the team later
notified by the league that it couldn’t meet with Burress until
July 29, the newspaper said.  Manning to Burress  The 33-year-old Burress caught a 13-yard touchdown pass
from quarterback Eli Manning in the final 35 seconds of the 2008
Super Bowl to give the Giants a 17-14 win over the  New England
Patriots .  The Giants today extended coach Tom Coughlin’s contract
through the 2012 season. Coughlin is 65-47 during the regular
season since joining  New York  in 2004, winning a Super Bowl and
two division titles while reaching the postseason four times.
Prior to the agreement his contract was set to expire at the end
of the 2011 season.  Having coached the Jacksonville Jaguars for eight seasons,
Coughlin has 133 career regular-season wins, ranking 21st in NFL
history.  The Giants also agreed to terms with 29-year-old center
David Baas, who started every game the past two seasons for the
 San Francisco 49ers , the Sacramento Bee reported, citing a
person in the league. Baas would be part of a rebuilt offensive
line for New York, which yesterday told two veterans, center
Shaun O’Hara and guard Rich Seubert, that they were being cut.  Safety Record  Eric Weddle became the highest-paid safety in NFL history
when he agreed with the  San Diego Chargers  on a five-year, $40
million contract, according to NFL.com, citing an unidentified
person in the league. The deal includes $19 million in
guaranteed money and a $13 million signing bonus.  Running back DeAngelo Williams agreed to re-sign with the
 Carolina Panthers  for $43 million over five years, including $21
million in guaranteed money, NFL.com said, without citing a
source for its information.  Williams, who missed the second half of last season with a
sprained foot, rushed for more than 1,100 yards in both 2008 and
2009.  Quarterback Matt Leinart agreed to re-sign with the Houston
Texans, the Houston Chronicle said, citing unidentified people.
The 28-year-old Leinart was picked up by Houston in September
after being released by the Arizona Cardinals and didn’t take a
single snap last season.  Saints Signing  Free-agent wide receiver Lance Moore agreed on a five-year
deal to return to the  New Orleans Saints , the  Associated Press 
said, citing an unidentified person familiar with the signing.
Moore had 66 catches for 763 yards and eight touchdowns last
season.  The  Dallas Cowboys  agreed to re-sign left tackle Doug Free
to a four-year contract that guarantees the four-year veteran
$17 million, according to AP.  Free-agent linebacker Paul Posluszny agreed on a six-year
contract with the  Jacksonville Jaguars , according to the Florida
Times-Union, citing his agent. Posluszny, 26, played the last
four seasons for the Buffalo Bills. He had 103 tackles in 14
games last season.  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers signed rookie defensive end Adrian
Clayborn, the No. 20 draft pick, to a four-year contract that
includes a fifth-year option, according to the  St. Petersburg
Times . The deal makes Clayborn, who played at the University of
 Iowa , the first 2011 first-rounder to sign under the new rookie
salary scale contained in the collective bargaining agreement
approved on July 25, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 