-- 
Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Likely Rose in June

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-27T04:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-increase-in-june-for-a-second-month.html
Orders for long-lasting goods
probably increased in June for a second month, a sign companies
are investing in new equipment even as they try to contain other
costs, economists said before a report today.  Bookings for durable goods increased 0.3 percent after a
2.1 percent gain in May, according to the median of 75 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Orders excluding transportation
equipment rose 0.5 percent, the survey showed.  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  is among manufacturers recovering from supply
disruptions caused by the disaster in Japan, signaling factory
production is likely to rebound in the second half of the year
as  capital spending  and exports climb. At the same time,
employers are cutting back on hiring, which may temper  consumer
spending  that accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “Orders have held up pretty well,” said  Michelle Meyer , a
senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York .
“We should still expect a pickup in manufacturing over the next
several months, but perhaps not as strong as some had hoped.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Estimates ranged from a decline of 1.9 percent to an
increase of 1.9 percent.  Recent reports have sent conflicting signals about U.S.
factories, a leader in the economic recovery. While restraints
from Japan’s earthquake and higher raw material costs earlier in
the year may be wearing off, consumer demand has slowed as
Americans’ employment prospects waned.  Conflicting Signals  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose in
June for the first time in four months, supporting the  Federal
Reserve ’s forecast that the economy will strengthen in the
second half of 2011 as “factors that are likely to be
temporary” subside.  Factory production, on the other hand, was unchanged in
June as auto and business equipment output declined, Fed figures
showed July 15. The so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut , also
indicated manufacturing in that region contracted in July for a
second straight month.  “We’re not looking at robust recovery period here, but
through thick and thin, it’s being sustained,” Bradley Holcomb,
chairman of the Institute for Supply Management’s factory survey
committee, said during a July 1 conference call with reporters.
“Everybody’s cautious.”  The value of manufacturing shares reflects factories’ see-
sawing performance. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index, made up of 53 companies including Caterpillar
Inc., Deere & Co. and Cummins Inc., dropped to the lowest level
in six months on June 13 before rising 5 percent by the close of
markets yesterday.  ‘Significant Improvement’  Xerox Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns said the temblor
that struck  Japan  in March and hurt the company’s suppliers will
affect the provider of printers and business services in the
second and third quarters. Nonetheless, Xerox is “already
seeing significant improvement” and expects to return to normal
operations in the fourth quarter, she said.  “Let me be clear: Demand is not the problem here,” Burns
said in a July 22 call with analysts. “This is a supply issue.
The second-quarter impact was expected and created a backlog for
orders taken in the quarter, orders that we’ll be filling during
the balance of the year.”  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company reported a 41
percent increase in second-quarter profit after reducing costs
and boosting revenue from services.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  