-- 
Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Unexpectedly Fall as Inventory Growth Slows

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-27T14:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-unexpectedly-decreased-in-june.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
unexpectedly dropped in June, raising the risk that a slowdown
in business investment will weigh on the world’s largest economy
in the second half of the year.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
2.1 percent after a 1.9 percent gain the prior month that was
smaller than last reported, the Commerce Department said today
in Washington. Demand for business equipment, including
machinery and computers, also dropped.  Manufacturers face a slowdown in  consumer spending  just as
they are poised to rebound from the parts shortages caused by
 Japan ’s earthquake, indicating production may keep cooling.
Companies are also cutting back on hiring, which may further
temper household demand.  “The momentum in  capital spending  has slowed,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York.
“Unless we get a pickup in consumer demand, the overall rebound
in growth is going to be pretty moderate.”  Stocks fell as the stalemate over cutting the government
budget pushed the U.S. closer to defaulting on its debt. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.5 percent to 1,312.13 at
10:27 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed.  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 0.3 percent increase in orders. Estimates
ranged from a decline of 1.9 percent to a gain of 1.9 percent.
The Commerce Department revised the May gain down from a
previously reported 2.1 percent advance.  Transportation Equipment  Orders excluding volatile transportation equipment, like
commercial aircraft, increased 0.1 percent after a 0.7 percent
gain, the Commerce Department said. Demand for transportation
gear dropped 8.5 percent, countering industry data.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest U.S. maker of aircraft, said it
received orders for 48 airplanes in June, up from 27 the prior
month. Industry data, nonetheless, may not correlate precisely
with the government statistics on a month-to-month basis because
it doesn’t take into account the prices.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items like computers, engines
and communications gear, decreased 0.4 percent after rising 1.7
percent the prior month. The drop signals companies scaled back
investment plans.  Demand for machinery dropped 2.3 percent, the most since
January. Computer bookings fell 0.8 percent and those for
automobiles decreased 1.4 percent.  More Shipments  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, increased 1 percent
after rising 1.7 percent.  The positive news from shipments was countered by a
slowdown in stockpiling. Inventories climbed 0.4 percent in
June, the smallest gain since March 2010.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York  and
Macroeconomic Advisers in  St. Louis  were among those cutting
projects for growth last quarter. The economist expanded at a
1.8 percent annual rate from April through June after growing at
a 1.9 percent pace in the first three months of the year,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed before a
Commerce Department report on July 29.  Recent reports have sent conflicting signals about U.S.
factories, a leader in the economic recovery. While restraints
from Japan’s earthquake and higher raw material costs earlier in
the year may be wearing off, consumer demand has slowed as
Americans’ employment prospects waned.  Other Data  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose in
June for the first time in four months, supporting the  Federal
Reserve ’s forecast that the economy will strengthen in the
second half of 2011 as “factors that are likely to be
temporary” subside.  Factory production, on the other hand, was unchanged in
June as auto and business equipment output declined, Fed figures
showed July 15. The so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut , also
indicated manufacturing in that region contracted in July for a
second straight month.  “We’re not looking at robust recovery period here, but
through thick and thin, it’s being sustained,” Bradley Holcomb,
chairman of the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory survey
committee, said during a July 1 conference call with reporters.
“Everybody’s cautious.”  Xerox Chief Executive Officer Ursula Burns said the temblor
that struck Japan in March and hurt the company’s suppliers will
affect the provider of printers and business services in the
second and third quarters. Nonetheless, Xerox is “already
seeing significant improvement” and expects to return to normal
operations in the fourth quarter, she said.  ‘Supply Issue’  “Let me be clear: Demand is not the problem here,” Burns
said in a July 22 call with analysts. “This is a supply issue.
The second quarter impact was expected and created a backlog for
orders taken in the quarter, orders that we’ll be filling during
the balance of the year.”  The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company reported a 41
percent increase in second-quarter profit after reducing costs
and boosting revenue from services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  