-- 
Apartment Owner Morgan Properties Seeks $800 Million in IPO

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-27T18:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/morgan-properties-seeks-800-million-in-ipo-of-apartment-building-owner.html
Morgan Properties Trust, a partner
with  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in the 2007 purchase of
thousands of U.S. apartments, is seeking $800 million in an
initial public offering.  Morgan Properties announced its IPO today in a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania-based company didn’t say how many shares
it will offer or at what price.  The real estate investment trust, led by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Mitchell Morgan, owns 94 properties in middle-
income suburbs of Philadelphia, New York, Baltimore and
Washington, according to the regulatory filing. Total revenue
climbed by almost 50 percent to $130.8 million last year.  “These properties give them a big portfolio that’s
generating a lot of income that will be attractive to public
market investors,” said  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis
for Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based researcher.
“Prior to this, they didn’t have the scale to justify being a
public firm.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are leading the offering. The
company, which plans to list its shares on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol MPT, expects to use the proceeds to
repay debt.  Mitchell Morgan, 56, is the REIT’s largest shareholder,
according to the filing. A phone message left at the company’s
general number wasn’t immediately returned.  Deal With AIG  AIG in 2007 bought 86 apartment complexes, mostly in  New
Jersey  and Pennsylvania, in partnership with Morgan for $1.9
billion from Kushner Cos., a New York-based company then headed
by Charles Kushner and his son Jared. The deal was close to the
peak of U.S. real estate values, which plunged more than 40
percent over the next two years.  Morgan sued AIG in February 2009, saying the insurer’s
“self-induced financial collapse” led it to delay payments for
apartment renovations. The complaint referred to the 2007 deal
as “one of the largest private offerings of multifamily
projects ever offered for sale.”  AIG began considering the sale of its stake in 2010 as it
sought to repay loans within its $182.3 billion government
rescue package.  In January, Morgan bought out its partners in 76 apartment
properties valued at about $1.5 billion, the company said in a
statement. AIG was among the sellers, the Philadelphia Inquirer
 reported  on Jan. 11.  The insurer took title to some other apartments it once co-
owned with Morgan, the newspaper said. Earlier this month, AIG
sold 2,200 apartments acquired in the Kushner deal to Vantage
Properties LLC and Angelo, Gordon & Co. for $241.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net 
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 