-- 
Toshiba Bond Risk at Four-Month Low as Nuclear Concerns Ease: Japan Credit

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-07-28T05:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/toshiba-bond-risk-recedes-as-nuclear-fears-ease-japan-credit.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Japan’s largest maker
of nuclear  power plants , is rebounding in credit markets as
demand for computer chips and displays helps ease concerns over
the impact of the Fukushima crisis on earnings.  The cost of insuring Toshiba’s debt for five years fell to
a four-week low of 92 basis points on July 22 from 175 five days
after the earthquake, according to CMA data. The average cost of
swaps insuring the debt of 66 technology companies, including
Toshiba’s biggest rival in chips Samsung Electronics Co., rose
31 basis points to 218 in the same period, according to
Bloomberg data.  Shares of Toshiba plunged 33 percent in two trading days
following the earthquake on concern the company’s bet on its
nuclear business will backfire. Toshiba acquired reactor maker
Westinghouse Electric Co. for $4.16 billion in October 2006.
Toshiba, also the world’s second-largest maker of  flash memory 
and a major supplier for Apple Inc.’s iPad, helped allay
investor concern by forecasting record profit this fiscal year.  “Right after the quake the company was hit by fear that it
in some way may share responsibility with  Tokyo  Electric,” said
Ryuji Kobayashi, a Tokyo-based credit analyst at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. “As this risk failed to materialize and
without looming nuclear-related charges, the credit default
swaps are returning to their original levels.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Toshiba’s 2.2
percent bonds due 2016 instead of  government bonds  fell 30 basis
points to 42 basis points, from the April 13 peak of 71,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices on
Bloomberg. Spreads on the company’s 1.22 percent bonds maturing
in December 2017 shrunk to 50 basis points from 81 on April 14.  Comparable Yields  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year bond yield declined half a basis
point to 1.07 percent in Tokyo, approaching 2011’s low of 1.06
percent on July 19.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt rose to 67
basis points from 27 basis points on March 10, according to
Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond Performance Index.  Bonds sold by Japan’s technology companies are on course
for a fourth monthly gain, led by Toshiba, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index that tracks 29 securities
including notes sold by Sharp Corp. and NEC Corp.  The record earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on
March 11 led to blasts and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric 
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in northern Japan. Shares
of Toshiba and Hitachi Ltd., which built the reactors, plunged
the most in two years in the first full day of trading following
the disasters.  Stock Price  Toshiba, which helped construct four of the six reactors at
the site, was the second-worst performer after Tokyo Electric on
the benchmark Nikkei index in the week following the disaster.
The stock has rebounded, gaining 22 percent since March 17.  The same investor concerns have also affected Hitachi,
which built reactor No. 4 at Fukushima. The cost of insuring
Hitachi’s debt for five years declined to 71.5 basis points on
July 26 after peaking at 116 basis points on March 16, according
to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps rose
one basis point to 121 basis points in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The index has climbed from 98 basis points a day
before the earthquake.  Contracts to insure Japanese government debt against
default for five years rose half a basis point to 89.5 basis
points yesterday, according to the latest prices from CMA in  New
York , which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements. A drop signals improving perceptions
of creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have kept a
stable outlook on Toshiba and rated its debt two levels above
speculative grade since 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  The Tokyo-based company has 205.4 billion yen ($2.6
billion) in bonds coming due over the next three years,
Bloomberg data showed. The company had 258.8 billion yen in cash
and equivalents as of March 31, according to the data.  Toshiba spokesman Keisuke Omori declined to comment for
this story.  “We do not generally comment on our financing
strategies,” Omori said.  ‘Solid Fundamentals’  “There is no risk of Toshiba’s earnings being
significantly depressed on the account of the nuclear
business,” said Satoko Terasawa, senior credit analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The company’s business
fundamentals are solid and, while new business might be tougher
to get, there are no projects that were stopped.”  The company is counting on a backlog of orders from  China ,
while hedging its bet on nuclear power with moves into other
energy sectors. On May 10, it signed a preliminary deal with
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based power-plant equipment maker
 Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  to develop thermal and solar technologies.  In May, Toshiba said it plans to win 39 reactor orders,
generating 1 trillion yen in revenue in nuclear business in the
year ending March 2016, while warning about possible delays in
approval of new construction projects. The company cited
existing projects in China and the U.S. and demand from
 developing countries  such as Turkey and  Vietnam .  Reactor Maintenance  “More than 90 percent of Westinghouse’s profit comes from
fuel and maintenance operations,” Kobayashi said. “With
countries around the world taking a closer look at their nuclear
policies, the maintenance part of the business may benefit,
outweighing the decline in new projects.”  Net income for the year ending March 2012 will probably
climb to a record 140 billion yen, Toshiba forecast in May.
Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will probably increase 25 percent to
300 billion yen, helped by a 9.4 percent gain in revenue.  The Japanese company said its plants in central and
southern Japan making those chips were largely unaffected by the
March disaster. Toshiba Mobile Display, a fully owned
subsidiary, also makes small LCD panels for products including
the iPhone.  Chips and displays aren’t the only products contributing to
Toshiba’s revival. The company ranks fifth among the world’s PC
vendors, and while industry leaders such as Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Acer Inc. and Dell Inc. struggle with falling shipments,
Toshiba’s computer business, led by its Portege laptops, is
growing.  PC Demand  Toshiba’s PC shipments grew 5.3 percent worldwide in the
first quarter, according to data from market research company
Gartner Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Of the top-five PC
vendors, only Lenovo Group Ltd. grew faster than Toshiba while
shipments from HP, Acer, and Dell shrank. The Japanese company
did even better in the U.S., where shipments jumped 10.9
percent, second only to Apple’s 18.9 percent.  Post-tsunami spending in Japan could give Toshiba a further
boost. Fumio Muraoka, corporate senior executive vice president,
told reporters on May 9 that the company expects to benefit from
reconstruction demand for TVs, refrigerators, and air
conditioners in the current fiscal year. Toshiba also sees
demand growth in businesses such as water treatment systems and
electrical substations in the region hardest hit by the
disaster.  It is also trying to enter the fast-growing market for
smart-grid equipment for electricity networks. On May 19,
Toshiba announced a $2.3 billion deal to buy Landis&Gyr AG, a
Swiss electronic-metering company.  “The company is showing flexibility in controlling the
risks by shifting emphasis to transmission and social
infrastructure parts of its business,” Terasawa said. “The
biggest source of risk for Toshiba’s earnings is the performance
of its semiconductor business. Nuclear operations are not high
on the list of concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo
at   palpeyev@bloomberg.net ; Yusuke Miyazawa in
Tokyo at   ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  