-- 
Debt Limit Standoff Won’t Hurt Tax Rewrite Effort, Camp Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/overhaul-of-tax-code-shouldn-t-result-in-tax-increase-camp-says.html
The stalemate on Capitol Hill over
whether to increase the $14.2 trillion U.S. debt limit isn’t
affecting the debate over how to overhaul the tax code, said
Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican.  “Despite the debate over the debt limit, I am encouraged
about the bipartisanship and progress that has been made in the
area of  tax reform ,” the House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman said today in a  speech  at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
in  Washington . “We will need to see more of it to see it across
the finish line.”  His comments were made two weeks after Representative
Sander Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat on Camp’s committee,
said the panel’s progress could be “washed away” if Congress
fails to raise the debt limit by Aug. 2.  Camp spoke in vague terms about what he would like to see
in a rewrite of the nation’s tax laws. He said an overhaul
should eliminate tax expenditures that benefit certain groups
without resulting in a net increase in taxes.  “The  tax code  should not pick winners or losers,” he
said. “It should not be a tool of industrial policy.”  ‘A Framework’  Camp said businesses shouldn’t look at a tax overhaul
through the “prism of one provision.”  “What we’re trying to do is set up a framework to have the
discussion about how do we get rates as low as possible and have
the most transparent effective rate possible?” he said. “The
debate is going to be OK; the political consensus is we’re going
to have X provision. What does that do to the rates?”  Camp and House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a
Wisconsin Republican, have said they would like to lower the top
 tax rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent currently. They haven’t
suggested which tax breaks, such as the mortgage interest
deduction, they would eliminate or curb to pay for lower rates.  Camp said he supports a repatriation holiday, in which U.S.
multinational companies could return offshore profits to the
U.S. at a low tax rate. Such a holiday is backed by companies
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Camp said he
wants to discuss repatriation as part of a broader tax overhaul
instead of as a separate piece of legislation.  “I’m for repatriation,” he said. “But I don’t want to
just do something that will be helpful for a few years. I’d like
to see us change the structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  