-- 
Overexcited Brain Cells May Spur Symptoms of Autism, Stanford Study Finds

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-07-27T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/overexcited-brain-cells-may-spur-symptoms-of-autism-stanford-study-finds.html
Stimulating brain cells with light
can generate autism-like symptoms,  Stanford University 
researchers reported in a mouse study that may provide clues on
what causes the disease in people.  The scientists implanted light-sensitive proteins into
parts of the brain linked to social behavior in normal mice, and
then activated them with blue lasers routed into the brain using
fiber-optic cables. Normally gregarious mice didn't socialize 
with other animals and developed a brain-wave pattern seen in 
some people with autism and schizophrenia. Their interest in 
exploring inanimate objects was normal, according to the results 
published online in the journal  Nature .  The findings provide evidence for the theory that autism
and brain disorders such as schizophrenia, where social behavior
breaks down, may be caused by brain circuits oversensitive to
stimulation, the researchers said.  “It definitely provides an insight into what might be
wrong in autism, which is a huge step,” said  Karl Deisseroth , a
Stanford University psychiatrist and senior author, in a
telephone interview. “It opens the door to a whole host” of
treatment possibilities, including use of drugs or devices that
calm or shield specific parts of the brain.  In a  2009 study , the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention estimated that about 1 in 110 American children have
autism or other autism spectrum disorders. Symptoms, including
impaired development of social and communication skills, appear
by age three, according to the  National Institutes of Health. 
While the disorder’s causes aren’t understood, genetics have
been found to play a role.  Signaling Theory  Some neurons in the brain spur signaling between cells when
excited, and others act to calm down the signaling. One theory
is that the balance between the two between may be disrupted in
autism, Deisseroth said. This idea is supported by the fact that
some genes linked to rare forms of autism appear to promote
excitation of brain cells, he said.  “If a cell is always on, it can’t communicate much
information,” Deisseroth said. “As a result, the animals
cannot handle the complexity of the social interaction.”  Mice normally are social creatures that would spend “many
minutes” investigating, sniffing, and interacting with a new
mouse of the same sex that is placed in the cage, Deisseroth
said. This behavior disappeared in mice after the lasers were
shined on certain cells.  Restored Behavior  When the researchers used the laser to activate different
cells that inhibit brain activity, the social behavior was
partly restored, Deisseroth said.  Until Deisseroth and colleagues at Humboldt University in
Berlin,  Germany  and Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot,
 Israel  completed the research, the excitation theory had been
“impossible to test because there is no way to reach into a
functioning mammalian brain and selectively boost
excitability,” he said. That’s now been overcome, he said.  The finding “has broad implications across many different
therapeutic areas,” said Robert H. Ring, vice president of
translational research at Autism Speaks, an advocacy group, and
former head of autism research at  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  “It opens up
avenues of research that may ultimately allow us to be very
specific on how we develop therapies” for autism and other
brain disorders with deficits in social behavior.  Ring predicted Deisseroth’s laser method would be
“revolutionary” in helping discover the causes of brain
disorders on a molecular level, though therapies based on the
technique are much farther off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 