-- 
Owens-Illinois Cuts Cash-Flow Target by Up to $100 Million

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-27T21:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/owens-illinois-cuts-full-year-cash-flow-target-by-100-million.html
Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s
biggest maker of glass bottles, cut its forecast for 2011 free
 cash flow  by as much as $100 million as it considers closing
furnaces in Australia and builds inventory to meet U.S. demand.  Free cash flow, or what’s left after covering operating
activities and  capital spending , will be $200 million to
$250 million this year, lower than a previous forecast of
$300 million, the Perrysburg, Ohio-based company said today in
its second-quarter earnings statement.  Operating profit fell 17 percent to $225 million in the
quarter from a year earlier, mostly because of rising freight
costs to meet higher-than-expected U.S. glass demand, the
company said. Sales dropped in  Australia , where a stronger
currency has hurt wine exports and the domestic beer market,
Chief Executive Officer Albert Stroucken said in an interview.  “We were too late on pulling the trigger” to restart two
U.S. furnaces, Stroucken said. “Once you start dropping the
ball, it just accumulates.”  Owens-Illinois reported adjusted earnings of $98 million,
or 59 cents a share, which excluded costs related to buying back
notes, restructuring and reducing the value of some assets. That
trailed the 61-cent average estimate from a Bloomberg survey of
10 analysts.  Revenue rose 17 percent to $1.96 billion, boosted by
acquisitions. Analysts had forecast sales of $1.89 billion.  A year earlier, the company reported adjusted earnings of
$140 million, or 84 cents a share, and operating profit of $271
million. Earnings will improve this quarter from the second
quarter, while trailing those of a year earlier, Stroucken said.  Rethinking Australian Capacity  The struggles to meet U.S. demand will continue for the
rest of the year, after peaking in the second quarter, he said.
The strong currency in Australia may persist on the back of a
commodities boom, he said. Owen-Illinois may shut two glass
furnaces as it studies cutting 10 percent to 15 percent of
capacity there.  Higher costs, especially for energy, reduced operating
profit by $60 million in the quarter from a year earlier, the
company said. Expenses related to raw materials, energy and
labor may increase by $200 million to $220 million in 2011 from
last year, according to the statement.  Owens-Illinois plans to offset some of the expenses with
price increases and energy surcharges totaling $80 million this
year, Stroucken said. The company expects to make up for the
rest of the rising costs with price increases in 2012, he said.  Normally, glassmakers “have always seen margin compression
in the first year of inflation and margin expansion in the
second year of inflation,” Stroucken said.  Owens-Illinois fell 97 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $25.86 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have dropped 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  