-- 
Toyota Said to Support U.S. Fuel-Economy Plan After Concerns

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-28T01:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/toyota-a-holdout-on-u-s-54-5-mpg-fuel-plan.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plans to say this
week it supports a proposal by President Barack Obama’s
administration to boost U.S. mileage standards to 54.5 miles per
gallon by 2025 after initially expressing concerns, according to
people familiar with the carmaker’s position.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , and some European
carmakers have argued that  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler Group LLC are gaining an advantage because fuel-
economy standards for light trucks will increase more slowly
than for cars, said three people, who declined to be identified
because the talks aren’t public. Obama is scheduled to make an
announcement about the fuel standards on July 29.  The three U.S.-based carmakers agreed to the mileage
standard earlier this week, people said.  For the past two decades, Corporate Average Fuel Economy,
or CAFE, rules were easier on Japanese carmakers because they
already sold smaller, more efficient vehicles and had to make
fewer adjustments to meet a corporate fleet average. GM, Ford
and Chrysler sold bigger vehicles and had to do more to be in
compliance, said  Maryann Keller , principal of a self-titled
consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The Japanese were always the winner on CAFE because the
standards allowed them to make more less-efficient vehicles,”
said Keller, who served on a National Academy of Sciences panel
on fuel economy in 2003. “Now they will have to start really
improving the fuel economy of their cars.”  Toyota, Honda  Mike Michels , Toyota’s U.S. vice president for public
affairs, declined to comment on the matter.  Honda Motor Co. has worked with the administration on the
proposal and supports it,  John Mendel , executive vice president
of U.S. sales, said in a  statement .  “Honda embraces this challenge, which will be good for our
customers and for the environment,” Mendel said.  Toyota in 2009 and 2010 recalled more than 8 million
vehicles worldwide for defects that may cause unintended
acceleration. Toyota and NHTSA later faced criticism at
congressional hearings about the timing of the recalls and
whether Toyota notified the regulator quickly enough.  Cars Vs. Trucks  Under the proposal, cars must improve fuel economy at least
5 percent a year from 2017 to 2025, while trucks must get 3.5
percent more efficient a year from 2017 to 2021 and 5 percent in
the last four years, three people said.  The proposal also has some exceptions that make it easier
to sell large pickup trucks with smaller fuel-economy increases
than are required for other vehicles, people said. From 2017 to
2019, there will be no increase in pickup-truck fuel-economy
mandates, a person said.  GM, based in  Detroit ; Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan;
and Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, had said they
would agree to a deal if the new rules are lenient on fuel-
economy improvements for pickup trucks, which are more
profitable than cars for them, three people said. Non-U.S.
carmakers chiefly sell passenger cars and SUVs in the country.  “If the companies say they can do it, it should be done,”
Representative John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, said in an
interview in Washington. Last week, Dingell and other members of
the Michigan congressional delegation sent a letter to Obama
calling the proposal of 56.2 MPG that was then being debated
“overly aggressive and not reasonably feasible.”  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  supports “the efforts of the
administration to set strong fuel-efficiency standards,” said
Chris Hosford, a spokesman for the Seoul-based automaker.  “These higher standards are good for the country, good for
the  auto industry  and good for consumers,” Hosford said.
“They’ll save new car buyers money at the gas pump and reduce
the country’s consumption of oil.”  BMW, Daimler  BMW AG and Mercedes-Benz parent  Daimler AG (DAI)  have been among
dissenters, saying that the leniency on trucks places a greater
burden on companies that rely more heavily on passenger car
sales, three people said.  Mercedes-Benz’s “current understanding of the proposal
raises some concern, and we’re continuing to review it,” Donna Boland, a spokeswoman for the carmaker, said in an e-mail.  Tom Kowaleski, a BMW North America spokesman, declined
comment except to say that Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
has spoken with company management and the conversation was
“positive.”  No deal has been signed yet.  ‘Major Move’  “I think it’s a major move in the right direction,”
Representative Sander Levin, a  Michigan  Democrat, said in an
interview in Washington. “I want to see the final, but it’s
moving in the right direction.”  Changes to the proposal can be made before the first draft
of the rule is published by Sept. 30. The final rule will be
published next year and take effect in 2017.  The Environmental Protection Agency and NHTSA are writing
the rule with  California ’s Air Resources Board, which has the
authority to write its own air-quality rules if it disagrees
with U.S. rules. If California hadn’t agreed to the proposal, it
wouldn’t have been offered to automakers, a person briefed on
the negotiations said.  A provision in the proposal requires the three agencies to
review the rule midway through and adjust it “if appropriate,”
said  Michael Stanton , chief executive officer of the Association
of Global Automakers.  “These are challenging new standards and many important
details still need to be worked out as the proposal moves
through the federal regulatory process,” Stanton, whose
Washington-based group includes Toyota and Honda Motor Co., said
today in an e-mailed statement. The association is “pleased”
that the agencies have agreed to a midterm review, he said.  Technology Credits  The government proposal includes credits for equipment that
can reduce fuel consumption, such as technology that shuts off
engines when cars are idling and louvered front grilles that
improve aerodynamics, three people said. The administration is
considering giving pickup trucks more credit than cars for using
the same such technologies, said a person familiar with the
discussions.  Pickup trucks need more powerful engines for hauling. Those
larger V-8 engines are less fuel efficient and carmakers are
concerned that meeting regulations will make it difficult to
sell pickups at current volumes.  Toyota, the maker of the Prius hybrid, also sells a large
pickup truck, the Tundra, that competes with the Chevrolet
Silverado, Ford F-150 and Dodge Ram. The Japanese carmaker had
5.8 percent of the U.S. full-size pickup market through June and
12.8 percent of the overall vehicle market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  