-- 
Party Loyalty to Insecure Leaders Brings Debt Talks to Precipice

-- B y   J e a n n e   C u m m i n g s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/party-loyalty-to-insecure-leaders-seen-bringing-u-s-to-default-precipice.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
nation in his July 25 televised speech that  Washington  “is a
city where ‘compromise’ is becoming a dirty word.”  If he’s right and Democrats and Republicans can’t agree on
a way out of the impasse over raising the U.S. debt ceiling,
there will be plenty of blame to go around.  The ideological purification of the two parties, the
public’s demands for painless remedies and the insecurity of
party leaders after three elections that shuffled partisan power
are all elements that brought Congress, the president and the
country to this perilous point.  “If you look at the incentives and disincentives faced by
members of Congress, you can see why they do not want to take
compromising positions,” said Gary Jacobson, a political
scientist at the  University of California  in  San Diego .  “They are playing to the people who got them there. Those
people do want compromise. But by ‘compromise,’ they mean the
other side caves in to them,” Jacobson said.  That’s the message Republican House Speaker John Boehner is
hearing from his constituents as he tries to pass legislation
that will stave off a default on the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt that economists say could diminish America’s standing with
investors for decades.  Applauds Gridlock  “I’m happy most of the time in gridlock,” said Chris
Littleton, a Tea Party member who lives in Boehner’s hometown of
West Chester, Ohio. “What’s done in the name of bipartisanship
almost always screws the American people.”  Obama and Boehner are not the first to try to map out a
bipartisan deficit reduction plan, and history shows it’s not
been easy.  The 1997 deal between Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and
then-Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia Republican, only came
after government shutdowns in 1995 and 1996. The government was
also partially closed in the run-up to passage of Republican
President George H.W. Bush’s 1991 deal with a Democratic-
controlled Congress that ultimately contributed to his defeat to
Clinton a year later.  Even the 1985 showdown between Republican President Ronald Reagan and then-House Speaker Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, a
Massachusetts Democrat, that is now so fondly remembered by many
in Washington included its share of tension.  ‘High Noon’  “It’s like high noon at the old corral,” said then-Senate
Majority Leader Robert Dole, a Kansas Republican, according to a
July 27, 1985 report in the Chicago Tribune. “We’re in Dodge
City and we’ve got Tip O’Neill on one end of the street and
 Ronald Reagan  on the other. They’re looking at each other trying
to decide who is going to blink first.”  This year’s negotiations are different, in part because the
Capitol is almost devoid of the Southern Democrats and New
England Republicans who easily crossed partisan lines and made
such deals possible in the Reagan-O’Neill era.  The seeds of the current showdown were sown more than 20
years ago, when state legislators began using sophisticated
computer software to redraw House district lines to maximize
partisan advantages.  According to a study done by Michael McDonald, a political
scientist at  George Mason University  in  Virginia , there were 161
House swing districts in which the 1988 presidential vote split
48% to 52%. After two rounds of redistricting following the 1990
and 2000 censuses, the number of swing districts nationwide had
dropped to 91.  Appealing to Base  The creation of safe, partisan seats meant the vast
majority of the 435 House members only needed to appeal to their
party base to win re-election. As the nation divided along
partisan lines, similar dynamics were introduced in the Senate,
said former Representative  Tom Davis , a Virginia Republican who
developed bipartisan relationships while serving in the House.  Redistricting didn’t cause “polarization, but in many
cases it exacerbates it,” said John C. Green, a political
science professor at the University of Akron in  Ohio . “This
means that there’s less and less room for compromise.”  The 2009 rise of the Tea Party movement, which objected to
the growth in federal spending and the reach of the health-care
overhaul Obama shepherded into law, accelerated these trends.
And in 2010, Tea Party activists focused on party primaries to
press for ideological conformity.  Senate Primaries  In  Utah , incumbent Senator Bob Bennett was denied re-
nomination at the state Republican convention. In  Alaska ,  Joe Miller  knocked off incumbent Senator  Lisa Murkowski  in the
Republican primary. Similar upsets in Senate Republican
primaries occurred in Nevada, Colorado and  Delaware .  While Murkowski retained her seat by running as an
independent and the Republican nominees in Nevada, Colorado and
Delaware lost to Democratic opponents in the 2010 midterms,
roughly 30 candidates with Tea Party backing captured House
seats.  Those new House members and their supporters have been
among the most skeptical and suspicious of the negotiations
between Boehner and Obama to achieve a deficit-reduction package
that would pave the way for increasing the debt limit.  Littleton, 32, is a communications consultant who helped
found the Ohio Liberty Council, an umbrella organization of Tea
Party groups in Ohio. In an interview, he said default is being
used as a “scare tactic,” and the government will find the
cash to pay its debts.  Any deal to raise the debt ceiling should include long-term
moves to cap spending and lower the nation’s deficit and debt,
he said. Anything short of that means “compromise” and
“bipartisanship” are hurting the nation, he said.  Tea Party Rally  Ohio Tea Party supporters rallied July 25 at Boehner’s  West
Chester  office “to encourage the speaker to stand strong on the
debt-ceiling negotiations,” according to a press statement.  As the 2012 election cycle begins, Senators  Richard Lugar 
of  Indiana , Olympia Snowe of Maine and Orrin Hatch of Utah
already face challenges in their Republican primaries by
candidates backed by Tea Party groups.  “I think the Tea Party has been absolutely critical in
getting the debate turned around in Washington,” said Sal Russo, a former aide to Reagan and co-founder of the Tea Party
Express. “I think people understand what the message is and it
is as strong today as it was in 2010 and will be in 2012 if
Congress doesn’t demonstrate they are going to act
responsibly.”  Democratic activists are also trying to impose ideological
discipline in the debt talks.  Arkansas Challenge  In 2010, Arkansas Senator Blanche Lambert Lincoln drew a
Democratic primary challenger after MoveOn.org, an online
activist group, and other organizations concluded she wasn’t
fighting hard enough to insert a public option in the health-
care overhaul. Lincoln survived, but lost in the general
election.  MoveOn and Washington-based groups The Progressive Change
Campaign Committee and Democracy for America are now warning
Democrats that cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid
benefits could lead to primary challenges for Democrats next
year.  “In the House, this debate right now is separating the
real Democrats from the fake Democrats,” said Adam Green,
founder of PCCC. “Any Democrat who would be willing to slash”
those benefits, “is willing to flush the Democratic legacy down
the drain.”  Petition Drive  In a warning to Obama, the PCCC delivered to his Chicago
re-election headquarters online petitions signed by 201,000
Democratic activists pledging not to work or donate to his
campaign if he agrees to entitlement benefit cuts.  According to Green, the petition signers gave more than $17
million collectively to Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and
donated 2.5 million volunteer hours.  Green and his allies also intend to challenge any
“corporate Democrats” in primary races for House seats won by
the Tea Party Republicans in swing districts in 2010.  Beyond the activists, voters routinely say they want the
parties to work with one another. “They’re too polarized,”
said Ruben Owen, 23, an independent voter and Ohio National
Guard member from Cincinnati. “They have a fixed set of beliefs
about every set of issues.”  Still, voters have played a part in the polarization of
Washington by sending conflicting messages about what they want
their elected leaders to do.  In national polls, majorities of Americans routinely say
they want to see the national debt reduced, their taxes lowered,
and their entitlement programs protected or strengthened --
contradictory goals.  Bloomberg Survey  In a June Bloomberg News poll, 61 percent of respondents
said they aren’t willing to pay more taxes to reduce the
deficit. In the same poll, 49 percent said they were more
worried about Republicans taking control of Congress and cutting
entitlement programs, compared with 40 percent who were worried
about the Democrats continuing the status quo.  While those sentiments don’t provide a roadmap for action
in Washington, they deliver fresh data-points that partisans can
use to justify digging-in on their favored policy.  And they now have media outlets and web sites to reinforce
their positions and share them with the public through partisan-
leaning television talk shows and directly through online
communications.  The leadership in the House, Senate and White House also
played their parts in the process.  After being buffeted by three election cycles that left
neither party securely in control, lawmakers are flinching from
bold action, said former House member Davis.  “Right now, it’s hard for people to rise above that,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanne Cummings in Washington at 
 Jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 