-- 
Pemex Director Sees Congress Approving $28 Billion Plan to Arrest Declines

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-07-27T20:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/pemex-director-sees-congress-approving-28-billion-plan-to-arrest-declines.html
Petroleos Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s
largest oil producer, expects to receive at least $27.5 billion
from the  finance ministry  to fund new investments once Congress
approves its spending plan later this year, a director said.  The Mexico City based company, which is asking Congress for
a record 331 billion-peso budget ($28.4 billion) next year,
expects about 320 billion pesos once lawmakers vote on the plan
on Nov. 15, board member Fluvio Ruiz said today in an interview.  “I don’t want to be extremely optimistic expecting that
we’ll get the full amount of our request, but at least we should
get 320 billion pesos,” Ruiz said from the Mexican capital.  Pemex is seeking funds to expand offshore in southeastern
 Mexico  and stem production declines after output slumped six
years in a row. The company is aiming to replace 100 percent of
its proven reserves next year, compared with 81 percent in 2010.
Production dropped to 2.576 million barrels a day in 2010, the
lowest daily average since 1990.  The company’s investment budget for this year was 286
billion pesos. That amount, approved by Mexico’s Congress in
November, fell short of the 300 billion pesos originally sought.  Ruiz expects that the budget proposal will avoid major cuts
because it has clear objectives for the funds and it’s supported
by a 5-year-business plan. The plan, reviewed every year, was
created after changes to Pemex law amid a 2008 energy reform.  Ruiz is one of the four independent members added to the
board of Pemex on 2009.  Private Investments  Private investments in the Mexican oil industry are also
expected to grow “significantly,” Ruiz, 44, said. The new
performance-based contracts may bring “tens of billions of
pesos in investments,” from next year, he said.  Pemex is counting on new performance-based contracts with
foreign operators to boost output in older fields and is also
exploring for crude in deep waters in the  Gulf of Mexico . It
will award the first round of the contracts next month, before
offering a second round that may include offshore fields for the
first time,  Carlos Morales , the company’s head of exploration
and production, said in a June 9 interview.  Pemex is expected to report second-quarter results
tomorrow. The company posted a profit of 4.21 billion pesos in
the first-quarter, the highest quarterly net income since June
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  