-- 
Perry’s Entry Would Boost Iowa’s Importance in Republican Race

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-27T04:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/perry-s-entrance-would-boost-iowa-s-clout-in-republican-presidential-race.html
Predictions by some Republicans of a
diminished role for  Iowa  in picking the party’s 2012
presidential nominee may prove premature, especially if  Texas 
Governor  Rick Perry  enters the race next month.  “He would be very well received in Iowa,” said  Craig
Robinson , editor of the Iowa Republican website and a former
state party political director. “He’s the perfect mix for this
political environment. He’s a social conservative who has also
aligned himself with the Tea Party movement.”  Iowa’s status as the first battleground in presidential
campaigns traditionally attracts critics, who say its population
is too rural, white and old to reflect the U.S. as a whole. The
criticism is especially strong on the Republican side because
the party’s caucuses are dominated by social conservatives often
drawn to candidates who lack the broader national appeal needed
to win the presidency.  Expectations that Iowa could be something of a sideshow
this election season were fueled by Mitt Romney’s decision to
skip campaigning for the Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll, a party
fundraising event designed to test the early popularity and
organizational ability of presidential candidates. That has left
two candidates whose national reach is questioned by political
analysts -- U.S. Representatives Michele Bachmann of Minnesota
and  Ron Paul  of Texas -- in stronger positions to win the poll.  Calls by Perry  A new narrative could emerge should Perry, 61, decide to
enter the Republican contest and compete in Iowa after the straw
poll. He is calling activists and politicians in the state to
measure support, as his backers form a campaign-in-waiting.  Perry’s entry could also make the state more appealing for
Romney, the former Massachusetts governor who leads in national
polls and fundraising among Republicans.  That’s because Perry has a strong appeal to the same Tea
Party activists and social conservatives forming the base of
support for Bachmann, who was in a statistical tie with Romney
in the most recent Des Moines Register  Iowa Poll . The result
could be that they split that vote, helping Romney.  “The more crowded the race gets on the social-conservative
right, the better it gets for Romney,” said  Dianne Bystrom ,
director of the Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and
Politics at  Iowa State University  in Ames.  Iowa first took on national political prominence in 1976,
when  Jimmy Carter ’s strong showing in the Democratic caucuses
helped launch him from virtual unknown to his party’s eventual
nominee. Since then, the contests have played a vital role in
virtually every presidential race.  Romney’s Announcement  Iowa’s importance in this election cycle, though, was cast
in doubt when Romney announced June 9 that he wouldn’t compete
in the straw poll. That followed a decision by former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. to forgo campaigning in Iowa, citing
his opposition to subsidies for corn-based ethanol as too much
of a political hurdle in a state with a large agriculture base.  Romney, even as he bypasses the straw-poll campaign, isn’t
ignoring Iowa. Although he isn’t visiting the state as often as
Bachmann or former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who have
both made Iowa the centerpiece of their campaigns, he  talked  to
almost 10,000 Iowans on a July 18 telephone conference call. He
also has said he will attend a debate in the state two days
before the straw poll and will visit that month the Iowa State
Fair --a perennial stop for presidential hopefuls.  Doug Gross, an Iowa Republican who ran Romney’s 2008
statewide campaign and is unaligned now, said that especially if
Perry enters the race, “I actually think Iowa is going to have
as much, or more, impact than ever.”  2008 Caucuses  Iowa is considered favorable turf for Perry to emerge as
potentially Romney’s main challenger because of the sway
exercised by the kind of voters who have propelled the Texan’s
career. In Iowa’s 2008 Republican caucuses, 60 percent who
attended described themselves to pollsters as born-again or
evangelical Christians.  Four years ago those voters rallied behind former Arkansas
Governor  Mike Huckabee  -- who began his presidential race as a
little-known contender -- and fueled his victory in the 2008
caucuses. That proved his candidacy’s high point, and he ended
his presidential run in March of that year. Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona , after finishing fourth in Iowa in 2008, won the  New
Hampshire  primary a week later and that propelled his path to
the Republican nomination.  Bystrom, the political science professor, said Iowa risks
losing some of its influence “if we have two election cycles
where the Iowa Republicans pick the most popular social
conservative, but not someone who can win the nomination.”  She added: “There are some Republicans who are concerned
about that.”  Population Growth   Iowa , the biggest U.S. producer of corn and soybeans, saw
its population increase 4.1 percent between 2000 and 2010 to 3
million, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Most of its growth
occurred in the suburbs of its capital,  Des Moines , and in
college towns such as Iowa City.  At the least, the state is expected to cull the crowded
field of 2012 Republican contenders and perhaps anoint Romney’s
strongest challenger in New Hampshire, where he has focused his
campaign and enjoys a wide lead in polls.  Perry  told  the Des Moines Register newspaper in a story
published July 17 that he plans to make a decision about his
presidential plans in two or three weeks.  “I suspect even the Huntsman people are re-looking at Iowa
right now because they really can’t get their campaign on-track
anyplace but in Iowa,” Gross said.  No Reconsideration  A spokesman for Huntsman, Obama’s former ambassador to
 China , said the campaign isn’t reconsidering its decision not to
compete in Iowa.  “Our strategy, as we’ve laid out from the start, is
focused on competing aggressively in each of the early primary
states: New Hampshire,  South Carolina , and  Florida ,” spokesman
Tim Miller said in an e-mail.  Gentry Collins, a Republican strategist in  Washington  who
is a former executive director of the  Republican Party of Iowa ,
said Iowa will maintain its early place in future election
cycles because it provides candidates a place where they can
attract significant media attention at relatively little cost
before voters deeply engaged in the process.  “Iowa hasn’t lost any of that and I think it would be hard
to find any individual state that could replace it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  