-- 
Petronas Says Sinopec, Partners Didn’t Take Part in Review

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-27T04:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/petronas-says-sinopec-partners-didn-t-take-part-in-review-1-.html
Malaysia ’s state oil company
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  said that a group including Sinopec
Petroleum Services Corp. didn’t participate in any review for
the development of marginal fields in the country.  State-owned China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec
Group, Sabio Oil & Gas Sdn. and International Oil Design &
Construction Sdn. said on July 25 that they plan to develop a
field off the coast of Terengganu in Malaysia, without
identifying the area. Sabio’s executive chairman, Ahmad Sukimi
Ibrahim, wasn’t available in his office to comment on Petronas’s
statement, according to his secretary.  “While Petronas is extremely encouraged with the interest
shown by various local and international industry players in the
country’s marginal fields, the Sinopec-Sabio-IODC consortium has
not taken part in any of our prior processes,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. Petronas has so far awarded one
contract to a venture comprising Petrofac Ltd., SapuraCrest
Petroleum Bhd. and Kencana Petroleum Bhd., it said.  Petronas, which manages the nation’s oil and gas reserves,
said that any domestic company to be selected by foreign
partners to participate in such a project must have a proven
track record as an established oil and gas service provider,
apart from being a listed entity, it said.  Malaysia is offering financial incentives such as
investment tax allowances to encourage the development of less-
profitable fields. The government is counting on these fields to
help boost production in the nation, the second-largest oil and
gas producer in  Southeast Asia , as energy demand rises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  