-- 
Philippine Peso Reaches Three-Year High on U.S. Debt Impasse

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-07-27T08:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/philippine-peso-reaches-three-year-high-on-u-s-debt-impasse.html
The Philippine peso touched a three-
year high as the failure of U.S. lawmakers to reach an agreement
on debt unsettled global financial markets and weighed on the
dollar.  The currency climbed for a second day before a meeting
tomorrow at which Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is expected to
leave borrowing costs unchanged, while ordering lenders’ to set
aside more cash as reserves. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major trading partners,
dropped 0.9 percent this week as an Aug. 2 deadline for the U.S.
to raise its borrowing ceiling looms.  “The fact that we’re approaching a Monetary Board
decision, together with concerns about the debt impasse in the
U.S., are factors contributing to the peso strength,” said
Antonio Agcaoili, head of treasury at Asia  United Bank  in Manila.
“Peso gains will help the central bank manage imported
inflation.”  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 42.11 per dollar as of the
4 p.m. close of trading in Manila, according to data from
Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 42.085, its strongest level since
April 2008.  Fifteen of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
central bank will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 4.50
percent, with three predicting a quarter of a percentage point
lift. Twelve out of 16 economists expect the monetary authority
will raise the reserve-requirement ratio from 20 percent.  Bonds Advance  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due March 2017 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.15 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  “Asian currencies appear to be on a strengthening path as
growth prospects are better in the region,” said Lito Mercado,
head of trading at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila .
“We’re seeing demand for short-term  government bonds  given a
strong peso bet,” he said.  The  Philippines ’ $161 billion economy may have expanded
around 5 percent in the second-quarter from a year earlier,
Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said today in
Manila. Gross domestic product increased 4.9 percent in the
first quarter, according to official data.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 