-- 
Pogues Run Riot, Loved-Up Ghost, Matisse Model: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/pogues-run-riot-loved-up-ghost-prowls-matisse-nude-model-london-weekend.html
The “Ghost” scene with Demi Moore
and Patrick Swayze canoodling at the potter’s wheel is being
recreated in a London theater.  “Ghost: The Musical” tells the story of a dashing banker
who gets killed before he can marry his sweetheart. Sam still
manages to keep up the romance with the help of a wacky medium.  Fancy special effects allow the banker and his ghost both
to appear on stage. The medium Oda Mae has almost as much
presence as  Whoopi Goldberg  did in the movie.  “Ghost: The Musical” is at the Piccadilly Theatre.
Information:  http://www.ghostthemusical.com/  or
+44-844-871-7618.  Bob Bob Ricard is a good spot for a drink or a bite to eat
and it’s a five-minute walk from the theater. It’s an eccentric
place, with beautiful over-the-top designs and a luxury English
and Russian menu. The wine list features some of the greatest
bargains in London and there’s a glamorous basement bar for
cocktails. Information:  http://bit.ly/5oDe  or +44-20-3145-1000.  Saturday  Seated and clutching a large sketchbook,  Henri Matisse 
stares intently at the belly button of a standing model.  The French painter features in a black-and-white image by
Brassai -- one in a generation of gifted Hungarian photographers
who are being celebrated in a  Royal Academy  of Arts show.  Some, such as Andre Kertesz, used the human figure to
produce arty, geometric shapes. Others used the camera to
document reality.  The most arresting photojournalism came from Robert Capa,
who, before stepping on a Vietnam landmine in 1954, pictured
 Benito Mussolini  holding his nose, a German general surrendering
to his foes, and a helmeted American soldier wading onto the
Normandy shores.  The show ends Oct. 2. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-20-7300-8000.  Saturday Night  The inebriated folk music of the  Pogues  will bring a touch
of Irish madness to the usually peaceful grounds of Christopher
Wren’s twin-domed  Old Royal Naval College .  Shane MacGowan ’s band has been touring in mainland  Europe 
this month -- leaving London in the hands of tribute bands such
as the excellent  Pogue Traders . Now the frenzied dancing on
Saturday night will be led by the original purveyors of
“Fairytale of  New York .”  The concert, which also features veteran punk group the
 Buzzcocks , is part of the  Greenwich Summer Sessions  which also
includes Squeeze and Turin Brakes playing on Friday. The series
ends Sunday with “Songs in the Key of London” played by stars
of Spandau Ballet, UB40 and Fairground Attraction.  Old Royal Naval College, West Gate, Greenwich, SE10 9NN.
Information:  http://www.greenwichsummersessions.co.uk   The Old Brewery, located within the college, is a cafe
during the day and a restaurant at night, serving British food
such as char-grilled Galloway sirloin steak with hand-cut chips.
The bar has a  menu of more than 50 beers , including Imperial
Pale, which is brewed on site, and strawberry beer. Information:
 http://bit.ly/aDYAZB  or +44-20-3327-1280.  Sunday  “Vintage” commemorates the food, fashion, music, and
design of the seven decades from the 1920s to the 1980s. On-site
hair and make-up parlors will offer women visitors the choice of
sporting a Louise Brooks bob or a towering beehive.  “Vintage” is at the Southbank Centre all weekend.  Music 
will be provided by Heaven 17 (Friday), Booker T (Saturday),
Sandie Shaw, 10cc and Adam Ant (Sunday). Information:
 http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  or +44-20-7960-4200.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 