-- 
Pound Declines From Two-Month High Versus Dollar on Factory Orders Data

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-27T14:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/pound-reaches-two-month-high-versus-dollar-before-factory-orders-reports.html
The pound declined from a two-month
high against the dollar as an index of U.K. factory orders fell
more than estimated and manufacturers’ optimism plunged to the
lowest in two years.  Britain’s currency pared its advance against the euro and
U.K. government bonds rose as the figures bolstered the case for
keeping borrowing costs at a record low. The orders gauge, based
on a survey of manufacturers conducted by the  Confederation of
British Industry , declined to minus 10 in July from 1 in June,
the  Confederation of British Industry  said in a report in London
today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the gauge
would fall to minus 3. U.K. housing demand fell for a third
month in June, a separate report showed.  “This survey is pretty bearish,” said  Simon Smith , chief
economist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London. “The pace
of decline of optimism is concerning. This data heightens the
case for keeping rates low. The pound will struggle over the
next few months.”  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.6369 at 3:31 p.m. in
London, after reaching $1.6439, the most since June 14. Sterling
climbed 0.8 percent yesterday as President  Barack Obama  and
Congress remained at odds over plans to raise the U.S. debt
limit and data showed U.K. economic growth matched economists’
forecasts, boosting the relative appeal of British assets.  ‘Relief Rally’  Britain’s currency was 0.4 percent stronger against the
euro at 88.10 pence. It declined 0.3 percent to 127.44 yen.  “The growth data yesterday came in as expected, so we saw
some kind of relief that the figure was not that bad, and the
pound strengthened,” said You-na Park, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “If the U.S. debt issue is solved,
then the market focus will shift back to the economic data. If
we see some more negative data, then this will be more negative
for the pound.”  U.K. demand for houses fell last month as waning  consumer
confidence  and difficulties in getting a mortgage kept potential
home buyers off the market, the National Association of Estate
Agents said today. The number of potential buyers registered
with real estate agents fell to 263 in June from 275 the
previous month, the report showed.  Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  is due to give a
speech at the London School of Economics at 6:30 p.m.  Interest-Rate Outlook  Sterling is still down 8.5 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Bank of England officials said this month that the weakness
in the U.K. economy may persist “for longer than previously
thought” as they kept the key  interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  Seven of the bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee,
led by Governor  Mervyn King , voted to keep the rate unchanged
this month, saying that recent developments “reduced the
likelihood that a tightening in policy would be warranted in the
near term.” One official wanted more stimulus and two favored a
rate increase.  The central bank will keep the rate at 0.5 percent until
the first quarter of next year, when it will increase it to 0.75
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists. The
 European Central Bank  has raised its key rate twice this year,
to 1.5 percent, and is forecast to increase it to 2 percent by
the end of the first quarter of next year, a separate survey
shows.  U.K. government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt down eight basis points to 2.99 percent. Two-year note
yields declined three basis points to 0.68 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  