-- 
Prologis to Get $500 Million From Oregon Pension Fund to Buy Warehouses

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-07-27T17:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/prologis-to-get-500-million-from-oregon-pension-fund-to-buy-warehouses.html
Prologis (PLD) , the world’s largest
warehouse owner, got a $500 million pledge from the  Oregon 
Public Employees Retirement Fund to buy stakes in industrial
properties around the world over the next five years.  The Oregon Investment Council, which oversees more than $59
billion in assets, voted to invest in the Prologis-OPERF Global
Industrial Venture, starting with $100 million for a European
logistics fund. The council approved the allocation today at its
monthly meeting in Tigard, Oregon.  Prologis will manage the Oregon investment in a format
similar to a separate account, according to a presentation today
by Hamid Moghadam, the company’s co-chief executive officer, and
Guy Jaquier, its head of private capital. As Prologis creates
new funds to invest internationally, the pension will choose
whether to contribute to them. Once Oregon has invested $500
million with Prologis, a portion of its investment, up to 15
percent, can be used to buy company stock.  The Oregon pension will receive a discount on management
fees, according to a document prepared for today’s meeting by
the Oregon Treasury’s investment staff.  Prologis merged with AMB Property Corp. in June in the
largest-ever combination of U.S. real estate investment trusts,
forming a company with $46 billion of managed and owned real
estate. Prologis is based in  San Francisco .  Global Expansion Planned  Moghadam is seeking to expand abroad as economic growth
increases demand for industrial space. He said in a June
interview that Prologis plans to double its Asia holdings to a
quarter of its total portfolio value. About 12 percent of the
REIT’s holdings are in the region now, according to research
firm Green Street Advisors Inc.  The merged company also wants to expand its investment-
management business, which has almost $26 billion in assets in
22 funds and ventures, according to Moghadam.  “There are some non-strategic assets we plan to sell,
mostly from the Prologis side,” over the next year, Moghadam
told the council today. “Our plan is to continue to de-lever by
recycling assets on the balance sheet.”  Prologis has about $2 billion of global credit lines that
haven’t been drawn upon, he said.  “We’re trying to manage excess liquidity in the near
term,” given that debt maturities aren’t imminent, Moghadam
said. Prologis’s 20 largest tenants account for only about 20
percent of the company’s rent roll, “so we don’t have any undue
risk to any credit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  