-- 
Circumcision Ban Ordered Off California Ballot by Judge in San Francisco

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-28T18:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/proposed-san-francisco-circumcision-ban-may-be-ordered-off-november-ballot.html
A measure to ban circumcision in  San
Francisco  must be removed from the November ballot because it
would regulate a medical procedure, a California judge ruled.  Superior Court Judge Loretta Giorgi in San Francisco today
made final yesterday’s tentative ruling, saying it would serve
no legitimate purpose to allow an invalid measure to remain on
the ballot. Giorgi said the measure is prohibited by
California’s Business and Professions Code.  Even if it targeted only circumcision performed for
religious reasons, it would still be invalid because it would
violate the constitutional right to free exercise of religion,
Giorgi said.  “I did go ahead and look at that analysis,” Giorgi said
at a packed hearing.  Lloyd Schofield, a San Francisco resident who led efforts
to get the measure on the ballot, said after the hearing that he
was considering an appeal.  Michael Kinane, Schofield’s attorney, told the judge that
the measure was modeled after a U.S. law that limits female
circumcision to instances of medical necessity.  “In the City and County of San Francisco, one of the
places in the world that protects human rights more than
anywhere in the world, we have reasonable health and safety
right to protect our little babies from circumcision,” he said.  “It’s not cultural. It’s not religious,” Kinane said.
 California  has no laws that are “sufficient to justify the
mutilation of little infants,” he said.  Jewish Group’s Lawyer  Michael Jacobs, an attorney for the Jewish Community
Relations Council of San Francisco, which sued to remove the
measure, said in court that the evidence showed the proposed ban
was prohibited.  “The evidence presented is overwhelmingly persuasive that
circumcision is a widely practiced medical procedure,” the
judge said. State law “speaks directly to the issue of local
regulation of medical procedures and leaves no room for
localities to regulate in this area,” Giorgi said yesterday in
her tentative ruling.  Matthew Hess, president of MGMbill.org, an organization
supporting the measure and a federal bill to end what it calls
male genital mutilation, said in an e-mail that the group will
appeal the ruling and is “working on our legal strategy now.”  Giorgi ordered the city’s election department to remove the
measure from the ballot.  The case is Jewish Community Relations Council of San
Francisco v. Arntz, CPF-11-511370, California Superior Court,
San Francisco County (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 