-- 
Provopoulos Says ECB Interest Rates are Appropriate for Now

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-27T12:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/provopoulos-says-ecb-interest-rates-are-appropriate-for-now.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member George Provopoulos comments on monetary policy,
inflation and the region’s debt crisis.  Provopoulos, who heads the Greek central bank, made the
remarks in an interview in his office in  Athens  yesterday.  On whether ECB monetary policy is appropriate for now:  “Yes, it is.”  On negative real interest rates and inflation:  “That’s one reason why I think monetary policy is still
very accommodative. But whether real interest rates remain
negative depends, in part, on future inflation.”  “I expect that inflation will remain above the 2 percent
level in the coming months before falling below that level in
late 2011 and in 2012. Current inflation is mainly the outcome
of energy prices and the prices of other commodities. We don’t
have evidence up to now of second-round effects, while inflation
expectations are firmly anchored. We will continue to monitor
very closely all developments with respect to upside risks to
 price stability , to ensure that inflation expectations remain
firmly anchored.”  On the ECB’s non-standard measures:  “The non-standard measures are temporary. However, the
Governing Council has decided to continue conducting its main
refinancing operations and its one-month maintenance period
operations as fixed-rate tenders with full allotment for as long
as necessary. Further exits from such measures will be decided
by the Governing Council at the appropriate time.”  On the economic growth outlook:  “Uncertainty is still elevated, but the growth momentum
remains in place.”  On how the ECB can tackle the growth differences across the
region:  “It is not the ECB’s role to deal with these differences.
They are the result of external and fiscal imbalances and
require other kinds of policies to be addressed. These policies
mainly involve structural measures to improve competitiveness
and fiscal adjustment to crowd-in the private sector.  “Differences in growth rates among regions of a common
currency area are normal. Such differences cannot be dealt with
through monetary policy. A single monetary policy is required
for the entire euro area. Countries with relatively low growth
rates -- including my own -- need to improve competitiveness
through structural policies and fiscal adjustment, which will
boost investment and growth.”  On whether fiscal tensions could change the monetary policy
path:  “The single objective of monetary policy is to achieve
price stability in the medium term. If there are inflationary
pressures we’ll act accordingly, no matter what is happening on
the fiscal front.”  On whether Greece can avoid a full-fledged default:  “Of course. The package announced on Thursday was aimed at
improving the fiscal sustainability of the country. The debt to
GDP ratio will be reduced because of lowering  interest rates ,
lengthening the maturities and by boosting GDP growth. This
makes the fiscal position of the country more sustainable.”  On whether there’re enough incentives for a sound fiscal policy:  “We should strengthen governance. In this connection, we
should make the procedure under the Stability and Growth Pact
more automatic. Indeed, this was one of the outcomes of last
week’s summit.”  On contagion risks:  “The decisions announced last week will make a significant
contribution to stopping contagion. I am not saying that market
volatility will be eliminated immediately since markets tend to
overshoot from time to time.  “Nevertheless, I think that last week’s package will lead
to calmer markets over time. The package is a big step forward
but it is not the only one that is required to reduce market
volatility. It is also necessary that countries with large
fiscal and external imbalances reduce them. I expect less market
volatility as time goes on.”  On when  Greece  will have full access to sovereign debt markets
again:  “It’s very difficult to say at this moment. As the country
implements rigorously the program I think this will happen
sooner rather than later. It will take some time for Greece to
overcome its problems. Our European partners have gone the extra
step in providing a new adjustment package. Now, the ball is in
our court and we have to work hard, indeed much harder from now
on, to implement an ambitious but fully achievable program. And
my personal view is we should work so hard that we don’t simply
achieve the targets but that we over-achieve them. I have
confidence that we will do so.”  On Greece’s consolidation efforts:  “The new package agreed last week by the European Council
gives Greece the breathing space to get the program back on
track. In my view, we should use the breathing space not only to
put the program back on track, but to go beyond the targets of
the program. If we did that -- and we certainly can do that --
we would help turn around the psychology of the market. I have
no doubt that the government will be successful in fully
implementing the program.”  On public support for reforms in Greece:  “The public increasingly understands that it is in their
interest -- and the interest of their children -- to implement
reforms so that growth can rise again and unemployment can be
reduced.”  On Greek banks:  “The Greek banks are not to blame for what happened in
this country. In fact, they are the victims of this sovereign
crisis and they have been badly affected. First, through the
fact that they have been cut off from the markets. Second,
because the depressed psychology of depositors led to deposit
withdrawals.  “It is important to stress, however, that last week’s
summit outcome has led to an improved  market psychology  and the
situation with regard to deposits has been reversed. Indeed, in
recent days we have seen an increase in deposits.  “In any case, banks suffered from not being able to access
capital markets and losing deposits. Therefore, the only other
alternative they had was to increase their dependence on ECB
liquidity.  “Now, as you know, Greek banks are in the process of
drawing up funding plans. These funding plans will be submitted
to us soon and they will be assessed. So we will know on a
medium-term basis how the Greek banks will decrease this
reliance over the next two to three years.”  On the Greek growth outlook:  “Our forecasts for GDP suggest a smaller recession in 2011
compared to 2010, with GDP falling around minus 3.9 percent. A
return to growth, albeit weak (lower than 1 percent), is
projected for 2012. Growth will return to its potential rate,
which we estimate to be somewhat above 2 percent, in 2013 and
beyond. These projections are in line with the revised forecasts
of the European Commission and the IMF.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Athens at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  