-- 
Trapped by Politics, Boehner Is a Gang of One: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T00:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/trapped-by-politics-boehner-is-a-gang-of-one-margaret-carlson.html
There have been many gangs roaming
the 16 perilous blocks between the Capitol and the White House,
but only one of them mattered: the Gang of Two.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  came
close to rescuing the nation from a manufactured debt-ceiling
crisis last week. But their buddy act fizzled, leading them to
deliver starkly different speeches on July 25.  Over the last year, Boehner and Obama have developed a
working rapport, if not a friendship. Obama understands what
Boehner is up against. Blessed with the luxury of leading a
mostly sane party, Obama has more leeway than Boehner to reach
consensus. Liberals don’t like it when Obama puts their favorite
programs on the chopping block, but they’re not going to riot
over it.  Obama has reason to resent Boehner’s use of the  debt
ceiling  -- which has been raised 100 times since 1940 -- to
wring concessions from Democrats. But it seems clear that
Boehner didn’t know just how far the  Tea Partiers  in his caucus
would push. At times, Obama and Boehner appeared to be members
of the same SWAT team, trying to talk the arsonists into
dropping their matches.  Deep down, Boehner has more in common with Obama than with
the extremists in his own caucus. Both men escaped humble
origins. As Boehner has tearfully described it, he grew up
sweeping the floor of his father’s bar and delivered newspapers
in the dark to get ahead. Obama barely knew his father and was
raised by grandparents in a modest Honolulu apartment. They’re
both members of a shrinking fraternity of smokers -- you could
smell smoke outside the office where Boehner had a pizza party
for his troops last week -- although Obama claims to have quit.
What’s more, as Obama once joked about Boehner’s peculiar
perpetual tan, they are both men of color.  Establishment Creatures  They are also both creatures of the establishment.
Boehner’s not a hater, a birther or a stranger to compromise. He
admired and worked with Senator Edward Kennedy, and he likes
backslapping his way through the marble halls of Congress before
slipping into a backroom. In April, after budget negotiations,
Boehner said his relationship with Obama had improved.
“Clearly, we understand each other better,” he said. Since
their Father’s Day weekend golf outing, where the two men
reportedly discussed the challenges of raising daughters,
Boehner has met secretly with Obama several times.  For both men, compromising to save the country from default
makes political, personal and fiscal sense. Obama would be able
to put the crisis behind him and campaign for re-election as a
centrist and a conciliator: Yes, we can all get along.  For his part, if Boehner could steer his caucus with the
Tea Party safely lashed to the mainstream conservative mast, he
would keep his party from splintering while also holding onto
his job as skipper. As a bonus, he would avoid a financial
catastrophe that his party has deliberately courted and for
which Republicans still stand to be blamed.  The deal he struck with Obama was so obviously a boon to
Republicans, surely even his wild and woolly freshman would have
to go for it. Except they didn’t. Even Boehner was shocked that
his caucus couldn’t see that $3 trillion in spending cuts up
front, coupled with $800 billion in revenue increases -- via
loophole-closing at some unspecified later date -- represented a
rout of Democrats. Obama understood that his party would be
appalled at this skewed result, but he figured there would be
insufficient resistance to block it.  Tea Party Intransigents  The resistance came from the right. At least 60  House
Republicans  have declared that they won’t vote for a debt-limit
increase -- for any reason. Although outside experts were
brought in to explain the potential consequences of default,
including a “death spiral” in the  bond market  initiated by a
loss of confidence, many of the Tea Party intransigents didn’t
bother to attend the lecture. In any case, they preferred a
potential catastrophe to a deal that would provide political
benefits to the president -- even if most of the policy benefits
accrued to Republicans.  When Obama called for increasing the revenue component from
$800 billion to $1.2 trillion, Boehner had his excuse. He pulled
out of negotiations, leaving Obama to complain in an impromptu
news conference that he had been left, once again, “at the
altar.”  It’s hard to know how much of Obama’s lament was genuine
and how much of it was designed to give Boehner bragging rights
about how he had bested the president. In any case, it wasn’t
enough. Boehner merely gave his colleagues dramatic cuts in
spending; what they really want is for Obama to fail, painfully
and visibly. For that, higher  interest rates , a devalued dollar,
cratering stock markets and another recession appear to be a
price worth paying. They don’t want to govern; they want to
stick it to the man.  Rejecting Spending Cuts  Boehner must navigate a world in which Republicans pass the
 Ryan budget  -- which would increase the debt by $6 trillion over
10 years -- then promptly refuse to raise the debt limit (while
rejecting spending cuts beyond their wildest libertarian
dreams). Any Republican representative who points out the
party’s incoherence -- or merely tries to prevent catastrophe --
can expect a primary from the right. Boehner himself, so
conservative he has compiled a lifetime rating of 94 out of 100
from the  American Conservative Union , is constantly threatened
with a Tea Party primary. Just a few years ago, Boehner was on
the right wing of the  Republican Party ; now, having shown a
capacity for compromise with Obama, he’s on its left.  Deal making with Obama is finished. A Gang of Two is more
bipartisanship than Boehner’s Tea Party faction can tolerate.
Yet in shunning Obama, Boehner doesn’t appear to have won the
support of the radicals, some of whom are now demanding that any
deal include the nonstarter of a balanced-budget amendment. It’s
not clear how Boehner resolves his dilemma. In the end, he may
be a lonely Gang of One.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 