-- 
Rate-Cut Bets Ended as Faster Inflation Beats Slowdown: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-27T22:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/rate-cut-bets-ended-as-faster-inflation-beats-slowdown-australia-credit.html
Australia’s fastest inflation since
2008 means Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will maintain the
developed world’s highest borrowing costs even as evidence
mounts the economy will slow, money markets show.  Two-year government bond yields climbed 13 basis points to
4.50 percent yesterday, the biggest jump since Feb. 4, as a
report showed consumer prices surged an annualized 3.6 percent
last quarter. Yields on September cash-rate futures rose the
most in three months to 4.75 percent, matching the RBA benchmark,
as traders ended bets on a cut in borrowing costs.  The Australian dollar soared to a post-float record and has
climbed 23 percent against the greenback in the past year as a
mining-investment boom drove unemployment below 5 percent.
Inflation expectations, which had been declining on concern
European and U.S. debt crises will roil global markets, gained
as yesterday’s data showed measures that strip out volatile
prices such as food and energy exceeded economists’ forecasts.  “The RBA is in an awkward position because inflation is
rising, the domestic economy looks like it’s slowed a bit and
there are also a number of global risks,” said Paul Bloxham,
Sydney-based chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc and a former
RBA official. “They’ll sit on their hands next week, but I
still think the next move is up.”  Yields on September cash-rate futures had dropped to 4.55
percent on July 12, signaling a 78 percent chance of a rate cut.
December contracts showed a 6 percent chance of lower borrowing
costs by year-end as of 8:44 a.m. in Sydney, down from a 100
percent chance on July 25.  Debt Rally  Stevens said earlier this month the RBA may lower its 2011
growth forecast. Australian government debt climbed 4.2 percent
over the past three months, the biggest gain among 21 developed-
market indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation
of Financial Analyst Societies.  Investors are buying Australian assets as they seek
alternatives to the euro, dollar and yen after bailouts for
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  grew, while U.S. leaders have
endangered the nation’s AAA credit rating.  The benchmark 10-year Australian note’s yield fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.95 percent,
extending its decline this month to 26 basis points. The gap to
similar-maturity Treasuries widened to 197 basis points, after
reaching a 14-month low of 191 on July 25.  Clothing Costs  A measure of clothing costs jumped last quarter by the most
in three years from the prior three months, yesterday’s report
showed. A gauge of food prices rose for a third straight quarter
and transportation expenses were the most since 2008.
Electricity bills have jumped almost 11 percent from a year
earlier, according to the report.  A 0.6 percent decline in recreation costs was the only main
category to weaken, and it reached the lowest in four years, the
report showed. Education costs were unchanged from the prior
quarter, it showed.  The report reflected lingering effects of floods and a
cyclone that shut mines and ruined crops in the northeast.
Financial and insurance expenses were up 4.2 percent from a year
earlier. The cost of bananas has soared 470 percent compared
with before the natural disasters.  Rate Moves  Australia , the only economy in the Group of 10 currency
group to avoid a recession following the 2008 financial crisis,
has the highest inflation expectations after the U.K. among
eight developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Stevens boosted the benchmark lending rate to 4.75 percent
in November, the seventh in a series of quarter-point increases,
from a half-century low of 3 percent in early October 2009. The
RBA aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of 2 percent to
3 percent on average. The RBA meets next week to set rate policy.  Fourteen of 15 economists surveyed yesterday by Bloomberg
News predicted Stevens to keep the overnight cash rate target
unchanged at the RBA’s Aug. 2 policy meeting. Kieran Davies, a
Sydney-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
predicts a quarter point increase then and another in November.  The gap between yields on 10-year inflation-linked bonds
and debt not indexed to consumer prices widened five basis
points yesterday, the most this month, to 2.82 percentage points.
It stood at 2.78 percentage points today. The gap represents the
average annual inflation rate anticipated by investors over the
bonds’ lifetime.  Mining Boom  “We don’t see the prospect for any rate easing,” said
Bill Bovingdon, chief investment officer of Altus Asset
Management, at a briefing in Sydney yesterday. The CPI figure
“really puts a nail in that coffin,” he said.  Finding skilled labor for reconstruction in Queensland, and
flood-damaged eastern states of Victoria and New South  Wales  may
become more difficult, adding to wage pressures.  A private report released today by Deloitte Access
Economics showed the value of definite investment projects,
those classed as under construction or committed to commence
soon, was A$357 billion ($394 billion) last quarter, a A$70
billion increase from the value recorded in the three months
through March.  The RBA signaled earlier this month that the economy is
unlikely to reach its forecast of 4.25 percent growth this year
because a resumption of coal exports from flooded mines is
taking longer than expected. New forecasts are scheduled to be
released Aug. 5.  Australia’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first quarter,
the most since 1991, because of the natural disasters.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said underlying inflation remains
“contained” and attributed almost half of last quarter’s price
gains to fruit costs. Consumer prices should ease as agriculture
production rebounds, he said at a press conference in Sydney.
The dollar’s strength is a “mixed blessing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  