-- 
Travelport Loses Bid to Move or Dismiss AMR Ticket Data Suit

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-07-27T18:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/travelport-loses-bid-to-move-or-dismiss-aerican-airlines-ticket-data-suit.html
A judge rejected Travelport Ltd.’s
bid to dismiss or transfer to an  Illinois  court an American
Airlines lawsuit over the distribution of the carrier’s fare and
flight data to travel agents.  U.S. District Judge Terry Means, in  Fort Worth ,  Texas ,
yesterday rejected Travelport’s argument that an earlier
agreement between it and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines requires
that the case be heard in a federal or state court in Cook
County, Illinois.  The case is part of a dispute brought on by Fort Worth-
based American’s move to provide information directly to travel
agents rather than going through a data provider such as
Travelport, a closely held, Atlanta-based company. American
accused Travelport of improperly dropping the carrier’s fare and
flight data in response.  The judge also rejected American’s bid to speed the sharing
of evidence in the case. He said that American’s request was
based “largely on its speculation” of what will occur when
American’s contracts with Travelport and Sabre Holdings Corp.
expire this summer.  “Should the events of the upcoming months unfold as
American anticipates, then American may renew its request for
relief at that time,” the judge ruled.  In a July 18 filing, American said that it is “very close
to reaching a temporary agreement” under which Travelport would
agree not to exclude American from its system until Jan. 31.  Even if such an agreement were reached, the airline wrote,
“the threat remains that Travelport still could exclude American
upon the expiration of the temporary agreement.”  The case is  American Airlines  Inc. v. Travelport Ltd., 11-
cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 korosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  