-- 
Treasuries Extend Losses in Debt Debate Fallout

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-27T21:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/treasuries-extend-losses-in-debt-debate-fallout.html
Treasury notes fell, pushing 10-year
yields up from almost a one-week low, as concern lawmakers won’t
agree to raise the nation’s debt limit in time to avoid a
default damped demand at a $35 billion sale of five-year notes.  Rates on Treasury bills set to mature just after the Aug. 2
debt-ceiling deadline rose to the highest level in five months.
The notes sold today, which will be issued a day before the debt
cap is reached, drew a yield of 1.580 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 1.547 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers.  “The market is saying, ‘we need a deal here,’” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “The market doesn’t
know how to price this risk. Default is starting to seep into
the marketplace.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.98 percent at 5:03 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.94
percent earlier, the lowest level since July 21, before rising
to as high as 3.01 percent. The 3.125 percent note due in May
2021 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 7/32.  Yields on the current five-year note gained four basis
points to 1.52 percent. Two-year note yields climbed six basis
points to 0.44 percent and touched 0.45 percent, the highest
level since July 8.  Thirty-year yields were little changed at 4.29 percent
after erasing gains as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as
much as 2.1 percent in the biggest intraday drop since June 1.
The bond yields increased earlier to 4.32 percent.  Bill Rates  Rates on Treasury six-month bills due Aug. 4 touched 0.16
percent, the highest level since February, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The bills are the first government
debt securities to mature after the debt-cap deadline.  At today’s five-year note sale, the bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.62, compared with 2.59 at the June
offering and an average of 2.81 at the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 36.6 percent of the notes, versus an
average of 40.3 percent at the past 10 sales. They bought 37.6
percent at the June auction.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 14.6 percent of
the notes, compared with the 10-auction average of 10.1 percent.  The notes will be issued Aug. 1. They mature in July 2016.  Two-Year Auction  Treasuries gained yesterday as speculation lawmakers would
reach a debt accord boosted demand at the government’s $35
billion offering of two-year notes. The debt drew a yield of
0.417 percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio was 3.14, versus 3.08
at the June auction. The U.S. will sell $29 billion of seven-
year debt tomorrow.  House Speaker  John Boehner  worked to salvage his plan to
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and reduce
spending by $3 trillion, which the White House said President
 Barack Obama  will veto. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
his competing proposal offers the only “true compromise.”  The non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office  said both
measures fall short of their savings goals, prompting leaders to
rework their proposals. Reid’s would cut $2.2 trillion over 10
years, shy of its $2.7 trillion target, while Boehner’s plan
would save $850 billion rather than $3 trillion, the CBO said.  ‘Choppy Market’  “The focus is squarely on what’s going on in Washington,”
said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in  New York  at
Jefferies Group Inc. As one of the 20 primary dealers, the firm
is obliged to bid in Treasury sales. “It’s going to be a choppy
market, especially with supply this week.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the
borrowing limit is increased before Aug. 2. Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have said they may
consider downgrading the nation’s top ranking if officials fail
to resolve the stalemate.  The risk of a credit downgrade is 50 percent even if
lawmakers reach an agreement to lift the debt cap before the
deadline, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El- Erian said. El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, spoke in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
Pimco expects the debt ceiling to be lifted, he said.  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Beige Book   Treasuries remained lower even after the Fed said the
economy grew at a slower pace in more parts of the country since
the beginning of June as shoppers restrained spending and
factory production eased. The central bank’s Beige Book survey,
released today in  Washington , showed growth slowed in eight of
the 12 Fed regions, compared with four in the last survey.  U.S. government debt  erased losses earlier amid speculation
it will still attract investors even if the nation’s credit
rating is downgraded.  “There’s a lot of cash out there looking for a home,”
said Sergey Bondarchuk, an interest-rate strategist in New York
at the primary dealer BNP Paribas SA. “Even if Treasuries were
downgraded, there’s not a lot out there in terms of
alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  