-- 
Treasuries Fluctuate Amid Debt-Ceiling Deadlock, Looming $35 Billion Sale

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-27T15:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/treasuries-pare-loss-as-pimco-s-el-erian-warns-of-downgrade-consequences.html
Treasuries fluctuated before the
government sells $35 billion in five-year notes amid speculation
 U.S. debt  will still attract investors even if the nation’s
credit rating is downgraded.  Bonds fell earlier on the stalemate in negotiations between
the Obama administration and congressional leaders on lifting
the federal debt limit and cutting spending. Stocks dropped.
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian said the
risk of a credit downgrade is 50 percent even if lawmakers reach
an agreement to lift the debt cap before an Aug. 2 deadline.  “We could grind back lower in yields because there’s a lot
of cash out there looking for a home,” said Sergey Bondarchuk,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one
of the 20 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve . “Even if Treasuries were downgraded, there’s not a lot
out there in terms of alternatives.”  Yields on five-year notes increased almost two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.50 percent at 11:23 a.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They
fell earlier to 1.46 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing
in June 2016 slipped 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 1/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields were up two basis points to
2.97 percent after dropping to 2.94 percent. The 10-year average
is 4.06 percent.  House Speaker  John Boehner  worked to salvage his proposal
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and reduce spending by
$3 trillion, which the White House said President  Barack Obama 
will veto. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled as much as
1.6 percent, its biggest intraday drop in two weeks.  ‘Choppy Market’  “The focus is squarely on what’s going on in  Washington ,”
said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at
Jefferies Group. “It’s going to be a choppy market, especially
with supply this week.”  Treasuries fell earlier even after orders for U.S. durable
goods unexpectedly dropped in June. Bookings for goods meant to
last at least three years fell 2.1 percent after a 1.9 percent
gain, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. A
Bloomberg News survey projected a 0.3 percent increase.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the
borrowing limit is increased before Aug. 2. Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have said they may
consider downgrading the nation’s AAA ranking if officials fail
to resolve the stalemate.  Risk of Downgrade  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  The U.S. will probably still lose its top rating, as
politicians are unlikely to agree on a plan to reduce spending,
said Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager of the $21 billion Loomis
Sayles Bond Fund.  There will be “massive consequences” if the U.S. loses its
AAA rating, El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
Pimco expects the debt ceiling to be lifted, El-Erian said.  Five-Year Auction  The five-year Treasuries being sold today yielded 1.545
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.615 percent at
the prior offering on June 28. Investors bid for 2.59 times the
amount on sale last month, the least in a year.  “Fives are very rich on the curve,” said  David Ader , head
of government bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC. “They are not really attractive from this
standpoint.”  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 37.6 percent of the notes at the
last sale, versus the 10-sale average of 40.3 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $35 billion of two-year debt
yesterday, and will conclude this week’s offerings with $29
billion of seven-year notes tomorrow. Two-year notes issued
yesterday drew a yield of 0.417 percent, the most since May.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the number of bids to the amount of securities sold, rose to
3.14 from 3.08 at the previous sale of the notes, indicating
stronger demand.  “For big investors like the Asian central banks there
aren’t too many alternative places for them to put their money,
so by default they will have to keep buying Treasuries,” said
Piet Lammens, the head of research in Brussels at KBC Bank NV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  