-- 
Stocks, Treasuries Fall on Debt Concern

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-27T20:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/treasuries-fall-gold-gains-on-u-s-debt-wrangle-aussie-climbs-to-record.html
Stocks sank, dragging the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index down the most in almost two months, and
Treasuries and commodities slid as a stalemate over the debt
ceiling pushed the U.S. closer to default. The dollar rallied.  The  S&P 500  lost 2 percent to 1,304.89 at 4 p.m. in New
York for its biggest slide since June 1. The cost of insuring
against a U.S. default climbed to the highest level since
February 2010 and 10-year Treasury note yields increased two
basis points to 2.98 percent. Coffee and oil lost more than 1.5
percent and gold erased earlier gains to drag the S&P GSCI Index
down 0.9 percent. The Dollar Index rose 0.9 percent.  The dispute over plans to cut the U.S. federal deficit has
stolen investor attention away from an earnings season that has
produced higher-than-estimated results at about 81 percent of
S&P 500 companies that reported so far. Shares of industrial
companies helped lead declines today after a Commerce Department
report showed durable goods orders fell 2.1 percent.  “It’s a tug of war between the headline risk of the debt
ceiling issue and earnings,” Matthew DiFilippo, who helps
manage $1 billion as director of research at Stewart Capital
Advisors LLC in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , said in telephone
interview. “The volatility may create buying opportunities
because corporate earnings are coming in strong."  Retreat This Week  The S&P 500 has lost almost 3 percent this week as
lawmakers moved no closer to reaching a debt agreement before an
Aug. 2 deadline. Corning Inc. slid 7.2 percent today after
cutting its forecast for global glass demand. Juniper Networks
Inc. plunged 21 percent as the second-biggest maker of Internet
networking equipment posted earnings that missed forecasts.  Amazon.com Inc., the world’s largest online retailer,
jumped 3.9 percent after sales and profit beat analysts’
estimates.  U.S. equity index futures extended losses before the start
of trading after the decrease in durable-goods orders defied
economists’ median forecast for an increase of 0.3 percent. The
 Federal Reserve  said the economy grew at a slower pace in more
parts of the country since the beginning of June as shoppers
restrained spending and factory production eased.  ‘‘Economic activity continued to grow,” the Fed said in
its Beige Book survey released today in Washington. “However,
the pace has moderated in many districts.” Growth slowed in
eight of the Fed’s 12 regions, compared with four in the last
survey, the central bank said.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index dropped 1.7 percent, extending its
drop from its bull-market peak in November to more than the 20
percent threshold that marks a  bear market . Canada’s S&P/TSX
Composite Index sank 2 percent.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on the U.S. rose for a third day,
climbing four basis points to 62, according to CMA. The swaps
are the most-expensive since Feb. 8, 2010. Still, they are
cheaper than swaps on 53 of 58 countries tracked by data
provider CMA. Only swaps on  Finland , the Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden and  Australia  cost less, according to CMA data. Swaps on
 Greece  are at 1,697 basis points and Ireland are at 845.  Rates are climbing on Treasury bills set to mature just
after the deadline for when the U.S. will exhaust its ability to
borrow, signaling investors are growing more concerned that
lawmakers will fail to reach an agreement. Rates on six-month
bills due Aug. 4 climbed 10 basis points today to 0.15 percent,
the highest since February.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said it’s time for
Republicans to “face facts” and agree on a compromise to raise
the debt ceiling. At a news conference today in  Washington  with
other Senate Democratic leaders, Reid said his plan to trim
spending over 10 years is the only one with “true compromise.”
Boehner’s reworked plan gained support today among fellow
Republicans less than a week from an Aug. 2 deadline to raise
the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  ’Massive Consequences’  The U.S. faces “massive consequences” if the nation
defaults, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian
said. The world’s largest economy would experience “headwinds”
to growth and employment, already in a crisis, El-Erian, chief
executive and co-chief investment officer at the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “If the U.S. defaults, there would be massive
consequences,” El-Erian said today from Pimco’s headquarters in
 Newport Beach ,  California . “People are concerned, but they sort
of think it’s a very, very low probability, and we would
agree.”  European Stocks  European stocks also slumped for a third day as the region
deals with its own government debt crisis. More than seven
stocks fell for every one that gained in the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index, which lost 1.1 percent. Banco Santander SA,  Spain ’s
biggest lender, slumped 3.2 percent after second-quarter profit
dropped 38 percent as domestic loan provisions rose. UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s largest lender, slid 4.3 percent.  PSA Peugeot Citroen tumbled 7.6 percent as Europe’s second-
biggest carmaker said its automotive unit may post a loss in the
second half. Clariant AG sank 14 percent after the Swiss
chemical maker reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds jumped 14 basis points
to 5.74 percent. Greek yields climbed four basis points to 14.75
percent. Greece will partially default on its debt once European
officials push through a plan that will see bondholders foot
part of the bill of a second bailout agreed to last week in
Brussels, S&P said. The rating company also cut Greece to CC,
two steps above default, from CCC, according to a statement
today. The outlook on the debt is negative.  ‘Uncontrolled’ Exit  Europe must prevent a breakup of the euro region and an
“uncontrolled” exit of one of its members, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a letter to lawmakers.
Schaeuble said  Germany ’s government is against a “blank check”
for the euro-area rescue fund to purchase bonds on the secondary
market. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose 6.7 basis
points to a mid-price of 266.7, according to CMA.  The 17-nation euro depreciated 1 percent to $1.4373,
snapping a two-day gain, while losing 0.8 percent against the
yen and 0.9 percent versus the Swiss franc. The Australian
dollar strengthened as much as 1.1 percent against the U.S.
currency to $1.1081, the most since it was floated in 1983,
after a report showed consumer prices rose more in the second
quarter than economists predicted. New Zealand’s dollar also
climbed versus the U.S. currency to the highest level since it
was freely floated in 1985 after a survey showed business
confidence improved in July.  Oil slid 2 percent to $97.58 a barrel in  New York ,
extending losses after a U.S. government report showed an
unexpected increase in inventories.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.7 percent.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed for a second day,
rising 0.8 percent after profit growth accelerated at industrial
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  