-- 
Treasuries Little Changed as Debt Talks Stall Before Five-Year Note Sale

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-27T12:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/treasuries-pare-drop-amid-u-s-debt-standoff-blackrock-sees-rating-threat.html
Treasuries were little changed as
negotiations stalled between the Obama administration and
Congressional leaders on lifting a limit on U.S. borrowing
before next week’s deadline triggers a debt default.  Yields on 10-year notes rose earlier on concern President
Barack Obama will  veto  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to
raise the debt ceiling and curb spending by $3 trillion. The
struggle may see the U.S. lose its top-level  credit rating ,
according to BlackRock Inc. and Loomis Sayles & Co. The Treasury
plans to sell $35 billion of five-year debt today, the second of
three note auctions this week.  “It’s deadlock,” said  David Ader , head of government bond
strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC.
“We have to wait and get some plan out of  Washington , and the
longer it goes on, the more we are frozen.”  Yields on 10-year  government securities  were one basis
point higher at 2.96 percent at 8:44 a.m. in New York, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. That compares to the 4.05
percent average of the last decade. The 3.125 percent note
maturing in May 2021 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 11/32.  Five-year notes yielded 1.49 percent. Thirty-year bond
yields were at 4.29 percent.  Durable-Goods Orders  Treasuries remained little changed even after as orders for
U.S. durable goods unexpectedly dropped in June. Bookings for
goods meant to last at least three years fell 2.1 percent after
a 1.9 percent gain the prior month that was smaller than last
reported, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. The
median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 0.3 percent increase.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default unless the
borrowing limit is increased before the Aug. 2 deadline. Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have said
they may consider downgrading the nation’s AAA ranking if
officials fail to resolve the stalemate.  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  The U.S. will probably still lose its top rating as
politicians are unlikely to agree on a plan to reduce spending,
said Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager of the $21 billion Loomis
Sayles Bond Fund.  Bank, Company Bonds  U.S. investors are increasingly favoring bank or company
bonds over Treasuries. An index of corporate debt with the same
AAA rating as the U.S. is outperforming Treasuries by 0.13
percent, the most since March.  Debentures from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest retailer,
and Paris-based utility  EDF SA (EDF) , both rated the second-highest AA
level, are the best-performing investment-grade corporate
securities globally this month through July 25, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The five-year Treasuries being sold today yielded 1.53
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.615 percent at
the prior offering on June 28. Investors bid for 2.59 times the
amount on sale last month, the least in a year.  “Fives are very rich on the curve,” Ader of CRT said.
“They are not really attractive from this standpoint.”  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 37.6 percent of the notes at the
last sale, versus the 10-sale average of 40.3 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $35 billion of two-year debt
yesterday, and will conclude this week’s offerings with $29
billion of seven-year notes tomorrow. Two-year notes issued
yesterday drew a yield of 0.417 percent, the most since May.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the number of bids to the amount of securities sold, rose to
3.14 from 3.08 at the previous sale of the notes, indicating
stronger demand.  “For big investors like the Asian central banks there
aren’t too many alternative places for them to put their money,
so by default they will have to keep buying Treasuries,” said
Piet Lammens, the head of research in Brussels at KBC Bank NV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  