-- 
Treasuries Decline as Obama Threatens to Veto House Speaker’s Debt Plan

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-27T06:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/treasuries-decline-as-obama-threatens-to-veto-house-speaker-s-debt-plan.html
Treasuries fell, eroding a gain from
yesterday, as President  Barack Obama  threatened to  veto  House
Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and
reduce spending by $3 trillion.  The U.S. may have its top-level  credit rating  cut as
politicians struggle to reach an agreement on how to increase
the federal borrowing limit, a step needed to keep paying its
debts, according to BlackRock Inc. and Loomis Sayles & Co. The
Treasury is scheduled to sell $35 billion of five-year debt
today, the second of three note auctions this week.  “There’s a concern, not only for a downgrade, but also for
a default,” said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $77 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest
bank. “If there’s no accord, yields are going to rise.”  The 10-year yield climbed two basis points to 2.97 percent
as of 7 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 fell 5/32,
or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 9/32. The budget
stalemate hasn’t been enough to push the rate to its decade-long
average of 4.05 percent.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2 unless
the borrowing limit is increased. Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have said they may cut the
nations top-level sovereign ranking if officials fail to resolve
the stalemate.  Downgrade Threat  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  The rating may be cut because politicians probably won’t
agree on a plan to reduce spending, said Kathleen Gaffney, co-
manager of the $21 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund.  Treasuries will “continue to be a large, liquid market
whether it’s AAA or AA,” Gaffney, who is based in  Boston , said
yesterday in an interview with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.”  The fund returned 14 percent in the past year, beating 98
percent of its competitors, according to Bloomberg data.  Japanese Bonds  Japan ’s 10-year yields declined 1.5 basis points to 1.08
percent, approaching 2011’s low of 1.06 percent set July 19.  The Ministry of Finance is selling more 10-year bonds to
individuals than at any time in the past four years as higher
payouts lure buyers, helping the government diversify its base
of investors beyond domestic banks.  Purchases of securities aimed at individuals totaled 231.9
billion yen ($2.98 billion) in June, the highest level since
July 2007, a Finance Ministry  report  showed this month. It was
the first sale using a new formula to increase coupon payments
for retail investors.  Yields indicate U.S. investors are increasingly favoring
bank or company debt over Treasuries.  The TED spread, the difference between what lenders and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 18.7
basis points yesterday, the least since March.  Debentures from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest retailer,
and Paris-based utility  EDF SA (EDF) , both rated the second-highest AA
level, are the best-performing investment-grade corporate
securities globally this month through July 25, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  An index of corporate debt with the same AAA rating that
the U.S. is at risk of losing is outperforming Treasuries by
0.13 percent, the most since March.  Five-Year Sale  The five-year Treasuries being sold today yielded 1.54
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.615 percent at
the prior offering on June 28. Investors bid for 2.59 times the
amount on sale last month, the least in a year.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 37.6 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 40.3 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $35 billion of two-year debt
yesterday, and will conclude this week’s offerings with $29
billion of seven-year notes tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  