-- 
Boehner Revises Debt Proposal as Aug. 2 Nears

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T22:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/reid-budget-plan-would-save-2-2-trillion-over-the-next-decade-cbo-says.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  revised
his plan to raise the  U.S. debt  ceiling as he gained support
among fellow Republicans for a proposal which Senate Democrats
said will not pass their chamber.  Republican leaders were moving ahead with plans to vote on
the measure tomorrow, less than one week before a potential U.S.
default Aug. 2, and sought to ease party members’ concerns that
it wouldn’t cut spending enough. The Congressional Budget Office
said Boehner’s new plan would cut $915 billion in spending over
a decade, still short of the $2.2-trillion Senate plan.  The urgency of the debate was reflected in rhetoric on
 Capitol Hill  as well as market reaction to the appearance of
what presidential adviser  Gene Sperling  termed a “stalemate.”  Boehner, when asked by radio host Laura Ingraham whether he
told members at a closed-door meeting today to get “your A-word
in line” behind his debt bill, said: “I sure did. Listen, this
is time to do what is doable.”  Boehner said his bill is “the best opportunity we have to
hold the president’s feet to the fire.” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  called his alternative “the only true compromise.”  The Treasury Department has said Congress must act by Aug.
2 to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling or risk
default.  Market Reaction  U.S. stocks fell, dragging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down the most in almost two months. The  S&P 500  slipped 2
percent, its biggest decline since June 1, to 1,304.89 at 4 p.m.
in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated 198.75
points, or 1.6 percent, to 12,302.55.  Treasury yields, which dropped yesterday on speculation
lawmakers would reach an accord on the nation’s debt ceiling,
rose today as the political stalemate continued.  Rates on Treasury bills set to mature just after the Aug. 2
debt-ceiling deadline rose to the highest level in five months.
The notes sold today, which will be issued a day before the debt
cap is reached, drew a yield of 1.580 percent, compared with the
average forecast of 1.547 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers.  “The market is saying, ‘we need a deal here,’” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in  New York .  Another Showdown  Boehner’s plan would promise another debt-limit showdown in
the 2012 election year unless Republicans and Democrats agree by
the end of this year to reduce deficits. President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Democrats insist on extending the nation’s
borrowing authority through the 2012 elections, saying continued
uncertainty would harm financial markets.  An analysis by the nonpartisan CBO of Boehner’s revised
plan said it would cut spending by $915 billion, compared with
$850 billion for his original plan. This still was less than the
$1.2 trillion advertised by party leaders for an initial round
of cuts, which prompted leaders to cancel today’s scheduled
House vote on the bill.  The additional savings in Boehner’s revision come from
bigger cuts in so-called “discretionary” spending. The revised
plan, which also calls for a $900 billion debt-limit increase,
meets Republican demands that any increase be coupled with
commensurate budget cuts. Additional increases in the debt
ceiling would be contingent on savings produced by a proposed
budget-cutting committee, under the two-step plan.  ‘Working Through It’  “We’re working through it,” said House Rules Committee
Chairman David Dreier. Among opponents, “some have said they’ve
changed their position, some have said they’re rethinking their
position,” he said.  Dreier, a California Republican, said he expects a new
version to come before his panel today, setting up a vote on the
House floor tomorrow. The White House said Obama would veto the
bill, andReid, a Nevada Democrat, said it won’t clear the
Senate. Reid is pushing a competing proposal that would raise
the debt limit through 2012.  “We like our bill, we’re going to stick with it until
somebody comes up with a better idea,” Reid said. “Magic
things can happen here in Congress in a very short period of
time under the right circumstances.”  The CBO said today that Reid’s plan would cut $2.2 trillion
over 10 years, shy of its $2.7 trillion target. The savings also
fall below $2.4 trillion needed to meet Republican demands that
a debt-limit extension be accompanied by an equal amount of
savings. Reid said his plan can be “tweaked” to meet its goal.  No Winner Picked  Standard & Poor’s  President Deven Sharma declined to pick a
winner among lawmakers’ deficit-reduction plans, telling a House
panel that decisions on whether to downgrade the nation’s debt
will hinge on the long-term impact of any final measure.  “We are waiting for what the final proposal is,” before
deciding whether keep U.S. debt at the firm’s highest ratings
level, Sharma said at the hearing, called to review the
performance of credit-ratings firms since last year’s passage of
the Dodd-Frank Act.  A U.S. default would be “devastating” to consumers who
would be affected by higher  interest rates , said Michael Duke,
president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  “A default and the ripple effect would be impactful,”
Duke told the Senate Finance Committee. He said both the reality
and the perception of a default would hurt the  U.S. economy .  Reid, McConnell Consult  Reid and McConnell are consulting on what it would take to
push legislation through by Aug. 2, said Richard Durbin of
 Illinois , the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat.  Typically, “a lot of it will happen in private meetings
where efforts will be made to reach an agreement and a consensus
and then bring it to the floor and sell it to the members,”
Durbin said.  Representative Tom Reed, a first-term Republican from New
York, said he was up through the middle of the night trying to
decide how he will vote on Boehner’s proposal. He said he
decided around 4 a.m. to back the speaker after saying yesterday
he would oppose the plan.  “I’m a firm yes,” Reed said. “We’ve been looking at this
real hard. This has been a very stressful period of time. It’s
not exactly what I’m looking for, it’s not what we came to
 Washington  to do, but it’s a step in the right direction.”  At least six members said during today’s meeting of House
Republicans they were leaning toward supporting the bill after
saying yesterday they would oppose it, according to a Republican
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  CBO Estimate  At the session, House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan
explained that CBO estimated less savings than was promised
because it used a different starting point than leaders
anticipated, said Representative Scott Garrett of  New Jersey .  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  told reporters that
Republican members understand the plan “puts a check on
Obama.”  “It doesn’t allow him the blank check that the Reid bill
would allow,” said Cantor of  Virginia . “That’s why members are
rallying around this plan.”  Republicans are under pressure from fiscally conservative
advocacy groups who say the plan would do too little to control
federal spending. Several such organizations, including the Club
for Growth, Heritage Action and the Tea Party-affiliated
FreedomWorks, oppose the plan and are pressuring lawmakers to do
the same.  “We can hold the line,” Representative Steve King, an
Iowa Republican and an opponent of the plan, told a group of Tea
Party advocates who rallied outside the Capitol.  ‘Tea Party Hobbits’  Still, Senator John McCain of Arizona, the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, criticized what he called “Tea Party
hobbits” on the Senate floor, saying they appear to believe
that the public would blame a government default on Obama and
not on Republicans.  Three investment firms -- BlackRock Inc., Loomis Sayles &
Co. and Franklin Templeton Investments -- said the U.S. faces
losing its AAA credit rating as the debate continues.  “Our guess is, when push comes to shove, the debt ceiling
will be raised,” said  Bob Doll , chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock, which manages $3.66 trillion. “What goes
along with that is very difficult to tell, and that’s why the
threat of a downgrade still exists,” Doll said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television.  Those warnings have convinced some Republicans to back the
plan, said Arizona Representative Jeff Flake, a Republican who
said he is considering supporting the bill after saying he
opposed it yesterday.  “It may be the last train leaving the station and that’s
weighing on people’s minds,” Flake said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer, in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  