-- 
Republican Group Sues Illinois Claiming Bias in U.S. House District Map

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-27T19:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/republican-group-sues-illinois-claiming-bias-in-u-s-house-district-map.html
Republican lawmakers from  Illinois 
and a group led by former legislators sued the state of Illinois
over a new map for the state’s congressional districts, claiming
it discriminates against Latino and Republican voters.  The current lawmakers, including representatives  Judy Biggert  and Robert J. Dold, and the Committee for a Fair and
Balanced Map filed suit against the Illinois State Board of
Elections in federal court in  Chicago  today, accusing the state
of violating the First Amendment and the Equal Protection Clause
of the 14th Amendment.  The not-for-profit committee was created by Illinois
citizens concerned about the congressional redistricting process
in Illinois, and includes former Republican legislators U.S.
House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Tom Ewing and Lynn Martin, the
committee said in the lawsuit.  “Without any of the promised public hearings, the State of
Illionis has adopted a new map for the state’s federal
congressional districts … that blatantly discriminates against
Latino and Republican voters,” the committee said in the suit.  Plan Defended  The state’s House of Representatives approved a bill
creating the new map on May 30, followed the next day by the
state Senate, and Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  signed it into
law on June 24.  Quinn defended the redistricting plan in a statement,
noting that more than 30 public hearings were held around the
state prior to its passage.  “This open and transparent process resulted in a map that
represents our diverse state and protects the voting rights of
minorities,” Quinn said in the statement.  The case is Committee for a Fair and Balanced Map v.
Illinois State Board of Elections, 11-cv-05065, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 