-- 
Tropical Storm Don Forms Off Mexico’s Yucatan on Track for Texas Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-28T00:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/tropical-storm-don-forms-in-atlantic-ocean-on-track-to-southeastern-texas.html
Tropical Storm Don formed in the
waters off  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula on a track that will take
it into southeastern Texas in two days, the National Hurricane
Center said.  Don, the fourth storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, is
120 miles (193 kilometers) north of Cozumel, Mexico, heading
west-northwest with maximum winds of 40 miles an hour, according
to a  hurricane center  bulletin just before 5 p.m. New York time.  “Gradual strengthening is forecast during the next 48
hours,” the bulletin said. “Interests in the northwestern  Gulf
of Mexico  should monitor the progress of Don.”  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf. The Gulf is home to 31
percent of U.S. oil output and coastal refineries account for
7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent of U.S. capacity.  Energy companies have begun pulling some workers from their
facilities in the Gulf as a precaution.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
said it’s evacuating about 70 non-essential workers, while
 Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the two largest U.S.
independent oil and gas producers by market value, said they are
removing non-essential workers from some western Gulf
operations.  BP Plc has evacuated non-essential personnel from its
Southern Green Canyon area, which includes the Atlantis, Mad Dog
and Holstein platforms, according to a message recorded on the
company’s hurricane hotline.  Hurricane Unlikely  Other companies, such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and
Williams Cos., said they are monitoring the weather.  So far, ship traffic to Houston hasn’t been affected, said
Prentice Danner, spokesman for the  U.S. Coast Guard.   The storm could cause “very brief disruptions” in oil and
gas production due to precautionary evacuations, said Chuck
Watson, of natural catastrophe research firm  Kinetic Analysis
Corp.  in Savannah, Georgia.  “Could see as much as 20% gas and 10% oil production shut
in for a day or two, but given the fact it is unlikely to become
a hurricane the values are likely to be smaller than that,”
Watson, the group’s research director, said in a e-mail.  Don will probably go ashore somewhere between Galveston and
 Corpus Christi ,  Texas , on Friday, said Dan Kottlowski, expert
senior meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania. He doubts the storm will become a hurricane.  “It doesn’t look like a likely situation right now, but
certainly it is not something we can rule out,” Kottlowski
said.  Rain in Texas  The biggest factor in determining where the storm will go
is the same high pressure system that’s driving temperatures
into the 100s across much of the central and southern U.S.,
Kottlowski said by telephone. That system may act as a barrier
to deflect the storm into Texas or Mexico, depending on its
strength and exact location.  “The high pressure area to the north is expanding and
contracting and that is going to guide this thing,” Kottlowski
said.  If it weakens or shifts to the east, the storm may move
farther north and even make it close to Houston, according to
 Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC  in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “Regardless of the exact track, we could see rain offsets
to East Texas heat by Friday and maybe cooling rain influences
in interior Texas by Saturday,” Rogers said in an e-mail.  It the high pressure system strengthens, it could push the
storm south toward Mexico, Kottlowski said.  A weather system becomes tropical when it develops cyclone
characteristics and becomes a named tropical storm when its
winds reach at least 39 mph. A storm becomes a hurricane when
winds hit 74 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 