-- 
Tropical Storm May Develop in Gulf of Mexico, Head for Texas

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-27T17:28:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/tropical-storm-may-develop-in-gulf-of-mexico-head-for-texas.html
An area of thunderstorms and heavy
rain in the Caribbean between Cuba and  Mexico ’s Yucatan
Peninsula may become Tropical Storm Don by the end of the week
and take a track toward the Texas coast.  The U.S.  National Hurricane Center  gives the system an 80
percent chance of tropical development in the next two days and
is sending an Air Force Reserve reconnaissance plane, commonly
called a Hurricane Hunter, into the storm later today, according
to a statement on the agency’s website.  “We believe this is evolving into a depression now and it
is conceivable they could declare it a storm,” said Dan Kottlowski, expert senior meteorologist for AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  It now appears the system will probably go ashore somewhere
between Galveston and  Corpus Christi , Texas, Kottlowski said. He
doubts the storm will grow into a hurricane.  “It doesn’t look like a likely situation right now, but
certainly it is not something we can rule out,” Kottlowski
said.  A depression is the weakest form of the storms known as
tropical cyclones, which include hurricanes. A system receives a
name when its winds hit tropical storm strength of 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour and becomes a hurricane when winds reach 74
mph.  Determining Path  The biggest factor in determining where the storm will go
is the same high pressure system that is driving temperatures
into the 100s across much of the central and southern U.S.,
Kottlowski said by telephone. That system may act as a barrier
to deflect the storm into  Texas  or Mexico, depending on its
strength and exact location.  “The high pressure area to the north is expanding and
contracting and that is going to guide this thing,” Kottlowski
said.  If it weakens or shifts to the east, the storm could go
farther north and even make it close to Houston, according to
 Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC  in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “Regardless of the exact track, we could see rain offsets
to east Texas heat by Friday and maybe cooling rain influences
in interior Texas by Saturday,” Rogers said in an e-mail.  It the high pressure system strengthens, it could push the
storm south toward Mexico, Kottlowski said.  Tropical Storm Don would be the fourth of this year’s
Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30.
This would be the earliest the season’s fourth storm has formed
since 2008, when Hurricane Dolly formed on July 20, according to
 Weather Underground Inc.  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 