-- 
Rousseff Corruption Crackdown Risks Brazil Inflation Fight as Allies Balk

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-07-27T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/rousseff-corruption-crackdown-risks-brazil-inflation-fight-as-allies-balk.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
crackdown on corruption will likely appeal to middle-class
voters who are growing in political importance. It also risks
undercutting the fiscal discipline needed to cool inflation by
disrupting her coalition.  Rousseff has forced out more than a dozen officials from
their posts at the Transportation Ministry this month, including
Minister Alfredo Nascimento, over allegations of overbilling and
kickbacks. Nascimento is a member of the Party of the Republic,
which is allied with Rousseff.  The president’s move to clean house in a ministry whose
budget rivals the size of  Paraguay ’s $18 billion economy, and is
central to preparations for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016
 Summer Olympics , has roiled members of her  coalition.   “Every day the press  reports  that another corrupt official
was forced out, without having a right to defense,” said
Lincoln Portela, leader of Nascimento’s party in the lower
house, in a telephone interview.  The tensions could complicate the task of passing Rousseff-
supported legislation and blocking moves to boost spending, said
political analyst Rafael Cortez, of Sao Paulo-based Tendencias
Consultoria.  “Dilma’s motives seem to be making management of the state
more efficient, but it’s going to have political implications,”
said Cortez. “The big question is what happens when corruption
charges hit the big, core parties of the coalition.”  Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, or PT, lacks a majority in
Congress, so the president relies on support from 15 other
parties to approve  legislation .  Coalition ‘Stress’  Portela said Rousseff’s handling of the crisis in the
Transport Ministry “adds stress” to the government coalition
in Congress, though his party won’t abandon its support for the
president. Fellow member Luciano Castro, co-leader of the
coalition in the lower house,  said  last week that the party
would meet in August to decide whether to continue voting with
the government bloc.  Atop Rousseff’s legislative agenda is getting Congress to
fall in line with an anti-inflation austerity drive by approving
the 2012 budget, which will be presented for debate next month.
The government also wants to defeat bills raising salaries for
police and a constitutional amendment earmarking a fixed portion
of the budget for health care.  “The big problem for Dilma is inflation, and if  government
spending  keeps going up, they won’t meet their target,” said
Carlos Melo, a political analyst and professor at Insper, a Sao
Paulo-based business  school .  Inflation Surge  Policy makers increased the benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter point to 12.50 percent on July 20, the fifth straight
increase this year, in a bid to contain inflation that
accelerated to 6.75 percent this month. The policy makers’
inflation target is 4.5 percent.  Rousseff, 63, took office on Jan. 1 with the broadest
governing coalition in the nation’s history. Nascimento’s party
has 40 deputies in the 513-member lower house and six senators
in the 81-seat upper chamber. The biggest partner, the
Democratic Movement Party, or PMDB, has 79 deputies and 20
senators, while the PT itself has 86 and 13, respectively.  The president must tread more carefully than predecessors
such as Janio Quadros, who rose to power in 1961 brandishing a
broom and vowing to sweep away inflation-causing corruption from
the previous government. Rousseff is trying to tackle the abuses
of a coalition inherited from her mentor, former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , whom she served as energy minister and
cabinet chief.  Lula’s Legacy  In keeping with Brazilian tradition of divvying up high-
level positions in proportion to parties’ electoral strength,
Rousseff retained 12 Lula officials in her cabinet, including
Nascimento. Lula battled calls for impeachment in 2005 after top
aides were accused of paying bribes to congressmen.  Rousseff was attacked by rivals during the campaign for
turning a blind eye to malfeasance when she served as cabinet
chief. Support for her candidacy fell after her handpicked
successor, Erenice Guerra, resigned amid media reports of
influence-peddling. Her own cabinet chief,  Antonio Palocci ,
stepped down in June after weeks of defending himself against
corruption charges.  Brazil , the eighth-largest economy in the world, ranks
69th, tied with Cuba, in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2010 Corruption Perception  Index  of 178
countries.  While Rousseff could withstand the defection of smaller
parties, a breach with the PMDB or a major fraction of her own
party would put her in a difficult position, Cortez said.  Coalition Defections  Relations between Rousseff and her coalition soured in the
run-up to Palocci’s resignation, as allies demanded a bigger say
in her government in exchange for resisting opposition calls for
a congressional probe. Tensions came to a head when some of her
lawmakers in the lower house sided with agricultural groups and
approved environmental legislation that gives amnesty to
ranchers who illegally clear the Amazon rainforest.  Rousseff has tried to reassure allies even as she commits
to cleaning up government.  “We’re not acting politically against any single party,”
she told Rio de Janeiro-based O Globo newspaper in an interview
July 22, in response to a question about how far her purge would
go. “We’re acting against people who acted wrongly.”  The president’s office declined to comment when asked about
whether the anti-corruption drive would damage her coalition.  Middle Class Votes  The crackdown will appeal to newly middle-class taxpayers,
who are more concerned about corruption than are the poor, said
 David Fleischer , a political science professor at the University
of Brasilia.  “By taking a stand, she has pre-empted the opposition,”
he said in a telephone interview. “This resonates with the new
middle class, so she’ll be able to go into 2012 with a high
approval rating.”  During Lula’s eight years in power, 25 million people
escaped poverty, and 36 million moved into the lowest rung of
the middle class, earning $1,100 to $3,900 a month, according to
researchers at the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas
Foundation. By 2009, more than 50 percent of Brazilians fit into
this group.  By shaking up the Transport Ministry, Rousseff may speed up
the badly needed renovation of Brazil’s infrastructure,
including airports and roads critical to the  World Cup  and the
Olympics, said Alexandre Barros, head of Early Warning, a
Brasilia-based political risk company.  Public Works  The ministry, which has a 27.4 billion reais ($18 billion)
budget this year and is responsible for the biggest number of
public works under the government’s $886 billion infrastructure
investment plan, is notorious for delays and cost overruns,
Barros said in a telephone interview. The projects will likely
be better run once Rousseff has appointed a new team, helping to
slow inflation in the long run, he said.  “The house-cleaning is important because there are huge
projects in the ministry that are very difficult to keep track
of,” he said.  Rousseff’s anti-corruption drive “could be a  turning point 
for the whole model of how you govern Brazil,” Fleischer said.
“It’s a gamble, and we’ll see if she can pull it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  