-- 
Russia May Sell $14 Billion Rosneft Stake in Record Offering

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-27T14:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/russia-may-sell-14-billion-rosneft-stake-in-biggest-state-sale.html
Russia  plans to sell as much as 15
percent of oil company OAO Rosneft next year in the biggest
state asset sale in the nation’s history.  The government will auction the stake as part of an
expanded state asset-sale program and wants to find buyers for
its entire 75 percent holding by 2017, Alexei Uvarov, head of
the  Economy Ministry ’s property department, which is overseeing
the plan, said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. The current
market value of the stake is about $14 billion.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  is seeking to increase asset
sales to reduce the state’s role in the economy and bolster the
investment climate. The government plans to sell its entire
holdings in Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, OAO Alrosa,
VTB Group and 11 other major companies to raise a “maximum” of
1 trillion rubles ($36.4 billion) a year, Uvarov said.  “Compared with other companies, Rosneft is entirely ready
for privatization,” Uvarov said. “Investors abroad know
Rosneft and they’re waiting for it. Rosneft may be the main
attraction in next year’s sales.”  The government owns 75.16 percent of Rosneft through
investment vehicle OAO Rosneftegaz. Rosneft stock has gained 8.5
percent this year, valuing the company at 2.5 trillion rubles.  Rosneft’s shares fell 1.7 percent to 237.50 rubles at 6:31
p.m. in Moscow.  BP Alliance  BP Plc’s proposed $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic
exploration accord with Rosneft collapsed in May after the U.K.
producer’s billionaire partners in its existing Russian venture
blocked the alliance.  Medvedev ordered the government last month to draft a
revised asset-sale program by Aug. 1, broadening the offerings
to attract “effective private investors” and boost budget
revenue. The new proposal, signed by First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov , has been sent to the president, Uvarov said.  The revised plan calls for selling off the entire state
stakes in Rosneft, VTB, Alrosa, OAO Sovcomflot, Sheremetyevo
International Airport, OAO Inter RAO UES, OAO RusHydro, Russian
Agricultural Bank, Rosagroleasing, United Grain Co., OAO
Aeroflot, OAO Zarubezhneft, OAO Rostelecom and State Transport
Leasing Co.  The government also plans to reduce its holdings in United
Shipbuilding Corp. and United Aircraft Corp. to 50 percent and
in  Uralvagonzavod  to 75 percent, Uvarov said.  ‘Room for Maneuver’  The new list doesn’t set deadlines for the sales because
the government doesn’t want to “limit its room for maneuver,”
Uvarov said.  The authorities sought the advice of a “very wide circle
of people,” including state companies’ management, independent
board directors and investment banks, Uvarov said. The
government has selected 23 Russian and international investment
banks to advise it on the program, including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG,
VTB Capital, Troika Dialog and  Renaissance Capital .  “We don’t intend to overpay,” Uvarov said. “Since a lot
of banks want to work with us, we’ve got the opportunity to be
selective, and we’re using it.” Consulting fees for the sales
will be capped at 2 percent, he said.  The state’s goals haven’t changed since a first-round of
sales turned Soviet behemoths into private companies such as OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel and OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Uvarov said.  Same Task  “The task is the same -- stimulating private business,
developing the stock market, raising capital for companies and
increasing their transparency,” Uvarov said.  “We’re going to conduct this privatization so that
afterward it’s beyond reproach both from an economic and
administrative point of view,” Uvarov said. “We understand
that a successful privatization, in addition to providing
financial benefits, will also help Russia’s institutional
transformation.”  Even so, credit rankings of as many as 60 percent of state
companies analyzed by  Fitch Ratings  may be downgraded if the
government withdraws support as a result of the its asset-sale
program, the rating company said July 7.  State support adds one level to standalone credit ratings
of Alrosa, the diamond monopoly, and Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest
airline, as well as shipper Sovcomflot and Rosneft, Fitch said.  ‘Absolutely Incorrect’  “We believe it’s absolutely incorrect to cut ratings for
companies that the state is exiting,” Uvarov said. “When a
company is preparing for a listing, it becomes transparent and
understandable to everyone. If investors are going to buy the
company that means they’re happy with it.”  Should another economic crisis hit Russia, the government
will again step in to support all businesses to meet its social
obligations to workers and consumers, Uvarov said.  The government also wants to retain so-called golden shares
in Alrosa, RusHydro, Zarubezhneft, United Grain and Rosneft,
Uvarov said. That gives the state voting rights roughly
equivalent to a 25 percent blocking stake, he said.  Rosneft’s initial public offering in 2006 raised $10.7
billion, according to the company’s website. To date, that sale
is Russia’s biggest state asset sale. The Moscow-based company
controls most of the former assets of Yukos Oil Co., Russia’s
largest oil producer before it was declared bankrupt in 2006
after facing $30 billion in back-tax claims.  Rosneft’s management, including Chief Executive Officer
Eduard Khudainatov, is “fully supportive” of the plan, Uvarov
said.  The company is preparing for the government to reduce its
stake, Khudainatov said July 21 in a meeting with Medvedev.
“It’s up to you as the state, as the main shareholder, to
determine when to sell and what the state’s revenue should be,
and management will follow through,” he said, according to a
 transcript  on the Kremlin website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 