-- 
Russia RTS Futures Drop as Oil, U.S. Durable Goods Orders Fall

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-27T21:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/russia-rts-futures-drop-as-oil-u-s-durable-goods-orders-fall.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell as oil declined the most in two weeks and after a U.S.
report showing a drop in orders for durable goods fueled concern
that global economic growth is slowing.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.7 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO
Tatneft, the oil producer based in Russia’s Tatarstan region,
dropped 0.6 percent, while agreements on VTB Group, Russia’s
second-largest lender, retreated 0.5 percent. Futures on OAO
Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, fell 0.5 percent.  “Lately there’s been nothing in terms of company news or
the global market to get people excited about Russian
equities,” Tom Furda, director of Russian Equity Sales at
Auerbach Grayson & Co., said in a phone interview. “That may
change if Medvedev rather than Putin goes for the presidency, as
Medvedev is seen as the reformer.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , a former corporate
lawyer, is trying to combat Russia’s reputation as the world’s
most corrupt major economy as investors speculate about whether
he or his predecessor, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, will run
for the country’s highest office next year.  The U.S. Commerce Department said yesterday that June
bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell 2.1
percent after a 1.9 percent gain during the prior month. The
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.3
percent increase.  Oil, Russia’s largest export revenue earner, fell 2.2
percent to settle at $97.40 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The euro weakened 1 percent against the dollar,
falling to 1.4367 at 4:27 p.m. in  New York .  U.S. stocks sank, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbling 2 percent. The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.9 percent
to 1,706.28 in Moscow yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  