-- 
S&P Sees Greek Default on European Plan Implementation, Cuts Credit Rating

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 
2011-07-27T22:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/s-p-sees-greek-default-on-european-plan-cuts-credit-rating.html
Standard & Poor’s  said  Greece  will
partially default on its debt once a European Union plan is
implemented, and it cut the country’s credit rating.  S&P said the partial default will occur once European
officials push through a plan that will see bondholders foot
part of the bill for a second Greek bailout agreed to last week
in Brussels. The rating company also lowered its ranking for
Greece to CC, two steps above default, from CCC and said the
outlook on the debt is negative, according to a statement
published in  London  yesterday.  “The proposed restructuring of Greek government debt would
amount to a selective default under our rating methodology,”
S&P said. “We view the proposed restructuring as a ‘distressed
exchange’ because, based on public statements by European policy
makers, it is likely to result in losses for commercial
creditors.”  EU leaders agreed last week that bondholders will
contribute 50 billion euros ($72 billion) to a new rescue
package, with euro-region governments and the  International
Monetary Fund  putting up a further 109 billion euros. The July
21 accord strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to offer
protection to other euro-region nations such as Ireland and
 Spain  to avert contagion.  “The risk of default at those levels is pretty
inevitable,” said Vincent Truglia, managing director at New
York-based Granite Springs Asset Management LLP and a former
head of the sovereign risk unit at Moody’s Investors Service.
“You’re going to get, at the minimum, a distressed exchange.
Greece will become a serial defaulter because the amount of debt
reduction that’s proposed is not really adequate.”  Euro Fell  The euro fell 1 percent to $1.4369 late yesterday in  New
York , after the S&P announcement.  Greece hired BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC
Holdings Plc to act as joint dealer-managers of its voluntary
bond exchange and debt-buyback plan, the Athens-based  Finance
Ministry  said in a statement. The lenders will provide a
committed financing facility to Greece, the ministry said.  S&P’s move followed Moody’s Investors Service, which on
July 25 cut Greece’s long-term credit rating by three steps to
Ca, its second-lowest rating.  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece by three
levels to CCC on July 13.  The cost of insuring against a default by Greece was at
1,695 basis points yesterday, implying a 76 percent chance the
government will fail to pay its debts within five years. The
price of the contracts soared to a record 2,568 basis points on
July 18, when the probability of default approached 90 percent,
according to CMA.  Not a ‘Big Shock’  “There hasn’t been a big shock to the market as it’s
mostly water under the bridge,” said  David Keeble , head of
fixed income strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in New York. “I think the market is prepared for the next
step, which is selective default and which should happen in a
month or so.”  S&P said its recovery rating of ‘4’ for Greece remained
unchanged, signaling an estimated 30 percent to 50 percent
recovery of principal by bondholders, including on bonds subject
to a 20 percent reduction in net present value as estimated
under the Institute for International Finance’s proposal.  Under the EU’s second rescue program for Greece in 15
months, banks will voluntarily write down the value of their
bonds by 21 percent as part of the exchanges, the IIF, which
represents banks and insurers, said July 22. The plan will
lengthen the average maturity of privately held Greek debt to 11
years from six years.  S&P, in a separate report, said some provisions of the EU’s
rescue plan would help protect Ireland and  Portugal .  “We think these maturity extensions and interest-rate
reductions should be beneficial for the debt sustainability of
both Ireland and Portugal,” S&P said.  S&P assigns a selective default when it decides a borrower
has defaulted on a specific class of obligations yet will likely
meet other payment obligations in a timely manner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  