-- 
U.S. Rating Hinges on Long-Term Fix: S&P’s Sharma

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-27T20:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/s-p-s-sharma-says-u-s-bond-rating-hinges-on-details-of-long-term-solution.html
Standard & Poor’s  President Deven Sharma declined to pick a winner among deficit-reduction plans
being debated by U.S. lawmakers, telling a House panel that
decisions on whether to downgrade the nation’s debt will hinge
on the long-term impact of any final measure.  S&P has monitored congressional debate over budget-cutting
proposals offered during negotiations aimed at increasing the
$14.3 trillion federal debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline,
Sharma said today in response to questions at a House Financial
Services subcommittee hearing on credit-rating firms.  “We are waiting for what the final proposal is,” before
deciding whether to keep U.S. debt at the firm’s highest ratings
level, Sharma said at the hearing, which was called to review
the performance of credit-ratings firms since last year’s
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Lawmakers, regulators and investigative committees have
said that S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, the
three dominant ratings firms, contributed to the credit crisis
by giving inflated ratings to securities backed by high-risk
mortgages. While members of the Subcommittee on Oversight and
Investigations today aimed to examine the new Dodd-Frank rules,
the focus of the hearing returned often to the debt crisis.  S&P analysts said on July 14 that the U.S. could lose its
AAA credit rating if policy makers can’t resolve their
differences over the debt limit and structural deficits. Sharma
backed the analysts’ view today, telling lawmakers that any
change would reflect slightly increased risk rather than a view
that the country would actually default on its obligations.  Growth Rate  Sharma, who has led the McGraw-Hill Cos. unit since 2007,
said that in S&P’s view the most important element in a rating
decision is the trajectory of “the long-term growth rate of the
debt.” The firm’s analysts believe the growth of  U.S. debt  “is
something that needs to be addressed,” he said.  Asked about reports that S&P had called for a minimum
deficit-reduction package of $4 trillion for the U.S. to
maintain its AAA-rating, Sharma said the firm’s analysts were
“misquoted” and that they would not suggest a target.  “Since there was a $4 trillion number put forward by
number of congressmen, as well as by the administration, our
analyst was just commenting on those proposals, that that would
bring the threshold within the range of what a AAA-rated
sovereign debt would require,” Sharma said.  Analyst Determination  When asked how steep budget cuts would have to be to
maintain the current top rating, Sharma said, “I’ll leave that
for our analysts to determine.”  David Wilson  of the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency told the committee that lawmakers are “right to
worry” about the potential impact of a ratings downgrade.  Today’s hearing was convened by Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and the chairman of the
subcommittee, who said changes in the firms’ conduct are
necessary because “people feel like they have lost their
credibility” since the economic meltdown.  “The credit-rating agencies failed spectacularly in the
years leading up to the crisis,” said Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican who is the chairman of the full
Financial Services committee.  The lawmakers heard from bank regulators on the new Dodd-
Frank rules about the industry. Wilson, Mark Van Der Weide of
the  Federal Reserve  and John Ramsay of the Securities and
Exchange Commission laid out the difficulties their agencies are
having with the requirement that they replace references to
credit ratings in existing statutes with an “appropriate”
standard for measuring creditworthiness.  Basel III  A problem for regulators is that Basel III, or the
international banking standards, relies heavily on credit
ratings to gauge risk, said Van Der Weide, the senior associate
director of banking supervision and regulation at the Fed.  “There’s some tension between the international capital
accord, which does contain references to ratings, and what we’re
trying to do,” Van Der Weide said.  The SEC was given most of the Dodd-Frank workload for re-
writing credit-rating regulations. The agency yesterday adopted
its first rule to remove a requirement for credit ratings from
regulations about securities offerings. It has proposed several
similar rules this year.  “It’s tricky because each rule has to be looked at
individually,” said Ramsay, the SEC’s deputy director of
trading and markets. “The right alternative for
creditworthiness is not going to be the same in all cases.”  The SEC also issued a proposal in May to enforce changes in
the credit raters’ conduct -- overhauling how the firms should
assess debt securities, ensure the quality of ratings and
prevent conflicts of interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  