-- 
Santander Profit Drops on Spain, Insurance Reserve in U.K.

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-27T16:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/santander-first-half-profit-falls-21-to-5-1-billion-missing-estimates.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest
bank, said second-quarter profit fell 38 percent as loan losses
rose in Spain and Brazil and the company set aside money to
compensate U.K. customers mis-sold mortgage-loan insurance.  Net income dropped to 1.39 billion euros ($2 billion) from
2.23 billion euros a year earlier, the Santander, Spain-based
bank said in a filing to regulators today. Earnings missed the
2.05 billion-euro average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg as the lender set aside 620 million euros to cover
future U.K. loan-protection claims.  Santander fell 3.2 percent in  Madrid  trading after a
decline in profit in its three main markets -- Brazil, the U.K.
and Spain -- led the bank to report the lowest quarterly result
since 2005. An unexpected surge in loan impairments in  Brazil  on
top of the increase analysts had foreseen in Spain means the
bank’s earnings outlook will probably “remain under pressure”
said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid,
in a report.  “It’s disappointing that the results don’t just reflect
Spain and its problems but other markets as well,” said Peter Braendle, who holds Santander shares as part of the 57 billion
Swiss francs ($71.3 billion) he helps manage at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich. “It was a big surprise that profit in
Brazil also fell.”  U.K. IPO Shelved  Santander slumped 24 cents to 7.34 euros in Madrid,
extending the decline this year to 7.4 percent. That compares
with a 12 percent drop in the 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index.  “All the business units reported weaker numbers than
expected,” said Santiago Lopez, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
in Madrid, who cut profit estimates for Santander for the next
three years by an average 13 percent. He reduced his rating on
the stock to “neutral” from “outperform.”  Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said the bank has
shelved plans for an initial public offering of its U.K. unit
this year, even though it remains committed to the plan. In a
gesture to protests in Spain accusing banks of contributing to
the country’s economic crisis, Saenz announced a three-year
moratorium on payments of mortgage principal for unemployed
customers or those that have suffered a 25 percent drop in
earnings.  Profit Forecast  Chairman  Emilio Botin , 76, told shareholders on June 17
that Santander would aim for 2011 profit in line with the 8.18
billion euros earned last year. Saenz said today the bank
expects profit excluding one-time items in 2011 will be similar
to last year’s. The company maintained its dividend target of 60
cents a share this year.  Santander’s core capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, fell to 9.2 percent from 9.66 percent in March, the
bank said.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending at Santander
rose to 3.78 percent from 3.61 percent in March, the company
said. The bad-loan ratio in its home market climbed to 4.81
percent from 4.57 percent three months earlier. Net new loans
into default jumped to 4.02 billion euros from 3.11 billion
euros in the first quarter and 3.39 billion euros a year ago.  Santander’s profit from Spain slumped 45 percent to 387
million euros from a year earlier as lending declined 7 percent,
the bank said. Net interest income at the business rose to 1.51
billion euros from 1.49 billion euros.  Latin America   Second-quarter profit from Latin America rose to 1.19
billion euros from 1.12 billion euros a year earlier.  Earnings from Brazil, which contributes 25 percent of
profit, the most of any unit, slipped to 649 million euros from
686 million euros a year before, as loan-loss provisions jumped
to 1.23 billion euros from 930 million euros. The bank’s
Brazilian loan book grew at a 14 percent annual clip.  “While higher loan losses could be expected in Spain, the
rise in the  risk premium  in Brazil is likely to raise concerns
on the outlook for Brazil,” said Nomura’s Quinn. Saenz said
Santander is optimistic about its Brazilian business and doesn’t
believe there’s a credit bubble in the country, where its loan
default ratios are in line with its peers.  Profit from the bank’s U.K. unit, led by Botin’s eldest
child Ana Patricia Botin, 50, posted a second-quarter loss of
144 million euros compared with a profit of 524 million euros in
the year-earlier period. “Financial results are, however, being
adversely impacted by costs of liquidity, term funding and low
 interest rates ,” Ana Botin said in a statement.  Stripping out the impact of the U.K. charge, Santander’s
second-quarter profit would have been 2.01 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  