-- 
Sarkozy Should Ready Additional Spending Cuts, IMF Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-27T16:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/sarkozy-should-ready-additional-spending-cuts-imf-says-1-.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  should be
ready to implement additional spending cuts and tax increases to
ensure France meets its deficit-reduction commitments should
growth fall short, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Policy makers should prepare specific contingency
measures to ensure 2012-2014 targets are reached even if growth
turns out lower than expected,” Washington-based IMF analyst
Anne-Marie Gulde-Wolf told reporters on a conference call today.  Sarkozy has pledged to cut France’s budget deficit every
year between now and 2014 even as he prepares a re-election bid
that culminates in April and May next year. While both Sarkozy
and France’s opposition Socialists have pledged not to miss the
budget goals, the IMF stressed that the targets are at risk if
the government’s growth forecasts prove to be overly optimistic.  The French Finance Ministry currently expects gross
domestic product to grow 2 percent this year and 2.25 percent in
2012. The IMF predicts growth of 2.1 percent and 1.9 percent.  “While the economic outlook is favorable, risks are tilted
to the downside amid the sovereign-debt crisis in the euro area
and uncertainty about energy and commodity prices,” the IMF
said.  France  has promised its European partners to reduce the
deficit to 5.7 percent of output this year and 4.6 percent in
2012, then to 3 percent and 2 percent in the two following
years. The IMF said that on current plans, France will fail to
achieve its targets in 2012 and 2013.  Tax Exemptions  Budget-tightening measures equivalent to 0.2 percent of GDP
are needed for next year and could include improved targeting of
social benefits and the elimination of sales-tax exemptions, the
Washington-based fund said. Any windfall from higher growth
should be used to pay down debt, which amounts to 85 percent of
output this year, it said.  Meeting the budget objectives is critical for France if it
is to maintain its AAA credit rating and keep its debt
sustainable.  “The importance of a sustainable fiscal path has been
stressed by all market analysts and this is very well understood
by policy makers,” Gulde-Wolf said. “The measures put in place
are consistent with maintaining the AAA rating.”  The IMF sided with Sarkozy in pressing for constitutional
changes that would limit budget deficits in future. Leaders of
the Socialist Party have said they’ll oppose any such change,
which requires the support of 60 percent of lawmakers to pass.  France’s main banks are on track to meet the Basel III
capital requirements by 2013-14, though the lenders need to find
ways to reduce their dependence on U.S. money markets for
funding, the IMF said.  In the 32-page report, the IMF also urged France to make a
“sustained effort” to improve its competitiveness, raise its
growth potential and lower unemployment. “Key elements should
include keeping real wage increases in line with productivity
improvements, increasing labor-force participation and fostering
competition in the service sector,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  