-- 
HSBC May Post First-Half Profit Gain as U.S. Writedowns Slow

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-07-28T15:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/hsbc-may-post-first-half-profit-increase-as-north-american-writedowns-slow.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, may post a gain in first-half net income as shrinking U.S.
writedowns outweigh a decline in  investment banking  revenue.  The bank may report net income of $8 billion for the first
six months of 2011, according to the median estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The projection includes
dividends on preferred stock. First-half net income for the
London-based bank in the year-earlier period was $6.76 billion.  Impairments from the lender’s North American business may
fall by $1.5 billion to $3.05 billion, Morgan Stanley analysts
led by Chris Manners wrote in a note to clients on July 25.  “Most recently it’s been on track with running down of the
impairment charges of subprime, so people are hoping for a
positive surprise,” said Jane Coffey, head of U.K. equities at
Royal London Asset Management, which manages about $51 billion
including HSBC stock.  The bank acquired U.S. subprime mortgage lender  Household
International , now known as HSBC Finance, for $15.5 billion in
2003. Six years later, HSBC halted consumer-finance lending at
the unit, which has recorded about $60 billion of provisions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the bank’s annual
reports up to 2010.  Chairman  Douglas Flint  this year described the acquisition
as “a very black mark on our history.”  Investment Banking Slump  First-half pretax profit may fall to $839 million at the
lender’s investment banking unit from $2.09 billion a year
earlier, JPMorgan analysts led by Sunil Garg wrote in a note to
clients on July 25.  “We think it will have done well in equities but seen a
slowdown in fixed income, currency and commodities in line with
the sector,” the Morgan Stanley analysts said.  That’s a view echoed by Sandy Mehta, chief executive
officer for Hong Kong-based Value Investment Principals Ltd.  “I think the investment banking business will be soft.
Trading volume of some of the U.S. financial companies have been
weak,” Mehta said in a telephone interview on July 27. “HSBC
has a very good capital provision and they’re going to see a
good growth in emerging markets in  Asia , but you will see
weaknesses in investment banking and trading operations in
developed markets.”  HSBC gained 0.8 pence to 606.8 pence at the close of London
trading as the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index rose by 1.3 percent. The bank has declined 6.8
percent this year, while the index is 11 percent lower.  Cost Cuts  HSBC plans cut jobs and close offices to reduce costs by as
much as $3.5 billion over the next two years as it expands in
faster-growing economies and prepares for stricter capital
rules.  The bank is close to a decision to cut more than 10,000
jobs globally, Sky News reported yesterday, citing people
familiar with the matter. HSBC spokesman Patrick Humphris
declined to comment when contacted by telephone.  HSBC is trying to find a single buyer for its branch
network in upstate  New York  and its U.S. credit-card business,
which has about $33 billion in assets, people familiar with the
matter said in May. The bank sold part of its Russian consumer
banking business last month.  At a gathering for investors in May, CEO  Stuart Gulliver ,
52, said the bank will focus on retail banking in the U.K., Hong
Kong, high-growth markets such as  Mexico ,  Singapore ,  Turkey  and
 Brazil , and smaller countries where it has a leading market
share. It plans to boost revenue at its retail unit by $4
billion in the near-to-medium term.  ‘Corporate Trend’  “We’d really like to see evidence that net interest margin
is bottoming out,” said  Gareth Hunt , an Investec Securities
analyst. “They’ve been pretty clear about the corporate trend
on net interest margin and the rate at which it’s declining has
dissipated.”  The net interest margin fell to 2.05 percent for the first
half of 2010 from 2.07 percent the year earlier. It was as high
as 3.16 percent for the first half of 2004, Bloomberg data show.  “Even in the Asian markets and  Latin America , costs are
rising and people will be looking at that,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 16 billion pounds ($26
billion) at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London .  The table below shows analyst median estimates for the first
half of 2011 in millions of dollars for HSBC. The bank reports
at 9:15 a.m. in London on Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  