-- 
Scene Last Night: Greenwich Hedge-Funders at Sea, Soccer Revels

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/scene-last-night-hedge-funders-sail-from-greenwich-soccer-rooftop-revels.html
Yesterday afternoon a few dozen
hedge-funders abandoned their desks to sail 12-Metre America’s
Cup yachts on the Long Island Sound.  The majestic boats made their way out of Indian Harbor
Yacht Club in Greenwich, Connecticut, past the waterfront homes
of  Edward Lampert  and  Paul Tudor Jones  and a replica of the
Brooklyn Bridge (which doubles as a dock) at an estate that
recently sold for $39.5 million.  The weather cooperated beautifully, with bright sun and
blue skies. A storm threatened but of course went somewhere
else. A light rain finally came when the post-sail cocktail
party was winding down.  The Connecticut Hedge Fund Association  organized the event,
which benefited the  Young Mariners Foundation , a sailing program
for underprivileged children in  Stamford , Connecticut.
Volunteers from the program provided spectator boats. Kent Holden, founder of Holden Capital Management LLC, found a place
for a couple of reporters on his sailboat.  Young Mariners teaches children water safety and how to
swim, then enrolls them in a 5-week summer sailing program that
they can stay in for three to five years. The organization
serves 140 children annually, with a budget of $350,000.  During a temporary break from crab cakes and crudites,
Bruce McGuire, the founder and president of the  Connecticut 
Hedge Fund Association, presented a $2,000 check to Paul Norton,
the chairman of Young Mariners.  ‘A Nice Wind’  The  12 metre Yacht Development Foundation  provided the
yachts for the sail.  “The great thing about sailing is that every time you
leave the dock it’s different,” said Patrick Keane, a partner
at  RoundTable Financial Group  LLC, returning from the sail.
“Every day of investing is different too.”  “We had a nice wind and a great group of people on
board,” said  Jeff Wilson , a former chief financial officer of a
hedge fund who sails out of the Pequot Yacht Club in Fairfield,
Connecticut. “It was a nice way to get to know some people.”  Among those soaking up the salty air: George Schultze,
chief executive officer of Schultze Asset Management LLC; Rainer
Busch, managing partner and founder of Mercury Partners & Co.;
Ethan Doyle of Princeford Capital; Theresa Patti, managing
director at QFS Asset Management LP; and Anthony Lombardi, who
works in alternatives marketing at Gamco Investors.  On the merits of his company sponsoring the outing, Charlie
Penna, a co-founder and chief risk officer of AlphaMetrix LLC,
said “We’re OK, we’re fully insured.”  Pre-Game Party                         Tonight the Major League Soccer All-Stars will face
 Manchester United  in the sold-out 2011 AT&T MLS All-Star Game at
the Red Bull Arena in Harrison,  New Jersey .  Last night the soccer community and then some -- including
a designer for Oscar de la Renta, a few folks from Twitter and a
Norwegian trail biker -- came out for a pre-game party on the
20th-floor rooftop at 230 Fifth Avenue.  One All-Star player spotted past midnight was Shalrie
Joseph, a midfielder for New England Revolution. He said he
never puts his shin guards on until he gets on the field.  U.S. Women’s National Team forward Alex Morgan stood out in
a red Herve Leger dress. “I live and breathe soccer so it’s
nice to put it aside and enjoy the night,” Morgan said.  The commissioner of the league, Don Garber, confessed he
was still in work mode.  “At night it may be more fun, but the agenda is always to
move the business forward.”  ‘Play Right Now’  Los Angeles Galaxy coach Bruce Arena also had the game on
his mind. “I think we could find enough people to play right
now,” Arena said.  “Six-on-six would work,” said Peter Vermes, coach of
Sporting Kansas City. “But we’d wind up breaking a lot of car
windows.”  The party capped several pre-game festivities, including a
dinner for team owners catered by Todd English last night, at
the Red Bull Space in Tribeca, and a Manchester United dinner on
Monday at Cipriani  Wall Street  sponsored by watchmaker Hublot
SA.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 