-- 
Shanghai to Step Up Probes of Home Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T02:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/shanghai-to-step-up-probe-of-home-prices.html
Shanghai ’s government will step up
inspections on the pricing of new homes to ensure that they
aren’t set at “unreasonably” high prices, as part of a
nationwide effort to curb excessive gains.  The city will seek out developers which violate the rules
and withhold the approvals for them to sell homes, the Shanghai
Municipal Housing Support and Building Administration Bureau
said in a  statement  on its website late yesterday.  “Local governments are facing pressure to achieve their
annual price targets as time is ticking,” said Johnson Hu, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte.
“The rule mainly targets the high-end sector of the market.”  The country’s financial center is toughening its housing
restrictions after June  home prices  accelerated for the first
time since the government imposed more curbs on home purchases
including lifting down payment requirements earlier this year.
Shanghai, one of the first two Chinese cities to introduce a tax
on residential properties, said in March that it will limit
gains in new home prices to no more than the pace of economic
growth.  China ’s cabinet said July 14 it will intensify property
measures, and so-called second- and third-tier, or less affluent
cities, that have seen excessive price gains should restrict the
number of homes each family is allowed to buy.  The country may publish a new list of cities that will be
required to limit home purchases by families in two months, the
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing a person close
to the housing ministry who wasn’t identified. The eastern
Chinese cities of Kunshan, Changshu and Yangzhou in Jiangsu
province, and the southern city of Zhuhai in  Guangdong province 
are likely to be on the list, the newspaper reported.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  