-- 
Singaporean Investors Less Confident About Outlook, JPMorgan Survey Shows

-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-27T05:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/singaporean-investors-less-confident-about-outlook-jpmorgan-survey-shows.html
Investor confidence in  Singapore 
fell on concern about the global economy, the debt crisis in
Europe and escalating debt debate in the U.S., according to a JP
Morgan Asset Management survey.  The Singapore Investor Confidence Index Poll, designed to
reflect the outlook and behavior of experienced investors, fell
to 121 in the first half of 2011 from 134 in the second half of
last year, according to a statement handed out in Singapore
today. A number topping 100 on the index ranging from 0 to 200
indicates a positive outlook.  “This survey shows a dip in investor confidence, yet they
have been investing more in equities this year,” said  Geoff Lewis , the Hong Kong-based head of investment services at JP
Morgan Asset Management. “The one takeaway I would like to
leave is that this is not the time for Singapore investors to
run away from the markets.”  Singapore’s economy shrank an annualized 7.8 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the first decline
in three quarters, as manufacturing slumped, adding to evidence
the slowdowns in  Europe  and the U.S. are curbing growth in  Asia .
The Government of Singapore Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, said yesterday the investment environment
is still challenging because of the uncertain recovery in
developed economies and inflation pressure in emerging markets.  More Pare Investments  Of the 502 investors who participated in the survey, 46
percent plan to invest more in next 6 months, compared with 60
percent in the previous survey, according to the statement. Of
the investors, who all have more than 5 years of continuous
investment experience and a minimum annual personal income of
S$60,000, 12 percent will pare down investment, compared with 6
percent in the last poll done at the end of 2010.  The decline in confidence is mainly the result of
macroeconomic events such as the Arab Spring, the U.S. and
European sovereign debt crisis and the Japan earthquake and
tsunami, said Brian Tan, the head of sales for JP Morgan Asset
Management’s retail business in Singapore.  Almost half of the survey’s respondents said they will not
change their investment strategy while 18 percent will be more
conservative, compared with 10 percent in the December survey.  “We see a drop-off in terms of clients wanting to make
concentrated bets in certain areas, whether it’s an asset class
or a country,” Tan said.  Inflation Outlook  Fewer expect inflation to rise, with 38 percent
anticipating faster price increases, compared with 86 percent
previously.  Consumer prices in Singapore rose 5.2 percent last month,
the fastest pace since January, as food and housing costs
increased. Inflation may climb 4 percent to 5 percent this year,
higher than a previous forecast of 3 percent to 4 percent,
central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon said July 21.  The city-state, which uses the  exchange rate  to manage
inflation, said in April it would allow further currency
appreciation, the third monetary tightening in a year. The
 Singapore dollar  has gained more than 13 percent against the U.S.
currency in the past year.  The nation’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  gained 7.4 percent in a
year as of yesterday, lagging behind the MSCI AC Asia Pacific
Index, which rose 18 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho29@bloomberg.net 
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  