-- 
Sino-Forest Investor Chandler Boosts Stake to 15% to Become Largest Holder

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-28T01:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/sino-forest-investor-chandler-boosts-stake-to-15-to-become-largest-holder.html
Billionaire Richard Chandler raised
his stake in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree-farm operator
targeted by short seller Carson Block, to become the company’s
largest shareholder.  Chandler’s Mandolin Fund Pte acquired 5.33 million shares
of Sino-Forest, which Block accuses of overstating its
timberland holdings, on July 26, increasing its holding to 36.8
million shares, or 15 percent, Chandler said yesterday in a
statement. Mandolin paid an average of about C$7.36 ($7.75) a
share on the Toronto Stock Exchange, according to the statement.
Sino-Forest rose 8 percent in Toronto trading.  “Sino-Forest represents an excellent deep-value investment
opportunity,” Richard Barton, an external spokesman for
Chandler in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Chandler’s purchases push the investor ahead of Davis
Selected Advisers LP and Wellington Management Co. to become
Sino-Forest’s largest shareholder, according to the most recent
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  Chandler became one of  New Zealand ’s richest men partly by
pushing for reforms at  South Korea ’s  SK Group . He helped
spearhead a two-year campaign against SK’s chairman on grounds
his fraud conviction made him unfit to run Korea’s largest oil
refiner. By the time Chandler and his brother sold their SK
stake in 2005, shares of the company had jumped fivefold.  Independent Probe  Chandler said July 20 that Mandolin increased its stake in
Sino-Forest to 26.7 million shares.  Sino-Forest rose yesterday for a seventh consecutive
session, gaining 57 cents to C$7.69 in Toronto.  The shares plunged 83 percent last month. Block’s Muddy
Waters LLC published a report June 2 alleging Sino-Forest
overstated its timber holdings in  China . Sino-Forest, based in
Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario, has denied the Muddy Waters
allegations and commissioned an independent investigation into
the claims.  China’s reputation among investors has been strained in
recent months after short sellers said companies from Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. to Sino-Forest were exaggerating
operations.  John Paulson ’s $37 billion hedge fund, that had been Sino-
Forest’s largest shareholder, sold its entire stake last month.
The fund, Paulson & co, had lost C$462 million ($487 million)
since May 31 on Sino-Forest, it said in a letter to clients.  Sino-Forest accounted for 2.5 percentage points of the 11
percent decline in the firm’s biggest fund in June, John Paulson, 55, said on a conference call with investors on July
22, according to two people briefed on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 