-- 
Soccer Body Says Goal-Line Technology Decision May Come in March

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-27T17:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/soccer-body-says-goal-line-technology-may-be-agreed-in-march.html
Soccer’s governing body may decide
to introduce goal-line technology as early as March, FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  said today.  The Zurich-based body has resisted installing a system to
determine whether the ball has crossed the goal line. It was
forced to reconsider after receiving criticism when England was
denied a game-tying goal against  Germany  at the 2010  World Cup .
Television replays showed the shot crossed the goal line.  A final decision will be made when soccer’s rule-making
body, the  International Football Association Board , meets in
 London . If the board agrees, the technology would take effect
for national leagues July 1, 2012, before a decision is made on
using it at the World Cup.  “We will have on the next international board at the
beginning of March next year a final decision on the goal-line
technology,” Blatter told reporters in  Rio de Janeiro . “If it
will prove to be accurate and to be affordable, then it is
possible the international board will decide goal-line
technology shall be introduced for the World Cup 2014.”  FIFA  is in talks with nine potential suppliers, who’ve
conducted tests to meet its criteria, including being able to
deliver a result to the referee within a second of the action.  Blatter had opposed the technology until the last World Cup,
saying he preferred a uniform set of rules to dictate matches
from elite competitions down to the grass-roots level. The sport
is also experimenting with extra officials placed behind the
goals.  Several coaches and players have been critical of FIFA’s
delay in following sports like cricket, tennis and rugby in
using technology to aid officials.  “We can put a man on the moon but we can’t decide if a
ball crossed the line,” Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  told
the British Broadcasting Corp. last season. “It’s beyond
belief.”  FIFA said today the 2014 World Cup in Brazil will be played
between June 12 and July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio via the London newsroom on  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  