-- 
South Korean Current-Account Surplus Widens as Exports Withstand Won Gains

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-07-28T02:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-widened-to-2-99-billion-in-may.html
South  Korea ’s current-account
surplus rose to an eight-month high in June as global demand for
cars and steel bolstered exports, putting pressure on the won to
strengthen further.  The surplus was $2.99 billion, compared with a revised
$2.18 billion in May, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in
Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure of
trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  The Bank of Korea raised its forecast for this year’s
current-account surplus to $15.5 billion from $11 billion on
July 15, citing strong export growth and stabilizing raw
material costs. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said July 19 that the
won may keep appreciating as the government seeks to damp
inflation and exports benefit from a recovery in  Japan  and a
“moderate” acceleration in U.S. growth.  “The sizable current-account surplus should add more
pressure on the won, which is already rising fast,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. He cautioned that the global economy
is at risk of a slowdown that would damp exports.   South Korea’s currency climbed to its strongest level in
almost three years against the dollar yesterday, pushed up by
overseas investors’ purchases of the nation’s assets. The won
has gained about 7 percent so far this year, the most among
major Asian currencies.  Kospi Falls  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,052.93 per dollar as of 11:18
a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s
currency rose to as high as 1,048.30 yesterday, the strongest
level since August 2008. The Kospi share index fell 0.9 percent.  The stronger won hasn’t stopped carmakers from projecting
higher overseas sales.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Kia Motors Corp.
aim to increase U.S. sales by 18 percent to 1.06 million
vehicles this year, the companies said last month. Hyundai,
South Korea’s largest car maker, will announce second-quarter
earnings today.  South Korea’s  Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest steelmaker,
posted a 22 percent gain in second-quarter profit, aided by
higher prices and earnings from its units.  The advances in the won may help ease inflation pressure,
which the Bank of Korea has tried to contain by raising  interest
rates  three times this year. The central bank kept the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 3.25 percent this month. Governor Kim Choong Soo’s policy board meets August 11 to decide whether to
raise borrowing costs again.  Exports Rising  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 13.6 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 22
percent gain in May, according to today’s statement. Imports
climbed 27.5 percent after expanding a revised 30.1 percent.  “Exports will likely stay strong in the second half as
Japan is still struggling with the aftermath of the earthquake,
giving additional chances to Korean exporters worldwide,” Kim Young Bae, a director-general at the Bank of Korea, told
reporters in  Seoul  today.  Overseas shipments probably gained 19 percent this month
after expanding in June at the slowest pace since October 2009,
according to the median forecast of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The latest monthly trade data will be released
on Aug. 1.  The surplus on traded goods widened to $3.66 billion last
month from a revised $1.63 billion in May, today’s report showed.
The services account, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, posted a deficit of $632 million
in June, compared with a revised surplus of $16 million in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  