-- 
South African Chief Justice Ngcobo Declines Offer to Extend His Tenure

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-27T15:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/south-african-chief-justice-ngcobo-withdraws-decision-to-extend-his-tenure.html
South African Chief Justice Sandile Ngcobo plans to step down next month, ending a legal wrangle
over the legality of President  Jacob Zuma ’s offer to extend his
tenure.  “On Aug. 15, there will be a new chief justice in South
Africa,” Justice Minister  Jeff Radebe  told reporters today in
the capital,  Pretoria . Ngcobo decided to step aside to protect
the integrity of the justice system, and Zuma has begun the
process of appointing a replacement, Radebe said.  Ngcobo was appointed to the  Constitutional Court  in 1999
after serving for three years on the  Supreme Court , and was
named chief justice in August 2009, when Pius Langa retired from
the post. The Constitution states that judges on the country’s
highest court may serve a non-renewable term of 12 years, unless
Parliament passes a law to extend their tenure.  Zuma told lawmakers on June 15 that the Judges’
Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act, adopted 10 years
ago, authorized him to enable the chief justice to continue
serving beyond the 12-year term and that the law’s
constitutionality had never been challenged.  The Council for the Advancement of the South African
Constitution, Freedom Under Law, the Justice Alliance of  South
Africa  and the Centre for Applied Legal Studies petitioned the
Constitutional Court to rule on the validity of Zuma’s offer to
extend Ngcobo’s tenure. A verdict has yet to be delivered.  ‘Detracts From Integrity’  “Justice Ngcobo said he found it undesirable for a chief
justice to be a party in litigation involving the question of
whether or not he or she should continue to hold office, as this
detracts from the integrity of the office,” Radebe said.  The ruling  African National Congress  agreed last month to
proposals made by the opposition Democratic Alliance to pass a
law to validate the extension of Ngcobo’s term. While the
legislation is now being processed, the parliamentary schedule
doesn’t allow it to be adopted before he was due to step down.  “It was intolerable to put the chief justice in this
position by extending his term by presidential discretion,”
Dene Smuts, a Democratic Alliance lawmaker, said in an e-mailed
statement. “I have been prompting action since late last year
to ensure the retention of the chief justice. We have lost
someone who has the administrative, policy-making and leadership
skills we need. This grave loss is made all the worse by the
fact that it could have been prevented, had the appropriate
action been taken in time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 