-- 
South African Mines Department, ICT, Raided on Anglo Dispute

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-27T16:32:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/south-african-mines-department-raided-amid-anglo-american-iron-ore-dispute.html
South African special criminal
investigators raided the Department of Mineral Resources and
Imperial Crown Trading 289 Ltd. in a probe into a dispute over
rights to  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Sishen iron ore mine.  “We are busy investigating charges of forgery, uttering,
corruption and fraud,” the Directorate for Priority Crimes
Investigation, known as the Hawks, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “In simple terms, these relate to among others,
falsifying of documents.”  Anglo unit  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  and  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. (ACL) , controlled by the world’s biggest steelmaker, have
asked the  High Court  to reverse the Department of Mineral
Resources’ award of prospecting rights over a portion of the
Sishen iron ore mine. ArcelorMittal South Africa lost its rights
over 21.4 percent of the mine after failing to renew the title,
prompting Kumba to cancel supplies or iron ore to the steelmaker
at prices significantly below market levels.  The Hawks visited the mineral department’s regional office
in Kimberley and the head office in  Pretoria  today, the mineral
resources department said in a statement. ICT lawyer Ronnie
Mendelow confirmed the raid when reached on his mobile phone.  ICT’s owners include Jagdish Parekh, a business partner of
South African President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane. Parekh
declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone.  The Hawks also conducted search and seizure operations at a
house belonging to a suspect who works for ICT, it said in the
statement. The unit is investigating allegations that Department
of Mineral Resources staffers were involved in fraudulent
issuing of prospecting rights, it said.  The Hawks received “assistance from the State Attorney’s
office in Pretoria,” it said. Tlali Tlali, spokesman for the
 Department of Justice , didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone,
which wasn’t taking messages.  ArcelorMittal South Africa’s dispute with Kumba is of
“concern” to the government as it may affect steel prices in
the country, Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  