-- 
Spaceflights From New Mexico Desert Depend on New Jobs

-- B y   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-08-08T21:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/spaceflights-from-desert-s-journey-of-dead-depend-on-new-jobs.html
(Corrects spelling of spaceport director’s name in ninth
paragraph.)  The frontier of commercial
spaceflight, which opened when NASA’s shuttle program ended this
month, is taking shape in an unfinished assembly of metal, glass
and concrete that resembles a rust-colored stingray burrowed
halfway into  New Mexico ’s desert.  “Spaceport America” bills itself online as “the world’s
first purpose-built commercial spaceport” and will be the
official home of Virgin Galactic, billionaire  Richard Branson ’s
venture that proposes to take tourists into suborbital space.
It’s about 75 miles southwest of the Trinity atomic-bomb test
site where the U.S. ushered in the nuclear age 66 years ago.  It’s even closer to the mobile home of Florita Munoz in
Rincon, New Mexico. Munoz, 69, says she has little regard for
this latest attempt to enter a new era. The 4-year-old project
has already cost her state, the 10th poorest in the U.S., $209
million in public money. It’s at least nine months behind
schedule and its director says it won’t generate as many jobs as
backers once claimed.  “There’s a lot of people that are having a hard time
making a living, and I think they should have concentrated on
the people more than the spaceport,” said Munoz, who lives off
her deceased husband’s $25,000 annual pension.  President  Barack Obama  has used the end of the shuttle
program to call for expanding commercial spaceflight. Spaceport
America -- which has hit snags in its plans to accommodate NASA-
style orbital launches, to attract an aerospace plant and even
to hold competitions of a nascent “Rocket Racing League” --
shows some of the challenges ahead for space-age investors, be
they private or public.  ‘Think in Decades’  “You have to think in decades” to comprehend the benefits
of spaceport development, said Derek Webber, a director of
 Spaceport Associates , a consulting firm. Webber, a former
satellite and launch vehicle engineer for aerospace companies,
is a self-described advocate of space tourism. While New
Mexico’s project is “a bold first attempt,” he said, any
return on its investment may be several years away.  “Is it reasonable for them to be skeptical?” he said.
“Of course it is.”  Former Governor Bill Richardson, a Democrat, championed the
project and the state legislature approved it in 2007, after a
pair of economic-impact studies predicted it would create as
many as 3,460 jobs. Voters in Sierra County, where the spaceport
is located, and Dona Ana County, where Munoz lives, voted in
local taxes to help finance its construction.  ‘Feel-good Plan’  Now, Governor Susana Martinez, a Republican who replaced
Richardson in January, has ordered an audit of the spaceport’s
spending and said the facility must secure private investment to
augment the public money. Spaceport director  Christine Anderson ,
who took charge in February, disavows the earlier job
projections, calling them a “feel-good plan.”  She’s working to update them, she said -- reducing tourism
numbers, launch counts and revenue projections to “more
conservative” figures. The new estimates aren’t yet available.  Richardson, who called the project his “legacy,” said he
remains confident.  “Well, it’s going to revive the economy of Southern New
Mexico,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’ll be a
linchpin not just for jobs but science education and technology
companies to come to the area.”  He predicted “worldwide attention” for the first launch,
and said he hopes to be among the first travelers, though he
hasn’t reserved a ticket with Virgin. “I hope they give me a
discount,” he said.  Missed Deadline  “Expected Completion: Early 2011,” reads a sign on the
spaceport’s freshly paved access road. Work on the 110,000-
square-foot terminal and hangar continues, punctuated by
whirring drills and beeping cranes. The construction has created
about 800 jobs at the site in New Mexico’s Jornada Del Muerto
Desert. The name means “Journey of the Dead.”  At some point -- it’s not clear when -- plans call for this
to be the point of departure for journeys of the rich: Virgin
Galactic’s suborbital tourism flights, at $200,000 per
passenger. It’s company policy not to announce dates for
completion, said George Whitesides, Virgin Galactic’s chief
executive officer.  The company has a 20-year lease with Spaceport America that
commences once the facility is completed. Over the full term,
the agreement is expected to generate $150 million to $250
million for the spaceport, said Aaron Prescott, the facility’s
business operations manager.  Taking Reservations  Virgin already has 440 people signed up for its flights,
said Whitesides, a former chief of staff at  NASA  who said he’s
on the list of signees himself. He said his company was
attracted to New Mexico by its 330 days of clear weather for
launches; its high elevation, which limits fuel costs; and its
New Jersey-sized chunk of restricted airspace, shared with the
adjacent White Sands Missile Range.  “Of course, the fourth reason is that the state is
building a spaceport,” Whitesides said.  Virgin will have spent $300 million in research and
development by the time its SpaceShipTwo is ready for service,
he said. Finishing the craft, which is about the size of a
midsize corporate jet and seats eight including the crew, will
take another year or two, he said. Virgin does not yet have a
commercial launch license from the  Federal Aviation
Administration .  When it opens for business, the company will send as many
as 500 people into suborbital space in the first year,
Whitesides said. SpaceShipTwo would be taken 50,000 feet into
the air by a carrier craft called WhiteKnightTwo.  Six Minutes  At that height, the smaller ship would detach and use its
own engines to climb to more than 62 miles above Earth’s surface
-- the common definition of when space begins, and still miles
below orbital altitude. Passengers will have  six minutes  of
weightlessness before the ship returns to Spaceport America,
where it would glide to a landing on the 2-mile runway.  Virgin would market services beyond tourism, such as
research opportunities and atmospheric testing, Whitesides said.
Over time, the cost of a flight should decrease, he said,
comparing suborbital tourism to early transatlantic flights,
which cost passengers thousands of dollars when adjusted for
inflation. “Now you can fly across the Atlantic for 400
bucks,” he said.  For the time being at least, it’s not lost on local
residents like Ray Lind that Spaceport America will largely
cater to Branson’s wealthy customers.  Rich Man’s ‘Boondoggle’  “The taxpayers pay to build a spaceport for an enormously
rich man and he’s going to be flying people into space at what,
$200,000 a shot?” said Lind, a repossession man for Roadrunner
Collateral Recovery in  Las Cruces , about 45 miles south of the
facility. He called the project a “boondoggle.”  Anderson said the spaceport will also focus on education
and research. To date, it has played host to 12 vertical
launches of suborbital research rockets, grossing “a few
thousand dollars per launch,” Prescott said. The facility will
be open for tours by those who won’t be flying; visitor centers
are planned for nearby towns as well.  Pat Hynes, who heads a NASA-backed space education  program 
called the New Mexico Space Grant Consortium, said the spaceport
would benefit the community. Between references to Robert
Goddard and Wernher von Braun, two pioneers of modern rocketry
who both worked in New Mexico, she traced the idea of building
the facility to the Kennedy administration.  “It’s our heritage as much as chili is,” Hynes said.  Goddard and Von Braun  While Goddard, von Braun and other 20th Century rocketeers
valued New Mexico’s location for their experiments, the fact
that it’s far from any large body of water makes Spaceport
America unsuitable for large, NASA-style orbital launches, given
current technology. That’s because detachable booster rockets
need safe places to fall -- and that means oceans.  “Ventures looking to do orbital launches at this time,
unless they have reusable launch vehicle technology that can get
around some of the range issues would not be able to use
Spaceport America right now,” said John Foust, a senior analyst
at Futron Corp., a Bethesda, Maryland-based consultant that
prepared one of the early economic-impact studies.  Futron’s 2005 report, which predicted as many as 3,460 jobs
and $460 million in economic activity by 2015, was based in part
on the assumption that some orbital launches would be possible.
The study, which was funded by the state Economic Development
Department, contemplated that at least one aerospace company
capable of carrying NASA payloads into orbit would set up shop
near the spaceport.  No Rocket Racing  Two other potential revenue generators that were mentioned
-- a NASCAR-style  racing league  for rockets and annual rocketry
competitions -- have dropped from the picture entirely. In the
Futron report, they accounted for at least $62 million in
economic activity and more than 630 jobs.  “We were asked to provide a study and examine the
potential economic impact of the spaceport,” Foust said. “We
provided one to the best information available at the time.”  Using that report, and another prepared by New Mexico State
University researchers, then-Governor Richardson campaigned to
win funding for the spaceport.  “What we’ll bring with the spaceport is new companies, new
jobs and a tax base, a stronger tax base that will fund
education, health care and other social needs here in New
Mexico,” he said during a 2007 speech at Vista Middle School in
Las Cruces.  Local Taxes  That year, the state legislature was flush with a $500
million surplus from energy reserves. It approved spending $140
million from the state general fund for the project, said  David
Wilson , a spaceport spokesman. The state issued bonds to pay for
the rest, and voters in Dona Ana and Sierra counties approved
local taxes of 25 cents on every $100 of sales to help meet the
debt service. In each county, roughly 25 percent of people live
below the poverty level.  The $200 million or so “would have made a big difference
in terms of an investment in those communities,” said Dona Ana
County Commissioner Billy Garrett, a Democrat who took office
this year. “The people here were pitched the idea that this was
going to produce jobs and businesses that would allow for
greater opportunity for them.”  The opportunities remain difficult to quantify. While the
first phase of construction, which includes roads, the hangar
and the runway, is 87 percent complete, Anderson said the
spaceport won’t be fully functional until 2013. This month, she
told a state legislative committee that she expected operating
income of no more than $100,000 through that year.  Income Projections  The spaceport would receive $5.3 million in income from
Virgin Galactic in 2014, according to her presentation. By 2016,
operating income from all sources would total $8.3 million --
including tourism and launches by companies other than Virgin,
according to spaceport documents.  Its operating expenses by then would be $6.9 million,
leaving $1.1 million for capital reinvestment and almost
$300,000 in  cash flow , according to the documents. It’s unclear
how many people would work for the spaceport itself. Darrell
Green, an electrical subcontractor whose Albuquerque-based
company was wiring the hangar in the 96-degree heat, said that
building would “be mostly automated.”  “I don’t see putting more than 20, 25 people out here to
work,” said Green, a superintendent for  Bowers Electric Inc. 
When the spaceport is operational, Virgin Galactic would employ
250 people there, Whitesides estimated.  The stakes are high in a place “where the little guys
can’t stay in business,” said Pat Speers, 73, manager of the
Oasis Motel, about 35 miles from the spaceport. She was
referring to boarded-up storefronts along cracking roads in
Sierra County.  Gold Stickers  “It’s scary, because everyone is planning so big on it,”
Speers said.  The county’s economic development organization has adopted
a new slogan, “Home of Spaceport America,” and in the county
seat, street signs are decorated with stickers of gold
spaceships. It’s reminiscent of 1950, when this town of about
7,000 changed its name from Hot Springs to win a radio quiz
show’s contest.  Time will tell how the new slogan works out in Truth or
Consequences, New Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 rmac3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Blau in Washington at 
 rblau1@bloomberg.net  