-- 
Spain’s Biggest-Deficit Region Rules Out Tax Increases to Tame Shortfall

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-07-27T13:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/spain-s-biggest-deficit-region-rules-out-tax-increases-to-narrow-shortfall.html
Castilla-La Mancha, which has
 Spain ’s biggest regional deficit, aims to cut the shortfall
fivefold this year without raising taxes as it stays shut out of
debt markets, President Maria Dolores de Cospedal said.  Cospedal said in an interview today she will seek to shrink
a deficit that reached 6.5 percent of regional gross domestic
product last year to meet a goal of 1.3 percent in 2011. Her
government there currently has enough cash to pay wages through
September, she said.  “Of course we are going to try to meet the target, it’s
our obligation,” Cospedal, who is also deputy leader of the
opposition People’s Party, said at the party’s headquarters in
 Madrid . “We rule out raising taxes, it’s against what we want
and believe. Spain has never emerged from an economic crisis by
raising taxes.”  Cospedal, 45, inherited the deficit when she led the
 People’s Party , which is in opposition nationally, to win
Castilla-La Mancha on May 22 after three decades of Socialist
rule. Spain’s 17 regions are crucial to its efforts to rein in
the euro area’s third-largest budget shortfall, as they control
health and education spending and employ half of the nation’s
public workers.  Meeting Today  Regions have outstanding debt of 121 billion euros ($175
billion), or 11 percent of overall GDP. Contagion from the
sovereign debt crisis has forced two of Spain’s most indebted
regions to sell bonds to its citizens. Regional finance chiefs
meet Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  at 5 p.m. today in Madrid to
discuss their budgets and Salgado will brief reporters
afterward.  Castilla-La Mancha, which can’t issue debt until the
central government approves its spending plans, aims to
negotiate with banks on “formulas” to pay suppliers which are
owed more than 2.5 billion euros by the regional government,
said Cospedal. The region’s debt amounts to 6.1 billion euros,
or 16.9 percent of GDP, according to the Bank of Spain.  The region’s deficit in the first half was 4.9 percent of
its GDP, said Cospedal. In the center of Spain and famous as
home to the fictional character Don Quixote, Castilla-La Mancha
accounts for about 3 percent of Spain’s economic output, a
similar proportion to  Greece ’s weight in the euro region.  Election Defeat  The PP handed the ruling Socialists their worst local
election defeat in May and also took the traditional Socialist
stronghold of Extremadura. Polls show the PP, which eliminated a
6.5 percent budget deficit in the eight years it governed to
2004, will win general elections that must be held by March.  The People’s Party would win 45.9 percent of the vote,
compared with 32.1 percent for the Socialists, a poll by El
Mundo showed on June 5. While Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero says he wants to govern until March, 50
percent of Spaniards want elections before then, according to a
separate poll by El Pais on July 3.  Cospedal, who will take one week’s holiday and work through
the rest of August, plans to cut costs and “rationalize”
public companies, she said. Spain’s 21 percent unemployment rate
means now is not the time to make citizens pay for  health
services , while she aims to pool resources with other states and
will create an office of budget control.  “We assume the debt we have inherited and we are going to
do everything we can to turn the situation around,” she said.
“The government of Castilla-La Mancha knows what is has to do
and it will do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 Ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  