-- 
Spain’s Regions Toe Line as Salgado Secures Pledge to Adopt Spending Rules

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-28T11:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/spain-s-regions-toe-line-as-salgado-secures-pledge-to-adopt-spending-rules.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  secured agreement with the nation’s 17 regions to adopt
spending rules as part of her effort to win over investors and
stem a surge in borrowing costs.  The mechanics of the accord, an idea Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero floated in March and proposed again in
June, will be decided by a working group in September. Regions
have six months to present legislation to their parliaments,
Salgado said after a four-hour meeting of the states’ finance
chiefs yesterday in Madrid.  “The commitment is an extraordinarily satisfactory
solution,” Salgado told reporters, rejecting suggestions that
the rules may be weaker and take longer to implement than the
central government had hoped.  Spain’s regions are crucial to its efforts to rein in the
euro area’s third-largest budget shortfall, as they control
health and education spending and employ half of the nation’s
public workers. They have outstanding debt of 121 billion euros
($174 billion), or 11 percent of overall gross domestic product.
That’s the most on record, according  Bank of Spain  data.  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
widened to 345 basis points today, from 332 basis points at the
close yesterday. That compares with a closing-level euro-era
record of 367 basis points on July 18 and an average of about 15
basis points in the first decade of monetary union.  Deficit Target  The regions are trying to cut their overall deficit by more
than half to 1.3 percent of GDP this year, as part of Spain’s
plan to reduce the total shortfall to 6 percent this year from
9.2 percent in 2010. While first-quarter budget data for the
regions indicated they aren’t on track to meet the target, the
central government said today its first-half deficit narrowed to
2.2 percent of GDP, within the 4.8 percent full-year goal.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo called on the regions to meet their targets and
on the central government to force them to do so.  Spain  met its
overall budget target last year as deeper-than-forecast cuts by
the central government offset slippage in the regions.  “Year after year the regions don’t meet their targets and
the central government has to make room so that the overall
deficit meets the goal,” Gonzalez-Paramo, a Spaniard, said in
an interview with Radio Galega today. “It’s very clear that the
central government can demand regions meet the budget goals and
they have the instruments to do so.”  Regions’ Commitment  The regions committed yesterday to each meet individually
the deficit targets of 1.3 percent in 2012, 1.1 percent in 2013
and 1 percent in 2014. The central government controls half the
 voting rights  in the so-called Council of Fiscal and Financial
Policy, meaning it can get measures passed with backing from
just one region. No one voted against the budget targets,
Salgado said.  Support for the Socialist central government in the council
has declined since the opposition People’s Party won regions
including Castilla-La Mancha and Extremadura on May 22 in the
Socialists’ worst local election defeat in three decades.  Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the PP’s new president of
Castilla-La Mancha, said yesterday that the expenditure ceiling
measure won’t be effective.  “The spending ceiling that the government wants to pass
and that they are presenting to the Council of Fiscal and
Financial Policy is unrealistic because it is based on revenue
forecasts that can’t be met,” she said in an interview in
 Madrid  before the meeting.  Growth Forecast  Spain’s government forecasts economic growth of 1.3 percent
this year, accelerating to 2.3 percent next year and 2.4 percent
in 2013. The  International Monetary Fund  sees the growth rate
“gradually” rising to 1.5 percent to 2 percent in the medium
term, it said on June 22.  Spain’s regions, which control more than a third of public
spending and spend 60 percent of their budget on health and
education, are suffering from a slump in  tax revenue  linked to
real-estate transactions. As their governments struggle to plug
shortfalls, Spain’s association of pharmaceutical firms said on
June 8 the companies it represents are owed 5.2 billion euros by
the health system.  Castilla-La Mancha’s Cospedal aims to negotiate with banks
on “formulas” to pay suppliers owed more than 2.5 billion
euros, she said. The region can’t issue debt to plug the deficit
as the central government hasn’t signed off on its spending
plan, and the administration has only enough cash to cover wage
payments for August and September, said Cospedal, who is also
deputy leader of the  People’s Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  