-- 
Spotify Rips ITunes’ Thunder With New Service: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-07-27T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/spotify-steals-itunes-thunder-with-new-service-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’s human nature that nothing’s as
alluring as what you can’t have. That’s certainly proven to be
the case with the online music service  Spotify .  A big success in  Europe , it has developed a mystique among
U.S. digerati unable to access it without resorting to elaborate
workarounds. Now it has arrived, and it turns out to be largely
worthy of the buzz.  Spotify is cloud-based, meaning that its collection
of some 15 million tracks is stored on and accessed over the
Internet. It differs from services like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes in
that you aren’t purchasing and downloading individual tracks or
albums to your computer or smartphone. Instead, you decide what
you want to hear when you want to hear it, and stream it in real
time.  There are three tiers of service. The basic, free option,
which is currently available on a by-invitation basis, gives you
access to the full Spotify catalogue. But you can only listen
over a computer once you’ve downloaded and installed its free,
iTunes-like software. Versions are available for both Microsoft
Windows-based PCs and Apple Macs, though there’s no option for
accessing the service through a Web browser if you happen to be
away from your own computer.  Ad-Free  The free service also carries ads, and after an
introductory period you’ll be limited to 10 hours of listening a
month and a maximum of five plays per track. Getting rid of the
ads and limits requires a $4.99-a-month “unlimited”
subscription. For $9.99, you also get to play Spotify tracks on
your smartphone or tablet, and to access the service through
Internet-connected sound systems like Sonos wireless speakers
and Logitech’s Squeezebox line.  I’ve been trying out the premium service for a couple of
weeks, running it on both a PC and a Mac and installing its app
on both an iPhone 4 and an Android phone, Samsung’s Droid
Charge. While none of Spotify’s individual features or
components is truly revolutionary, no one else has put those
pieces together in as simple and comprehensive a package.  As music services go, Spotify is a bit of a hybrid. As long
as you’re connected to the Internet, most songs are streamed,
meaning that they aren’t hogging space on your device. The
premium tier adds the option of saving songs locally, so they’re
available even if you’re on an airplane, subway or somewhere
else without  Internet service . Those songs go away if you drop
your Spotify subscription.  Importing ITunes  I started by installing Spotify’s player software on the
Mac where I also keep my iTunes library. Spotify gave me the
option of incorporating those purchased songs into its library
too; I opted to bring only some of my playlists, encompassing
several hundred cuts. The playlists promptly showed up on all
the other devices on which I had the software or app installed.  In cases where a track existed in Spotify’s catalog, it
matched up its in-the-cloud copy with mine, making the song
instantly streamable on all my devices. For music that the
service didn’t have, I had to go through a somewhat laborious
process of putting both my computer and mobile device on the
same Wi-Fi network, opening the software on both and marking the
playlist to copy over the missing music.  For me, the real benefit of Spotify is in all those
millions of tracks that I didn’t already own. I can play them
one-off, or organize my favorites into new playlists I can share
with other Spotify users via Facebook or Twitter.  No Beatles  You’ll surely find music that appeals to you. Don’t,
though, expect to find everything. For instance, like every
other legal source of tracks except iTunes, it is BYOB -- Bring
Your Own Beatles. Other old-school holdouts like Led Zeppelin
and Metallica are missing too.  There are also holes in the catalogues of more recent, more
download-friendly artists. For instance, I was able to find
multiple versions of Jason Mraz’s 2008 hit, “I’m Yours,” but
only a single live version of his 2002 “The Remedy (I Won’t
Worry).” Spotify did provide a couple of karaoke versions, in
case I wanted to sing along. I didn’t.  On the other hand, the service has an impressive collection
of tracks from niche sources and artists who might be a little
outside the pop mainstream.  A colleague was pleased to get hard-to-find tracks from
favorite performers like  James Blake , Nite Jewel and DaM-FunK.
Myself, I was able to find remembered jazz chestnuts from
artists like Ramsey Lewis and Vince Guaraldi, as well as a good
deal of Mississippi bluesman Johnny Rawls.  The digital-music market is undergoing its biggest changes
since the opening of the iTunes Store in 2003. Services like
Rhapsody, Grooveshark, Rdio and Pandora have all carved out
nooks for themselves.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  both
recently launched online-storage music services and Apple is
about to revamp ITunes to be more cloud-centric.  Even in this crowded field, Spotify stands out for its
flexibility, depth and ease of use. It’s one of those cases
where the mystique is well-deserved.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 