-- 
States Count Cash While Hoping Congress Reaches Deal to Raise Debt Limit

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-07-27T19:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/states-count-cash-while-hoping-congress-reaches-deal-to-raise-debt-limit.html
Arizona is prepared to draw on its
$1 billion in cash to cope with a possible federal government
shutdown. South Carolina has plans to idle all but its most
essential employees. Michigan may have to cut aid to the poor.  With  Washington  in a political deadlock that may stop the
federal government from borrowing money as soon as next week,
states are preparing for the fallout should the Treasury
Department run out of cash. Used to the brinkmanship in their
own legislatures, state officials say they expect Congress to
reach a deal to head off a shutdown, or that any disruption
would last only a few days.  “They’re banking on compromise,” said Michael Bird, who
follows federal affairs for the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  in Washington. He said states typically have enough
cash to cover a few weeks of lost federal funding. “It gets
worrisome after you get past that.”  States are intertwined with Washington, which provided $564
billion, or 35 percent, of the $1.62 trillion they spent in the
 2010 budget year , according to the  National Association of State
Budget Officers . The shutdown could affect programs such as
 unemployment insurance ; Medicaid, which provides health care for
the poor; and transportation projects.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty,” said  Scott Pattison , the
director of the budget officers’ group in Washington. “The
federal government isn’t going to say until it actually occurs
what funding streams it’s going to impact and what they’re going
to fund.”  Bearing the Burden  Without the ability to borrow, the federal government would
have to cut about $134 billion of outlays in August, about 44
percent of what it’s slated to spend, according to a report by
the Washington-based Bipartisan Policy Center, which advocates
politically balanced policy making. The cuts may force states to
bear the burden of federal programs or shut them down,  the
legislatures group  advised members this month.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, said no
one has any clear idea of how grave the fallout would be. He
said it would be “irresponsible” of congressional leaders from
both parties and President  Barack Obama  to not meet the deadline
or allow a downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA credit rating.  “They’re engaged in a bunch of brinksmanship right now,
and we’re getting pretty close to the brink,” Christie told
reporters today in Newark. “I don’t want to speculate about
what will happen because we’re all just guessing. I don’t want
to add to the hysteria.”  ‘Short-Lived’  The prospect of U.S. default hasn’t set off panic in
statehouses or on  Wall Street  this week as an agreement eluded
President Barack Obama and congressional leaders. Top-rated 10-
year municipal debt yielded about 2.69 percent, little changed
from the end of last week, according to a BVAL index. In April,
a standoff over the federal budget was averted less than an hour
before agencies were set to close.  “Most people believe that any shutdown will be very short-
lived, so I don’t think it would have a big impact on state
government cash flows,” said  Peter Hayes , a managing director
with  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , which owns $98.2 billion in municipal
bonds.  States are benefitting from a recovery in tax receipts. In
 Massachusetts , Treasurer Steven Grossman said the state has
$2.2 billion in cash at its disposal. Even if it didn’t get the
$850 million it expects from the federal government in August,
it would still be able to pay those bills and have almost $1.1
billion at the beginning of September.  September Is Critical  “When you get into the month of September, all states will
be in a highly challenged position, and as you get further into
the month of September obviously it becomes very difficult for
us as well as for all states,” Grossman said.  The broader spending cuts that may emerge from a deal to
cut the federal budget could have a broader impact on programs
like Medicaid, the largest single expense for states.  “A deficit-reduction package may be more meaningful in how
it affects state governments,” said Hayes, the Blackrock
investor. “You really have to wait and see.”  The effects of the debt-ceiling standoff may also push up
borrowing costs for state and local governments should the
federal government lose its AAA rating. Moody’s Investors
Service said July 19 that five top-rated states -- Maryland,
 South Carolina ,  New Mexico , Tennessee and Virginia -- may be
downgraded because their dependence on federal revenue makes
them vulnerable to a U.S. credit cut.  California  Loan  The impasse may also threaten a recovery in tax collections
if it slows the economic recovery. California this week took out
a $5.4 billion loan in case it were unable to access investors -
- or forced to pay higher rates -- in the  bond market  in the
wake of a U.S. default.  California Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat, told reporters
he expects Congress to reach a deal to avert a default. Florida
Governor Rick Scott, a Republican, also views a default as
unlikely and views the impact as “relatively minimal,” said
Lane Wright, his spokesman.  New York  is expecting $7 billion of federal payments in
August and September for hundreds of programs, said  Mark
Johnson , a spokesman for Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . Without
that money, the state would have to either drain its cash on
hand -- expected to be $6.5 billion by the end of September --
or delay payments.  The comptroller’s office has been working with state
agencies to look for outstanding claims for federal programs so
New York can be reimbursed before Aug. 2, when the Treasury
forecasts it will hit the debt limit.  Contingency Plans  In South Carolina, Comptroller General Richard Eckstrom
said today the state has contingency plans to reduce spending if
federal funds are withheld, including furloughing all but the
most essential workers.  In  Arizona , Treasurer Doug Ducey said the state has enough
cash on hand to fund its operations for six weeks and that he
anticipates that the debt-limit will be raised soon enough to
prevent the state from running into financial difficulty. He
said he anticipates that the state could also access a
$1 billion  credit line  if necessary.  “We are confident they will agree on a solution,” he
said. “We have enough cash on hand to navigate through that.”  Michigan Budget Director John Nixon said agencies that
administer federal cash flow for Medicaid,  food stamps  and other
programs have been alerted to possible effects should
negotiators fail to agree by the deadline.  “Hopefully, they’re big enough to realize that more than
politics, we’ve got a real solution on our hands and it needs to
be thought through the best way possible,” he said. “I
personally think they’ll get it done. We’ll have to kick into
high gear and start scaling back if they don’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  