-- 
Steel Authority Scraps $1.2 Billion India Mill Planned With Kobe

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-27T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/steel-authority-kobe-scrap-1-2-billion-indian-gas-fired-mill.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the
nation’s second-biggest producer, scrapped a $1.2 billion plan
to build its first natural gas-fired factory with  Japan ’s  Kobe
Steel Ltd. (5406) , anticipating a shortage of the fuel.  “We’ve decided not to proceed with the project,” Steel
Secretary P.K. Misra said yesterday in an interview in  New
Delhi , where state-run Steel Authority is based. “Sourcing gas
for the plant will be difficult.”  Dwindling output at  India ’s biggest natural gas field has
prompted the government to halt supplies to companies other than
power producers and fertilizer makers. Kobe’s setback underpins
half a decade of struggle by global steelmakers  ArcelorMittal (MT) 
and Posco to set up mills in India, where demand for the alloy
is growing at more than 10 percent every year.  Steel Authority will proceed on its own with a 50 billion
rupee ($1.1 billion) power plant that was planned as part of the
project at Jagdishpur in the eastern state of  Uttar Pradesh ,
Misra said. Power from the 1,000 megawatt unit will be sold to
the nation’s transmission and distribution companies, he said.  Gary Tsuchida, a spokesman for Kobe Steel in  Tokyo ,
declined to comment on the Jagdishpur project.  Steel Authority fell 0.3 percent to 131.20 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday. The shares have declined 28 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent drop in the key Sensitive Index. Kobe
fell 0.6 percent to 176 yen in Tokyo.  Gas Needs  Steel Authority asked the oil ministry for 7.1 million
cubic meters of gas daily for the Jagdishpur project, Chairman
C.S. Verma said on April 8. The company, which uses coking coal
to operate all of its 14 million tons of crude steel capacity in
five locations and imports 70 percent of the raw material, is
looking for alternate energy sources as coal prices soar.  “Instead of looking for alternate fuels, Steel Authority
should focus on expanding its coal capacity,”  Rahul Jain , an
analyst with RBS Equities India Ltd., said. “The thrust should
be on acquiring coal assets in India as well as overseas.”  Coking coal contract prices rose 65 percent to $330 a ton
in the quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier, as floods in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter, eroded production and
choked shipments.  Output from the Krishna-Godavari basin’s D6 natural-gas
field, located off India’s eastern coast, dropped about 22
percent in the past year because of “technical difficulties”
faced by operator Reliance Industries Ltd.  Separate negotiations are continuing between Steel
Authority and Kobe to build a 500,000 ton iron nugget plant
using the Japanese company’s ITmk3 technology in West Bengal
state, Misra said. Talks are also on with  Posco (005490)  to set up a 3
million ton steel plant based on Posco’s patented Finex
technology in the neighboring province of Jharkhand, he said.  Both technologies use low-grade iron ore and non-coking
coal as raw material, reducing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  