-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall on Debt Concern, Drop in Durable Goods Orders

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-27T20:29:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/stock-index-futures-little-changed-amazon-shares-surge-juniper-s-slump.html
U.S. stocks fell, dragging the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down the most in almost two months,
as lawmakers indicated they were no closer to reaching a
compromise on the federal debt limit.  Technology and industrial stocks led declines among 10 S&P
500 groups.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  decreased
more than 2.4 percent after a government report showed orders
for durable goods unexpectedly decreased.  Corning Inc. (GLW)  dropped
7.2 percent after reducing its forecast for glass demand amid
lower television-sales projections.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  rallied 3.9
percent after its Kindle e-reader and digital-media services
helped second-quarter results beat analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 slipped 2 percent, its biggest decline since
June 1, to 1,304.89 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  retreated 198.75 points, or 1.6 percent, to
12,302.55. Treasury yields, which dropped yesterday on
speculation lawmakers would reach an accord on the nation’s debt
ceiling, rose today as the political stalemate continued.  “The macro events are clearly driving the market,” Sarah Hunt, portfolio manager at Alpine Mutual Funds in Purchase, New
York, said in a telephone interview. Alpine oversees about $6.5
billion. “Beyond the fact that we have this political squabble,
which never makes people feel better, you also have an
underlying potential softening in the economic data.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 3 percent this week, its biggest
three-day decline since June 3, as Republicans and Democrats
sparred over separate plans to raise the federal debt limit and
avoid a default by Aug. 2. S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings have said they may downgrade the U.S.’s top AAA
rating if lawmakers fail to resolve the stalemate. Stocks
rallied 2.2 percent last week as corporate profits topped
analysts’ estimates.  ‘True Compromise’  Equities declined today as an agreement remained elusive.
House Speaker John Boehner’s reworked deficit-cutting plan was
gaining support among Republicans, while Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said his competing proposal to avert a potential U.S.
default is the only “true compromise.”  The non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office  said Reid’s
plan would cut $2.2 trillion over 10 years, shy of its $2.7
trillion target. The savings also fall below the $2.4 trillion
needed to meet Republican demands that a debt-limit extension be
accompanied by an equal amount of savings. President Barack Obama is insisting on a debt-limit increase large enough to last
through the 2012 elections.  CBO said Boehner’s plan would save just $850 billion rather
than its advertised $3 trillion, forcing him to make revisions
and round up backing among fiscal conservatives after Republican
leaders postponed a vote scheduled for today.  Investor Concern  Rates on six-month Treasury bills due Aug. 4 climbed 10
basis points to 0.15 percent, the highest since February,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, a signal investors are
growing more concerned that lawmakers will fail to reach an
agreement on the nation’s debt. The bills are the first
government debt securities to mature after the deadline to
increase the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit passes on Aug. 2.  Benchmark Treasury 10-year note yields increased two basis
points to 2.98 percent.  Stock futures retreated earlier as the U.S. Commerce
Department said bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years fell 2.1 percent in June after a 1.9 percent gain the
prior month that was smaller than last reported. The median
forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
0.3 percent increase.  Stocks lost further ground in the afternoon after the
 Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  grew at a slower pace in
more parts of the country since the beginning of June as
shoppers restrained spending and factory production eased.  Beige Book   “Economic activity continued to grow,” the Fed said in
its Beige Book survey released today in  Washington . “However,
the pace has moderated in many districts.” Growth slowed in
eight of the Fed’s 12 regions, compared with four in the last
survey, the central bank said.  The S&P 500 Industrials Index lost 2.7 percent, the second-
most among 10 groups in the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, slipped 3.7 percent to $101.34. General
Electric decreased 2.4 percent to $18.11.  Boeing Co. (BA)  rose the most in the Dow, adding 0.7 percent to
$70.63, as the airplane maker lifted its forecast for full-year
earnings. Net income rose 20 percent to $941 million, or $1.25 a
share, buoyed by higher commercial sales. The average estimate
of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 97 cents. Full-year
profit will be $3.90 to $4.10 a share, Boeing said, a jump of 10
cents at each end of its previous range.  ‘Tug of War’  “It’s a tug of war between the headline risk of the debt
ceiling issue and earnings,” Matthew DiFilippo, who helps
manage $1 billion as director of research at Stewart Capital
Advisors LLC in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , said in telephone
interview. “The volatility may create buying opportunities
because corporate earnings are coming in strong, and the market
does appear to be cheap compared to the underlying earnings
power.”  Since July 11, about 81 percent of S&P 500 companies that
have released quarterly results beat estimates for earnings per
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology companies lost 3 percent, the most among 10
groups in the S&P 500 today.  Corning slumped 7.2 percent to $16.04. The maker of glass
for flat-panel televisions lowered its outlook for the global
glass market and slashed its full-year sales forecast for its
Gorilla Glass by 20 percent to $800 million.  Juniper, Cisco  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  plunged 21 percent to $24.66. The
second-largest maker of Internet networking equipment posted
second-quarter profit excluding certain costs of 31 cents a
share. Analysts on average projected profit of 33 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest maker of networking
equipment, declined 3.7 percent to $15.69.  Amazon.com gained 3.9 percent to $222.52. The world’s
largest online retailer reported second-quarter net income of
$191 million, or 41 cents a share, topping the 34-cent average
analyst estimate. Net sales rose to $9.91 billion, compared with
the average prediction for $9.38 billion.  Total System Services Inc. (TSS)  had the biggest gain in the S&P
500, adding 5.3 percent to $19.13. The credit-card processor
said it earned 28 cents a share from continuing operations in
the second quarter. That’s 1 cent more than the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Barclays Plc raised the stock’s
rating to “overweight” from “equal weight.”  Delta, Dunkin’  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  fell 5.1 percent to $7.61. The world’s
second-largest airline plans further seating-capacity cuts after
higher fuel and maintenance costs pulled second-quarter profit
below analysts’ estimates.  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. surged 47 percent to $27.85 on
the first day of trading. The operator of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee
shops sold 22.3 million shares at $19 each in an initial public
offering.  “It’s a very mixed market environment,” Michael C. Aronstein, who manages $1.1 billion as president of New York-
based Marketfield Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “There are sectors, companies and countries that are
doing really well, while there are others that are very
distressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  