-- 
Vigilantes Punishing Stocks More Than Bonds on Debt Ceiling, Yardeni Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-27T23:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/stock-vigilantes-replace-bonds-on-debt-ceiling-yardeni-says.html
Stock market investors are replacing
those in fixed-income as the vigilantes seeking to force
lawmakers to reach an agreement to lift the U.S. debt limit,
according to economist  Edward Yardeni .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 2 percent to 1,304.89
yesterday in New York for its biggest slide since June 1 as
talks to lift the $14.3 trillion limit that is exhausted Aug. 2
stalled. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes remained below 3
percent, compared with an average of 4.03 percent since 2001.  “If there’s going to be any market where there are
vigilantes, it’s the stock market,” said Yardeni, who coined
the term in 1983 for investors who dispute politics by dumping
bonds. “If the Treasury really is forced to cut back its
spending, if it can’t make checks out to government employees
and can’t pay its bills, that’s going to have a very immediate
depressing impact on the economy, which depresses earnings which
depresses stock prices.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  revised his plan yesterday to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling as he gained support among fellow
Republicans for a proposal which Senate Democrats said will not
pass their chamber. The  Congressional Budget Office  said
Boehner’s new plan would cut $915 billion in spending over
a decade, still short of the $2.2-trillion Senate plan.  “Treasuries are still extremely safe, the whole issue of
 credit quality  is really more of a political statement than it
is an assessment of our ability to pay,” Yardeni, president and
chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Clinton Package  Vigilantes’ greatest claim to victory was the 1993 decision
by President  Bill Clinton  to abandon plans for an economic
stimulus package on the advice of  Robert Rubin , then an
administration economic adviser, who said it would reduce demand
for Treasuries, leading to increased borrowing costs.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.98 percent in New York yesterday,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  During the 2008 financial crisis, U.S. stocks plunged and
the S&P tumbled the most since the 1987 crash after the  House of
Representatives  rejected a $700 billion plan on Sept. 29, 2008,
to rescue the financial system. Congressmen voted 228 to 205
against the measure to authorize the biggest government
intervention into markets since the Great Depression, extending
the S&P 500’s decline in September to 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  