-- 
TStone Said to Be in Talks With J.C. Flowers to Buy Stake in Woori Finance

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-07-27T03:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/tstone-said-to-be-in-talks-with-j-c-flowers.html
TStone Corp ., a South Korean
private-equity fund that’s considering a bid for Woori Finance
Holdings Co., is in talks with U.S. buyout firm J.C. Flowers &
Co. to jointly buy the stake, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  TStone may submit a preliminary bid with J.C. Flowers by an
Aug. 17 deadline, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are confidential. A call to
the New York offices of J.C. Flowers after U.S. business hours
wasn’t answered.  State-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. is seeking buyers
for a minimum 30 percent stake worth about 3.4 trillion won
($3.3 billion) as the government revives efforts to sell its
holding in the nation’s largest finance company by assets. Local
funds Vogo Investment and MBK Partners Ltd. have also indicated
interest, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  “A high-profile name entering a bid shows that Woori
Finance is an attractive target,” said Hong Hun Pio, a Seoul-
based analyst at KTB Investment & Securities Co. “But it
remains unclear whether the government is keen to sell Woori to
private-equity funds.”  Woori fell 0.7 percent to 14,200 won at 11:56 a.m. on the
Korea Exchange compared with the benchmark Kospi index’s 0.1
percent drop. The stock has lost 8.4 percent this year.  August Deadline  TStone submitted a letter of intent for Seoul-based Woori
Finance in June and is raising funds for the investment, the
Korean fund’s Chairman Min Euoo Sung said by telephone in Seoul
today. He declined to comment on potential partners.  The Maeil Business Newspaper earlier reported that J.C.
Flowers may join TStone’s bid for Woori.  South Korea  will take preliminary bids for Woori until Aug.
17. Bidders must disclose the size of stake they want to buy,
their partners and funding plans in the proposed offers, Kim
Yongbeom, secretary general of the Public Fund Oversight
Committee, said on July 11.  Woori will be sold in a package with affiliates including
Woori Investment & Securities Co. and provincial bank units, the
Public Fund Oversight Committee said in May.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s plan to privatize South Korean
financial companies rescued during the Asian financial crisis
has lost momentum amid failed attempts to sell Woori and
regulatory obstacles. Woori’s initial sale effort collapsed for
lack of investor interest in December.  Dropped Plan  KB Financial Group Inc., Shinhan Financial Group Co. and
Hana Financial Group Inc., the nation’s three other financial
holding companies, expressed no interest in Woori after
regulators dropped a plan that would have let them take a
smaller stake.  South Korean provincial lenders Busan Bank and Daegu Bank
may bid for a Woori stake by teaming up with private-equity
funds that showed interest in June,  Seoul  Economic Daily
reported today, citing unidentified industry officials.  Woori was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997 to 1998, as part of a push to make the industry more
competitive. The government spent 12.8 trillion won to aid Woori
and has recouped 5.3 trillion won through block share sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  