-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accuser’s Comments on His Wealth Were Misquoted, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/strauss-kahn-accuser-s-lawyer-leaves-meeting-with-new-york-prosecutors.html
A recorded conversation by the woman
who accuses  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  of sexually assaulting her in
a  New York  hotel was mischaracterized regarding her remarks
about the former International Monetary Fund chief’s wealth, her
lawyer said.  The 32-year-old immigrant spoke to a friend imprisoned in
Arizona within a day of the May 14 incident, a person familiar
with the matter said earlier this month. She told the friend,
“Don’t worry. This guy has money. I know what I’m doing,”
according to the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because the information wasn’t public. The information came from
a digest of the tape translated from the accuser’s native
Fulani.  “We all listened to that tape over and over again,” the
lawyer,  Kenneth Thompson , told reporters yesterday after meeting
for almost eight hours with prosecutors at the office of
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. “What she said was,
‘He is powerful and rich,’ during one conversation,” he said.
“She never said, ‘He’s got a lot of money. I know what to do’”
as it was made public.  Thompson said certain things were “merged together” in
the quote that made its way into news reports.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Vance, declined to
comment yesterday on the tape and the meeting. “This is a
pending criminal case,” she said in a statement. “We will have
no comment on evidence, or any meetings between prosecutors and
witnesses, civil attorneys, or defense counsel.”  Thompson, a former federal prosecutor representing the
hotel housekeeper, said the discussion with prosecutors
yesterday went well.  First Meeting  It was the first meeting between the alleged victim,
Nafissatou Diallo, and prosecutors since late June, when her
credibility was called into question.  According to a letter Vance filed in court on July 1,
Diallo lied to a grand jury about her actions right after the
alleged attack, as well as on her tax returns and in an
application for asylum.  Diallo, who arrived with Thompson for the meeting
yesterday after 10 a.m., wasn’t seen leaving with him. Diallo
has revealed her identity in on-the-record and on-camera
interviews.  ‘Powerful Big Man’  Thompson said that Diallo told her imprisoned friend what
Strauss-Kahn did to her the first time they spoke. “She told
that gentleman somebody tried to rape me and he’s a powerful big
man.” Thompson said she told the friend that she fought with
her attacker and that he made her do things she didn’t want to
do.  Diallo, according to court filings, said Strauss-Kahn
grabbed her breasts and tried to pull down her pantyhose in his
hotel room on May 14. He attempted to rape her and forced her to
engage in oral sex, according to the indictment. Strauss-Kahn,
62, has pleaded not guilty.  Strauss-Kahn was taken off an Air  France  flight by Port
Authority police at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  in New
York, hours after the alleged attack at the Sofitel in midtown
Manhattan.  At a May 16 hearing, prosecutors asked that Strauss-Kahn be
held without bail, saying the evidence was compelling that he
was a flight risk because France doesn’t extradite its citizens.  Bail, Release  Strauss-Kahn was incarcerated until May 20, when a judge
allowed him to be released under house arrest over a
prosecutor’s objections. At the July 1 hearing, citing the
accuser’s credibility issues, prosecutors agreed to allow
Strauss-Kahn to be released without bail, pending further
investigation.  The housekeeper stated in a 2004 application for asylum
that she had been raped by Guinean soldiers, prosecutors said in
their June 30 letter to defense lawyers that was filed in court.
She also said that she and her husband had been persecuted and
harassed by the dictatorial regime then in power in  Guinea . She
said her house was burned and her husband died while in jail.  The woman said she fabricated the story with the assistance
of a man who provided her with a cassette recording of the facts
contained in the statement that she eventually submitted,
according to the letter.  On June 28, the woman also changed her story about what
happened immediately after the incident in the Sofitel on West
44th Street, a story she had given to the grand jury that
indicted Strauss-Kahn on seven counts, including a criminal sex
act, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and
forcible touching.  Changing Story  The woman told the grand jury that after the assault, she
fled to an area of the main hallway on the 28th floor and waited
until she saw Strauss-Kahn leave the room, according to the June
30 letter.  She said she then reported the incident to her supervisor,
who arrived a short time later, according to the letter.  The housekeeper on June 28 “admitted that this account was
false and that after the incident in suite 2806, she proceeded
to clean a nearby room and then returned to suite 2806 and began
to clean it before she reported the incident to her
supervisor,” according to the letter.  The following day, on June 29, prosecutors obtained the
translated summary of the recorded phone call in which the
housekeeper discussed the incident with a friend incarcerated in
 Arizona , said the person familiar with the matter.  Strauss-Kahn’s next scheduled court appearance is Aug. 23.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  