-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Fed District Banks

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-07-27T21:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/summary-of-economic-reports-by-fed-district-banks-correct-.html
(Corrects report for  San Francisco  district.)  Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  beige book .  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  prepared the
latest report. Information was collected before July 15.  Boston: “Economic activity continues to increase in the
First District, but results are somewhat more mixed than in
recent reports. Retailers cite modest sales increases,
manufacturers note generally good results but a few softer
segments, and advertising and consulting firms mostly cite
strong growth.”  New York: “The pace of activity in the Second District’s
economy slowed somewhat since the last report. Business contacts
across a variety of sectors indicate that activity has flattened
out in recent weeks and that hiring has tapered off. Retail
sales remained fairly sturdy in June but were mixed in early
July.  Consumer confidence  has remained at low levels. Tourism
activity has remained strong.”  Philadelphia: “Since the last Beige Book, Third District
economic activity has continued to grow at a very slow rate.
Overall, manufacturing growth has leveled off at a low rate
since the last Beige Book. Retailers posted strong year-over-
year sales increases in June. For motor vehicle dealers, the
slowdown in sales that began in May eased slightly further in
June.”  Cleveland : “Business activity in the Fourth District
continued to expand at a modest pace, albeit at a slower rate
since our last report. Manufacturers reported a slight rise in
production and new orders, while freight transport volume
continued to grow. Retail sales increased, but were below plan
for some chains.”  Richmond: “Business activity in the Fifth District was
unchanged or slightly improved in most sectors since our last
assessment. In the service sector, retail activity on balance
remained soft during the last month, while non-retail services
firms reported flat or slightly increasing demand. Tourism to
mountain and ocean destinations picked up in recent months.”  Atlanta: “Sixth District business contacts described
economic activity as little changed in June through mid-July.
Retail sales grew slowly, although sales of higher-end goods saw
more traction and tourism activity was strong. Existing home
sales remained soft outside of  Florida , while new home sales and
construction were weak throughout the region. Downward pressure
on prices of both existing and new homes continued to be
noted.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand slowly in June and early July. Contacts
expressed heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook
given recent weaker-than-expected demand as well as the ongoing
fiscal issues in the U.S. and  Europe . Consumer and business
spending edged up.”  St. Louis : “Economic activity in the Eighth District has
continued to increase at a modest pace since our previous
report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since
the previous report. Activity in the services sector also has
increased. Residential real estate activity has continued to
decline.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew modestly,
but activity was disrupted by widespread flooding and a
temporary Minnesota state government shutdown that started on
July 1. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
residential construction, commercial and residential real
estate, services, manufacturing, energy and mining.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy expanded at a
moderate pace in the June and early July survey period. Consumer
spending rose solidly and was especially strong among
restaurants and auto dealers. Factory production rebounded from
weakness in the prior survey period, and high-tech and
transportation services firms reported continued growth.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. Energy-related activity
remained strong. Reports from manufacturers were mixed but
mostly positive, although some construction-related producers
were less optimistic than they were six weeks ago.”  San Francisco: “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
grew modestly during the reporting period of June through mid-
July. Upward price pressures eased overall as the prices of oil
and selected raw materials fell, and upward pressures on wages
remained quite limited on balance. Sales of retail items were
mixed, while demand for business and consumer services rose
somewhat. District manufacturing activity strengthened
slightly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  