-- 
Sun Art Has Strongest Debut in Hong Kong in Two Years, Defying IPO Slump

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-07-27T11:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/sun-art-surges-in-hong-kong-debut-as-investors-bet-on-smaller-china-cities.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. jumped on
its first day of trading in  Hong Kong , defying a slump in demand
for new equity that caused at least seven companies to cancel or
delay initial share sales in the past three months.  China’s largest hypermarket operator climbed as much as 47
percent to HK$10.58 before closing at HK$10.12. It was the
biggest first-day advance in Hong Kong in two years.  The retailer, backed by  France ’s Groupe Auchan SA, lured
investors after saying it will focus on smaller Chinese cities
with increased opportunities for growth and cheaper real estate
than in Beijing or Shanghai. Sun Art, which competes with Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA in China, has obtained more
than 120 sites for hypermarket complexes in the world’s fastest-
growing economy.  “While the market environment has not been that good this
year, the consumer sector has performed pretty well,” Chang Dongliang, a Shanghai-based retailing analyst with Everbright
Securities Co., said by phone today. “Supermarkets sell
everyday necessities, so the industry is not as affected by
macro factors, and Sun Art is the market leader.”  The Hang Seng benchmark index slid 0.1 percent today
compared with Sun Art’s 41 percent gain from its offer price of
HK$7.20.  Net Proceeds  Sun Art’s debut countered a weakening market for initial
public offerings. Prada SpA ended its first day on June 24
little changed after pricing near the low end of a targeted
range in Hong Kong’s biggest initial share sale this year.  China  Everbright Bank Co., which delayed its IPO in June,
is seeking more institutional buyers after getting commitments
for about one third of the offering from key investors, two
people with knowledge of the deal said July 22.  Shanghai-based Sun Art raised HK$8.2 billion ($1.1 billion)
and became the second of six Hong Kong IPOs raising at least $1
billion this year, after MGM China Holdings Ltd., to price at
the top of a marketed range, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net proceeds from Sun Art’s IPO were about HK$8 billion,
half of which will be used to open stores in China, where it has
197 hypermarkets under the “Auchan” and the Ruentex Group’s
“RT-Mart” brands. The company plans to open 48 stores in China
this year, according to Executive Director Peter Huang.  Auchan and Ruentex, which includes Taiwanese companies
Ruentex Development Co. and Ruentex Industries Ltd., together
hold a controlling stake in Sun Art, according to the
prospectus.  New Stores  Sun Art will focus its expansion in “populous second- and
lower-tier cities” it said in its prospectus. Retailing in
cities such as Beijing and  Shanghai  is “relatively mature” and
space for large formats such as hypermarkets “remains scarce,”
it said.  The industry’s sales may double to 911 billion yuan ($141
billion) in 2015 from 447 billion yuan last year, according to
Euromonitor International.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales, has
339 stores in more than 120 Chinese cities and may keep buying
land in anticipation that more people in the nation of 1.3
billion will move into cities where it plans to expand,
according to Ed Chan, chief executive officer of the company’s
China operations.  “The sales performance of most retailers benefits from
both price as well as volume increases,” BNP Paribas analysts
led by Michele Mak said in a July 22 note to clients. “China
has really entered into the golden period for consumption since
2010.”  ‘Robust’ Growth  The growth of China’s urban population and its middle class
will be “quite robust” in the next 10 to 20 years, Chan has
said.  Sun Art postponed its trading debut from July 15 because
historical earnings-per-share figures failed to account for a
stock split that took place before the IPO.  The company last year had a 12 percent market share in
China among operators of hypermarkets, or retail outlets with
selling space of more than 2,500 square meters (27,000 square
feet) that primarily sell groceries, according to data from
London-based researcher Euromonitor.  Wal-Mart ranked second with an 11.2 percent market share,
China Resources Enterprises Co. had 9.8 percent and Carrefour
8.1 percent, according to Euromonitor.  Largest Grocery Market  China’s hypermarket industry may grow at a 15 percent
compounded annual rate in the next five years, Bruno Mercier,
chief executive officer of Sun Art, said at a July 3 briefing.
It expanded at a 19 percent annual rate in the previous five
years, Sun Art said in a July 3 statement.  Wal-Mart expects China to be the world’s largest grocery
market by 2014. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has
annual revenue of $7.5 billion in China,  Scott Price , chief
executive officer for  Asia , said in March. That compares with $8
billion in  Japan  and less than $1 billion for  India .  Sun Art opened its first store in Shanghai in 1998 and
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour started in China in
December 1995. Wal-Mart and Dusseldorf-based Metro AG,  Germany ’s
biggest retailer, arrived in 1996 while Auchan of Croix, France,
began in 1999 according to the companies’ websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  