-- 
Symantec Forecast Tops Estimates as Security Spending Rises

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-07-28T00:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/symantec-forecast-tops-sales-profit-estimates-as-security-spending-rises.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the largest maker of
computer-security software, forecast higher profit and sales
than analysts predicted as businesses boost spending to defend
their systems amid a recent spate of threats.  Profit excluding some costs will be 38 cents to 39 cents a
share in the fiscal second quarter ending in September,  Mountain
View , California-based Symantec said today in a statement. That
compares with the 38-cent average estimate of analysts,
according to Bloomberg data. Sales will be $1.66 billion to
$1.68 billion, above the consensus of $1.61 billion.  Corporate spending on data security is increasing amid a
rash of hacking attacks, including breaches of Sony Corp.’s
PlayStation network and EMC Corp.’s RSA Security unit.  “The threat landscape is more toxic than ever,” Symantec
Chief Executive Officer  Enrique Salem  said on a conference call
with analysts. “That is driving people coming to us.”  Companies plan to spend 4.5 percent more on computer
security this year than last year, according to results of a
Morgan Stanley survey of 100 U.S. chief information officers,
released July 13.  Symantec said its deferred revenue, an indicator of future
sales growth, rose 23 percent to $3.69 billion as of July 1.  “Security is on fire,” said Brad Zelnick, an analyst at
Macquarie Capital in  New York , who has an “outperform” rating
on Symantec shares. “Broader trends are playing to their
strengths. There’s headline after headline talking about all the
various data breaches and threats out there.”  London Arrest  London police arrested a man today as part of an
international investigation into computer crimes, and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  arrested 14 alleged members of a
hacking group and charged them on July 19.  Companies also are demanding more of Symantec’s storage
technology as their data needs multiply, Zelnick said.  Symantec rose 33 cents to $18.75 in extended trading at
7:23 p.m. New York time, after the results were released.
Earlier the shares fell 66 cents to $18.42 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares have gained 10 percent this year.  “Their Achilles’ heel the last few years has been
execution,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets
& Co. in New York. “They are now walking the walk and
executing, continuing to gain back investor confidence one
quarter at a time,” said Ives, who has a “market perform”
rating on Symantec shares.  Specialized Resellers  Salem said in an interview that he’s been making sure the
company’s resellers focus on specific products in its broad
range of software offerings. He’s also providing more incentives
for internal sales staff to bring in new customers and sign
licensing agreements.  “Our sales execution is probably the best it’s been in 10
years,” Salem said. “The partners that specialize get the most
support,” he said. “We’ve got a pretty big portfolio -- we
cover a lot of ground.”  Symantec also is building products and planning
acquisitions meant to fight future security threats posed by
downloadable applications for smartphones and tablet computers.  “It’s a new market, so it’s going to take some time for it
to grow,” Salem said.  Above Estimates  For the fiscal first quarter ended July 1, sales rose 15
percent to $1.65 billion, compared with the analysts’ average
estimate of $1.58 billion. Profit excluding some costs was 40
cents a share, compared with the 37-cent average estimate of
analysts.  Symantec’s biggest rival, McAfee Inc., was acquired by
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, for about $6.6
billion this year. Intel plans to use McAfee to help add
security measures to its semiconductors for computers,
smartphones and other devices.  At a May 26 meeting with investors in New York, Salem said
Symantec plans to spend as much as $1.25 billion on acquisitions
in mobile and cloud computing and in virtualization software
that makes servers more efficient. On July 11, Symantec bought
closely held Clearwell Systems Inc. for about $390 million,
acquiring software for handling legal documents.  One area of concern among analysts was sales of consumer
products for securing personal computers. Consumer sales rose 11
percent to $525 million, or 5 percent on a currency-adjusted
basis. Symantec is fighting slower shipments of PCs and free
security software distributed by companies including AVG and
Avast Software, said Israel Hernandez, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  