-- 
Syrian Protests May Pick Up Momentum as Ramadan Turns Every Day to Friday

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-28T10:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/syrian-protests-during-ramadan-may-turn-every-day-into-friday.html
Syrian mobilization against
President Bashar al-Assad has followed a weekly cycle, with the
biggest rallies taking place after Friday prayers. That may
change during Ramadan, which starts next week.  Activists, analysts and Syrian refugees say the uprising is
set to intensify during the Muslim holy month. Opposition groups
plan to shift from weekly rallies to nightly ones, held after
the tarawih, an additional nighttime prayer recited during
Ramadan, said Bashar Afandi and Mohammed al-Klesse, who fled
Assad’s crackdown on northern  Syria  and are staying in Turkish
camps.  “The mosques will play a pivotal role and every night,
when people gather to pray, will resemble what we have seen
after every Friday prayers,” said Mahmoud Merhi, of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. A surge in arrests in the past
two weeks is probably aimed at heading off the momentum that
Ramadan may give to protesters, he said by phone from Damascus.  The refugee camps in southern Turkey and a death toll of
almost 2,000 chronicled by Merhi’s group are a result of Assad’s
crackdown against protesters who were inspired by the overthrow
of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt , uprisings that achieved their
goals within weeks. They are calling for democracy and civil
rights in a country, ruled by the Assad family for four decades,
that has been a key opponent of U.S. and Israeli policy in the
 Middle East , and a power-broker in neighboring Lebanon.  Family Meals  After more than four months of protests in Syria, there are
few signs that Assad is preparing an exit. Equally, there has
been no loss of momentum, with organizers saying they brought 1
million protesters to the streets last Friday, up from thousands
in April.  In Syria, as in other mostly Islamic countries, extended
family and community groups typically gather to break the daily
Ramadan fast after sunset, and people attend the mosque more
frequently than in other months.  Mosques have already been rallying points for the Syrian
protesters, including non-Muslims, and greater attendance
together with the communal ethos of the Ramadan meals and
prayers may help organizers get more people on the streets, said
 Chris Phillips , an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
 London .  ‘Critical Mass’  “Ramadan might be the turning point, it might be the point
where opposition numbers swell to the critical mass that’s
needed to topple the regime,” he said. “The military option
isn’t working, but on the flip side the opposition doesn’t seem
to be in a particularly commanding position yet.”  In the past week, security forces have killed more than 50
people and arrested hundreds, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria,
who spoke by phone from Cairo. Yesterday, 22 people were killed
in the central city of Homs, the port of Latakia and a village
near Damascus, and there were arrests in Damascus and the
southern Daraa region, Qurabi said.  Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired plots,
while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate demands
and pledging political changes.  The government this week approved laws allowing new
political parties alongside Assad’s Baath party, which has been
in power since 1963, and establishing a commission to regulate
parliamentary elections.  The proposed parties law is “a joke as long as the Syrian
constitution says the Baath party leads the state,” said Abd al
Salam Abou Khaleel, a 51-year-old lawyer who is working to set
up the Justice Party of Syria, and fled to  Turkey  after a co-
founder was detained.  ‘Kiss the Ground’  Most of the Syrian refugees at the hospitals and camps near
Antakya in southern Turkey say they have no hope of reform from
Assad’s government, and no prospect of safety if they return to
Syria.  Sarya Redwan Hmody, a 33-year-old lawyer, said he attempted
to return to his home in Jisr al-Shughour, where he was shot in
the leg during the Syrian army attack. When he got there, the
village was largely deserted and his home occupied by an army
general, Hmody said in an interview in a house in Antakya where
he’s now staying. Spray-painted across his front gate was a
warning: “We’ll bend to kiss the ground that Assad steps on,
we’ll die for him and kill everyone in the opposition, young and
old, men and women.”  Hmody said he hasn’t heard anything from 16 friends who
went back to Syria after Assad declared an amnesty. Kubilay, a
Turk who’s helping to shelter dozens of Syrian families in his
village, and who declined to give his surname in order to
protect them, said one refugee left his six children and wife in
Turkey to check on his property a few kilometers across the
border and never came back.  UN Resolution  Reports of torture and killings haven’t led to much
international action against Assad. Since May,  China  and  Russia 
have been blocking a U.S. and European-backed draft resolution
at the  United Nations  to condemn the violence. Turkey calls the
fleeing Syrians “guests” instead of refugees, and has
criticized Assad’s crackdown and urged political reforms without
calling for the leader’s departure.  Lacking the international support that helped Libyan rebels
seize control of much of the country from  Muammar Qaddafi ,
Syria’s protesters are relying on persistence and numbers to
topple Assad.  The arrival of Ramadan may create opportunities for them,
and also increase the strain on security forces who are under
orders “to implement a repression which has neither a clear
objective nor a tangible impact,” said Peter Harling, a
Damascus-based analyst with the  International Crisis Group .  “One can question how long that can last before the
security structure actually breaks from the stress,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara, Turkey, at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 