-- 
Syrian Cabinet Endorses Law Regulating Elections as 21 Protesters Killed

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-27T11:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/syrian-cabinet-endorses-law-regulating-elections-as-14-protesters-killed.html
Syria ’s Cabinet endorsed a draft
election law aimed at quelling anti-government protests while
pursuing a crackdown on dissent that human-rights activists said
has left at least 21 demonstrators dead in the past day.  The proposal approved by ministers late yesterday will
“regulate parliamentary elections” held every five years and
establish a commission to “manage polls,” the state-run  SANA
news agency  said. It follows the Cabinet’s endorsement this week
of a bill allowing new parties to be formed. Previous elections
have been monopolized by President Bashar al-Assad’s Baath
party, a situation enshrined in the constitution.  Eleven people were killed today in a village near the
capital, Damascus,  Ammar Qurabi , of the National Organization
for Human Rights in Syria, and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in phone interviews today.
Yesterday, seven were killed in the Damascus suburbs and three
died near the restive northern city of Idlib, they said.  The demonstrations to demand Assad’s ouster began in mid-
March and are part of the wave of unrest across the  Middle East 
and North Africa this year that unseated the leaders of Egypt
and  Tunisia . Assad has blamed the Syrian dissent on a foreign
conspiracy, while saying protesters’ demands “have merit” and
that changes are needed.  The election and parties bills are part of a series of
measures taken by Assad in an effort to quell the protests,
which are the greatest challenge to his rule since he inherited
power 11 years ago from his father. The Baath party has had a
monopoly in Syrian politics since it came to power in a 1963
coup, after which all opposition groups were banned.  ‘Unlikely’ to Mollify  Qurabi has said the legislation is “unlikely” to mollify
anti-government protesters.  As many as 300 people were arrested in a security sweep of
the town of Zabadani, near the border with Lebanon, Qurabi and
Merhi said. “Tension is high” in Homs in anticipation the army
may enter the central city, they said.  At least 1,950 protesters have been killed in the
government crackdown since the uprising began, according to
Qurabi and Merhi. Their groups have compiled the names of those
killed, injured or detained. Thousands of Syrians have fled to
 Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 