-- 
U.K. Agriculture’s Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Decline 21%

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-27T11:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-k-agriculture-s-greenhouse-gas-emissions-decline-21-1-.html
Greenhouse-gas emissions from U.K.
agriculture fell 21 percent between 1990 and 2009 as the
national cattle and sheep herds shrank, the government said.  Greenhouse-gas emissions dropped to the carbon dioxide
equivalent of 49.5 million metric tons, the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said in a report today.
Methane emissions slid 19 percent and nitrous oxide discharges
dropped 23 percent, according to the  report . Cattle, sheep, pigs
and horses produce methane, and manure stored as a liquid for
use as fertilizer produces the gas when decomposing.  Emissions fell as the number of dairy cows declined due to
milk quotas and the beef-cow herd dwindled because of changes to
subsidy schemes and a 2001 outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease,
Defra said. The sheep herd also was hit by the illness, and the
hog population declined on higher feed prices and disease
issues, according to the report.  “Since 1990, the numbers of cattle and sheep in the U.K.
have fallen significantly and this explains the majority of the
fall in recorded” methane emissions, Defra said. “When manure
is stored or treated as a liquid in a lagoon, pond or tank, it
tends to decompose anaerobically and produce a significant
quantity of” methane.  Nitrous Oxide  Agriculture generates about 37 percent of the country’s
methane emissions and 79 percent of nitrous-oxide discharges,
Defra said. It’s responsible for just 1 percent of carbon-
dioxide emissions, according to the report.  Reduced U.K. greenhouse-gas emissions will be offset by
increases in other countries from which importers purchase meat
and milk, Defra said.  “While production has fallen in the U.K., which may result
in lower total emissions, in the main domestic production, in
particular meat and dairy products, has been replaced with
imports,” Defra said. “Any reduction of emissions in the U.K.
will have been at the expense of increases overseas.”  Growers may save money by adopting farming methods that
reduce  greenhouse gases , according to the report. Barriers to
doing so include insufficient information, time and skills, the
department said.  “Many farmers say they are aware of  climate change  and
agree that something needs to be done to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions,” Defra said. “But there is a gap between this
opinion and the level of farmer understanding of GHGs from
agriculture and of mitigation measures they could adopt.”  Information will boost knowledge of practices associated
with reducing greenhouse gases and may lead to more ways to cut
down on methane and nitrous-oxide emissions, according to the
report.  “Ensuring a greater understanding of GHG emissions is
likely to be an important driver for change for some farmers,”
Defra said. “A greater understanding of the issue may also lead
to more innovative and cost-effective solutions for reducing
agricultural GHGs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 