-- 
U.K. Recognizes Libyan Rebels as Government, Grants Access to Oil Revenue

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-27T14:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-k-recognizes-libyan-rebels-as-government-grants-access-to-oil-revenue.html
Britain is to recognize the National
Transitional Council as the sole legitimate government in  Libya 
and give the rebel authority access to oil revenue held in the
U.K., Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said  Remaining staff at the Libyan Embassy in  London  are being
expelled and the council, which is trying to overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi , has been asked to appoint a diplomatic envoy and take
over the mission, Hague told a news conference in the U.K.
capital today. The British moves follow recognition of the NTC
as Libya’s governing authority by the U.S.,  France  and  Italy .  Hague said 91 million pounds ($149 million) of oil assets
in the U.K. belonging to Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. are being
unfrozen to help the council meet “basic needs” including the
provision of fuel and salaries. The NTC controls the company.  As the military campaign in Libya enters its fifth month,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and its allies are trying
to wrap up a mission that French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe 
promised at its March 19 outset would “be counted in days and
in weeks, not in months.” Rebel forces have yet to
significantly widen areas they control. They hold much of the
east and some of the west near Tripoli, while Qaddafi retains
the capital.  ‘Bet’ on NTC  Britain has “put its bet firmly on the NTC” by
recognizing the rebel council as the legitimate Libyan
government, Stefan Talmon, a professor of international law at
the U.K.’s University of Oxford, said today in an interview.  About 30 nations have recognized the NTC as Libya’s
legitimate governing authority. The U.S., France, Italy, and the
U.K. have gone further with recognition of the council as the
Libyan government, according to Talmon. Russia has declined to
recognize the Qaddafi opponents as the Libyan authority.  The U.K. decision removes a barrier to granting the rebels
access to funds, though United Nations sanctions still prevent
the release of all government assets to the council. As much as
$130 billion of frozen Libyan assets are held around the world.  Hague said the U.K. will work “hard” with partners in the
coming weeks to unfreeze more assets, including currency and
other Libyan central bank holdings.  British Assistance  The recognition will allow Britain to give “greater
practical assistance” to the council as it tries to oust
Qaddafi after 42 years in power, Hague said. He also signaled a
move away from his comments that suggested Qaddafi could stay in
the country if he steps down, provided the NTC agrees.  “The best solution in a political settlement would be for
Qaddafi to leave Libya,” the foreign secretary said. “There is
a better solution than that, which would be for him to be at the
 International Criminal Court .”  The ICC’s June 27 indictment of Qaddafi on charges of
crimes against humanity limit his exile options to the handful
of countries that didn’t ratify the 2002 treaty that set up the
court.  The court in  The Hague  expects the Libyan government,
including any future government, to comply with the country’s
obligation as a UN member to implement the ICC’s arrest warrants
in the case, a spokeswoman for the court, Florence Olara, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net . 