-- 
U.K. Police Corruption May Exceed ‘Small Number,’ Jones Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-k-police-corruption-may-exceed-small-number-of-officers-jones-says.html
Corruption in the U.K. police may
extend beyond a handful of officers, a member of the watchdog
that scrutinizes the  London  force said in the wake of the phone-
hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World.  A “drip-drip” of news, including reports that a royal
bodyguard may have sold phone numbers to the press and that
officers may have been paid to provide journalists with the
location of celebrities from phone records suggest corruption
extends beyond a handful of officers, said Jenny Jones, a member
of the  Metropolitan Police Authority  and the London Assembly.  “You start to think this cannot be a dozen officers all
doing these things for all these journalists,” Jones said in an
interview. She will put questions on police corruption to Acting
Commissioner Tim Godwin today at a monthly meeting of the MPA.
“It’s got to be 50, hasn’t it? And perhaps even 100.”  Jones says she has “no proof” of broad corruption. Police
began an investigation this month into whether journalists at
the News of the World, News Corp.’s shuttered U.K. Sunday
tabloid, paid officers for information. The probe, which is
running parallel to an investigation into whether reporters at
the paper illegally accessed mobile-phone voice-mail messages,
is looking into “inappropriate payments to a small number” of
officers, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson said
on July 6, 11 days before he resigned over links between the
force and a former editor at the paper.  ‘Taken Extremely Seriously’  The Metropolitan Police said in an e-mailed statement that
allegations of corruption are “taken extremely seriously” and
that the service will seek to “prosecute and bring disciplinary
proceedings against anyone found to have acted corruptly.”  “As Jenny Jones says she has no proof supporting her
speculation in relation to numbers of corrupt officers,” the
police said. “The vast majority of the 55,000 MPS police
officers and staff find corruption abhorrent.”  A spokesperson for News Corp.’s Management and Standards
Committee, which is conducting an internal review of the
allegations, declined to comment.  The investigation began after Ken Macdonald, a lawyer for
News Corp.’s board and the former U.K. Director of Public
Prosecutions, provided police on June 20 with what he described
as “evidence of serious criminal offenses.”  Operation Elveden  “The file was handed to the police and, as a result, the
police opened Operation Elveden, the investigation into
corruption at the News of the World and the  Metropolitan Police
Service ,” Macdonald told lawmakers in a July 19 hearing of the
Home Affairs Committee. “I cannot imagine anyone looking at the
file and not seeing evidence of crime on its face.”  Lawmakers have described the file as “an enormous pile of
documents” that sat at the London-based law firm Harbottle &
Lewis LLP since 2007. Macdonald, who was asked to review nine or
10 e-mails from the file, said the board, which includes Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James, was
“stunned and shocked” when he told them what he had found. On
his advice, the file was handed to police.  Police working on the case have made four arrests. The
operation is overseen by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Sue
Akers, who is also in charge of the separate probe into phone-
hacking at the News of the World, which printed its last edition
on July 10.  Coulson, Brooks  Three of the four arrests made in the corruption probe so
far are of former News of the World journalists. They are  Clive Goodman , the paper’s former royal reporter, who was imprisoned
for phone-hacking in January 2007,  Andy Coulson , editor of the
paper from 2003 to 2007, and Rebekah Brooks, who resigned as
chief executive officer of News International, News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing unit, two days before her July 17 arrest. The fourth
arrest is of an unidentified 63-year-old man. No one has been
charged in the investigation.  Brooks told lawmakers at a 2003 hearing that “we
have paid the police for information in the past.” Speaking to
lawmakers on July 19 this year, Brooks said her 2003 comment was
referring to a “wide-held belief, not a widespread practice.”  “I have never paid a policeman myself; I have never
knowingly sanctioned a payment to a police officer,” Brooks said
July 19. “In my experience of dealing with the police, the
information they give to newspapers comes free of charge.”  Stephenson, Yates  Stephenson and the force’s anti-terrorism chief, John Yates, stepped down earlier this month, over links between the
force and the shuttered newspaper. Neil Wallis, a former News of
the World journalist who had also worked as a paid consultant
for the police, was arrested July 14 in connection with the
probe into phone-hacking at the tabloid.  “I confidently predict that, as a result of News
International disclosures, a very small number of police
officers will go to prison for corruption,” Yates told
lawmakers on July 19 in a hearing of Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee. “That does not taint the whole organization.”  Jones a Green Party member of the Metropolitan Police
Authority since its formation 11 years ago, said that this sort
of corruption doesn’t happen “in isolation.”  “This whole phrase about bad apples -- what happens is
they rot and then they rot the ones next to that,” Jones said.
“If we only have half a dozen or so arrests in a year’s time,
something has gone badly wrong in my view. There has got to be a
real clearing-out.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 