-- 
Manufacturers’ Optimism in U.K. Declines to Its Lowest Level for Two Years

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-k-manufacturers-optimism-slides-to-two-year-low-cbi-says.html
A U.K. index of factory orders fell
and optimism plunged to the lowest in two years as exports
flagged, adding to signs the economic recovery is struggling.  The orders gauge declined to minus 10 in July from 1 in
June, the  Confederation of British Industry  said in a report in
 London  today. A quarterly measure of sentiment fell to minus 16
from 9 in April, while an index of export expectations for the
next three months slid to zero, the weakest in a year.  Data yesterday showed economic growth slowed in the second
quarter and manufacturing output fell as the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  crimped production, countering the benefits to
exporters from a weaker pound. The reports support the case for
 Bank of England  policy makers to leave the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent to bolster the recovery.  The slowdown in factory orders and output reflected the
impact of the quake on supply chains and concerns about the
euro-area crisis and squabbling over the U.S. debt ceiling,  Ian McCafferty , CBI chief economic adviser, said in a statement.
“How far the slowdown will be borne out is yet unclear, but the
combination of political and economic uncertainty is sapping
confidence,” he said.  A monthly gauge of exports fell to minus 8 in July from
zero in June, said the CBI, the U.K.’s biggest lobby group. A
quarterly measure of foreign sales also dropped. Inflation
pressures may be easing, with an index of expected selling
prices dropping to 4, the lowest since December 2009.  The report also showed a quarterly measure of expectations
for total new orders in the coming three months fell to zero in
July, the lowest in two years, from 15 in April. A measure of
new orders for the past three months dropped to 8 from 20.  Manufacturing Slump  The  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday that
manufacturing output declined 0.3 percent in the second quarter,
the first fall in two years, dragging down expansion in gross
domestic product to 0.2 percent from 0.5 percent in the first
three months of the year. The economy’s first-quarter growth was
led by exports after the pound’s drop of about 25 percent on a
trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007.  Edinburgh-based  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , a maker of
audio chips for smartphones and tablet computers, said July 25
second-half revenue will be “flat” from last year as consumer
demand slowed.  Bank of England officials have split three ways on their
policy as the recovery sputters while inflation soars. Consumer
prices rose an annual 4.2 percent in June, more than double the
bank’s 2 percent target.  Seven of the nine-member monetary policy committee voted
this month to keep the key  interest rate  at 0.5 percent, while
two members sought a quarter-point increase to tame price gains.
One was in favor of expanding the bank’s bond-purchase program
from the current 200 billion pounds ($328 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  