-- 
U.K. Police Arrest 18-Year-Old Suspected as ‘LulzSec’ Hacker

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-07-27T19:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-k-police-arrest-19-year-old-suspected-as-lulzsec-hacker.html
London  police arrested an 18-year-
old man as part of an international investigation into criminal
computer crimes by “hacktivist” groups Anonymous and Lulz
Security.  The police are searching the home in the Shetland Islands,
 Scotland , where the man, who uses the online name “Topiary”
and is believed to be a member of both groups, was arrested,
 London’s Metropolitan Police  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Police didn’t identify the man, who they said is being
taken to a police station in central London.  A 17-year-old male is also being interviewed by police as
part of the probe and officers are searching a residence in
Lincolnshire,  England .  The arrest and searches are part of the police’s “ongoing
investigation into network intrusions and distributed denial of
service attacks against a number of international business and
intelligence agencies by what is believed to be the same hacking
group,” police said.  The arrest may be significant because Topiary is viewed by
other members of Anonymous as a skilled hacker involved in some
of the group’s most destructive attacks, according to comments
in online chat rooms.  Mistaken-Identity Claims  Dozens of Anonymous members have been arrested in the last
several weeks in the U.S. and  Europe . Members of Anonymous hide
their real identity using online handles. Several suspects have
claimed mistaken identity after law enforcement authorities have
linked individuals to particular handles.  Barrett Brown, an informal spokesman for the group before
leaving recently, said this month that most of those earlier
arrests were low-level members who had little influence on
Anonymous’s operations.  In online chat rooms associated with Anonymous, Topiary has
been linked to the hack in February of the Sacramento,
California-based security firm HBGary Federal.  Following a split in the Anonymous membership, which
included fights over the direction of the group, Topiary and
other hackers left to form LulzSec, according to Brown. That
group took credit for attacks on the websites of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the computer networks of the television
network PBS and a Federal Bureau of Investigation-affiliate
group called InfraGard.  Sony PlayStation 3  LulzSec claimed credit for breaking into websites at  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and the  U.S. Senate , while Anonymous said in April it
would wage what it called a cyberwar against Tokyo-based Sony
for trying to prevent people from tinkering with PlayStation 3
game consoles. Both LulzSec and Anonymous, composed of hundreds
of hackers and activists in several countries, have targeted
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit.  The groups claim an activist agenda that includes
supporting WikiLeaks and Mideast protesters.  LulzSec, which calls itself “the world’s leaders in high-
quality entertainment at your expense,” hasn’t responded to the
arrest on its  Twitter feed .  A 19-year-old British teenager was arrested and charged in
June as part of a U.K. and U.S. investigation into computer-
hacking attacks on businesses and government agencies.  Prosecutors allege he was involved in a so-called denial of
service attack on computers at the U.K. government’s  Serious
Organised Crime Agency . They claim he also took part in a
similar attack on the International Federation of the
Phonographic Industry and the British Phonographic Industry,
both of which represent the recording industry.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  