-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Seventh District --  Chicago .  Summary  Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand slowly in June
and early July. Contacts expressed heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook
given recent weaker-than-expected demand as well as the ongoing fiscal issues in the
U.S. and  Europe . Consumer and business spending edged up. Manufacturing production
continued to expand at a steady pace while construction remained flat. Credit
conditions again improved modestly, despite increased volatility in financial
markets. Commodity prices remained elevated, and there was further pass-through of
these costs to prices downstream. After a late start to planting, crop conditions
began to return to normal, but dryness and above-average temperatures were concerns
for farmers in parts of the District.  Consumer spending   Consumer spending picked up some in June and early July. Consumers took
advantage of retailers’ efforts to clear inventory through early summer promotions.
Spending on apparel and accessories increased as did expenditures on household goods
like power equipment and lawn and garden items. In contrast, auto sales edged lower
in June, as incentives decreased and showroom traffic declined; sales then improved
moderately in early July. Small passenger cars and pickup trucks continued to
account for most new vehicle sales. Inventories of small passenger cars remained
lean due to continued supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and higher demand for
domestically produced small cars. Demand for used vehicles remained strong, and with
used car inventories relatively low, prices rose further.  Business spending  Business spending also edged up from the previous reporting period. Inventory
investment decreased, but expenditures for equipment and structures increased.
Several manufacturers reported plans to expand capacity, with a number of projects
set to break ground in the District this fall. Renovation of retail facilities
picked up further. In addition, contacts reported an increase in spending on
research and development. Hiring continued at a slow pace, with many manufacturers
reiterating the difficulty in finding appropriately skilled workers. On balance,
however, labor market conditions weakened, as a number of private and public sector
layoffs were reported and unemployment ticked up in the District. Furthermore, a
large staffing firm reported a decline in billable hours.  Construction/real estate  Construction activity remained subdued in June and early July. Construction of
new single-family homes slowed, while the construction of apartment buildings
increased. Residential real estate conditions remained weak. The spring and early
summer season saw a slight uptick in new home sales in the District, which,
according to contacts, tends to be a leading indicator of the sales volume for the
remainder of the year. In addition, although more potential homebuyers are
qualifying for mortgages, contacts noted that downward pressure on existing home
prices continues to restrict the availability of credit for new single-family
construction. In contrast, nonresidential construction edged up with continued
strong demand for industrial facilities, particularly from the automotive sector,
partially offset by continued weakness in office and retail construction. Commercial
real estate conditions also improved, albeit moderately. Vacancy rates edged lower,
with net absorption stabilizing in the retail segment and rebounding in the office
market.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing production continued to expand at a steady pace from the previous
reporting period. Automakers indicated that production was recovering from the
Japanese supply chain disruptions in the second quarter. Auto inventories remain
relatively low, but given recently lower sales, contacts reported that production
would likely recover less sharply than previously expected. A contact in the auto
supply industry noted that production losses from the Japanese disasters had been
smaller than anticipated, but that efforts to work around supply disruptions
resulted in increased expenses for labor, logistics, and parts, putting pressure on
suppliers’ margins. Capacity utilization in the  steel industry  reached its highest
point since 2008; additional capacity is being added, but at a slow rate. In
addition, contacts reported that steel service center inventories are tight. Several
manufacturers of industrial metals reported increases in orders as well as
significant backlogs in June; however, a few also noted slower activity in recent
weeks. Despite some softening in demand from Asia and Europe, overall demand for
heavy trucks and equipment continued to be strong, driven by fleet replacement and
robust activity in the mining sector. In contrast, shipments of household appliances
declined.  Banking/finance  On balance, credit conditions improved modestly in June and early July. Funding
costs and liquidity tightened marginally and volatility increased in a number of
financial markets. In addition, contacts expressed concern about the negative
consequences that a potential sovereign default would have on financial markets.
Credit availability continued to improve, though standards remained tight for many
borrowers. Competition among lenders for the highest-quality customers has been
stiff, lowering the cost of capital for these borrowers. Business loan demand was
steady. Businesses continue to mostly refinance existing debt, though a contact
noted that increasingly such deals were also beginning to include an expansionary
element. Consumer loan demand improved, with the pace of deleveraging by consumers
slowing somewhat. The rate of improvement in both business and consumer loan quality
reportedly flattened out.  Prices/costs  Cost pressures remained elevated in June and early July. Food prices continued
to rise, while prices for energy and some industrial metals, like steel, declined.
Despite these recent declines, prices for many commodities remain elevated, and
contacts indicated that fuel surcharges and shipping costs have yet to come down.
Many wholesale prices also continued to rise, with pass-through of these higher
costs to the retail sector picking up from the previous reporting period. Wage
pressures, however, remained moderate.  Agriculture  There were mixed changes in crop conditions throughout the District. A small
percentage of acres along the Missouri River were lost to flooding. Though there was
some concern about recent above-average temperatures, contacts still see the
potential for good to excellent corn and soybean yields this fall, contingent upon
favorable weather for the rest of the summer. Historically low stocks of corn and
soybeans have put a premium on delivery commitments before harvest. On balance over
the reporting period, cash prices for corn, wheat, and cattle were down while prices
for soybeans, milk and hogs prices moved higher; all of these prices, however,
remained above the levels of a year ago. Livestock operations faced margin pressure
from high feed costs. Some elevators were under financial pressures due to expanded
margin calls on their contracted positions as well as higher costs for planned input
purchases for next year’s crop. 