-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Ninth District --  Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy grew modestly, but activity was disrupted by
widespread flooding and a temporary Minnesota state government shutdown that started
on July 1. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending , residential
construction, commercial and residential real estate, services, manufacturing,
energy and mining. Mixed activity was noted in tourism and agriculture, while
commercial construction was steady. Private sector hiring grew modestly, and wage
increases continued to be moderate. Overall price increases were moderate, although
pressure remains on a number of input prices.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending posted measured growth. A major Minneapolis-based retailer
reported that same-store sales in June increased over 4 percent compared with a year
earlier. Two Minneapolis area malls noted that recent sales were trending above
year-ago levels. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana
indicated that sales activity at dealerships during the past few months increased
over last year. A  Minnesota  auto dealer noted that sales and service volumes were up
from last year.  Summer tourism activity was mixed. In western South Dakota, wet weather
dampened the start to the season, but summer reservations for RV camping were up
about 2 percent. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that both corporate and leisure
business were up from a year ago. However, Minnesota state parks were closed during
the government shutdown. Flooding in North Dakota has slowed tourism activity,
including cancelation of this summer’s state fair in Minot.  Construction and Real Estate  Several contacts from across the District reported that recent commercial
construction activity was steady at low levels, while construction had stalled in
flooded areas. A nutritional supplement producer is building a major addition in
 Montana . However, construction in the Minnesota transportation sector stalled during
the state government shutdown. Some private nonresidential construction was delayed
by lack of state government building inspectors. Residential construction increased
from last year. The value of residential building permits in June increased 19
percent from the same period a year earlier in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area; in
Minneapolis-St. Paul, the value of June permits increased significantly from a year
ago.  Commercial real estate markets increased slightly since the last report.
Minnesota commercial real estate industry representatives expect higher rents and
lower vacancy rates, according to a May survey by the University of St. Thomas.
Retail real estate industry analysts expect a slight increase in absorption, but
decreases in rent over the summer in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Residential real
estate markets grew. Home sales during June in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Billings,
Mont., were up from last year’s post-tax-credit lull in sales. June pending sales of
homes in the  Sioux Falls  area increased from June 2010, but new listings and the
median sales price decreased.  Services  Professional business services firms reported increased activity over the past
three months. Results of a mid-July Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of 55 professional
services firms indicated that 47 percent of the respondents saw increased sales,
while 29 percent saw decreased sales. Respondents noted that profits and employment
also increased. The respondents expected this trend to continue over the next three
months. However, a few contacts commented that the Minnesota state government
shutdown negatively affected their business.  Manufacturing  The manufacturing sector grew modestly. A survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity increased in
June in Minnesota and South Dakota, while activity declined in  North Dakota , due in
part to flooding disruptions. Nearly 70 percent of manufacturing respondents to the
Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey said their sales increased in the past three months.
However, in North Dakota, an electric vehicle plant closed in June to consolidate
production in  Iowa , and a military equipment plant will close in August.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors was steady. A renewable energy firm
recently announced that it will acquire a biodiesel plant in southern Minnesota,
which has been idle since 2008, and resume operations there. Wind-energy development
projects continued since the last report, including the opening of a 40-megawatt
wind farm in Minnesota. However, a utility announced that it was canceling plans for
a $38 million wind farm in western  South Dakota . Mid-July oil exploration activity
decreased slightly from early June. Mining activity continued at a strong pace
across the District.  Agriculture  Agriculture was mixed. While production in western portions of the District was
hampered by severe flooding, prices for agricultural outputs remained strong.
Preliminary estimates suggest that 6.3 million acres in North Dakota may have gone
unplanted due to flooding. Contacts suggested that impacts on hay and feed crops
could increase costs for some cattle producers, but a bank director noted that
overall hay production in Montana and the Dakotas will be very strong due to
moisture conditions. In other parts of the District, crop progress has fared better
recently than early-season indicators suggested, but is still behind last year’s
pace. Prices for some District agricultural commodities increased since the last
report, including corn, soybeans and dairy products; however, cattle and wheat
prices decreased recently.  Employment, Wages and Prices  While private sector hiring grew modestly, the Minnesota government shutdown
resulted in 22,000 temporary layoffs of state government employees. In Minnesota, a
company recently announced plans to build a  data center  that is expected to provide
more than 100 jobs, and a steel producer will add 60 jobs this year. According to a
survey by an employment services firm, 20 percent of respondents in Minneapolis-St.
Paul expect to increase staffing levels during the third quarter, while 3 percent
expect to decrease staff. Businesses in eastern Montana and western North Dakota
continued to have difficulty finding workers due to strong oil drilling activity in
the region.  Wage increases were moderate. Recent settlements with labor unions generally
included modest wage increases over the next two to three years. According to
respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 34 percent
expect to increase employee compensation at their companies over the next six months,
up from last year’s survey, when 24 percent expected increases.  Overall price increases were moderate, although pressure remains on a number of
input prices. Mid-July Minnesota gasoline prices were about the same as early June,
but were $1 per gallon higher than a year ago. Meanwhile, prices for copper, lead,
nickel and zinc increased. A Minnesota-based food producer reported that food
ingredients are expected to rise at least 10 percent over the next year. 