-- 
U.S., China Sign Pact to Share Information on Acquisitions

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-27T11:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-china-sign-pact-on-information-sharing-for-acquisitions.html
The U.S. and  China  signed an
agreement in Beijing today to increase information sharing
between government agencies in the world’s two biggest economies
on cross-border mergers and acquisitions.  The nations aim to enhance exchanges on developments and
potential changes to competition policy and law, according to
the memorandum of understanding on antitrust and antimonopoly
cooperation signed by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the  U.S.
Department of Justice , China’s National Development and Reform
Commission, the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and China’s State
Administration for Industry and Commerce.  The U.S. and China have sought to strengthen ties as trade
between the nations quadrupled in the past decade and China
passed  Japan  in 2008 to become the biggest holder of American
debt. President  Hu Jintao  traveled to the U.S. in January for
the first full state visit by a Chinese leader since 1997.  “Deals between the U.S. and China will continue increasing,
and lots of deals will fall under antimonopoly laws,” Hubert Tse, a Shanghai-based partner at law firm Boss & Young, said by
telephone today. “It’ll benefit both countries if the agreement
can work on a friendly basis.”  As part of the agreement signed today, the U.S. and China
will also cooperate on training programs, workshops, study
missions and internships. Each of the agencies plans to appoint
a liaison for facilitating contact, according to the agreement.  Coca-Cola’s Bid  China’s Ministry of Commerce received more than 130 merger
and acquisition applications in 2010, “much more” than the
previous year, according to a  statement  posted to the ministry’s
website in January, which didn’t give more details.  The commerce ministry blocked Coca-Cola Co.’s $2.3 billion
bid for China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. in 2009, with the
ministry saying the takeover would have hurt competition in the
nation’s juice and beverage market. The deal would have been the
biggest foreign takeover of a Chinese company.  In 2010, Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery Co.
failed to win approval from Chinese regulators to buy General
Motors Co.’s Hummer brand. Wang Chao, who was an assistant
Chinese commerce minister at the time, said the government
didn’t block the bid.  Tengzhong said it was “unable to obtain clearance of the
transaction from the Chinese regulators”, according to a
statement from the Chengdu-based company.  --Emma Dong. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Emma Dong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 edong10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  