-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve July Beige Book Summary (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-july-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of the Federal Reserve
Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic
activity continued to grow; however, the pace has moderated in many Districts. The
six Districts nearest the Atlantic seaboard reported a slowdown in activity since
the previous  Beige Book  report; activity was little changed in the Atlanta District
and unchanged or slightly improved in the Richmond District. Of the other six
Districts, the Minneapolis District reported political and weather-related
disruptions that temporarily slowed growth, and the Dallas District slowed to a
moderate pace of growth. The remaining four Districts continued to grow modestly.
The previous Beige Book reported a slower growth rate for four Districts, seven
Districts growing at a steady pace, and one District with faster growth.  Consumer spending increased overall, with modest growth of non-auto retail
sales in a majority of Districts. Falling gasoline prices throughout most of this
reporting period may have encouraged a pickup in shopping trips and some additional
spending since the previous Beige Book. Price pressures from food, energy, cotton,
and other supplier inputs continued to squeeze retail margins. Auto sales slowed a
little since the previous Beige Book, with inventories still lean due to Japanese
supply chain disruptions. The summer tourism season has started off stronger than
last year in most areas unaffected by severe weather.  Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall in most Districts.
Of the five Districts reporting on transportation services, volumes were mostly up.
Manufacturing activity expanded overall, with two Districts growing at a somewhat
faster rate since the last Beige Book, many Districts reporting steady or slowing
growth, and two Districts reporting little change. Among firms reporting on near-
term expectations, the manufacturing outlook remained generally optimistic, but
 capital spending  plans were somewhat more cautious.  Most residential real estate activity was little changed and remained weak,
although construction and activity in the residential rental market continued to
improve since the previous Beige Book. For six Districts, activity in the
nonresidential real estate market has improved slightly for specific submarkets,
although conditions generally remained weak across all twelve Districts. Since the
last Beige Book, overall loan volumes have increased in three Districts, decreased
in two Districts, and were relatively flat, often with mixed trends across the banks’
portfolios, in five Districts. Credit quality was steady or improving.  Drought conditions and severe flooding adversely affected large portions of the
seven Districts that reported on their agricultural sectors. Districts that reported
on their energy and mining sectors continued to note strong growth for most energy-
related products but some weakness in coal production.  Although most Federal Reserve Districts observed modest hiring increases, labor
market conditions remained soft. Wage pressures continued to be subdued for all but
a few specific occupations in some Districts. Price pressures moderated somewhat in
many Districts, although some firms indicated that they were able to pass on some
cost increases to their customers.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism  Consumer spending increased overall in most Districts since the last Beige Book.
The  New York ,  Cleveland ,  Chicago , Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts indicated modest
growth of nonauto retail sales, and the Philadelphia and  Kansas City  Districts noted
relatively strong growth. Retailers in the  Boston , Richmond, Atlanta, and  San
Francisco  Districts reported mixed results across product lines, while  St. Louis 
District retailers reported slowing sales. Stronger sales in some New York City
stores were attributed to tourism, while one large mall in western New York credited
Canadian shoppers as the source. A major Philadelphia District retailer suggested
that increased shopping trips and a greater willingness to spend were due to lower
 gas prices  since the last Beige Book. Inventory levels were not a strong concern.
Contacts from half of the Districts noted upward pressure from supplier prices --
cotton was often mentioned -- and other non-labor inputs, especially food and energy.
Some retailers were able to pass through some cost increases, but for many,
especially restaurants, profit margins were squeezed. Restaurant contacts in the
Atlanta and Kansas City Districts still managed to report strong sales.  Reports of auto sales were mixed across Districts and varied by vehicle make,
with most Districts indicating that dealer inventories were lean primarily due to
lingering supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and parts. Auto dealers in the
Kansas City District cited strong sales despite reduced incentives and credited, in
part, continued low  interest rates  and tornado damage. The Chicago District noted
lower sales in June as incentives decreased and showroom traffic declined, followed
by improved sales in early July. The New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St.
Louis,  Dallas , and San Francisco Districts noted varying degrees of lower sales
stemming from Japanese supply constraints. Strong demand for smaller vehicles and
used cars continued in several Districts. The Cleveland District described dealers’
outlook as cautious due to uncertainty about gas prices, the economy, and vehicle
availability.  Tourism activity strengthened in most Districts as the summer season got
underway. The Richmond District reported that bookings along the Mid-Atlantic coast
were comparable to the 2010 season, despite last year’s increase from additional
vacationers who were avoiding the Gulf Coast oil spill. The New York, Atlanta, and
San Francisco Districts also reported increased tourism. Tourism was also up in
parts of the Kansas and  Minneapolis  Districts, except for destinations adversely
affected by drought, heavy rains, flooding, and Minnesota’s state government
shutdown.  Nonfinancial Services  Growth of nonfinancial services advanced further during this Beige Book period
for the Districts overall. The Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts reported the strongest advances. The Philadelphia and Richmond
Districts reported slight improvements, while activity in the New York District
flattened. Respondents remained optimistic about growth over the next three to six
months in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts.
However, the New York District’s contacts were less optimistic than they were when
polled for the previous Beige Book. High-tech firms in the Kansas City District
expressed an optimistic outlook and planned to increase capital spending.  Among the five Districts that reported on transportation services, freight
transport shipping volumes in the Cleveland District, port activity in the Richmond
District, and intermodal cargo volumes in the Dallas District expanded somewhat. The
Kansas City District also reported increased activity, while Atlanta District firms
indicated that their domestic volumes of freight and parcels were slowing somewhat.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity expanded overall, with two Districts reporting somewhat
stronger growth since the last Beige Book, many Districts reporting steady or
slowing in growth, and two Districts reporting little change. Auto production in the
Cleveland District rose moderately, as supply disruptions caused by events in  Japan 
diminished. The Kansas City District also reported a rebound in manufacturing
activity from a low level in the prior survey period, while activity at high-tech
firms expanded further. Foreign demand for metal fabrication and overall demand for
semiconductors and other technology products contributed to slightly faster growth
rates in the San Francisco District. Manufacturers in the Chicago, St. Louis, and
Minneapolis Districts reported continued growth at a relatively steady pace from the
previous reporting period. The Chicago District cited a rebound in auto production
and strong demand for heavy trucks and equipment.  Growth continued among manufacturers in the Boston and Dallas Districts as
well; however, results were more mixed. Contacts in the Boston District cited
stronger growth for products related to foreign demand, non-luxury  consumer goods ,
and clients addressing deferred maintenance needs. Softer growth was reported by
firms delivering consumer luxury goods, and products or services to the small
business, banking, and government sectors.  Manufacturing firms in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts
reported somewhat slower rates of growth overall. However, the Philadelphia District
reported a lull early in the period, followed by resumption of a slow rate of growth
in early July, while the Richmond District reported moderate gains, which stalled in
early July. Manufacturing firms in the New York District reported a pause in growth
throughout the period.  Manufacturing firms’ expectations of future activity were optimistic in the
Boston and Philadelphia Districts, although Boston’s firms were less positive than
in the previous Beige Book, and Philadelphia’s firms were more positive. Firms in
the Boston District indicated limited plans for capital spending, while firms in the
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts maintained plans for capital
spending at prior levels. Fewer firms in the Cleveland District were reporting
delays to project starts for their capital spending plans.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate sales in almost all Districts were little changed from
the last Beige Book. Activity edged up in the Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis
Districts. Of the Districts reporting on  home prices , most said that they were flat
or declining. The Boston and Richmond Districts reported steady prices; the
Philadelphia and Atlanta Districts reported that prices were steady to down
slightly; and the Kansas City and New York Districts reported that prices were down.
Increasing inventories of unsold homes in the Boston, New York, and Kansas City
Districts have restrained building in the single-family housing sector. Residential
construction activity overall was mixed, though it increased in the Minneapolis
District. Since the previous Beige Book, construction and activity in the
residential rental market have continued to improve in the New York, Chicago, Dallas,
and San Francisco Districts.  Nonresidential real estate activity improved somewhat in the Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts. The Chicago
District reported strong demand for industrial facilities, particularly from the
automotive sector. The Philadelphia District reported improvements in terms of lower
vacancy rates for  office space , industrial space, and apartments; the Chicago
District reported generally lower vacancy rates. The New York, Richmond, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts all reported generally weak
activity in nonresidential real estate. Construction in the Minneapolis District
stalled in areas because of flooding and unavailability of state building inspectors
due to the Minnesota state government shutdown. Health care and apartment
construction was a bright spot for the Atlanta District. Activity was weak in the
Kansas City District, but firms that supply construction materials reported
increased sales and stable prices. San Francisco reported stable but high vacancy
rates in many parts of the District.  Banking and Finance  Reports of loan demand were more mixed than in the previous Beige Book. The New
York, Richmond, and Chicago Districts reported overall increases in loan demand but
from different sources. Commercial and industrial loans accounted for the growth in
the New York District, while consumer loans accounted for the growth in the Chicago
District. Loan growth in the Richmond District was driven by consumer lending, real
estate loans for apartments, and commercial loans for larger companies. Total loan
volume decreased in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts, reflecting decreases in
real estate lending and individual loans in St. Louis and reductions in consumer
installment, commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial loans in Kansas
City. The Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported relatively
little overall change in loan volume, while the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts
reported mixed results. Outside of banking, the San Francisco District indicated
increased investment activity by venture capital firms and higher levels of IPO
activity.  Credit conditions have changed little since the previous Beige Book. Banks in
the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported that
 credit quality  was flat or somewhat improved. Bankers in the Richmond, Atlanta,
Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted that competition among lenders
for high-quality borrowers was squeezing banks’ margins and lowering the cost of
capital for those borrowers. Bank contacts in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas
City, and San Francisco Districts indicated that credit standards were mostly
unchanged at tight levels, but the Cleveland District heard a few reports of easing
standards for good borrowers.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Severe drought conditions adversely affected parts of the Atlanta, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, causing low crop yields, complete crop losses,
wildfires, and loss of grazing land in many areas. The Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts reported that ranchers had culled herds or placed cattle on feed
lots in response to poor pasture conditions, despite higher feed lot costs that trim
their margins. Meanwhile, the Chicago and Minneapolis Districts noted that flooding
had caused millions of acres to go unplanted. The Atlanta District reported that
rain brought relief to some stressed pastures and crops, but farm labor shortages
had impaired  Georgia ’s fruit and vegetable production. The St. Louis District
reported fair or better conditions for corn, soybean, sorghum, rice, and cotton
crops, plus an increase from 2010 in its winter wheat production. Kansas City
reported good or better conditions for corn and soybean crops. Agricultural prices
were mixed since the last report, with the Chicago and Minneapolis Districts
reporting lower cattle and wheat prices, while soybean and dairy prices were up.
Chicago also reported higher prices for hogs.  Activity in the energy sector remained strong. Shale exploration increased in
the Atlanta and Cleveland Districts. The Cleveland District also reported little
change in the production of oil, natural gas, or coal, despite rising demand for
coal. The St. Louis District reported higher coal production than the prior year.
The Minneapolis District reported continued strong mining activity and mixed plans
for wind farms and biodiesel. The Kansas City District reported expanded drilling
activity and higher ethanol production but weak coal production. The Dallas District
also reported strong drilling activity, and the San Francisco District reported
strong activity for metal mining, along with oil and gas extraction.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Labor market conditions remained soft in most Federal Reserve Districts.
Employment, especially among temporary hiring agencies, improved in the Richmond
District in recent weeks. Modest hiring increases, often within specific sectors
such as advertising in the Boston District and manufacturing in the Cleveland
District, contributed to modest overall employment gains. Small gains were also
noted in the St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. The New York,
Philadelphia, and Chicago Districts reported a slowdown in the pace of hiring
activity. A staffing firm in the Chicago District reported a decline in billable
hours.  Wage pressures remained subdued in most Districts and for most occupations. For
the overall labor market, the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco Districts reported limited wage pressures. Wage pressures or wage
increases were characterized as modest or moderate by the Atlanta, Chicago,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. Boston District contacts reported wage
growth between 3 percent and 5 percent in consulting and advertising. In addition,
contacts in the Kansas City District reported labor shortages and wage pressures in
the retail sector and for many occupations in the high-tech, energy, and
transportation sectors, while the San Francisco District reported continued wage
pressures for specialized information technology workers.  Price pressures seemed to have moderated somewhat, although some firms reported
being able to pass on some rising costs. Overall, input price pressures appeared to
have fallen modestly. Input price increases remained elevated in the Philadelphia,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Meanwhile, the Boston, Cleveland,
Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts reported moderation in input price pressures
relative to the previous Beige Book. For the most part, firms’ ability to pass on
price increases remained mixed. A few Districts reported some sectors being able to
pass on rising prices, such as the retail sector in the Chicago District and
service-sector firms in the Dallas District. 