-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Third District -- Philadelphia.  Since the last  Beige Book , Third District economic activity has continued to
grow at a very slow rate. Overall, manufacturing growth has leveled off at a low
rate since the last Beige Book. Retailers posted strong year-over-year sales
increases in June. For motor vehicle dealers, the slowdown in sales that began in
May eased slightly further in June. On balance, bank lending has been mostly flat
since the last Beige Book. Steady and falling house prices continue to dampen sales
of existing and new homes, according to residential real estate and construction
contacts. Commercial real estate contacts reported small improvements in market
conditions since the previous Beige Book. Slight increases in activity were reported
by service-sector firms, dampened somewhat by a hiring slump among customers. Price
pressures from food, energy, and other commodities continue to affect many sectors.
The ability to pass along costs remains mixed, and there is little evidence of wage
pressure.  Third District business contacts continue to expect slow growth despite
expressing increased uncertainty. Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in shipments
and orders during the next six months. Retailers remain cautiously optimistic about
future sales; auto dealers are more agnostic. Bankers expect slight growth in
lending, at best. Residential real estate contacts are generally planning for a
continuation of slow growth, comparable to last year. Contacts in commercial real
estate continue to expect modest gains. Service-sector companies also expect
continued slow growth.  Manufacturing  Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers reported a lull in the
growth of new orders and a slowdown in the modest growth rate of shipments. However,
activity was reported to be a bit stronger in July. Among key manufacturing sectors
in the Third District, the number reporting increases of both shipments and orders
has narrowed since the last Beige Book. Growing product demand was reported by
makers of furniture; instruments; stone, clay, and glass products; and printers and
publishers. However, makers of food, apparel, chemicals, rubber, primary metals,
fabricated metals, and electronics reported declining product demand. Comments from
firms were mixed, with several citing an ongoing lull in customer demand, a few
surprised by unseasonal increases, and many concerned by economic uncertainties.  Despite the uncertainties, Third District manufacturers have grown somewhat
more positive in their outlook for business conditions over the next six months
compared to the time of the previous Beige Book. Among firms contacted, over two-
fifths expect increases in new orders and shipments, while about one-fifth expect
decreases. One-third of firms polled project increases in  capital spending  over a
six-month planning horizon - the same proportion as at the last Beige Book.  Retail  Third District retailers reported stronger sales in June than a year earlier.
Shopping trips and a willingness to spend were aided by falling gas prices since the
previous Beige Book. Consumers continue to search for value, and retailers continue
to respond with merchandise at lower price points. Retailers remain cautiously
optimistic as the critical September through December retail period approaches.
However, given the slow growth so far this year, one retailer indicated that it
would likely implement only half of this year’s capital budget plan.  Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales eased further in June
after May’s slowdown. Results varied by brand, depending on reliance on Japanese
production for the vehicle or parts. One dealer of General Motors brands indicated
June was the dealership’s best month of the year. Dealers remain uncertain about
future sales.  Finance  Third District banks contacted in July indicated little change in loan volumes
outstanding. Many sources reported continued weak demand from small businesses; some
bankers cited stronger lending to middle market businesses. Revolving credit had
bounced back somewhat in June, after a fall-off in April and May; however, the gains
may have been lost in early July. On balance, total credit extended by banks in the
region has been flat to slightly down. Expectations for better growth were not met
for the most recent period - dampening expectations for anything but the slightest
improvement in the near future, according to banking contacts.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity in the Third District has changed little since
the previous Beige Book. While some agents reported positive comparisons during June
and early July for showings and sales compared to year-ago levels, activity last
year was soft after the tax credit expired. Agents and builders continue to report
stronger sales among mid- and low-priced homes, but incidences of high-priced home
sales are increasing. Reports of multiple offers for condos in center city
Philadelphia were noted by one agent as a glimmer of improvement. Most market
participants do not expect the year as a whole to be markedly different from last
year. In most parts of the Third District, sale prices of existing homes continue to
fall slightly; in a few areas, prices were unchanged. Traffic and sales of new homes
have weakened since the last Beige Book; however, one builder reported an uptick in
activity in  Pennsylvania  in the last two weeks.  Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have noted small improvements in
the Third District since the previous Beige Book. Overall, vacancy rates have
improved for  office space , industrial space, and apartments, although one manager
said activity seems to have come to a standstill in the last month. Retail space
vacancies may have edged up slightly; however, demand is stronger in regional
centers and weaker at neighborhood sites. An ongoing trend of trading up for quality
as office space leases renew has lowered vacancies and reduced concessions for Class
A space, while raising vacancies for Class B space. Rents are generally steady for
most sectors in most areas and concessions remain common.  Services  Reports from Third District service-sector firms were slightly positive overall,
but firms described various challenges. A recurring theme was a recent slowdown in
hiring, especially from small and medium-sized businesses. One staffing agency
described “almost a stop to new [excludes replacement] hiring orders in the last
three weeks.” Other firms cited projects delayed due to ongoing economic
uncertainties, including government-related projects contingent on budget
negotiations. The most positive firms recognized that the “easy year-over-year comps
are over” in this recovery and that continued growth will be slow. Despite these
challenges, most service-sector firms expect growth to be somewhat better over the
next six months.  Prices and Wages  Since the previous Beige Book, the percent of manufacturers reporting increases
in prices paid for inputs dropped from more than one-half to one-third. Over the
same period, the percent reporting decreases in prices received for their own
products rose from nearly zero to over one-sixth. Rising commodity prices continue
to pressure retailers, service-sector firms, and home builders to pass through costs
when they can and to lower the price-point of their offerings. There are a few
reports of a little upward pressure on rents in selected local markets for
apartments and some retail space. Meanwhile, there is little evidence of pressure on
wages. 