-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Sixth District -- Atlanta.  Summary  Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as little-changed
in June through mid-July. Retail sales grew slowly, although sales of higher-end
goods saw more traction and tourism activity was strong. Existing home sales
remained soft outside of  Florida , while new home sales and construction were weak
throughout the region. Downward pressure on prices of both existing and new homes
continued to be noted. Contractors reported that the pace of commercial development
was basically unchanged, although construction activity in healthcare and multi-
family had improved. Manufacturing contacts indicated that production and new orders
increased but at a slower pace than experienced earlier in the year. Credit
availability for entrepreneurs and real estate developers remained tight, although
loan availability for some commercial projects increased. Most business contacts
indicated that their hiring plans remained modest. Firms’ expectations for unit cost
increases have softened, mainly because non-labor input costs have moderated. Some
energy contacts have noticed a considerable uptick in early stage fabrication of oil
and gas extraction capital goods. While most of the District continued to experience
drought conditions, recent rains have provided relief to some of the District’s
stressed farmlands.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism  Most District merchants reported that retail sales growth was modest in June
through mid-July, although some luxury goods retailers noted steady-to-improving
sales. The outlook among most retailers was less optimistic than earlier in the year.
The majority of contacts stated that they were keeping inventory levels lean and had
no plans to increase supply in the near term. Mid- and high-end restaurant contacts
reported improving traffic and sales, although their margins remained under pressure
from non-labor input costs. Auto sales from Japanese manufacturers slowed, but
dealers noted that the impact of supply disruptions from Japan is ending.  Leisure activity continued to accelerate in most areas. Contacts reported
increases in room occupancy and rates in many areas. Strong attendance at theme
parks, festivals, and coastal destinations was noted. Cruise bookings have risen as
well, and airport contacts observed increases in passenger traffic. The overall
outlook for tourism remained positive.  Real Estate and Construction  According to reports from District brokers, home sales were slightly ahead of
last year’s weak levels. Gains continued to be driven largely by reports from
Florida brokers. Outside Florida, the majority of contacts reported sales declined.
Brokers continued to report declining home inventory levels as fewer homes enter the
market and that  home prices  were flat to slightly down compared with a year earlier.
The outlook among Florida brokers was somewhat positive, but elsewhere sales are
expected to remain weak.  District builders reported that new home sales and construction weakened
somewhat in June compared with year-ago levels. Builders continued to report
downward pressure on new home prices. Residential contractors reported that home
improvement construction increased from earlier in the year; however, most reported
that they were unable to effectively pass along all cost increases. Most builders
anticipate that new home sales and construction will be slightly ahead of last
year’s weak levels over the next several months, and most expect renovation work
will continue to improve.  About two-thirds of contractors reported that the pace of commercial
development was flat to slightly up compared with weak levels from a year earlier,
but backlogs continued to shrink. Contractors commented that healthcare and
apartment construction were bright spots and that renovations in commercial and
apartment space had increased. Most contractors anticipate activity for the
remainder of this year will be flat to below year-ago levels. With regard to
existing commercial structures, contacts reported that credit availability and
absorption improved, especially in light industrial, warehousing, healthcare and
energy-related space.  Manufacturing and Transportation  Manufacturing contacts indicated that production and new orders increased, but
at a slower pace than reported earlier in the year. Producers of healthcare
equipment and electrical components in particular noted stronger orders, and a
producer of freight trucks is significantly increasing output. Many manufacturers
reported increased investment in technology equipment in efforts to increase
efficiency. While some contacts noted that the acceleration in input prices had
begun to moderate, the price of metals remained elevated. Many contacts reported
that supply chain disruptions from the disaster in  Japan  were beginning to moderate.  Freight forwarding and parcel shipping contacts reported a gradual slowing of
domestic volume momentum in June through mid-July. The cost of fuel and other inputs
continued to challenge shippers’ operating margins; however, maritime contacts cited
some success in passing along fuel surcharges. Input costs for trucking contacts -
such as tires, replacement parts, and new vehicles - remained high.  Banking and Finance  Banking contacts reported that credit was available, but finding qualified
borrowers continued to be difficult. Several cited increased competition for
qualified loans. New residential real estate loans were limited, but banks were
actively competing for refinances. Business contacts reported credit markets
improved, but loan standards remained high. Credit availability for entrepreneurs
and real estate developers remained tight, although loans were available for some
commercial projects - namely hospitals and multi-family buildings.  Employment and Prices  Most business contacts indicated that their hiring plans remained modest.
Uncertainty regarding future demand and the regulatory environment were the most
commonly cited reasons for the muted hiring outlook. Of those that reported plans to
increase employment, many pointed to having reached maximum productivity with
existing staff. Staffing agency contacts continued to experience high demand for
temporary or contract workers. According to reports, demand for qualified, higher
skilled candidates is robust, especially in the technology sector. Most contacts
said that they did not experience significant upward wage pressure, and
characterized annual increases and bonuses as modest.  Firms’ expectations for unit cost increases are more tempered than noted
earlier in the year. Non-labor input costs have moderated, but remained elevated.
However, downward price pressures from productivity gains were reportedly tapering
off. While District contacts have continued to report that margins remained squeezed,
there have been more frequent reports that some contacts are attempting to pass
through input costs.  Natural Resources and Agriculture  Some energy contacts have noticed a considerable uptick in early stage
fabrication of oil and gas extraction capital goods. Shipbuilding for shallow water
supply boats has also increased. Shale exploration has increased as firms employed
directional drilling techniques for oil and gas liquids.  While most of the District continued to experience drought conditions, recent
rains have provided relief to some of the District’s stressed pastures and crops.
Based on results of a recent state survey, a contact reports concerns that farm
labor shortages has had a negative impact on  Georgia ’s fruit and vegetable
production. 