-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 22 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-27T14:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-july-22-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending July 22, 261 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 88.3 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging nearly 9.2
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased
slightly last week, averaging about 4.6 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.8 million barrels per day last
week, up by 497 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged 9.5
million barrels per day, 447 thousand barrels per day below the
same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports
(including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 662 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 161 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.3 million barrels
from the previous week. At 354.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
1.0 million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 3.4 million barrels last week and are
in the upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.6 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 11.4 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just under 18.8 million barrels per day, down by 2.9
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly
9.1 million barrels per day, down by 3.3 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
just about 3.5 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
down by 3.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel
product supplied is 0.3 percent higher over the last four weeks
compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  