-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Surges to Record, Corn Drops

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-27T11:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-surges-to-record-corn-drops.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Aston CEO Says in Talks With Buyers Interested in Mine Stake (2)  Aston Resources Ltd., an Australian coking coal developer,
is holding talks with several companies including Itochu Corp.
interested in buying a stake in the A$2.3 billion ($2.5 billion)
Maules Creek mine.  EU Wheat Output May Beat Forecasts as Rain Curbs Drought Damage  The European Union, producer of 20 percent of the world’s
wheat, will probably reap more grain than previously forecast
this year after rain helped limit damage from the driest growing
season in three decades.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines 0.5% to $9,770 a Metric Ton in  London  Trading  Copper for three-month delivery fell 0.5 percent to $9,770
a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  ArcelorMittal Earnings Beat Estimates, Sees Rising Shipments (3)  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, reported
quarterly profit grew 22 percent on higher prices and forecast
rising shipments in the second half.  Steelmaker Yields Rise as Record Redemptions Near: China Credit  Steel companies in the world’s biggest producer of the
metal face a record amount of debt redemptions as an oversupply
of the commodity in  Asia  threatens to slash prices and trim
profits.  Nippon Steel, JFE Predict Lower Profit as Material Costs Gain  Nippon Steel Corp. and JFE Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s two
largest steelmakers, said first-half profits will decline as raw
material costs increase and the March 11 earthquake curbs
output.  Aluminum Product Shipments by Japan Drop on Slow Recovery (1)  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products declined 0.8
percent last month amid a slow recovery from the March
earthquake and tsunami that disrupted cars and electronic
appliances production.  MINING:  Nyrstar Profit Drops as Costs Rise, Output Misses Forecast (2)  Nyrstar NV, the world’s largest producer of refined zinc,
said first-half profit dropped 18 percent because of higher
financing costs after buying mines.  BHP May Spend $27.4 Billion on Olympic Dam, Deutsche Bank Says  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, may
spend $27.4 billion expanding its Olympic Dam copper, gold and
uranium mine in South Australia state, according to Deutsche
Bank AG.  AngloGold, Gold Fields, Harmony Facing Strike From July 28  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Gold Fields Ltd. and Harmony Gold
Mining Co.,  Africa ’s three largest gold producers, are facing
 strike action  from July 28 after wage talks with labor unions
failed, the Chamber of Mines, which represents employers, said
in an e-mailed statement today.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Surges to Record as ‘Go-to Asset’ Amid Debt-Talk Stalemate  Gold surged to an all-time high as investors sought to
protect their wealth against the possibility of a U.S. default
that may come as soon as next week amid a standoff over the
country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit. Silver rose to the highest
since May.  Palladium to Gain on Japan Auto Demand, China Capital Says (1)  Platinum and palladium, whose gains have lagged behind
gold, are likely to “outperform” in the second-half of this
year as vehicle production in Japan recovers, according to China
International Capital Corp.  Gartman Says Gold May Rise to 1,020 Pounds in 2-3 Weeks  Gold, which rose to a record in dollar terms today, may
advance to 1,020 pounds ($1,676) an ounce in the next two to
three weeks,  Dennis Gartman , the economist who correctly
forecast 2008’s commodities slump, said in his daily Gartman
Letter.  AGRICULTURE:  Brazil Coffee Price to Exceed New York on Crop: Chart of the Day  Brazilian coffee beans are poised to exceed New York prices
during the peak of the Latin American country’s harvest for the
first time since at least 2000 as growers benefit from weaker
crops elsewhere in the region.  Kenyan Tea Production Declined by 16% in First Half Amid Drought  Tea production in  Kenya , the world’s biggest exporter of
the black variety of the leaves, fell 16 percent in the first
half amid a drought, the Tea Board of Kenya said.  Corn Drops as Rainfall in U.S. Eases Concerns on Yield Losses  Corn declined as rain and cooler weather in growing areas
of the U.S. eased concerns about yield losses. Wheat retreated
after  Egypt  said it bought Russian grain.  Cocoa Falls as  Ivory Coast  Crop May Reach Record; Coffee Slides  Cocoa fell for the sixth time in seven sessions in London
on speculation supplies from top producer Ivory Coast will be
larger than initially estimated. Coffee and sugar also slid.  Rubber Gains to Two-Month High in Tokyo on Demand Speculation  Rubber climbed to the highest level in two months on
speculation global demand for the raw material used in tires and
gloves will expand, boosting prices.  Japan to Hold Next Tender for Feed Wheat, Barley on Aug 3  Japan will hold a tender for a maximum of 50,000 metric
tons of feed wheat and 200,000 tons of feed barley on Aug. 3,
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said today.  Milling Wheat From  Australia ’s East to Surge, Emerald Says (1)  High-grade wheat production on Australia’s east coast may
surge this harvest after rains and floods cut last year’s crop
to feed quality, Emerald Group Australia Pty. said.  ECONOMIES:  China’s Industrial Profits Jump 29% in First Half on Year (2)  Chinese industrial companies’ profits grew at a faster pace
even after the government raised  interest rates  and tightened
credit to counter inflation.  U.S. May Lose AAA Rating, BlackRock, Loomis, Templeton Say (2)  BlackRock Inc., Loomis Sayles & Co. and Franklin Templeton
Investments said the U.S. faces losing its top-level debt rating
as officials struggle to raise the $14.3 trillion borrowing
limit.  Bernanke May Need to Stay ‘Above Politics’ in Debt Standoff  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has steered clear
of the political brawl over raising the U.S. debt limit.
Lawmakers say he should keep his distance.  Ireland’s Kenny Stays Deaf to Default’s Siren Song: Euro Credit  While Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  says default would be
an “economic calamity,” credit-default swaps suggest there’s a
52 percent chance he’ll concede.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Fall, Euro Weakens as Spanish Bonds Drop on Debt Concern  European stocks fell for a third day, the euro weakened
while Spanish and Italian bonds dropped on concern the region’s
debt crisis will limit economic growth and earnings. The dollar
declined to a record against the Swiss franc, while U.S. default
risk increased.  Dollar Falls to Record Lows Against Aussie, Franc on Debt Talks  The dollar slumped to record lows against the Swiss franc
and the Australian and New Zealand dollars as President  Barack
Obama  and lawmakers argued over plans to raise the U.S. debt
limit and prevent a default.  European Stocks Drop for Third Day; Clariant, Merck Lead Decline  European stocks fell for a third day as earnings from
Clariant AG to Merck KGaA missed estimates and U.S. politicians
wrangled over the nation’s debt limit. U.S. index futures and
Asian shares were little changed.  China Stocks, Metals to Drop on Monetary Plans: Chart of the Day  China’s stocks and global commodity prices have yet to bear
the “full brunt” of monetary-policy tightening from Beijing
designed to fight inflation in the world’s second-largest
economy, according to MKM Partners LP.  Oil Falls on Bets Rising U.S. Stockpiles Show Demand Is Slowing  Oil fell in  New York  on speculation rising U.S. crude
stockpiles indicate fuel demand is faltering in the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity.  SPORTS:  Manchester City  Poised to Sign Sergio Aguero: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
media, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  