-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Index Climbs as Sovereign Debt Downgrade Looms

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T21:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-index-climbs-as-sovereign-debt-downgrade-looms.html
The cost to protect the debt of U.S.
companies from losses jumped to the highest in more than a week
as concerns grew that the political battle over the federal debt
limit would cost the nation its top-level  credit rating .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 96.2 basis points as of 4:57 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s the highest level since
July 19.  Investors warned that the U.S. could be stripped of its
top-level sovereign debt grade by a major ratings service even
if Congress agrees to raise the government’s debt ceiling before
a possible Aug. 2 default. Traders are pushing the swaps index
higher as lawmaker support is divided on plans to increase the
limit, said Noel Hebert, credit strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc.  “It doesn’t look like anybody is going to come to any
great compromise,” the New York-based strategist said. “If we
get a deal you could see the early reaction be very positive,
but you could certainly see it fade out very quickly
thereafter.”  The U.S. may lose its highest AAA credit rating if
lawmakers don’t reach a solution,  Standard & Poor’s  said July
14. The “long-term growth rate of the debt” would be the
biggest factor in the decision to lower the country’s rating,
S&P’s President Deven Sharma told U.S. lawmakers today. The
rating company will wait to see a final proposal before acting,
he said.  Lack of Stability  Any agreement struck this late will probably push the debt
problem forward into next year, when it will have to be
addressed again, Hebert said. He doesn’t expect a last-minute
deal to provide the long-term stability that would reassure
credit investors.  The benchmark credit index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, was
little changed yesterday as President  Barack Obama  and
Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  tried to gain backing for
their parties’ separate proposals. The gauge has risen from 92.4
on July 21.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  