-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
Fifth District -- Richmond.  Overview  Business activity in the Fifth District was unchanged or slightly improved in
most sectors since our last assessment. In the service sector, retail activity on
balance remained soft during the last month, while non-retail services firms
reported flat or slightly increasing demand. Tourism to mountain and ocean
destinations picked up in recent months. Banking activity improved moderately, but
gains did not extend to commercial real estate. Indeed, both commercial Realtors and
construction contractors reported that activity was little changed from weak
conditions in past months. In contrast, however, residential Realtors indicated that
low-to-medium priced homes across the District were generally lifting the market, if
only slightly, since our last report. The manufacturing sector slowed over the last
month, with several contacts citing softer demand. Finally, employment agencies
specializing in temporary workers noted modest improvements in demand, with several
adding that recent uncertainty about the direction of sales was causing their
clients to postpone hiring full-time employees.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing stalled in July after exhibiting moderate gains in June.
A producer of coated steel reported that orders had declined during the entire
second quarter. He noted that typically the second and third quarters were the
strongest for his company, but that he was not seeing any improvement in either June
or July. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer indicated that business had slowed in
recent months, particularly for furniture collections for the home. Several firms
reported that working capital constraints, coupled with the inability to pass
through raw material increases, had limited their ability to expand their business.
In addition, a few contacts mentioned that automotive deliveries had slowed and
material costs had increased recently as a result of the production interruptions in
 Japan . Our latest manufacturing survey indicated that prices of both raw materials
and finished goods grew more slowly over the last month.  Fifth District ports continued to post moderate gains since our last report.
With shipping moving into its peak season, however, several port authorities
expressed concern that recent import gains were not as strong as expected. One
official attributed the apparent sluggishness in May and June to retailers ordering
earlier than normal last year (due to uncertainty over shipping rates), making year-
over-year comparisons misleading. Another contact stated that the surge in trade
that occurred over the last year was not sustainable, and also added that the
weakening of the overall economy was affecting import volumes. A shipping official
noted that many businesses were reluctant to build inventory and some retailers
seemed to be holding back their orders, adding to a sense of “choppiness” to
shipping activity. However, exports of coal and other commodities continued to do
well, according to a port official, and auto imports were described by one contact
as “amazing,” with automakers scrambling to rebuild depleted inventory. Several
contacts expected shipping activity to pick up later this year, in part due to an
increase in empty containers being shipped to Asia--presumably to be refilled for
the Christmas holiday season.  Retail  Retailers across the District generally reported mixed sales since our last
report. A few retailers, for example, reported that mid-price items languished in
recent months, and customers bargained hard for discounts. Several clothiers told us
that their apparel sales fell--except in higher-end goods. In addition, rising
cotton and wool prices were pushing clothing prices higher. Our recent survey of
retailers indicated some weakening in revenues, although the weakness was not as
pronounced as a month earlier. However, several  discount stores  reported increased
shopper traffic and an uptick in total sales. Grocery store contacts also reported
rising sales, as did some wholesale building supply firms in the D.C. area. Several
luxury retailers reported solid sales, and an auto dealer indicated strong sales in
recent weeks. One West Virginia dealer noted that foreign makes continued to
“outsell production.”  Services  Service sector activity was flat to slightly stronger in recent weeks. Revenues
strengthened moderately, according to polled contacts, particularly in
telecommunications. A number of builders and construction-related firms in the D.C.
area also reported a pickup in business during the past month. Most contacts we
surveyed at restaurants and hotels said revenues accelerated since the start of
summer. However, advertising agencies indicated that business was flat, and
healthcare services providers reported little change. Non-retail services providers’
prices rose at a slightly quicker pace over the last month, according to our recent
survey.  Finance  Loan demand in the District continued to improve, albeit at an uneven pace,
since our last report. Consumer lending increased in most banking markets, according
to contacts, with several bankers citing examples of making loans for appliance
replacements and home renovations. A loan officer in  West Virginia  noted increased
loans for auto dealership inventory. And, a banker in North Carolina noted continued
strength in industrial loans for warehouse buildings and machinery. However, another
banker characterized industrial loans as going more toward high-tech capital goods
than traditional machinery. Except for apartment buildings, commercial real estate
loans declined in most areas around the District, with several commercial developers
reporting continued difficulty getting financing. One banker, however, cited a
pickup in commercial loan demand primarily from larger companies, while demand for
small business loans in general edged downward. Most bankers stated that intense
competition for quality loans was squeezing margins. Several contacts reported that
 credit quality  was flat or slightly improved over the last few months, with the
number of late payments edging down. A banker in Richmond said that small businesses,
especially retailers, accounted for most cases of delinquencies.  Real Estate  Real estate activity edged higher since our last report. Several Realtors
indicated that sales had picked up gradually and that their markets were more active
than a year ago. While most of the gains were in the low-to-mid price range,
activity also inched up for higher-priced homes in some areas. An agent in the D.C.
area, for example, reported that properties in the mid-to-upper price range sold
quickly, with the best sellers in the $800 thousand to $1.25 million price range. He
added that relatively low inventory should keep market activity fairly strong in
that area. A Realtor in the western part of  North Carolina  said that he was
“cautiously optimistic,” but added that high unemployment in that area remained a
serious drag on sales activity. Realtors throughout the District noted an increase
in foot traffic, but sale price movements varied. Real estate agents in the
Greensboro, N.C. and Greenville, S.C. areas stated that prices held steady, while a
contact in the D.C. area cited a slight increase in sales prices.  Commercial Realtors and construction contractors reported little change from
the generally weak conditions that prevailed in our last assessment, but a few
encouraging signs were noted. A recent survey of contractors in the District
revealed that one third of respondents experienced no change in construction
activity over the last three months, while forty percent reported declining activity
(compared to over fifty percent three months ago). Gains often came from government,
medical, and higher education projects, which have been pockets of strength. However,
several contractors reported a recent decline in higher education-related
construction. On the Realtor side, most contacts continued to cite weakness in
demand from small businesses for both office and industrial space. However, several
Realtors noted a pickup in leasing to small retailers, especially independent
restaurants. A Realtor in  Virginia  reported limited gains among  car dealerships  and
nursing homes, with most of that business coming from long-standing clients. A
Realtor in Raleigh reported some increase in the number of clients who expressed
interest in taking out a lease in the near future. Finally, most contacts around the
District indicated that rental rates were generally stable, and several Realtors
reported a decrease in the number of requests for rent reductions.  Labor Markets  Fifth District labor market activity, especially among temporary employment
agencies, improved slightly in recent weeks. Most contacts at temp agencies
characterized demand as at least somewhat better in recent weeks, although a few
agents cited weakness in demand for workers. However, virtually all agents indicated
that demand was still stronger than a year ago. Several employment agents cited
uncertainty about the economy as the primary factor behind hiring temporary help
rather than full-time employees. For example, a Hagerstown agent said that many of
his clients were still very uncertain about their future orders. As a result, they
were using contingent labor more than they might if they felt that business volume
would continue to increase. Increased demand for temporary workers was reported for
a diverse set of skills, including light manufacturing assemblers, machine operators,
forklift operators and quality inspectors. Respondents to our latest manufacturing
survey indicated that employment demand, while fairly robust in June, was little
changed in July. Retail hiring rose slightly, according to our recent survey, and
hiring was little changed at non-retail services providers. A slight majority of
both retail and non-retail respondents indicated that they were increasing wages.  Tourism  District tourism gained momentum in recent weeks. Contacts along the Mid-
Atlantic coast reported bookings in line with a year ago--notwithstanding last
year’s “bump” from vacationers who relocated their vacations to the East Coast from
the  Gulf Coast  during the oil spill disruptions. Hoteliers in several locations
noted a trend toward last-minute bookings, although a contact on the coast of North
Carolina cited last year’s relocation crunch as the impetus for more advance
bookings in her region this season. A resort manager in the mountains of western
Virginia said that new summer attractions helped drive 95 to 100 percent occupancy
at his site. July has been “fantastic,” according to a hotel representative in
Baltimore, with occupancy pushed up by several big events and by an increase in the
number of family reunions. Contacts reported mostly small rate increases for the
summer. Most hotel and resort owners expressed optimism about potential business
during the 2011 winter holiday season; some were already receiving inquiries. 