-- 
U.S. June Imports of Steel Products Report (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-27T14:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-june-imports-of-steel-products-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
steel report from the Commerce Department:  The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that preliminary June
steel imports were $2.9 billion (2.4 million metric tons).  This
was an increase of $0.1 billion from the preliminary May totals
of $2.8 billion. Metric tonnage remained virtually unchanged.  The June shift in steel imports based on metric tonnage
reflected a decrease primarily in blooms, billets, and slabs. A
decrease occurred primarily with  Brazil .  The year to date final statistics through May 2011 showed steel
imports of 10.8 million metric tons compared with 8.8 million
metric tons through May 2010. The largest commodity increases
occurred primarily in blooms, billets, and slabs; and oil
country goods. The largest country increases occurred primarily
with Brazil and  Korea ; the largest country decrease occurred
primarily with  Canada .  Notes:  The data in this report are preliminary and subject to
revisions.  Analysis of recent months for steel product imports indicates
the value of preliminary data should equal about 96 percent of
the final value reported in the regular monthly trade statistics
report.  Preliminary data reported for individual steel
categories and at the individual country of origin level have
been less consistently predictive of the final data reported in
the regular monthly trade statistics. For further details visit
the Foreign Trade Division web site at: www.census.gov/trade. On
the web site you can access product by country and country by
product tables.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department      http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  