-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-27T18:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve Board’s
eleventh District --  Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six
weeks. Energy-related activity remained strong. Reports from manufacturers were
mixed but mostly positive, although some construction-related producers were less
optimistic than they were six weeks ago. Nonfinancial services activity rose, with
strong demand for staffing services. The single-family housing sector remained weak,
but the commercial real estate sector continued to improve. Financial services
respondents said overall loan demand was flat during the reporting period, and
contacts in the agricultural sector noted drought conditions worsened.  Prices  Selling prices were flat or higher since the last report. Most manufacturers
said selling prices were stable, while several service sector companies were able to
enact some price increases, including transportation and retail firms. These price
increases were in response to higher input prices. Accounting, legal and staffing
firms reported slight increases in rates charged for their services. Input prices
increased at most responding firms, although several contacts said upward pressure
from higher energy costs eased in recent weeks as  oil prices  declined.
Transportation firms, including airlines, noted that the recent price declines for
fuel will have a larger impact on input costs later in July and August. Retailers
said cost pressures were squeezing margins, and food manufacturers said commodity
prices were up significantly from last year.  The price of crude oil fell from over $100 per barrel in early June to about
$95 at the end of the reporting period in early July. Gasoline prices fell about 15
cents during the reporting period. Natural  gas prices  remained in the $4-$5 per Mcf
range, but edged up since the last report because of hot weather. Prices for most
petrochemical products fell since the last report, according to contacts.  Labor Market  Employment levels held steady at most responding firms, although there were
several reports of hiring. Staffing firms reported continued strong demand for their
services. In addition, there were some mentions of moderate employment increases
from automobile dealers, transportation service firms and manufacturers of primary
and fabricated metals, transportation equipment, lumber and food. Legal firms noted
solid demand for talented attorneys, and added that start dates for some new hires
had been moved up from January 2012 to fall 2011. In contrast, one construction-
related manufacturer reported a new round of layoffs, and one retail firm was
considering reducing staff levels next year. Wage pressures remained minimal,
although some contacts noted that they were giving modest pay raises.  Manufacturing  Reports from construction-related manufacturers were mixed. Overall, activity
levels appeared to be unchanged. Multifamily activity provided a boost to some firms,
although several contacts said public and government demand had diminished. In
particular though, fabricated metals producers noted a pick-up in growth since the
last report due to infrastructure projects. Construction-related outlooks were
generally flat to slightly up, and contacts believe there will not be much rebound
until residential and commercial construction recover, which may take longer than
previously expected.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that growth in orders remained
at a moderate pace since the last  Beige Book . One respondent with greater-exposure-
than-average to Japanese production said second-quarter sales were well below pre-
earthquake expectations, but that growth in June was strong enough to finish the
quarter slightly above their expectations. Inventories were at desired levels,
although one respondent said that a one-time reduction in orders from a customer
left them with slightly higher-than-desired levels. Most contacts expect orders and
sales growth to remain moderate or to pick up slightly in the second half of the
year.  Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed. Demand for corrugated packaging
improved, but paper suppliers noted flat to slightly slower sales. Manufacturers of
non-defense transportation equipment reported strong sales with demand flat to
slightly up since the last report and well above year-ago levels. Food producers
said sales continued to rise at a steady pace.  Petrochemical producers said demand remained strong for most products. Contacts
said domestic demand has improved, and export markets have re-opened since the last
report. Refinery utilization moved up to near 90 percent, and contacts in the
refining industry said margins narrowed slightly but remained very strong, although
demand for oil products is slightly lower than the same time last year.  Retail Sales  Retailers reported a slight increase in activity over the reporting period.
Compared to a year ago, same store sales are up in the mid-to-low single digits.
Apparel and jewelry are segments that have performed well recently. Concerns remain
regarding the elevated level of unemployment. Texas sales increased slightly more
than the nation on average, according to one large retailer. The second half of the
year should see modest year-over-year growth. Automobile demand remains strong, but
supply constraints stemming from  Japan  are limiting sales. Japanese manufacturers
are primarily affected, but inventories of domestic autos are below desired levels
as well. This is expected to last for another 90 days or less before improving
through year-end.  Non-financial Services  Staffing firms reported continued strong demand for their services. Temp-to-
hire activity has been a bright spot, with long assignment lengths and several
conversions to permanent hires. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic, with most
respondents expecting continued strength in demand through year-end. Accounting
firms noted a seasonal slowdown in demand for their services. Legal firms reported
mostly steady demand, with continued growth in transactional services.  Intermodal cargo volumes increased since the last report, but year-over-year
volumes are down due to a sharp decline in Asian demand for raw materials. Contacts
in railroad transportation noted a broad-based increase in shipments, with
particularly strong volume growth in metallic and nonmetallic ores and grains.
Container volumes declined during the reporting period, although contacts said
demand has strengthened from a year ago, due to energy-related activity. Small
parcel shipments rebounded in June after declining in May. Still, outlooks are more
pessimistic than previously reported, partly due to high fuel costs dampening
 consumer spending . Airlines report some softening in demand in June compared with
May, likely due to an increase in airfares for last-minute travel. However,
passenger volumes are up on a year-over-year basis, and the outlook for the summer
is positive.  Financial Services  Financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand. National banks reported
less pickup in corporate loan demand following a very active first half of the year,
while commercial real estate (CRE) activity has continued its trend of improvement.
Regional banks noted that loan demand has been mixed, while loan pricing remains
aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape. Outlooks are generally
positive in light of better outstanding loan quality and continued gradual
improvement in lending conditions. Optimism has been tempered by consumer fear
regarding economic and fiscal policy uncertainty as well as the burden and costs
associated with the implementation of new regulations.  Construction and Real Estate  Single-family home sales remain weak, particularly in the lower priced segment
of the market. Contacts say demand is choppy from month to month, but most expect
some improvement in the second half of the year.  Apartment demand remains strong and rents continue to increase. Contacts noted
the Dallas/Fort Worth area topped the national rankings in leasing activity in the
second quarter.  Office and industrial real estate activity improved since the last report.
Contacts say  Texas  markets are performing better than the national average overall.
One respondent noted office demand was quite strong in Texas’ major metros and that
rents were starting to rise. Investment property sales continued to improve from low
levels, and prices rose slightly.  Energy  Domestic drilling activity remained strong since the last report, according to
Eleventh District firms in the  energy industry . The rig count continues to shift
towards oil-directed drilling, and contacts noted horizontal drilling and fracturing
activity remain very profitable. In the  Gulf of Mexico , 15 rigs have been re-
permitted--with seven currently working and near completion--although a lack of new
permits this year has led to some concerns about the prospects for Gulf work later
in the year. International activity remains strong, but profit margins are thin.  Agriculture  Drought conditions worsened, with about three-quarters of the district now in
the most severe drought classification. Most Texas counties were designated natural
disaster areas in June because they lost at least 30 percent of crops and pasture to
drought. President Obama signed a disaster declaration in July for 45 counties in
Texas that were heavily impacted by wildfires, which allows federal aid to help with
recovery efforts. Crop conditions continued to deteriorate, causing low yields and
complete crop losses in some instances. Farmers will depend heavily on crop
insurance payments this year. Ranchers continued to cull herds due to very poor
grazing conditions, limited hay supply and costly supplemental feeding. 