-- 
U.S. Rating Rests On S&P’s View of Washington

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T19:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-credit-rating-rests-on-s-p-s-london-view-of-washington.html
David Beers says he sees a
“political divide” in the U.S. that won’t be any easier to
bridge with time.  As the London-based managing director of sovereign credit
ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , Beers will help determine whether
the U.S. government’s credit rating will be downgraded as a
result of the battle over raising the debt limit.  His company has gone beyond competing credit-rating
agencies to say that it isn’t enough for lawmakers to agree to
lift the government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. Congress and
the White House also must agree to a deficit-reduction package
to avoid a downgrade in the government’s AAA credit rating.  In an interview this week at Union Station, just blocks
from the U.S. Capitol, Beers said he views the debt limit fight
as a test of lawmakers’ willingness to tackle the deficit.  “For us, the issue is not the debt limit -- it’s the
underlying fiscal dynamics,” said Beers, who has been rating
governments for the company for 20 years. “It’s not obvious to
us that this political divide that is proving so difficult to
bridge is going to be any more bridgeable three months from now
or six months from now or a year from now.”  He said he didn’t know when an S&P committee would decide
whether to cut the credit rating. “Depends on events,” he
said.  Downgrade Impact  A decision to cut the government’s credit rating would
likely increase Treasury rates by 60 to 70 basis points over the
“medium term,” raising the nation’s borrowing costs by $100
billion a year, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Terry Belton said. It
could also hurt the rest of the economy by increasing the cost
of mortgages, auto loans and other types of lending tied to the
 interest rates  paid on treasuries.  Yesterday, the markets showed little debt ceiling concerns,
as seen in 10-year Treasury note yields hovering around 3
percent, below the average of 4.05 percent over the last decade,
and the average of 5.48 percent when the country was running
budget surpluses between 1998 and 2001.  On  Capitol Hill , House and Senate leaders were trying to
advance deficit reduction packages that would clear the way for
a vote on the debt ceiling increase that the Treasury Department
says must come by Aug 2.  The threat of a downgrade has made Standard & Poor’s a
target for critics chafing at demands from a company that
blessed the mortgage-backed securities that led to the financial
crisis.  S&P Hill Critics  An April report by Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
and Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, concluded the
credit agencies “weakened their standards as each competed to
provide the most favorable rating to win business and greater
market share. The result was a race to the bottom.”  In an interview, Levin said he views those faults as
conflicts of interest issues that are separate from the S&P’s
sovereign ratings work, which he declined to criticize. “My gut
tells me that they’re calling it as they see it and, hopefully,
they’re not impacted by their previous failures to call them as
they should have seen it,” Levin said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, took
a different view. “I wish they had made a few demands when  Wall
Street  was collapsing,” said Reid. “They were silent then.
Maybe they’re trying to get more energized.”  July Warning  At issue is a warning the company issued July 14 that there
is a 50 percent chance S&P would downgrade the government’s
credit rating within three months if lawmakers didn’t approve a
“credible” deficit reduction package as part of a plan to
raise the debt cap.  It was the latest in a series of demands from the company
over the past year. In April, S&P said there was a one-in-three
chance it would downgrade the government within two years; in
October, it said lawmakers had as many as five years to address
long-term deficits.  In its July report, the company said, “We believe that an
inability to reach an agreement now could indicate that an
agreement will not be reached for several more years.”  Critics say the company is misreading the political
dynamics in Washington and that it shouldn’t engage in political
prognosticating at all.  Many Notches  “If we fail to increase the debt ceiling, they have every
right to take the U.S. down as many notches as they want,” said
 Jared Bernstein , former economic adviser to Vice President  Joe Biden . “I don’t look to S&P for political analysis” and
“their job is not to try to do political crystal-ball gazing.
Their job is to assess the reliability of  U.S. debt .”  Bernstein said, “Nothing fundamental has changed in the
ability of the U.S. government to fully meet its debt
obligations.”  IHS Global Insight Chief Economist  Nariman Behravesh  said
S&P has unrealistic demands because lawmakers are unlikely to
agree to a major deficit reduction package until after next
year’s elections. “If they really think there is going to be a
comprehensive solution before 2012, they are grossly mistaken,”
he said.  Where Beers sees ominous gridlock over the debt, Behravesh
sees progress. “Think about where we were six months ago: We
were talking about stimulus,” he said. “The good news is U.S.
politicians are talking” about trillion-dollar budget cuts.  ‘Pull the Trigger’  He said S&P is “itching to pull the trigger” on a credit
downgrade, saying “it’s almost like they’re overreacting in the
other direction” in order “to make up for past errors.”  Former Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Holtz- Eakin, who advised the 2008 Republican presidential campaign of
 John McCain , said S&P is right to question the political will in
Congress to address the deficit because it’s the central
question surrounding the debt.  “There is no question that the  U.S. economy  remains the
largest, strongest on the globe and it has the financial
wherewithal to pay its debts,” he said. “The question is, is
that financial wherewithal matched by political wherewithal? And
that’s what they’re trying to find out.”  Beers said critics of the company’s record during the
housing crisis “know nothing about our sovereign ratings, which
have an excellent track record.” He said it’s impossible to
assess a government’s credit rating without making judgments
about its politics.  Political Process  “Economic policy is part of a political process,” he
said. “Every government has to make choices, and it has to do
it in some political context, and we have to look at that and
decide how plausible that is. It’s a decision when you’re rating
sovereign governments you have to take every day.”  The gridlock over the debt limit “highlights the sheer
difficulty” lawmakers are having coming to agreement, he said,
which has prompted S&P to shorten the time frame over which it
wants to see major cuts. He is skeptical that next year’s
election will be “that decisive on this issue.”  U.S. lawmakers are lagging behind other similarly rated
governments that have also faced debt challenges, he said,
pointing to countries such as Britain that are implementing
plans to tighten budgets. “And in the U.S. we’re still debating
what we’re going to do,” Beers said.  “This whole issue of finding common ground has been on the
table since March and it’s not as if people aren’t trying,” he
said. “You have to make judgments about these sorts of
things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  