-- 
U.S. May Lose AAA Rating Even With a Debt Deal, BlackRock, Templeton Say

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-27T17:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-may-lose-aaa-rating-even-with-a-debt-deal-blackrock-templeton-say.html
BlackRock Inc.,  Franklin Templeton 
Investments, Loomis Sayles & Co., Pacific Investment Management
Co. and Western Asset Management said the U.S. faces losing its
top-level debt rating as officials struggle to raise the $14.3
trillion borrowing limit and reduce spending.  Investors are warning a cut is likely as President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  argue over how to increase
the debt ceiling, while also trying to curb borrowing. The
government needs to boost the cap by Aug. 2 so it can keep
paying its bills, according to the Treasury Department.  The comments suggest that the world’s biggest bond managers
are resigned to the fact that the U.S. rating will be cut.
 Standard & Poor’s , which has rated the U.S. AAA since 1941, said
July 14 that the chance of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next
three months and it may cut the nation as soon as August if
there isn’t a “credible” plan to reduce the nation’s deficit.  “Addressing the debt ceiling is of course very important,
but addressing it alone doesn’t avert a downgrade,” Barbara Novick, a co-founder and vice chairman at BlackRock, the world’s
biggest money manager with $3.66 trillion in assets, said in an
interview. “Without a credible plan to cut the deficit, that’s
a real issue.”  Obama has said the nation’s record borrowings may “do
serious damage” to the  U.S. economy  by diverting tax dollars to
interest payments. Yields indicate investors are favoring bank
or company debt over Treasuries, raising concern the credibility
of government debt is waning.  ‘Massive Consequences’  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have also said
they may cut the nation’s top-level sovereign ranking if
officials fail to resolve the stalemate.  “If the U.S. defaults, there would be massive
consequences,” Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El- Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “People are
concerned, but they sort of think it’s a very, very low
probability, and we would agree.”  The ratings may be reduced because politicians probably
won’t agree on a plan to trim spending, said Kathleen Gaffney,
co-manager of the $21 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund.  ‘Certain’ Downgrade  “I’m pretty certain that at least by one agency we’re
going to see a downgrade,” Gaffney, who is based in  Boston ,
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart.” Treasuries will “continue to be a large,
liquid market whether it’s AAA or AA,” she said.  Gaffney’s fund returned 14 percent in the past year,
beating 98 percent of its competitors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The TED spread, the difference between what lenders and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 18.7
basis points yesterday, the least since March.  Debentures from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the largest retailer,
and Paris-based utility  EDF SA (EDF) , both rated in the second-highest
AA level, are the best-performing investment-grade corporate
securities globally this month through July 25, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  An index of corporate debt with the same AAA rating that
the U.S. is at risk of losing is outperforming Treasuries by
0.13 percent, the most since March.  Yield Rise  “The longer-term implications are that a downgrade could
be bad for our currency and this could raise our borrowing
Costs,” Stephen Walsh, the chief investment officer of Western
Asset Management, the Pasadena, California-based fixed-income
unit of Legg Mason Inc., said in an interview.  Walsh oversees
about $365 billion in bond assets.  The 10-year Treasury yield rose five basis points to 3
percent as of 1:17 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The budget stalemate hasn’t been enough to push
the rate to its decade-long average of 4.05 percent.  “Our growing debt could cost us jobs and do serious damage
to the economy,” Obama said in a speech July 25. “ Interest
rates  could climb for everyone who borrows money: the homeowner
with a mortgage, the student with a college loan, the corner
store that wants to expand.”  A House vote on Speaker Boehner’s two-step plan to raise
the debt ceiling was postponed yesterday, casting doubt on
whether lawmakers and Obama can come to an agreement before Aug.
2. Boehner has said Obama is seeking a “blank check.”  Investors may question the creditworthiness of the U.S.,
Christopher Molumphy, chief investment officer for Franklin
Templeton’s fixed-income group, wrote in a report July 25 that
his company distributed today by e-mail.  “Continued doubts about a longer-term solution to the
U.S.’s federal deficit may well threaten the country’s AAA
credit rating and the status of U.S. Treasuries as assets
previously perceived as virtually ‘risk-free,’” according to
Molumphy, who is based in  San Mateo ,  California . He helps
oversee $734.2 billion at the company.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  