-- 
Banks Find Few Signs of Default Distress in Repo, Credit Markets

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-28T11:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/u-s-banks-bracing-for-downgrade-don-t-see-panic-in-repo-credit-markets.html
U.S. banks searching for hints of
credit-market distress ahead of next week’s deadline to raise
the debt ceiling are finding few signs of panic so far.  Commercial banks and securities firms are tracking how
money-market funds adjust holdings and whether participants in
repo markets, where financial firms obtain short-term financing,
change terms for collateral including Treasuries, according to
executives in charge of finance operations at five of the
largest U.S. banks. They are also looking for disruptions in
commercial paper and swaps markets, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the deliberations are private.  Lenders are making contingency plans in case President
 Barack Obama  and Congress fail to reach agreement before an Aug.
2 deadline. Commercial banks are focused on a potential
downgrade to the U.S. debt rating, with a default considered
unlikely, said the executives. With less than a week to the
deadline, key market indicators have remained stable.  “If the debt ceiling was such a problem, there’d be a lot
more volatility in the credit markets,” said Leon Wagner, who
co-founded GoldenTree Asset Management LP, a  New York  hedge fund
focused on debt markets. “What we’re seeing is really just
statistical bouncing around a normal trend line. That’s healthy
in credit markets.”  The average rate for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repurchase-agreement market was 9 basis points
yesterday, according to index data provided by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. The rate was 26.6 basis points on Aug. 2,
2010, the data show.  Libor Spread  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
was 13.4 basis points, up from 12.6 basis points a month ago and
down from 28.5 a year ago. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The Republican-led House remains on a collision course with
the Senate and the White House over competing plans to increase
the debt limit. Obama has threatened a veto of House Speaker
 John Boehner ’s two-step plan to raise the debt ceiling.  Standard & Poor’s , which has given the U.S. a top ranking
since 1941, reiterated July 21 that the chance of a downgrade is
50 percent in the next three months. The ratings firm said it
may cut the nation as soon as August.  Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc.,
said he doesn’t expect a default.  ‘All Contingencies’  “Obviously as a bank we look at all contingencies,”
Pandit said in an interview. “We’re ready with a lot of
liquidity, funding, and understand the impact of a downgrade,
not only on us but what could happen to the economy.”  A downgrade may roil repo markets, where banks and other
companies turn to finance holdings and increase leverage, by
causing lenders to advance fewer funds against the same amount
of Treasuries, raising the so-called haircut,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Terry Belton said July 26 on a conference call hosted by
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. About
$4 trillion of Treasuries are used as collateral in the market
for repos, he said.  “The more volatile it is, the higher the haircuts in
margin requirements tend to be,” said Belton, global head of
fixed-income strategy at JPMorgan. “One of the impacts of that
in the repo market is it causes the amount of credit that’s
being extended, the collateralized lending, to shrink. You force
people to de-lever.”  Potential Haircuts  In so-called bilateral repos, the investors involved would
set their own terms on potential haircuts or exclude certain
securities as collateral. In the cleared market, the haircuts
would be set by the DTCC, which processes about $3.6 trillion in
repos transactions daily.  “We continue to monitor market volatility in the Treasury
market and are assessing if we will need to make any types of
adjustments in our valuations of securities required for
collateral in our clearing funds,” DTCC spokeswoman Judy Inosanto said in an e-mailed statement. “At this point, this
still remains a precautionary exercise.”  In  Europe , where the Greek debt crisis has sparked concern
other nations may default, LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s biggest
clearing house, increased the extra deposit charge for customers
holding long positions in Portuguese and Irish  government bonds .
LCH said it would scale back the use of Portuguese bonds as
collateral after that nation’s credit rating was downgraded.  Capital One  At least one U.S. bank has moved early to avoid any
potential disruption.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the McLean,
Virginia-based lender completing the $9 billion purchase of ING
Direct USA, moved up the release of its second-quarter earnings
and a capital raise by about a week. The lender sold $3 billion
in debt July 14 and $2 billion in equity a day earlier.  “One of the reasons we chose to do that was to take the
financing risk off the table,” Gary Perlin, chief financial
officer at Capital One and the former finance chief at the World
Bank Group, said in an interview. “Uncertainty is never a good
backdrop for raising $5 billion in the market.”  Some banks have structured their repo transactions so that
nothing needs to be rolled over on Aug. 2 or in the following
weeks, one executive said.  Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Mohamed A. El-Erian  said the most critical indicators of
distress will come from the markets.  “That’s the very first thing I do now is I go over to our
money market desk and ask them, ‘What you are seeing today?
How’s the repo market operating?’” El-Erian said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“Because that is what can really trip an economy. So far it’s
functioning OK, but we’re seeing some pressure.”  ‘Massive Consequences’  El-Erian said there would be “massive consequences” if
the U.S. loses its AAA credit rating. Pimco, the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, expects the debt ceiling to be lifted, he
said.  Banks have called meetings of their asset-liability
committees, which govern the use of the balance sheet and
interest-rate risk, and run internal stress tests under default
or downgrade scenarios, according to one of the executives. Some
lenders haven’t gotten answers to questions for guidance posed
to the Treasury Department and  Federal Reserve , another
executive said.  “We have been engaged in operational planning with the
Treasury,” Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  said. “We expect
to be able to give additional guidance to financial institutions
when there is greater clarity from the Congress and when
Treasury outlines its specific operational plans.”  More Liquidity  Money-market funds are also preparing by increasing their
liquidity, JPMorgan’s Belton said. Prime money-market funds
currently have 40 percent of their assets in securities with
less than a week to maturity, up from about 32 percent a month
ago, he said.  “Over the last month both in government money funds and
prime, they are shortening the tenor of the assets they’re
holding,” Belton said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.,
which reached its borrowing limit on May 16, will exhaust
measures used since then to avoid breaching its $14.3 trillion
debt threshold on Aug. 2. The Treasury Department may have cash
to delay that deadline for days or even weeks because of higher
 tax revenue , according to analysts at UBS AG and  Barclays
Capital .  Unrealized Losses  If there’s panic and Treasury prices decline, banks may
face unrealized losses in their securities portfolio, where many
of the largest U.S. lenders hold Treasuries and debt issued by
government-sponsored entities such as  Fannie Mae . Commercial
banks’ total holdings of Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed
securities were $1.67 trillion as of July 13, Fed data show, up
from $1.11 trillion at the start of 2008.  A U.S. credit-rating cut would likely push up the nation’s
borrowing costs by increasing Treasury yields by 60 to 70 basis
points over the “medium term,” Belton said. That could
increase U.S. borrowing costs by $100 billion a year, he said,
estimating that the short-term yield increase would likely be
about 5 to 10 basis points.  A 25 basis-point rise wouldn’t erode bank capital enough to
be a concern, one of the executives said.  There have been some signs of investor concern. The
Treasury yield curve has steepened this month with the
difference between the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond and
the 10-year note hitting 1.38 percentage points last week, the
largest spread since November.  Forced Selling  Easing concerns for U.S. banks is that they aren’t likely
to be forced sellers of Treasuries on a downgrade since capital
and risk-weighting rules aren’t tied to ratings,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
analysts led by Amitabh Arora wrote in a July 22 research note.
The Bank Holding Company Act allows banks to hold Treasuries and
agencies without limit, said two of the executives.  A downgrade to single-A could push some institutions to
sell Treasuries, though that’s “extremely unlikely” unless the
U.S. government suffers a technical default, Arora wrote.  “Given how the market has reacted, I think you have to
conclude that most investors see this debt ceiling situation as
an opportunity,” GoldenTree’s Wagner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 