-- 
UBS Sued by U.S. Over $4.5 Billion in Mortgage Securities

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-27T21:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/ubs-sued-over-sale-of-residential-mortgage-backed-securities.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  was sued by the U.S. over
$4.5 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities sold to
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as regulators went to court for the
first time to recoup losses caused by the investments.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which regulates the two
mortgage companies operating under government control,
sued the Swiss bank and several executives of UBS’s Mortgage
Asset Securities Transactions unit in federal court in  Manhattan 
today, claiming they misstated the securities’ risks.  “Defendants falsely represented that the underlying
 mortgage loans  complied with certain underwriting guidelines and
standards, including representations that significantly
overstated the borrowers’ capacity to repay their mortgage
loans,” the FHFA said in its complaint.  The litigation is the first of its type, said Stefanie
Johnson, a spokeswoman for FHFA. The suit, which seeks
unspecified damages, targets 16 securitizations sponsored by UBS
between Sept. 28, 2005, and Aug. 30, 2007.  Allison Chin-Leong, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the suit.  FHFA previously resolved disputes over MBS without going to
court.  Bank of America  In January, Bank of America Corp., the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, paid $2.8 billion to Freddie Mac and
 Fannie Mae  to settle demands the company buy back mortgages they
said were based on faulty data. Ally Financial Inc. agreed at
the same time to pay $500 million to end the claims it faced.  FHFA said a year ago it had issued 64 subpoenas seeking
loan files and transaction documents as it tries to determine
whether misrepresentations or omissions might require issuers to
repurchase loans. The agency didn’t identify the companies that
received the demands for information.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest sources of funding
for U.S. residential mortgages, relied on so-called private-
label debt backed by subprime loans to boost profit and help
meet a federal mandate to promote homeownership. The federal
government took control of the companies in 2008 after the
collapse of the U.S. mortgage market pushed them toward
insolvency. They have been sustained by a promise of unlimited
Treasury Department aid that has yielded $145 billion for the
companies so far.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guaranteed 70 percent of the
single-family mortgage-backed securities issued in 2010,
according to an FHFA report to Congress this month.  Improved Underwriting  The agency said in the report that improved underwriting on
the loans that the companies package into mortgage-backed
securities helped reduce losses to $28 billion in 2010, from
$93.6 billion a year earlier.  The acting director, Edward DeMarco, reported that the
companies are still “critical supervisory concerns,” largely
because of a backlog of bad loans originated from 2005 to 2007.  The case is  Federal Housing Finance Agency  v. UBS Americas
Inc., 11-cv-5201, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 