-- 
Lucasfilm Loses U.K. Supreme Court Bid Over Stormtrooper Helmet Copyright

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-27T14:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/lucasfilm-loses-u-k-supreme-court-bid-over-stormtrooper-helmet.html
George Lucas ’s production company
Lucasfilm Ltd. failed to convince Britain’s highest court that
U.K. copyright law bars sales of replica Imperial Stormtrooper
helmets from the movie “Star Wars.”  The ruling today by the U.K.  Supreme Court  in London upheld
a December 2009 appeals court finding that British engineer
Andrew Ainsworth, who helped design the white helmets, didn’t
violate U.K. law by selling the copies, which he cast from
original molds.  The ruling “maintains an anomaly of British copyright law
under which the creative and highly artistic works made for use
in films -- which are protected by the copyright laws of
virtually every other country in the world -- may not be
entitled to copyright protection in the U.K.,” Lucasfilm said
today in a statement.  The company, based in Nicasio,  California , filed the U.K.
case after winning a $20 million judgment against Ainsworth in a
California lawsuit over the helmet sales in 2006. The judge in
that case said Ainsworth’s company, Shepperton Design Studios
Ltd., infringed Lucas’s copyright and made misleading claims
about the helmets’ authenticity.  Lucas had already determined the look of the fictional
soldiers for his 1977 science-fiction epic, before asking
Ainsworth to work on the helmets, Lucasfilm argued.  Not a Sculpture  Lucasfilm didn’t convince the Supreme Court the helmet
qualified as a sculpture, as opposed to being a purely
utilitarian creation. If the court had deemed it a sculpture,
Ainsworth’s online sales would have been violating U.K.
copyright law.  “It was the  Star Wars  film that was the work of art that
Mr. Lucas and his companies created,” the justices wrote. “The
helmet was utilitarian, in the sense that it was an element in
the process of production of the film.”  The ruling will be disappointing for production companies
that seek longer periods of protection for merchandising, said
Huw Evans, a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London.  “It follows that full copyright protection for 3-D articles
in the U.K. will generally continue to be limited to the fine
arts,” Evans said.  Plastic-Toy Territory  People interested in intellectual-property law may watch to
see what Lucasfilm does next, said Thayne Forbes, a managing
director at brand-valuation company Intangible Business Ltd.  “The Star Wars films are an upmarket, fantasy experience
for the audience, and the merchandise must be reflective of this
or it risks damaging the brand value,” Forbes said. “What
Lucasfilm quite rightly wants to avoid is stormtrooper helmets
and armor being found in cheap plastic-toy territory.”  The ruling today gave Lucasfilm a partial victory by
granting it some rights to sue in the U.K. over infringement of
foreign copyrights. That portion of the judgment is an
“important step” in modernizing U.K. law and bringing it into
line with the European Union, Lucasfilm said.  Long-Running Controversy  The decision is important for business because it clears up
a long-running controversy over whether U.K. courts can decide
if non-U.K. copyrights have been infringed, said Nigel Jones, a
lawyer at Linklaters LLP in  London .  “That uncertainty has now gone,” Jones said. “If you
want to sue here, that is good news. If you want to avoid being
sued here, it may be less welcome.”  The U.K. Court of Appeal in London said in 2009 that
Lucasfilm couldn’t enforce the California judgment in the U.K.
and warned Ainsworth about the risks of further sales in the
U.S.  The “surprise” Supreme Court decision may lead to a flood
of copyright lawsuits filed in the U.K., said David Allen, who
leads the litigation practice at law firm Mayer Brown LLP’s
London office.  “This will be particularly significant where infringement
takes place in a country with less stable and internationally
respected legal systems than the U.K., for example such as in
the developing world,” Allen said.  The  case  is: Lucasfilm v. Ainsworth, No. [2011] UKSC 39,
U.K. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  