-- 
Tullow Oil Rises in First Ghanaian Listing in 2 1/2 Years

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-27T16:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/tullow-oil-rises-in-first-ghana-stock-exchange-listing-since-november-2008.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the London-based
explorer with the most licenses in  Africa , advanced in its first
day of trading on the Ghana Stock Exchange, where it is the
biggest company by market value.  The stock, which listed at 31 cedis, closed at 31.08 cedis
by 3 p.m. in the capital, Accra. Tullow’s market value is about
28.2 billion cedis ($18 billion) and will more than double the
exchange’s capitalization, the company said. Tullow replaces
Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. as the country’s biggest
company, with the lender’s market value at 1.2 billion cedis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company will add liquidity to the Accra bourse in the
sense that it offers a company of size that is investable,”
Jeff Foli, a stock trader at Accra-based IC Securities Ltd.,
said by phone today. It is “the first oil and gas exploration
and production firm to list on the market.”  Tullow, which also trades in the U.K. and Ireland, operates
 Ghana ’s Jubilee oil field, West Africa’s biggest discovery of
crude from an offshore field in a decade. Daily output from the
field is expected to climb to 120,000 barrels per day by August
or September from 80,000 barrels now, according to Tullow.  Establish Roots  “This listing comes to establish Tullow’s roots in Ghana
and Africa as a whole,” said Ian Springett, Tullow’s chief
financial officer, at the West African nation’s bourse today.  The debut is the market’s first since November 2008,
Elizabeth Mate-Koli, head of listing at the exchange, said by
phone yesterday. The company sold 3.5 million shares at 31 cedis
each, raising 109.5 million cedis ($73 million), Tullow said on
July 21.  “The listing will give visibility to Ghana’s market, given
Tullow’s international appeal,” Kofi Yamoah, managing director
of the exchange, said by phone yesterday. “It will also help to
boost volumes of traded shares as traders in other markets start
monitoring the Tullow shares on the Ghana market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  