-- 
Turkcell Posts Second-Quarter Net Loss on Belarus Unit Losses

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-27T21:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/turkcell-posts-second-quarter-net-loss-on-belarus-unit-losses.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,
 Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone company, posted a second-quarter
net loss as its Belarusian unit incurred losses and the company
provided for an antitrust fine.  Istanbul-based Turkcell posted a loss of 21.4 million liras
($12.7 million) compared with net income of 422.3 million liras
a year earlier, it said in a statement late yesterday. The
company had been expected to post a profit of 20 million liras,
according to the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Turkcell in June predicted its Belarus unit BeST would post
a foreign-exchange loss of $150 million to $200 million in the
second quarter on foreign-currency-denominated net liabilities,
following a devaluation of the Belarus ruble. Turkcell is
seeking ways to boost revenue as it faces more competition in
its home market from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Avea Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS, majority owned by  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS. (TTKOM)   “We foresee the competitive challenges of the Turkish
mobile market, where we generate the bulk of our revenues,
continuing into the second half of 2011,” Chief Executive
Officer Sureyya Ciliv said in the statement. “With the
contribution of our consolidated subsidiaries, we expect to
achieve targeted growth and profitability levels on a group
basis”  Turkcell is owned by  Teliasonera AB (TLSN) , Moscow-based Altimo
and Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey. Altimo and TeliaSonera,
 Sweden ’s largest phone company, blocked a decision on
shareholder payments at the April 21 annual meeting after
failing to oust Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board.  Hampered Growth Argued  The Swedish and Russian partners argue that Williams has
hampered Turkcell’s growth by favoring its founding shareholder,
Cukurova Chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet.  “The focus is on pending dividend payment and the outcome
of the shareholder battles,” Tera Brokers, an Istanbul-based
brokerage, said in an e-mailed note before the earnings were
announced.  Turkcell had 53.6 percent of Turkey’s mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of March, Vodafone had 27.3 percent and
Avea had 19.2 percent, according to the market regulator.  Turkcell’s average monthly revenue per user advanced 1
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  The company’s total revenue rose 1.7 percent to 2.28
billion liras in the second quarter from 2.24 billion liras a
year earlier. It had 34.1 million subscribers at the end of the
second quarter, up from 33.1 million in the previous quarter.  TeliaSonera, which blocked the approval of distribution of
dividends in the April meeting, filed a court case to include
board changes in the agenda of Turkcell’s extraordinary
shareholders meeting scheduled for Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 