-- 
Vallourec Second-Quarter Profit Declines 11% on Rising Costs

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-27T16:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/vallourec-second-quarter-profit-declines-11-on-rising-costs-1-.html
Vallourec SA (VK) , a French producer of
steel pipes for the oil and gas industry, said second-quarter
profit fell 11 percent as rising raw material costs cut margins.  Net income dropped to 112 million euros ($161 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from 126 million euros a year
earlier, Vallourec said in a statement. The result missed the
135.5 million-euro average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 15 percent to 1.29 billion euros.  The result reflects “the strong increase in raw material
costs which we are progressively recovering in our sales
prices,” Chairman Philippe Crouzet said in today’s statement.
The company “will continue to operate in a context marked by
the volatility and high level of raw material costs as well as
the strengthening of the euro against the dollar.”  Gains in raw-material costs have hobbled steel product
makers’ efforts to emerge from the industry’s worst crisis in 60
years following a collapse in demand after the world financial
crisis. Prices for  iron ore , the key steelmaking ingredient, may
average $170 a metric ton in 2011, up from $122 a ton last year,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Margins will be hurt by a rise in costs of raw materials
until the end of the year when price increases to clients will
begin to compensate, said Chief Financial Officer Olivier
Mallet. “Price increases will be progressively put in place.”  Vallourec, based in  Boulogne Billancourt ,  France , said
sales will increase in the second half and second-quarter profit
was 37 percent higher than the first quarter.  Sales will be “significantly higher” this half compared
with the same period last year, said Mallet.  “Vallourec is in a transition and deep transformation
phase,” he said. The company is putting in place local
production units, such as its venture in  Brazil , and is
“confident” of future demand from the  energy industry  and for
“premium products,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  