-- 
Virgin Media Plans to Return $1.39 Billion in Capital, Including Buyback

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-27T07:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/virgin-media-plans-to-return-1-39-billion-in-capital-including-buyback.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, brought forward its
second capital return plan, saying it will buy back as much as
625 million pounds ($1.03 billion) in stock.  Virgin Media will buy the shares by the end of 2012, taking
its total buyback to 1 billion pounds since July last year, the
company said today in a statement. The cable company previously
said it would consider further returns to shareholders at the
end of 2011.  “We did think we would look at this towards the end of the
year,” Chief Executive Officer Neil Berkett said today in an
interview. “The stock is undervalued and so therefore it would
be appropriate to buy the shares back and at some point in time
we would consider increasing the dividend.”  Virgin Media, which is currently rolling out its 100
megabits-per-second broadband service, lost 36,000 net customers
in the second quarter. The Hook, England-based company is
pushing subscribers to take faster, more expensive broadband
offerings to increase revenue.  Investors fear “the company is pushing pricing power too
hard given the U.K.’s pallid economic growth,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in  London .  Virgin Media declined 3.2 percent to 1,665 pence at 8:54
a.m. in London trading.  BSkyB Review  The company, which has 4.8 million cable customers, won’t
increase its net additions “significantly” in the next few
quarters, Berkett said today. “We decided that we would
continue to aim towards high-quality customers and not chase
customers for customers’ sake.”  Virgin Media is also waiting for the U.K. Competition
Commission to report on rival  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) ’s pay-TV premium movie service. BSkyB has consistently
earned “excess profits” on the service, the regulator said in
February.  Virgin, which currently doesn’t have “economic access” to
the service, will seek to compete with BSkyB, Berkett said
today. “The consumers don’t have any choice, they’re locked
into acquiring their first-release movies through Sky,” he
said. “It’s important that we do create choice for consumers in
this window and we’ll do what we can to make that happen."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  