-- 
Visa Profit Beats Estimates as Credit-Card Use Accelerates

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-27T21:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/visa-profit-beats-estimates-as-credit-card-spending-accelerates.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest
payments network, said fiscal third-quarter profit rose 40
percent, beating analyst estimates for the 14th straight period,
as consumers boosted credit-card spending.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 climbed to $1
billion, or $1.43 a share, from $716 million, or 97 cents, in
the same period a year earlier, the San Francisco-based company
said today in a statement. Adjusted earnings per share, which
exclude the revaluation of the firm’s Visa Europe Ltd. put
option, was $1.26, three cents better than the average estimate
of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders  is
looking to expand abroad as new U.S. limits on debit-card swipe
fees charged to merchants threaten to crimp revenue growth at
home. Visa, which derived 59 percent of sales from the U.S. last
fiscal year, aims to generate more than half its revenue in
international markets by fiscal 2015, Saunders has said.  “While the regulatory process generated headlines over the
past 13 months, the overwhelming majority of Visa’s revenues are
derived from products and geographies that are completely
untouched by these events,” Saunders, 65, said today during a
conference call with analysts and investors.  Visa authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program
after buying back 13.7 million shares in the third quarter at an
average price of $77.36 for about $1.1 billion.  Net revenue increased 14 percent to $2.32 billion, beating
analysts’ estimates, as operating expenses rose 9.5 percent to
$977 million.  Worldwide Spending  Worldwide spending on Visa debit and credit cards, adjusted
for currency fluctuations, climbed 13 percent from the same
period last year to $941 billion, the company said. Spending by
consumers outside their home countries surged 14 percent.
Processed transactions rose 11 percent to 13 billion. U.S.
credit-card purchases climbed 9.8 percent to $224 billion,
compared with a 5.9 percent rise in the same period last year.  Visa said in a July 6 regulatory filing that it expects
revenue growth for fiscal 2012 in the “high single-digit to low
double-digits range” -- down from a 2011 projection of 11
percent to 15 percent -- after the  Federal Reserve  capped debit
fees at about half of the current rate.  Visa and No. 2 network  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , based in Purchase,
 New York , set swipe fees and pass the money to card issuers
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)   ‘Grind Higher’  Visa climbed 34 cents to $88.09 at 5:32 p.m. in extended
New York trading. The shares have advanced 25 percent this year.  “Shares can continue to grind higher in the coming months
as investors get more comfortable with the post-regulatory
competitive environment,” JPMorgan analysts led by Tien-tsin Huang wrote in a July 25 research note.  Visa’s net income was buoyed by a non-cash, non-operating
gain of $122 million related to the revaluation of the  Visa
Europe  put option, according to an investor  presentation .
Excluding that, the company reported adjusted profit of $883
million.  The Fed last month limited debit interchange fees to 21
cents per swipe, while letting banks collect an additional 5
basis points of each transaction, or almost 2 cents based on the
average debit ticket of $38. The central bank conditionally
approved an additional 1-cent adjustment for banks that follow
certain fraud-prevention standards.  Transaction Processing  The rule also requires card-issuers to give merchants the
choice of using at least two unaffiliated debit networks for
transaction processing, which will prevent networks from
negotiating exclusive deals with banks and threatens to erode
Visa’s lead in the U.S. Visa processed $1.05 trillion in U.S.
debit-card purchase transactions last year, more than triple
MasterCard’s $333 billion, company data show.  Visa handled 66 percent of 120.4 billion purchase
transactions worldwide last year, making it the largest payment
network, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.
MasterCard was second, with 25 percent, while Shanghai-based
China UnionPay Co. was third, with 4 percent.  American Express Co. (AXP) , which handled 3.9 percent of
worldwide purchase transactions and is also the biggest credit-
card issuer by purchases, reported a record $1.3 billion second-
quarter profit on July 20. MasterCard, based in Purchase, New
York, is set to report second-quarter results on Aug. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 