-- 
VIX Rises 14% to Highest Level in Four Months on Debt Impasse

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-07-27T21:05:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/vix-rises-14-to-highest-level-since-japan-s-earthquake-on-debt-concerns.html
U.S. equity derivatives surged,
sending the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index to
the highest level in four months, as a stalemate over the debt
ceiling pushed the nation closer to default.  The VIX, as the measure is known, rose 14 percent to 22.98,
a level last reached on March 18. VIX August futures added 8.4
percent to 21.3, while September futures gained 5.1 percent to
21.75. The gauge tracks the cost of options linked to the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index, which lost 2 percent.  The VIX has risen 31 percent in the past three days as
politicians grapple with raising the U.S. debt limit and cutting
the  budget deficit . House Speaker John Boehner’s reworked
deficit-cutting plan gained support today among his fellow
Republicans, while Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said his
competing proposal to avert a potential U.S. default offers the
only “true compromise.”  “With all the politicians saying we’ve got to get this
done and all the fearmongering, traders and investors are
getting scared,” Brenna Hardman, a derivatives broker at MEB
Options LLC, said in a telephone interview from the Chicago
Board Options Exchange floor. “It creates a lot of fear, and as
fear on the street goes up, so does the VIX.”  Less than a week from an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, Congress’s budget
scorekeeper said both measures fall short of their savings
goals, prompting leaders to rework their proposals.  The VIX reached its highest point of the year, 29.4, on
March 16, the week after  Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record.
It fell as much as 50 percent from that peak as the  S&P 500  rose
to an almost three-year high amid better-than-expected corporate
earnings and as the  Federal Reserve  bought Treasuries to boost
economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  