-- 
Vodafone Said to Near Deal to Buy Koc’s Internet Unit in Turkey

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-27T14:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/vodafone-said-to-near-deal-to-buy-koc-s-internet-phone-unit-in-turkey.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, is nearing an agreement to buy  Koc
Holding AS (KCHOL) ’s telecommunication unit Koc.net to add fixed-line
and Internet services in Turkey, two people familiar with the
matter said.  No accord has been reached yet, the people said, declining
to be identified as the talks are not public. Koc Holding is
Turkey’s biggest conglomerate.  The deal could help Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , to
drive data sales and lure clients with combined mobile and
fixed-line services in Turkey. In the country, Vodafone competes
with Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, Turkey’s biggest mobile-
phone operator, and Avea Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, a unit of  Turk
Telekomunikasyon AS. (TTKOM)   Koc.net had sales of about 69 million euros ($100 million)
in 2009, according to consulting firm Deloitte. Koc Holding
doesn’t provide details for Koc.net’s financial results in its
annual report.  Vodafone entered the Turkish market in 2006 after acquiring
the No. 2 mobile-phone operator Telsim for $4.5 billion. The
country was Vodafone’s fastest growing operation in the three
months through June as service revenue surged 32 percent to 411
million pounds ($673 million). Vodafone in 2009 agreed to buy
Turkey’s Borusan Telekom AS to access the company’s fiber-optic
network.  Spokesmen for Vodafone and Koc Holding declined to comment
today. Koc.net Chief Executive Officer Mehmet Ali Akarca and
Vodafone Turkey’s CEO Serpil Timuray didn’t immediately respond
to calls from Bloomberg seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net 
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  