-- 
Vonage to Offer Calling on All Mobiles, Challenging Skype

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-27T15:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/vonage-to-offer-calling-on-all-mobile-phones-challenging-skype.html
Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , the biggest
U.S. provider of telephone service over the Internet, said it
will let users of its home plans make calls with a second device
such as a mobile phone.  The new feature, called Extensions, represents another
round in Vonage’s competition with rival Skype Technologies SA,
which is being bought by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Extensions will be free to add to an existing subscription
plan, Vonage said today. The feature could make the service more
attractive to users who make international calls with their
mobile phones, Chief Executive Officer Marc Lefar said in an
interview. It also may reduce the number of people who leave
Vonage each month, a churn rate of 2.5 percent in the latest
quarter, and attract new customers.  “We think it’s going to be a real boon for prospects,”
Lefar said. “Whether it’s your home phone or your mobile phone,
it simply works.” Holmdel, New Jersey-based Vonage added a net
3,345 subscriber lines in the quarter ended in March, for a
total of 2.4 million.  Vonage fell 11 cents to $4.03 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 80 percent
this year. The company went public in 2006 at $17 a share.  Extensions may help Vonage compete more aggressively with
Luxembourg-based Skype, Lefar said. After seeking to service
consumers’ homes for years, both companies are now pursuing
users’ mobile devices. Vonage offers a variety of subscription
plans, ranging in price from $12 to $65 a month.  Web-Calling Apps  Skype’s service is available on smartphones and feature
phones from  Verizon Wireless , and both Vonage and Skype have
Web-calling applications for smartphones. Extensions will make
Vonage’s service available on simpler, cheaper phones. Skype
already offers Skype To Go, a service that lets consumers make
international calls with any mobile phone.  The Extensions service works as a virtual calling card. To
use it, consumers can go to Vonage’s  website  and add a second
phone number to their service plan. To make a call from a mobile
phone, a user dials a special U.S. number, enters a four-digit
Vonage PIN and dials the destination number.  Over the next few weeks, the company will offer
downloadable apps for iPhones and Android-based devices that
will enable one-touch dialing from a customer’s contact list
using Extensions. In the next few months, Vonage also plans to
introduce mobile-only calling plans that will work with any
phone, Lefar said.  Skype, meanwhile, has been adding an array of features to
its mobile apps. In January, Verizon  announced  that subscribers
who use 4G smartphones will be able to make Skype video calls.  Researcher TechNavio  expects  the North American market for
mobile Web-based calls to grow an average of 57 percent a year
from 2010 to 2014.  The challenge for Vonage will be contending with Skype’s
name recognition, said  Will Stofega , an analyst at IDC.  “Skype is a brand everyone associates with calling,” he
said. “It’d be tough to catch them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  