-- 
Wal-Mart Appoints Danone’s Morten Knudsen as CFO for Asia

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 
2011-07-28T02:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/wal-mart-names-danone-s-knudsen-as-asia-chief-financial-officer.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  appointed
Morten Knudsen chief financial officer for Asia as the world’s
largest retailer rebuilds its leadership team in the region.  Knudsen will join Wal-Mart from  Danone (BN) , where he was vice
president for corporate finance in Asia, Anthony Rose, a Hong
Kong-based spokesman for the retailer, said in an e-mailed
response to queries. The appointment takes effect Sept. 1.  Since May, Wal-Mart has lost Japanese chief Toru Noda and
three of its top executives in  China , including the CFO and
chief operating officer. The departures come as Wal-Mart
continues to expand across the region, particularly in China,
where it opened 49 stores last year.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, generated $16
billion in sales last year in  Asia , about 15 percent of its
total international business. It operates about 750 stores in
 Japan , China and  India , and employs about 140,000 people in the
region, Rose said.  The world’s largest company by sales expects China to
overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest grocery market by 2014.
Wal-Mart, China’s biggest hypermarket chain after Sun Art
Retail Group Ltd., also set up an e-commerce headquarters in
Shanghai and acquired an unspecified minority stake in Chinese
online supermarket operator Yihaodian.  China Executives  Wal-Mart fell 0.6 percent to $53.25 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, trimming its gain over the past
year to 4.15 percent.  In May, former CFO Roland Lawrence and COO Rob Cissell
left the retailer to “seek new development opportunities,”
the company said then. Mario-Jose Medina was named CFO in China
after working in that role in Chile, the company said.  Cissell is joining India’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  as CEO
of its Reliance Retail Ltd. division, according to a company
official who declined to be identified before a public
announcement.  Shawn Gray, who resigned from Wal-Mart’s China unit in
June as vice president of operations, also will join Reliance
Retail, a business owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, as COO,
according to the official.  David Tiang, former vice president and general counsel for
the company in Asia, will take over as senior vice president,
legal and asset protection in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  