-- 
Washington Follows Path to Credibility Downgrade: Neil Barofsky

-- B y   N e i l   B a r o f s k y
-- 
2011-07-27T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/washington-follows-path-to-credibility-downgrade-neil-barofsky.html
We have been told that unless the
legislative process is well under way by today, and a bill
raising the debt limit is passed and in place by Aug. 2,
catastrophe will strike the U.S.  This follows previous warnings of other calamitous
deadlines that have come and gone with little tumult, such as
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ’s January claim that the
debt limit had to be raised no later than March 31. That
deadline passed, followed by a series of other supposed moments
of truth in June and July, and most recently, the proclamation
by congressional leaders that a deal had to be announced by 4
p.m. this past Sunday before the Asian financial markets opened.  Fortunately, these predictions, so far, have been off the
mark. While there may have been market shudders, the predicted
Great Panic of 2011 hasn’t struck.  Treasury’s warnings raise two important questions. Why has
it served up visions of the apocalypse time and again and what
have been the costs of it being wrong?  The most obvious cost has been an incremental loss of
credibility, with even the oft-cited Aug. 2 deadline for
Congressional action now widely questioned. Reluctant
Congressional Republicans, Geithner’s intended audience, long
ago lost their faith in Treasury and view the deadline warnings
as mere political spin.  False Twilights  After all, this isn’t the first time in recent years that
there have been warnings of dire consequences that haven’t come
to pass. For example, the  Federal Reserve ’s repeated predictions
that severe damage would result if it were forced to disclose
the identities of its counterparties during the financial crisis
were wrong, as were Treasury’s warnings that my former office,
the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program (TARP), would inflict financial carnage when it
announced its survey of what lending institutions had done with
the taxpayer funds they had received under the program.  So why keep issuing what appear to be false deadlines?  The obvious answer is it’s part of an attempt to gain
political leverage. Congress apparently can no longer act
without deadlines, and by planting them early and often, the
hope must have been to gain some traction in negotiations and
achieve the concessions necessary to garner bipartisan support
for a deal. These pressures may have been part of the reason
Republican Speaker of the House  John Boehner  came close to
reaching an agreement with the Obama administration before the
deal fell apart last week with the now all-too-familiar
accusations of bad faith by both sides -- and leaving us with
even less time to find a solution.  Political Goals  The false alarms also were intended to serve other
political goals. One of the sharpest criticisms aimed at
Geithner, his predecessor  Hank Paulson  and other federal
regulators in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis was
their failure to recognize the danger created by financial
institutions’ reliance on supposedly safe subprime mortgage-
backed securities -- bonds that once held the same AAA rating as
 Treasury securities . By sounding alarms, the administration
wanted to limit its vulnerability and be in a better position to
build on the narrative set forth by President  Barack Obama  in
his Monday night address: blame for default lies not with the
White House, but with Republicans in Congress who ignored these
admonitions.  Treasury’s warnings will also have the benefit of
eventually proving to be accurate if the true deadline passes
without a deal (whatever date that may actually be) and the U.S.
fails to make its debt payments. While wrong on dates, Geithner,
of course, would ultimately be correct that should the U.S.
default on its debt, the impact on the markets would likely far
exceed even the darkest days of 2008.  Takes a Collapse  Finally, the early predictions of chaos could, in a
perverse way, reflect recognition that it may take a collapse in
the markets to galvanize congressional action. During the last
crisis, it was only after the panic that followed the first
unsuccessful Congressional vote on TARP -- which caused the
single largest one-day drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
-- that Congress recognized the need to take action. Perhaps the
path toward a meaningful compromise will again only be made
clear after both sides are confronted with a sample of the
consequences of this dangerous political game that they are
playing with our country’s economy.  Although the recent financial crisis proved that it is
extremely difficult for the government to stem a panic, it also
demonstrated -- as reflected by the markets’ freefall during
Geithner’s announcement of his financial stability plan in early
2009 -- that a few ill-chosen words from the Treasury secretary
can inspire one.  (Neil Barofsky, a senior fellow and adjunct professor at
NYU School of Law, was Special Inspector General of TARP and is
a contributing editor for Bloomberg TV. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Neil Barofsky  at  neil.barofsky@nyu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 