-- 
WellPoint Spends More on Care, Medicare Membership Grows

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-07-27T20:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/wellpoint-spends-more-on-care-as-medicare-members-rise-in-second-quarter.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest health
insurer by enrollment, said its costs to provide medical care
jumped in the second quarter as the number of Medicare patients
it serves grew. The shares fell the most in almost a year.  WellPoint raised its annual forecast for the second time
this year after sales and enrollment increased, according to a
statement today by the Indianapolis-based company. At the same
time, an influx of sicker members aged 65 and older pushed the
percent of income spent on care to 85.7 percent from 82.9
percent a year earlier, the company said.  Enrollment rose 2.1 percent to 34.2 million, and most of
the new customers were beneficiaries of Medicare, the U.S.
health plan for the elderly and disabled. Three-quarters of this
group had previously been with rival plans that exited the
northern California market, Chief Financial Officer Wayne DeVeydt said. The enrollees were sicker than the company had
expected or priced for, he said.  “We’re not seeing this problem across the rest of” the
senior population WellPoint insures, DeVeydt said in a telephone
interview. “We’re confident it can be fixed next year.”  The shares fell $4.86, or 6.6 percent, to $68.70 at 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the
biggest intraday decline since Aug. 11, 2010, when Democrats in
Congress called for new rules requiring that plans spend more of
their premiums on medical care. The stock increased 21 percent
since the beginning of the year.  Raising Prices  WellPoint is reviewing its quarterly data on spending with
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in Baltimore,
DeVeydt said, so that “we can resolve” the pricing for next
year. The company will continue to pay out a higher portion of
its income to care for these patients through the rest of the
year, he said.  “Even with that hit, we exceeded earnings estimates”
because the industry is benefitting from lower demand for  health
services , DeVeydt said. Americans have been unnerved by rising
unemployment and continue to defer medical treatment, a trend
that has plagued hospital operators like HCA Corp., which
reported lower earnings July 25.  Typically this pullback in spending lasts about 18 months
into a recession, DeVeydt said. “We really are at the end of
that 18-month period. We’ve taken the view that it will spike
back up and if it doesn’t we’ll do better than out projected
guidance.”  Beat Estimates  WellPoint reported earnings before one-time items of $1.83
a share, beating by 3 cents the estimates of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The insurer said it expected to earn
$6.90 to $7.10 a share in 2011, up from a June forecast of at
least $6.70.  “The problem in Medicare Advantage is a surprise, but it
is likely to be company-specific, product-specific,” said
Matthew Borsch, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York, in a note to clients.  While Medicare enrollment rose for the company, commercial
plans saw their membership fall as the economy faltered in the
first half of the year, Chief Executive Officer Angela Fray Braly said in a conference call. WellPoint expects “modest
attrition” in enrollment in the second half of the year and may
end the year with 33.9 million members, she said.  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest U.S. health insurer, raised
its annual forecast today and announced earnings that beat
analyst estimates.  Profit at Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the largest insurer by sales, also beat estimates. The two
plans said they gained from a decline in use of medical services
tied to consumer economic concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 