-- 
Wells Fargo Said to Be in Talks With U.S. in Lending Probe

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-27T20:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/wells-fargo-said-to-be-in-talks-with-u-s-in-discriminatory-lending-probe.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, is negotiating with the  Justice Department  to
resolve a probe of whether the lender directed blacks to
subprime loans, a person familiar with the matter said.  The investigation is being conducted by the Justice
Department’s Civil Rights Division and involves the lender’s
actions during the housing bubble, said the person, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Wells Fargo still faces a 2008 lawsuit by the city of
Baltimore alleging a “pattern or practice of illegal and
discriminatory mortgage lending” leading to foreclosures on
Wells Fargo loans in minority neighborhoods.  And last week, the bank agreed to pay a record $85 million
fine and compensate clients to settle  Federal Reserve  claims
that it steered reliable borrowers into subprime loans and
falsified information in mortgage applications.  Employees at the firm’s Wells Fargo Financial unit pushed
customers who may have been eligible for prime  interest rates 
into loans carrying higher rates intended for riskier borrowers,
the Fed said in a July 20 statement announcing the accord.  Separately, sales personnel used false documents to make it
appear borrowers qualified for loans when their incomes made
them ineligible, the Fed said.  ‘Confident’  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, and Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the U.S. discriminatory lending
investigation. Of the Baltimore case, Adams said the bank is
“confident in our position in the lawsuit.”  Under its settlement with The Fed, Wells Fargo must
reevaluate qualifications of borrowers who received a subprime,
cash-out refinancing loan between January 2006 and June 2008.  The fine was the largest assessed by the regulator in a
consumer-protection enforcement case, according to the
statement. The bank didn’t admit wrongdoing in agreeing to
settle, the government said.  The U.S. settlement talks were reported earlier in the
Huffington Post news and opinion web site.  The Baltimore case is Mayor and City Council of Baltimore
v. Wells Fargo, 08-cv-00062, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in  Washington 
at   jblum4@bloomberg.net  and;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  