-- 
Women Don’t Count at Aussie Central Bank Where Score Is 57 to 3

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-27T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/women-don-t-count-at-australian-central-bank-where-the-score-is-57-to-3.html
Women in  Australia  run the federal
government, the largest city and the second-biggest bank. Harder
to attain is a seat on the central bank’s board.  Three females, including members Jillian Broadbent since
1998 and Catherine Tanna since March, have served on the 51-
year-old  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s board, compared with 57 men.
As one man replaces another this week, some officials want a
body that’s more representative of society when two potential
 vacancies  come up next year.  “This is one of the last boys clubs in Australia,” Sex
Discrimination Commissioner Elizabeth Broderick said in an
interview. “The gender ratio isn’t acceptable, particularly
when we have the most educated females in the world.”  The imbalance mirrors the boardrooms of Australia’s biggest
public companies, where about 13 percent of directors are women.
The gap also runs counter to a goal of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who became the nation’s first female leader last year,
to boost the representation of women in powerful positions.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who can pick six of the nine- member 
board, said that while Tanna’s “well-deserved” appointment
this year helped move the gender ratio in the right direction,
more can be done.  “There’s certainly plenty of room for improvement in terms
of women in senior roles,” Swan said in an e-mail response to
questions. “Smart businesses are becoming increasingly aware
that it makes good commercial sense to have more women in senior
positions, including on boards.”  Two Vacancies  On July 30, academic economist  Warwick McKibbin  will be
replaced by  John Edwards , a former economist with HSBC Holdings
Plc. The Treasurer’s office will next appoint RBA board members
in 2012, when the terms of Graham Kraehe, the chairman of pallet
supplier Brambles Ltd. and Bluescope Steel Ltd., and John Akehurst, a director at Origin Energy Ltd., expire.  At stake for Australia is more than fairness. As the
jobless rate hovers below 5 percent near a level economists view
as full employment, boosting participation and productivity will
be important for future growth.  A 2010  World Economic Forum  study about gender in the
workplace ranked Australia 23rd, just after Mozambique and down
from its 15th-place ranking in 2006.  The participation rate of working-age women in Australia is
59 percent, compared with 72 percent among men, according to
government figures. Seventy S&P/ASX 200 companies have all-male
boards, according to the Australian Institute of Company
Directors.  Gillard’s Push  Gillard, 49, was a founder of Emily’s List Australia,
established in 1996 to boost to 40 percent the number of Labor
women in parliament. The share stands at 36 percent.  Australian women won the right to vote in 1902, almost two
decades before their American counterparts. The ruling British
monarch’s representative and two of eight state premiers are
women, who make up 50.2 percent of the total population of 22.7
million.  Five of 15 voting members of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
Open Market Committee are women, while one of the Bank of
 Japan ’s nine-member policy board is female. The European Central
Bank’s 23-member Governing Council and the Bank of England’s
rate-setting panel are all men.  One of  Asia ’s longest-serving central bank governors is a
woman,  Malaysia ’s Zeti Akhtar Aziz, who assumed the role in 2000.
Among Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg, only  Taiwan ’s Perng
Fai-Nan has been central bank chief longer.  RBA Staff  At the RBA, where one of six assistant governors is a woman,
five of the 11 promotions in the past year to senior management,
a title of deputy department head or above, were of females,
according to figures a spokeswoman provided to Bloomberg.
Fourteen of 30 promotions to middle management in the past year
were female, she said.  “Treasurers are usually men, the people who advise them
are usually men -- maybe they don’t get out much to meet women
with these amazing capabilities,” said Janet Holmes à Court,
who became the RBA board’s first female member in 1992 and
served for five years.  Bernie Fraser, the RBA governor from 1989 and 1996, said
Holmes à Court “humanized” the board, which at times could be
“pretty dry.”  “She brought a very human aspect to the discussions and
made us remember we were dealing with people and mortgages --
not just inflation,” Fraser said in a phone interview from his
home near Canberra.  Some Improvement  Corporate Australia has “a long way to go” in female
representation, even though it reached a record as of this
month, the directors institute says on its website. Women
accounted for 25 percent of all new directors appointed to ASX
200 boards last year, up from 5 percent a year earlier,
according to the Sydney-based institute.  The city of Sydney’s first woman mayor, Clover Moore, was
elected in 2004. Gail Kelly became chief executive officer of
Westpac Banking Corp. in 2008, overseeing the country’s biggest
banking takeover.  Broderick, the sex discrimination commissioner, said in
April that she’s beginning to see more opportunities for women
across “a landscape that has remained depressingly static for
far too many years.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  