-- 
Wyndham Worldwide Advances After Hotelier Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-07-27T20:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/wyndham-rises-most-in-five-months-after-hotelier-raises-full-year-forecast.html
Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN) , the lodging
company that reported profit increases for seven consecutive
quarters, climbed after beating analysts’ earnings estimates and
boosting its full-year forecast.  Wyndham’s adjusted earnings, excluding items such as a $13
million  tax refund , were 64 cents a share in the second quarter,
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts expected 56 cents a share on that basis,
according to the average of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The company, a franchiser of Days Inn hotels and Super 8
motels, raised its full-year adjusted-earnings forecast to $2.32
to $2.40 a share from $2.15 to $2.25.  The U.S. hotel industry has been recovering from recession
lows of 2009 and 2010. Occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets
climbed to 65 percent this year through May from 62 percent a
year earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  “The stock will react favorable to today’s ‘beat & raise,’
especially in light of recent mediocre results and uninspiring
guidance from lodging companies like Marriott International Inc.
and Host Hotels & Resorts Inc.,” Patrick Scholes, an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets Corp., wrote in a note to investors.  Wyndham rose 56 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $34.73 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The advance
was the seventh-biggest in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
which sank 2 percent as a stalemate over the debt ceiling pushed
the U.S. closer to default.  Marriott on July 13 was the first of the major U.S. hotel
chains to report second-quarter earnings. The hotelier’s shares
fell the most two years after reporting room revenue that
trailed industry growth and saying timeshare sales declined.
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  will announce results
tomorrow, while  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  is scheduled to report on
Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  