-- 
Dollar Approaches Postwar Low Versus Yen Before U.S. Vote on Debt Ceiling

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-28T21:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-27/yen-is-near-four-month-high-versus-dollar-on-u-s-debt-talk-europe-crisis.html
The dollar dropped toward a postwar
low against the yen and touched a record low against the Swiss
franc as the U.S. House of Representatives prepared to vote on a
debt-limit plan that faces opposition in the Senate.  Japan ’s currency rose against all of its major counterparts
on demand for a refuge after Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
indicated intervention to weaken the yen was unlikely before the
outcome of the U.S. deficit debate. The euro declined versus the
dollar as European economic confidence fell this month more than
forecast and Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit rating
yesterday, saying the nation will partially default.  “I’m not betting on the dollar because of all the
uncertainty,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York. “There are so many
scenarios and possible outcomes. The safe havens continue to be
attractive.”  The dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 77.67 yen at 5 p.m. in
 New York , from 77.98 yesterday, when it fell to 77.57, the
weakest since hitting a post-World War II low of 76.25 on March
17. The dollar was little changed at 80.12 Swiss centimes after
touching a record low 79.90. The euro slid 0.2 percent to
$1.4334 and decreased 0.6 percent to 111.34 yen.  The  S&P 500 Index  dropped 0.3 percent. The yield on 10-year
Treasury notes fell 0.04 percentage point to 2.95 percent. Crude
oil for September delivery fell 2.2 percent to $97.40 a barrel.  Weak Real, Strong Lira  Brazil ’s real had its biggest two-day decline against the
dollar since May, falling 0.8 percent to 1.5555 versus the
dollar today. It tumbled yesterday after the government said it
will levy a 1 percent tax on some net short dollar positions by
investors in the country’s futures market. A short is a bet a
currency will decline.  Turkey ’s lira, the world’s worst performing currency
against the dollar in July, strengthened the most in a month
after central-bank chief Erdem Basci indicated he’s ready to
take steps to halt the currency’s retreat.  The lira gained as much as 1.3 percent to 1.6692 per dollar
after Basci said at a news conference in Ankara the currency is
“definitely not overvalued” and that the bank has the
instruments to prevent further declines. Turkey’s currency has
lost 3.2 percent against the dollar this month.  Sweden’s krona rallied as a report showed the nation’s
retail sales topped estimates. The krona appreciated 0.4 percent
to 6.3224 against the dollar.  The dollar has fallen 1.8 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
the greenback against nine developed-nation currencies. The euro
has slumped 2.6 percent and the yen has gained 2.5 percent.  House Vote  The  House of Representatives  plans to vote at about 6 p.m.
Washington time on a debt-ceiling increase that faces unified
Democratic opposition in the Senate.  The euro weakened versus the dollar as the European
Commission reported that an index of executive and consumer
sentiment in the currency region fell to 103.2 this month from a
revised 105.4 in June. That’s the lowest since August 2010.  Greece will partially default on its debt once European
officials push through a plan that will see bondholders foot
part of the bill of a second bailout agreed to last week in
Brussels, S&P said yesterday. Its cut in Greece’s rating
followed a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service on July 25.  The yen remained higher versus the euro and dollar after
Jiji Press reported that Economy Minister Yosano indicated to a
prefectural governor that he was waiting for the outcome of the
U.S. debt debate. The governor had come to  Tokyo  to ask for
action on the yen and relayed Yosano’s remarks to reporters
after the meeting, Jiji said.  Group of Seven nations jointly sold the yen on March 18
after it surged to a record 76.25 to the dollar on the previous
day, saying in a statement they wanted to reduce “excess
volatility and disorderly movements.”  Volatility implied by one-month dollar-yen options
increased to 10.21 percent today after reaching a two-month high
on July 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  