-- H&M November Sales Beat Estimates After Margiela Line Debut
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-12-17T08:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/h-m-november-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-after-margiela-line.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported November sales that
beat analysts’ estimates after a designer collection went on
sale midway through the month.  H&M  total sales  rose 7 percent last month, the Stockholm-
based company said in a statement today, exceeding the average
estimate in an SME Direkt survey for 5.7 percent growth. Revenue
slipped 1 percent in stores and operations open for at least a
year, also beating an SME consensus for a 3.3 percent decline.  H&M started selling a Maison Martin Margiela collection of
about 100 items in about 10 percent of its stores on Nov. 15,
including a $40 bodysuit with the image of a black bra printed
across the chest and a $349 duvet coat, to attract attention
this holiday season.  H&M gained as much as 2.2 percent to 221.7 kronor in
Stockholm trading and traded at that price as of 9:20 a.m. The
shares are little changed this year compared with a 64 percent
gain for larger competitor Inditex SA.  “There is the potential for improved sentiment toward the
shares, which is very poor,” Richard Chamberlain, a London-
based analyst at BofA Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report. Concern
over faltering productivity and competition from the Primark
discount fashion chain has been “overstated,” he said.  Revenue excluding value-added tax rose to 32.5 billion
kronor ($4.9 billion) in the three months through November, H&M
said today. Sales at stores open at least a year were unchanged
in the quarter, the last of the retailer’s financial year.  The total number of outlets increased to 2,776 as of Nov.
30 compared with 2,472 last year. H&M has focused store
expansion on  Asia  and the U.S. to help offset a slowdown in
European  consumer spending  amid the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  