-- Lacker Says Fed Asset Buying Won’t Speed Growth Above 2%
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-12-17T20:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/lacker-says-fed-asset-buying-won-t-speed-growth-above-2-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  predicted the economy will grow 2
percent next year and said the Fed’s stepped up purchases of
bonds won’t do much to spur the recovery.  “It’s not clear that monetary policy, by itself, can bring
about any material improvement in economic growth,” Lacker said
today in a speech in  Charlotte , North Carolina. “The supply of
bank reserves is already large enough to support the economic
recovery, and the benefits of further asset purchases are
unlikely to be sizeable.”  Lacker dissented last week from a decision by the  Federal
Open Market Committee  to buy additional bonds and to link an
increase in the Fed’s main  interest rate  to unemployment, saying
no single indicator can provide a “complete picture” of the
labor market. His prediction of 2 percent growth is less than
the central tendency predictions by other policy makers ranging
from 2.3 percent to 3 percent for 2013.  “My best guess is that growth will continue into next year
at an annual rate of 2 percent and that beyond 2013 we should
see growth begin to firm,” Lacker said to the Charlotte Chamber
of Commerce’s annual economic outlook conference. “With  futures
markets  forecasting flat or declining energy prices, most
economists expect headline inflation to average a little less
than 2 percent next year. I agree with that outlook.”  Lacker said he expects “meaningful progress on  federal
budget  issues” and declining risks from the  European debt
crisis  next year. Household confidence will probably improve as
well as the job market picks up, and  home prices  will show
“modest” gains, he said.  ‘Potential Costs’  “It’s important to recognize the potential costs of
additional asset purchases,” Lacker said. “A larger Fed
balance sheet will increase the risks associated with the timely
and appropriate withdrawing of monetary stimulus by raising
 interest rates  and selling assets.”  The Fed last week said it will buy $45 billion each month
of  Treasury securities  starting in January, expanding its asset-
purchase program, and for the first time linked the outlook for
its main interest rate to unemployment and inflation.  The central bank said interest rates will stay low “at
least as long” as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5
percent, and if inflation “between one and two years ahead” is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. The committee “views
these thresholds as consistent with its earlier date-based
guidance.” The Fed dropped its earlier pledge to hold interest
rates near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  After Speech  The Richmond Fed president told reporters after his speech
he is worried the Fed, after setting the unemployment threshold,
will be reluctant to combat rising prices.  “I worry about something like this tying our hands and
preventing a preemptive move against inflation,” he said.  Lacker said he forecasts the Fed will next tighten policy
in 2014, though “it’s obviously highly contingent on growth and
there is lots of uncertainty” on the date.  The Richmond Fed leader also told reporters not to look to
the Fed to offset a fiscal tightening.  “Our ability to offset the macroeconomic implications of
going off the fiscal cliff are quite limited,” Lacker said,
referring to the more than $600 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts that will kick in automatically at the end of the
year unless Congress acts. Should lawmakers fail to overcome the
budgetary challenge, “I urge you guys not to rivet your
attention to the FOMC,” he said.  Index Rose  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent to
1,425.39 at 3:28 p.m. in  New York . The 10-year note yield
climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.76
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The Fed is trying to spur an economy that expanded by 2.7
percent in the third quarter after a 1.3 percent gain in the
prior period.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 146,000 in November, above a
median forecast that called for an 85,000 gain, a Labor
Department report showed. The unemployment rate fell to 7.7
percent, the lowest level since December 2008.  Lacker, 57, has been president of his regional bank since
2004. He was previously the Richmond Fed’s director of research.
The Richmond Fed district includes  Maryland , Virginia,  North
Carolina ,  South Carolina  and most of  West Virginia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  