-- Laclede to Buy Utility Assets From Energy Transfer
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-12-17T13:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/laclede-to-buy-utility-assets-from-energy-transfer.html
Laclede Group Inc. (LG) , owner of
Missouri’s largest natural gas company, agreed to buy utility
assets from  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  and  Energy Transfer
Equity LP (ETE)  for $1.02 billion in cash to almost double its
customer base.  Laclede, based in  St. Louis , also agreed to assume $20
million in debt to purchase Missouri Gas Energy and New England
Gas Co., according to a statement today.  “This investment is transformative,” Laclede Chief
Executive Officer Suzanne Sitherwood said in the statement. The
purchase “will effectively double our size by increasing our
utility customer base from approximately 630,000 to nearly 1.2
million.”  Kelcy Warren, chairman and CEO of Dallas-based Energy
Transfer Partners, has been trying to simplify the partnerships’
structures and sell businesses after buying Southern Union for
$5.4 billion in March and Sunoco Inc. in October. The utilities,
acquired in Energy Transfer Equity’s Southern Union purchase,
were “non-core assets,” Warren said in the statement. He had
said Aug. 8 the gas utilities might be sold.  Bridge Loan  The utilities had combined revenues of approximately $517
million for the 12 months ending Sept. 30, according to the
statement. The transaction is expected to close by the end of
the third quarter subject to regulatory approval. It will be
neutral to earnings the first full year after closing and is
expected to boost profits the following year, Laclede said.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will provide a $1.02 billion bridge loan
for the purchase, according to the statement. The company has a
$899 million market value.  Wells Fargo advised Laclede and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP acted as legal counsel.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  advised
Energy Transfer Equity, Energy Transfer Partners and Southern
Union and Latham & Watkins LLP was their legal adviser.  Energy Transfer Partners owns a controlling stake in the
owner of Southern Union, according to today’s statement. Energy
Transfer Equity controls Energy Transfer Partners through
ownership of its general partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  