-- Thai Rebels Boost Teacher Killings in Muslim South, Group Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-12-17T02:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/thai-rebels-boost-teacher-killings-in-muslim-south-group-says.html
Thai separatists have escalated
attacks against teachers and schools in the country’s Muslim-
majority southern provinces in the past six weeks,  Human Rights
Watch  said today.  The rebels, who consider teachers a symbol of government
authority and Thai Buddhist culture, have killed five teachers,
wounded about a dozen and set fire to schools in 10 incidents
since Oct. 31, the New York-based rights group said in a
 statement . A janitor and his 11-year-old son also died in the
attacks, which shut down 1,300 government-run schools serving
more than 200,000 students in Yala, Narathiwat, Pattani and
Songkhla provinces, it said.  “Teachers are courageously risking their lives to ensure
children’s access to education in southern  Thailand ,” said Brad
Adams, Asia director at Human Rights Watch. “But the government
is still stuck in a cycle of ineffectual responses to the deadly
threats teachers and students are facing every day.”  The decades-long push for an independent state in the
provinces bordering  Malaysia  has killed more than 5,000 people
since flaring up in 2004. The insurgency has stifled investment
in the south, where 14 provinces account for 80 percent of
Thailand’s rubber production.  Rebel attacks are growing more sophisticated even as the
government spends billions of dollars, uses special security
laws and deploys 60,000 personnel to stop them, the
International Crisis Group said in a  report  last week. A
resolution requires adjusting the military’s approach and
decentralizing power to give local leaders more control, it
said.  ‘Political Solution’  “The government urgently needs to devise and execute a
political solution,” the Brussels-based policy research group
said on Dec. 11. “This is not likely to be achieved without
support from the military, which retains final say on how
security policy is implemented. And it will require a level of
political effort from Bangkok that has long been absent from its
southern policies.”  Ethnic Malay Muslim separatists have been implicated in the
deaths of 157 teachers and education personnel from government-
run schools since January 2004, Human Rights Watch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  