-- AIG Simplified Boosts Stock as Benmosche Exits AIA Stake
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-17T21:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/aig-simplified-boosts-stock-as-benmosche-exits-aia-stake.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout, is benefiting on the
stock market as the company becomes easier to understand with
moves like its exit from  AIA (1299)  Group Ltd.  By divesting Hong Kong-based insurer AIA, the New York-
based company removes a holding whose stock market fluctuations
increased volatility in quarterly  profits . Investors may be
willing to pay a higher valuation for a company that’s simpler,
said Meyer Shields, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “There were few companies that were nearly as complex as
AIG,” he said. “It makes it a lot easier to understand because
there are fewer moving parts.”  AIG is selling as much as $6.5 billion of AIA, exiting its
remaining 14 percent stake in a business with ties to the
company’s founding from 1919. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  reached a deal this month to sell a plane-leasing
unit, and the U.S. sold its final stake in AIG acquired during a
2008 bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion.  “AIG’s continued portfolio optimization should free up
additional excess capital that, subject to regulatory approval,
likely can be returned to shareholders,” according to a letter
in October from Third Point LLC, the hedge fund run by  Daniel Loeb . Third Point has 23.5 million shares as of Sept. 30.  AIG  advanced  3 percent to $34.95 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The
insurer gained 51 percent this year, compared with the 14
percent advance of the  S&P 500 .  AIA Shares  Trading of AIA has been suspended. AIG is selling about
1.65 billion shares in Hong Kong-headquartered AIA at HK$29.65
to HK$30.65 each, according to a term sheet obtained by
 Bloomberg News . AIA closed at $31.65 on Dec. 14. AIG said the
offering price will be disclosed before the Hong Kong market
opens on Dec. 18.  Benmosche, 68, is focusing on U.S. life insurance and
global property-casualty coverage after AIG sold more than $65
billion in assets, from Asian insurers to its New York
headquarters, to help repay the U.S. bailout. AIG sold about $8
billion of AIA shares in March and September, following a 2010
initial offering that reduced the New York insurer’s stake to 33
percent.  Shields rates AIG the equivalent of  neutral , saying in a
research note today that the “attractive” valuation is offset
by pressure from low  interest rates  and “below-average”
earnings at the firm’s core insurance units.  AIG will use proceeds for general corporate purposes, it
said in a statement. Benmosche would like to pay a dividend in
2013 if the firm’s capital position is strong enough, he said on
a conference call in November. The U.S. Treasury Department sold
its last 234.2 million of AIG shares last week, marking the end
of the rescue more than four years after the U.S. took over the
company to save the global economy.  ‘Greatly Simplified’  “AIG has greatly simplified its business profile over the
past few years,” Bruce Ballentine, an analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, wrote in a research note today. “Separation
from the Treasury is credit positive for AIG because it signals
that the company has substantially recovered from the financial
crisis.”  AIA traces its roots to 1919 when Cornelius Vander Starr,
an American businessman, set up a fire and marine insurance
agency in  Shanghai . It was the first foreign-owned insurer to
get a license in  China , according to the company’s website.  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG into the world’s
largest insurer during his four-decade leadership of the firm
until 2005, called AIA one of his company’s “crown jewels.”
AIA, the third-largest Asia-based insurer, has repositioned
itself as an independent company after losing share of new
business during the global financial crisis because of its AIG
ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 