-- AIG Offers to Sell as Much as $6.5 Billion of AIA Shares
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-12-17T01:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/aig-offers-to-sell-as-much-as-6-5-billion-of-aia-shares.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout, plans to sell all of its
shares in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  for as much as HK$50.6 billion ($6.5
billion) in the third offering this year.  AIG, based in New York, is selling about 1.65 billion
shares in Hong Kong-headquartered AIA at HK$29.65 to HK$30.65
each, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News. AIG
holds a remaining 13.7 percent stake in AIA, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is focusing on
U.S. life insurance and global property-casualty coverage after
divesting units to help repay a government bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion. The New York-based insurer sold about $8
billion of AIA shares in March and September, following a 2010
initial offering that reduced AIG’s stake to 33 percent.  “We’re looking for the right time and the right price to
monetize our ownership of AIA,” Benmosche said on an Aug. 3
conference call with analysts. “We have a very good performing
company out there.”  AIA, which announced that AIG has started to sell “a
significant proportion” of the remaining 13.7 percent stake in
a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today, didn’t reveal
the exact number of shares on sale. Trading of Hong Kong-based
AIA is suspended from 9 a.m. local time today.  Scaling Back  The shares are being offered today as much as 6.3 percent
lower than AIA’s closing price of HK$31.65 on Dec. 14, based on
the terms of the sale. AIG expects the shares to be priced on
Dec. 17 or Dec. 18, according to AIA’s statement. AIA may resume
trading no later than Dec. 18, it added.  AIA, the third-largest Asia-based insurer, has repositioned
itself as an independent company after losing share of new
business during the global financial crisis because of ties to
AIG, which would have collapsed without government aid. The
bailout, which the U.S. has since recouped, forced AIG to scale
back in Asia, selling units to rivals including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG into the world’s
largest insurer during his four-decade leadership of the firm
until 2005, called AIA one of his company’s crown jewels. The
sale of AIA will reduce volatility in AIG’s quarterly results,
which had swung with fluctuations in the market value of the
company.  AIG announced more than $65 billion in asset sales since
its 2008 rescue, including non-U.S. life insurers, consumer
finance units and real estate. AIG said Dec. 10 that a group of
Chinese investors agreed to buy 80 percent of its International
Lease Finance Corp. plane-leasing unit for $4.23 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 