-- Taiwan Government Hasn’t Decided on Perng’s Term at Central Bank
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-12-17T07:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/taiwan-government-hasn-t-decided-on-perng-s-term-at-central-bank.html
Taiwan  hasn’t decided whether to
extend the term of central bank governor Perng Fai-Nan, the
government said, after local newspapers reported he may be
retained.  No decision has yet been made about whether Perng will
continue as governor or step down when his current term expires
on Feb. 25, Cabinet spokesman Cheng Li-wun said today. Chances
that Perng will be replaced are not high, Taipei-based
Commercial Times reported today, citing an unidentified person.  While the Liberty Times newspaper said today lawmakers
across party lines support another term for Perng, the governor
told lawmakers on Dec. 12 he plans to leave when his term ends,
without specifying a date. The central bank is due to meet on
Dec. 19 as policy makers brace for slower growth in  China  that
has hurt the island’s exports.  “Perng is one of the most respected central bank governors
in Asia,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a Singapore-based senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “The government
trusts him, relies on his capability,” he said, adding that
there is no reason for him to be replaced.  Perng, who has led the central bank since Feb. 1998 after
his predecessor died in an airplane crash, told lawmakers this
month that “the governor position will be my last public job.”  The governor serves five-year terms that can be renewed,
according to Taiwan’s  central bank  law. Nominees are proposed by
the cabinet and appointed by the president, a process that in
the past has been completed by January-end, said the Commercial
Times newspaper, which didn’t name potential candidates.  The speculation comes as President Ma Ying-jeou acts to
bolster an economy grappling with falling exports and slower
 growth . Ma’s approval rating is at a record-low 13 percent,
according to a November poll by Taiwan cable news network TVBS.  Longest Serving  Perng is the longest-serving central bank governor in Asia
among the economies tracked by Bloomberg, coming ahead of
 Malaysia ’s Zeti Akhtar Aziz, who took charge in May 2000.  Both governors, alongside Amando Tetangco of the
 Philippines , Glenn Stevens of  Australia  and  Israel ’s Stanley Fischer, received an ‘A’ grade in Global Finance magazine’s
annual ranking of the world’s central bankers this year. They
were placed higher than Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke
and the European Central Bank’s Mario Draghi.  Taiwan’s central bank will hold its benchmark rate at 1.875
percent for a sixth meeting on Dec. 19, according to all 13
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  