-- Akamai Names Leighton CEO After Eight-Month Search
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-12-17T21:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/akamai-chief-scientist-leighton-to-become-ceo-after-sagan-exit.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  named co-
founder Tom Leighton as its next chief executive officer after
an eight-month search for a candidate to take the top job.  Leighton, Akamai’s chief scientist, helped create the
Internet-services company in 1998. He will assume the role on
Jan. 1, when Paul Sagan steps down, according to a statement
from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Akamai.  Sagan, 53, who has been with Akamai for almost 14 years,
helped the company become less dependent on a content-delivery
network business that was becoming commoditized. Leighton, a
former professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
brings a background in “long-term strategic” thinking from his
role as chief scientist, said Richard Fetyko, an analyst with
Janney Montgomery Scott in  New York .  “Most people expected an external CEO to be announced,”
Fetyko said. “But it’s a positive for investors because it
ensures a smooth transition.”  Sagan, who will become an adviser to Akamai, has added
services and products through acquisitions, quadrupling sales to
$1.16 billion in 2011 from $283.1 million in 2005.  Leighton said he will continue to invest internally and
through acquisitions in three of Akamai’s newest business areas:
Web security, network carrier products and cloud computing,
which allows companies to store their data remotely and deliver
it via the Internet.  “I wouldn’t expect any radical shift in the company,” he
said in a phone interview. “Paul and I have worked together 15
years and we’re going to be keeping on that track.”  ‘Outstanding Candidates’  The company’s independent directors led the CEO search,
which began in late April after Sagan said he planned to step
down.  “They interviewed many outstanding candidates,” Leighton
said. “At the end of the day it’s an honor to be selected.”  The fact that Leighton has no CEO experience shouldn’t be
an issue, said  Scott Kessler , an analyst with S&P Capital IQ.  “He’s had a C-level position at the company for pretty
much that entire period, and in addition to that he’s sat on the
company’s board,” Kessler said. “The understanding of the
company is unequaled by any individual.”  Akamai  gained  1.3 percent to $39.46 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 22 percent this year.  Other Appointments  Sagan, a cousin of scientist Carl Sagan, has a background
in broadcast journalism. In 1991, while working at Time Warner
Inc., he helped design and introduce NY 1 News, the cable
network in  New York City . Sagan later helped found Road Runner,
the first broadband cable-modem service, before joining Akamai
in October 1998.  Sagan helped lead Akamai after its co-founder, Daniel Lewin, died aboard American Airlines Flight 11, which crashed
into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.  In other changes, Bob Hughes will become president of
worldwide operations, and Rick McConnell will become president
of products and development, according to a separate statement
from Akamai. Both are currently Akamai executive vice presidents
and will report to the company’s new CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  