-- Alladin to Pay $1.6 Million Over Claim It Misled Clients
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-12-17T22:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/alladin-to-pay-1-6-million-over-claim-it-misled-clients.html
Alladin Capital Management LLC and
its brokerage agreed to pay $1.6 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims that the  investment adviser  falsely told
clients it was co-investing with them in two financial products.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm from 2006 to 2010
marketed two collateralized debt obligations to a municipal
 retirement plan , a pension fund and an individual entrepreneur
with claims that the firm would co-invest in the same products,
according to an order filed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in administrative court today. Alladin Capital LLC,
the firm’s affiliated brokerage, collected placement fees from
the CDO underwriters.  Joseph Schlim, Alladin’s former chief financial officer,
made sales calls to potential clients and negotiated with
underwriters about the amount of equity that Alladin could place
with customers or purchase for itself, the SEC said. Schlim, who
agreed to individually forfeit $50,000 to resolve the claims,
and Alladin didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing, according to the
order.  “If you sell an investment with the pitch that you are co-
investing and have ‘skin in the game,’ then you better actually
have ‘skin in the game,’” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “Such a representation by an
investment adviser or broker-dealer is an important
consideration to investors in complex products.”  The investments in question were the Fortius II Funding
Ltd. and the Citius Funding Ltd. CDOs, the SEC said.  CIFG Assurance North America Inc. sued  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in  New York  State Supreme Court this month over the Fortius
II CDO, accusing the bank of fraudulently inducing the insurer
to provide a policy on a credit default swap guaranteeing $325
million of notes in the vehicle.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman
for the bank, declined to comment.  “Along with other steps recently taken by Alladin, the
settlement with the SEC is a continuation of Alladin’s strategic
plans to reposition its business,” the company said in a
statement today.  Schlim’s attorney Jack Sylvia said his client “is pleased
to have this matter behind him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  