-- Allianz Pays $12.3 Million to Settle Indonesia Bribe Claim
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 2012-12-17T18:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/allianz-pays-12-3-million-to-settle-sec-s-indonesia-bribe-claim.html
Allianz SE (ALV)  will pay more than $12.3
million to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims
that the Munich-based insurer made improper payments to
government officials in  Indonesia  during a seven-year period.  SEC investigators found that Allianz  violated  the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in 295 insurance contracts for government
projects from 2001 to 2008 obtained or retained by payments to
employees of state-owned entities, the agency said today in a
statement. Allianz made more than $5.3 million in profits as a
result of the improper payments, the SEC said.  “Allianz’s subsidiary created an ‘off-the-books’ account
that served as a slush fund for bribe payments,” Kara Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC’s Enforcement Division’s FCPA Unit,
said in the agency’s  statement . The company lacked sufficient
internal controls to detect and prevent illicit payments and
improper accounting, the SEC said.  Joel Cohen , a Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP partner
representing Allianz, said in an e-mail that the company fully
cooperated with the investigation, which it resolved without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  “Over the past few years, Allianz has enhanced its global
Anti-Corruption Program, which includes robust books and records
controls and global anti-corruption and compliance trainings for
employees,” Cohen said in the e-mail. “Prior to and during the
SEC’s investigation, Allianz took steps intended to strengthen
its internal controls and mitigate FCPA risks.”  The alleged misconduct was brought to the SEC’s attention
by two complaints, according to the agency. The first, submitted
in 2005, led to an audit of accounting records at the Indonesian
subsidiary that showed managers were using “special purpose
accounts” to pay government officials. A second complaint was
made to Allianz’s external auditor in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Mott in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  