-- American Realty Capital Properties to Acquire ARCT III
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-12-17T15:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/american-realty-capital-properties-to-acquire-arct-iii.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy American Realty Capital Trust III Inc., a
non-traded real estate investment trust, to expand its holdings
of properties leased to single tenants.  American Realty Capital Trust III shareholders may receive
$12 a share in cash or 0.95 of a share of American Realty
Capital Properties, equal to $12.26 based on the Dec. 14 closing
 price , New York-based American Realty Capital Properties said in
a statement today. The cash consideration will be capped at 30
percent of American Realty Capital Trust shares outstanding.  American Realty Capital Trust III, based in  New York , had
about 134 million common shares outstanding at the end of
September, according to a regulatory filing, suggesting a deal
value of about $1.6 billion.  The combined company will have more than 800 properties
leased to single tenants such as  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  Dollar General
Corp. (DG)  in 44 states, according to the statement. The deal is
expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2013.  “This transformative transaction will combine the best
aspects of both investment strategies and will give the combined
company greater access to more attractive financing, inclusion
in the important indices, and allow us access to lowest cost
capital,” Michael Weil, chief operating officer of American
Realty Capital Trust, said in the statement.  Both companies are managed by affiliates of American Realty
Capital, a New York-based real estate investor. American Realty
Capital Properties started trading on the Nasdaq market in
September 2011. Nicholas Schorsch is chairman and chief
executive officer of each of the entities, according to
regulatory filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  