-- Ancestry.com Must Disclose Permira Sale Details, Judge Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-17T22:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/ancestry-com-sale-to-permira-barrred-from-proceeding-1-.html
Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  officials can’t
proceed with the $1.6 billion sale of the family-history website
to Permira Advisers LLP until it discloses more information
about the deal before a Dec. 27 shareholder vote, a judge ruled.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine today told
Ancestry officials they can’t close the deal with Permira for
now. Ancestry must publicly disclose that its financial adviser
wouldn’t issue a fairness evaluation of the deal until officials
changed revenue projections and that provisions of the deal
barred other bidders from attempting to top Permira’s offer,
Strine said.  “I’m not prepared to allow this to go to a vote without
the shareholders being told” about the changes to the
projections, Strine said at a hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware .
“I’m not prepared to issue an injunction for more than that.”  Permira, a London-based private-equity firm, agreed to pay
$32 a share for Ancestry, the world’s largest genealogical
research site, the companies said Oct. 22. That was 41 percent
higher than Provo, Utah-based Ancestry’s closing price on June
5, the last day of trading before the company hired a financial
adviser for a possible sale.  Heather Erickson, an Ancestry spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that “we intend to promptly cure the disclosure matters
raised by the court.” Erickson said Ancestry expects the
stockholder vote on the merger to proceed on Dec. 27 and the
merger will close by the end of the year.  Nathaniel Garnick, a Permira spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Disclosure Issues  Strine’s ruling amounts to an injunction covering only the
disclosure issues about Permira’s bid,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer
for Ancestry shareholders, said in an interview after the
hearing today.  Permira beat  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital and Rhode
Island-based Providence Equity Partners Inc. for Ancestry,
according to court filings. Ancestry said that Institutional
Shareholder Services, a U.S. proxy advisory firm, recommended
that shareholders vote for the acquisition by Permira.  Ancestry has more than 2 million subscribers, with 39
million family trees and about 4 billion profiles of individuals
to help people track family histories, according to court
filings. It has posted a  profit  every year since at least 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors argued in court filings that Timothy Sullivan,
Ancestry’s chief executive officer, and other Ancestry
officials, along with Qatalyst Partners LLC, the firm’s
financial advisers, improperly favored Permira’s bid, giving the
buyout firm information about other bids and then manipulating
the company’s revenue projections to get the deal done.  Financial Interest  If Permira’s bid was approved, Sullivan and Howard
Hockhauser, Ancestry’s chief financial officer, would keep their
posts and be allowed to roll $67 million in Ancestry shares into
the newly private company, investors said in court filings.  The CEO also didn’t inform his fellow directors he had a
financial interest in Permira’s offer until the final bids were
presented to Ancestry’s board in October, according to the
filings.  Bill Savitt , one of Ancestry’s lawyers, said such stock
rollovers are common in private-equity buyouts and that
Sullivan’s and Qatalyst Partners’ handling of the company’s sale
process was fully disclosed to investors.  Ancestry conducted “a broad auction” and Permira’s $32-a-
share bid was the result of a “hard fight” among the bidders,
Savitt said.  No Conflicts  After about a five-hour hearing, Strine concluded the
actions of Sullivan and other Ancestry officials, including
rolling over their company shares, didn’t amount to conflicts of
interest that marred the deal. He also found Ancestry officials
didn’t improperly favor Permira’s bid over other offers.  Still, the judge found Ancestry executives erred in not
disclosing that Qatalyst Partners said in October it couldn’t
issue a so-called fairness opinion about Permira’s offer based
on the company’s existing revenue projections.  “The proxy doesn’t tell shareholders that there was this
painful point that the bankers said they couldn’t issue the
opinion,” Strine noted.  Lawyers for investors contend Ancestry officials then
reduced revenue projections from as far out as 2016 to help
justify the fairness of Permira’s $32-per-share bid.  “The fairness opinion wound up being a farce,” Grant, one
of the lawyers representing Ancestry shareholders, told Strine
today.  Disclosure Problems  In his ruling, the judge noted Ancestry officials also
failed to publicly disclose that the deal’s non-disclosure
provisions barred bidders from coming back to top Permira’s
offer and Sullivan and other board members weren’t aware of the
effect those terms had on the sales process.  Bidders were required to sign agreements that barred them
from coming back with higher bids once they’d made their best
offer in the auction, according to investors’ court filings.  “The plaintiffs have shown here that the board was not
informed about the potency” of the provisions, Strine said.  The judge didn’t place a time limit on his order barring
the deal from proceeding. Once Ancestry makes the disclosures,
that “should allow you to get your vote,” Strine said.  The case is In re Ancestry.com Shareholder Litigation, CA
7988-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  