-- Ancestry.com Boosts Discount on $670 Million Buyout Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-12-17T19:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/ancestry-com-boosts-discount-on-670-million-buyout-loan-1-.html
Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the world’s
largest family-history website, increased the discount at which
it’s selling a $670 million covenant-lite  term loan  backing the
company’s buyout by Permira Advisers LLP, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  The six-year debt will now be sold at 96 cents on the
dollar, compared with a previously proposed range of 98 cents to
99 cents, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The increase in the discount
reduces proceeds for the company and boosts the yield to
investors.  The loan will pay interest at 5.75 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate with a 1.25 percent
floor, according to the person.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.6 times, the person
said. The debt is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service and B+
by  Standard & Poor’s .  The interest on the loan will increase if the company sells
incremental debt at a higher yield, said the person. Under a so-
called most-favored-nation clause, the spread on the financing
may be increased by as much as 25 basis points. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging the
financing and commitments were due by 2 p.m. today in New York,
according to the person.  Permira is acquiring the Provo, Utah-based company for $32
a share in a transaction valued at $1.6 billion, according to an
Oct. 22 company statement. That’s a 41 percent premium over
Ancestry.com’s closing price on June 5.  Heather Erickson, a spokeswoman for Ancestry.com and
Nathaniel Garnick, a spokesman for Permira, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Covenant-lite debt doesn’t carry typical lender protection
such as financial-maintenance requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  