-- Manufacturing in New York Area Shrinks More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-17T21:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-contracts-more-than-projected.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
shrank for a fifth straight month in December, while an increase
in optimism about the next six months signals factories are
poised to rebound should the federal government resolve its
impasse over fiscal policy.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  dropped to minus 8.1 from minus 5.2 in November.
Economists monitor the gauge and other regional releases for
clues about the direction of U.S. manufacturing. Readings of
less than zero signal contraction in New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Companies from Verizon Communications Inc. to Rockwell
Collins Inc. have said they don’t plan to boost  investment  amid
concern lawmakers will not avert more than $600 billion in tax
increases and budget cuts slated to take effect in 2013.
Nonetheless, growing optimism about the outlook indicates
manufacturers are looking beyond the short term as housing
improves and  consumer spending  climbs.  “The biggest challenge for manufacturing is lack of
confidence due to uncertainty in fiscal policy,” said Tom Simons, an economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, who
projected a reading of minus 5 for the gauge. “That is slowing
down activity. There are reasons for manufacturing to come back
but it’s going to be a couple of months before we start to see
the acceleration.”  The median forecast of 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for minus 1. Bloomberg  survey  estimates for the December
figure ranged from minus 10 to 8.5. Manufacturing makes up 12
percent of the  U.S. economy  and about 6 percent of the New York
economy.  Sandy Effect  In a supplemental question from the Fed, area factory
managers were asked about superstorm Sandy’s effect on revenue.
Respondents in New York said they anticipated no effect on this
month’s sales from the storm.  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the
highest level since October, as investors weighed prospects for
a budget deal. The  S&P 500  climbed 1.2 percent to 1,430.36 at
the close in New York.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to minus 3.7
from 3.1 in November. It was the fifth month in the last six
showing contraction. A measure of shipments dropped to 8.8 from
14.6.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, said on
Oct. 18 that spending for the first nine months of the year
declined by more than $1 billion from the year-earlier period.
Chief Financial Officer Francis Shammo said last month at a
conference the number probably won’t rise in 2013.  New Orders  Executives are delaying new contracts and investment
decisions due to “the pending fiscal cliff, potential  tax
reform  and other policy changes that may take place,” Shammo
said on a call with analysts on Oct. 18 from New York.  The measure of factory employment in the New York region
climbed to minus 9.7 from minus 14.6 in November.  The index of prices paid climbed to 16.1 from 14.6, while
prices received fell to 1.1 from 5.6.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now climbed to 18.7 from 12.9.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due Dec. 20, for an indication about the
Institute for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing,
set for release Jan. 2.  Industrial Production  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month, the biggest gain in two years, the Fed
reported last week. Manufacturing, about 75 percent of
production, surged 1.1 percent in November, the most this year.  Companies such as  Lakeland Industries Inc. (LAKE) , a Ronkonkoma,
New York-based maker of protective work clothing, are seeing
domestic as well as overseas firms holding back on spending as
American lawmakers debate how best to reduce the deficit and
avert about $600 billion in tax increases and budget cuts at the
start of 2013.  “We do see the U.S. economy slowing down because of this
fiscal cliff dilemma,” Christopher J. Ryan, president and chief
executive officer of Lakeland Industries, said on a Dec. 13
conference call. “A lot of people are not spending money,
they’re sitting back waiting for resolution in  Washington . And
when I talk to some of the international markets they’re doing
the same thing. They’re all sitting on their hands waiting for
the  U.S. Congress  to do something.”  Some manufacturers indicated that a new bout of global
economic weakness would have to emerge before they pursue
additional cost-cutting.  Global Economy  “In terms of what would need to change for us to start
changing our posture in terms of investing in the business and
growing, I would say, we’d have to see a visible downward
inflection point that’s new in one or more regions of the
world,” David W. Meline, chief financial officer of  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based  3M Co. (MMM) , said in response to a question on a Dec.
12 conference call. “We’ve seen that in  Europe  and been
managing the business very carefully in Western Europe now for
almost two years.”  3M, the manufacturer of products including Ace bandages and
dental braces, reaffirmed its 2012 earnings forecast, lowered in
October because of what it called the “economic realities.”  Sustained consumer spending may prevent a further slide in
manufacturing demand.  Retail sales  climbed 0.3 percent following
an October decrease of 0.3 percent, Commerce Department figures
showed last week in Washington.  Retail Sales  Americans snapped up clothes and electronics at stores and
online last month, while vehicle sales jumped as some Northeast
residents sought replacements for autos damaged by Sandy.
Cheaper gasoline led to the largest decline in service-station
receipts in four years and restrained the value of all
purchases.  Fed policy makers remain dissatisfied with the pace of
growth. The central bank members last week pledged to buy $45
billion a month of  Treasury securities  starting in January,
expanding its asset-purchase program, and linked the outlook for
its main  interest rate  to unemployment and inflation.  “The committee remains concerned that, without sufficient
policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough
to generate sustained improvement in labor-market conditions,”
they said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  