-- Apple Downgrade at Citigroup Sends Asian Suppliers’ Shares Down
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T04:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/apple-downgrade-at-citigroup-sends-asian-suppliers-shares-down.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Asian  suppliers  fell
after the iPhone maker was downgraded by Citigroup Inc. because
a cut in orders to its vendors raised concerns about demand for
the iPhone 5 model.  “We are turning cautious on Apple supply chain, as we
believe we are at the peak of many product cycles,” Jeff Pu, a
Taipei-based analyst at Fubon Financial Holding Co., wrote in a
report today. “The most important message is ‘iPhone 5 is game
over,’ as demand appears to be weaker than expected -- i.e., US
peaking, China launch just so so.”  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the iPhone assembler,
tumbled the most in more than seven months in Taipei trading,
leading shares of speaker supplier  AAC Technologies Holdings
Inc. (2018) ,  Flexium Interconnect Inc. (6269)  and other vendors lower.
Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s most-valuable
company with a  market capitalization  of $480 billion, fell to
the lowest level since Feb. 17 in Friday trading in  New York .  The iPhone, which debuted in 2007, is Apple’s biggest
product by revenue. It accounted for 51.42 percent of revenue in
the year ended September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The prospect of weak iPhone 5 shipments creates near-term
earnings downside for Apple’s supply chain, and the companies
are likely to see further selling pressure in the near term,
Citigroup analyst  Kevin Chang  wrote in a note dated Dec. 14.  Samsung, Google  Citigroup analyst Glen Yeung downgraded Apple to neutral
from buy and reduced his price target to $575 from $675. Near-
term supply-chain order cuts, while inconclusive, raise
questions about iPhone 5’s strength, Yeung said in the note
after checks of the hardware supply-chain in  Asia .  Taipei-based Hon Hai fell as much as 5.5 percent to
NT$86.50 and  Taiwan ’s  Taiex index  lost 1.1 percent, poised for
the biggest decline since Nov. 13 and making it the worst-
performing gauge in Asia today. AAC declined as much as 8.6
percent to HK$25.05 in  Hong Kong  trading. Apple fell 3.8 percent
to $509.79 in New York trading Dec. 14.  Apple is vying with rivals Samsung Electronics Co., HTC
Corp. and Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility for dominance in a
global smartphone market that reached $219.1 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Those
manufacturers primarily use Google’s Android operating system,
which is the world’s most-popular mobile software.  Galaxy Competition  “Apple is still a very popular product but it’s not
breaking massive records like it would have two years ago,”
said  Shaun Rein , managing director of the China Market Research
Group. “Apple is losing its luster. It’s not the prestige
status symbol it once was, and it’s not the market leader any
more for high-end smart phones.”  Apple’s global introduction of the iPhone 5 was Sept. 21,
and more than 5 million devices were sold in the nine countries
and territories that participated in the first wave of sales,
the company said Sept. 24. The model is Apple’s flagship phone
to take on the Galaxy S III produced by Samsung, the Suwon,
South Korea-based company that’s the world’s biggest  phonemaker .  Apple today said iPhone 5 posted record sales in its first
weekend of availability in  China , the world’s largest mobile-
phone market by users. The company sold more than 2 million of
its latest handsets in the three days following its Dec. 14
introduction in the country, according to a statement.  $35 Billion Erased  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, said she
didn’t have comparable data to release on initial sales in China
of previous models.  Apple shares declined the most in almost four years on Dec.
5 because of concern the company will lose ground in smartphones
to Nokia Oyj in China while giving up market share to Google in
tablets. Apple’s 6.4 percent fall that day erased $34.9 billion
from its market value, the steepest loss since at least 1988,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple “is losing some steam as it’s no longer leading the
innovation and the competition is closing in quickly and
sometimes are ahead of Apple in hardware specs,” said Sandy Shen, a Gartner Inc. analyst. “We’ve observed some serial
iPhone users, people that have used several iPhone models, start
switching to Android devices, indicating the company is losing
some of its loyal users.”  --Edmond Lococo, Tim Culpan, Sarah Gill. With assistance from
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  and Nick Gentle in Hong Kong. Editors:
Anand Krishnamoorthy,  Michael Tighe .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Gill in Sydney at 
 sgill23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  