-- Largest Municipal ETF at Discount for First Time in Five Months
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-12-17T15:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/largest-municipal-etf-at-discount-for-first-time-in-five-months.html
The  largest exchange-traded fund 
tracking municipal bonds traded at a discount to its underlying
assets for the first time since July as states and cities
flooded the market with the most borrowing in six months.  The iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund
traded 0.46 percent below its net asset value Dec. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The last time the price dipped below
that was July 16. The fund declined almost 2 percent to $111.05
last week. It was  $110.92 (MUB)  per share at 10:35 a.m. in  New York 
today, the lowest since Sept. 18.  The price drop in the fund, which has $3.5 billion of
assets, reflects an increase in state and local borrowing that
overwhelmed demand in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market,
pushing up  interest rates .  Yields on an index of 10-year benchmark municipals rose
0.22 percentage point to  1.6 percent  last week, the highest
since Nov. 7, according to Bloomberg data. Issuers from
California to New York in the past two weeks issued about $20
billion of long-term debt, the busiest period since June,
Bloomberg data show.  “It reflected the market’s difficulty in handling the
heavy new-issuance calendar,” Matt Fabian, a managing director
at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said
in a telephone interview.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Puerto Rico to one
level above speculative grade last week. Debt sold in the
commonwealth is tax-exempt in all states, making it widely held.
That action also contributed to the decrease in MUB’s value,
Fabian said.  “General muni-market performance is inordinately dependent
on  Puerto Rico ,” Fabian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  