-- Cazorla’s Hat Trick Lifts Arsenal to 5-2 League Win at Reading
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/arsenal-beats-reading-5-2-to-go-fifth-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Santi Cazorla scored three goals and
set up another as Arsenal won 5-2 at last-place Reading to rise
to fifth place in English soccer’s Premier League.  Lukas Podolski put the Gunners ahead at the Madejski
Stadium last night, and Cazorla’s hat trick made it 4-0. Adam Le
Fondre and Jimmy Kebe got goals for the home team in the last 24
minutes before Cazorla teed up Theo Walcott to complete the
scoring with 10 minutes remaining.  Arsenal rebounded from last week’s League Cup upset loss to
fourth-tier Bradford City with its biggest away win of the
season to move up three places ahead of Everton and West
Bromwich Albion on goal difference. All three teams have 27
points through 17 matches.  “At 4-0 we had a little wobbling period,” Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  said in a televised interview with Sky Sports.
“But overall it was important to go out and play and give the
right answer on the football pitch.”  Reading remains bottom of the 20-team standings with nine
points after its sixth straight league defeat.  German striker Podolski opened the scoring in the 14th
minute before attacking midfielder Cazorla added two goals in
two minutes with a header and close-range finish to give Arsenal
a 3-0 lead at halftime.  Cazorla got his third on the hour to become the third
Spanish player to score a Premier League hat trick after
 Fernando Torres  and Jordi Gomez, according to Infostrada Sports.  After Reading hit back with goals from Le Fondre and Kebe,
Cazorla fed Walcott, who was given a central striking role by
Wenger, and the  England  forward sidestepped a defender before
placing a low shot into the far corner.  Wenger said he selected Walcott as a center-forward after
the 23-year-old, who’s in talks over a contract extension,
showed his ability to play in the position during training.  “I enjoyed playing up front and the boss gave me that
opportunity,” Walcott told  Sky Sports . “I thought I did very
well and the players around me always make my job easier. We
showed people the true Arsenal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  