-- Asia’s Gasoil Crack Rises to Highest in a Week: Oil Products
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-12-17T10:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/asia-s-gasoil-crack-rises-to-highest-in-a-week-oil-products.html
Asia’s  gasoil  crack spread widened
to the most in about a week, signaling increasing profits for
refiners turning crude into the middle distillate. Trafigura
Beheer BV bought cargoes of the fuel in  Singapore , the region’s
biggest oil-trading center.  Middle Distillates  Gasoil’s premium to Dubai crude rose 37 cents at $20.10 a
barrel at 2:29 p.m. Singapore time, according to data from PVM
Oil Associates Ltd., a broker. This  crack spread , a measure of
processing profit, widened for a fourth day in five days to the
most since Dec. 7.  Jet fuel’s premium over diesel, or the  regrade ,  was
unchanged after rising to 15 cents on Dec. 14, according to PVM
data.  Trafigura bought three gasoil cargoes of 150,000 barrels
each for January loading, according to the Bloomberg News Survey
of traders who monitored the Platts window. The company bought
two cargoes with 0.5 percent sulfur from BP Plc and Hin Leong
Trading Pte at a $1.20 a barrel discount to the average January
price and parity to December balance quotes respectively. The
cargoes are for loading between Jan. 1 to Jan. 5 and Jan. 6 to
Jan. 10.  Trafigura also bought a 0.05 percent-sulfur cargo from
PetroChina Co. at a premium of 20 cents a barrel to January
average benchmark prices. The cargo will load between Jan. 1 to
Jan. 5.  Fuel Oil  Fuel oil’s  discount  to Asian marker Dubai crude narrowed
for a second day by 33 cents to $6.86 a barrel, according to
PVM.  The premium of 180-centistoke fuel oil to 380-centistoke
grade, or the  viscosity spread , advanced 25 cents to $10.25 a
ton, PVM said. This indicates bunker, or marine fuel, gained
less than supplies used in power stations.  Light Distillates  BP sold 50,000 barrels of 92-RON gasoline to PetroChina for
Jan. 5 to Jan. 9 loading, according to the survey. The cargo
changed hands at $114.90 a barrel.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc bought 25,000 metric tons of naphtha
from Glencore International Plc for delivery in the second half
of February and sold the same quantity for second-half March.
The transaction was at $16 a ton.  The premium of Japan naphtha to London-traded Brent crude
futures gained $17.10 to $106 a ton at 5:22 p.m. Singapore time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference is also
known as the crack spread.  Tenders  India ’s Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. and its
parent Oil & Natural Gas Corp. offered to sell fuel cargoes for
loading in January, according to tender documents obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Indian Oil Corp. offered to sell a total of 65,000 tons of
naphtha for loading in January From Chennai and Kandla, said two
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Co., or
Unipec, and Gunvor Group Ltd. bought naphtha and fuel oil
cargoes for January loading from Indian Oil, said two traders
who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Refinery News  Inpex Corp. is closing its 4,700 barrel-a-day Kubiki
refinery tomorrow due to decline in crude production from
domestic fields and plant inefficiency, Keisuke Yano, a
spokesman, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  