-- Audio Records of Swaps and Futures Trades Required by CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-12-17T21:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/audio-records-of-swaps-and-futures-trades-required-by-cftc-rule.html
Derivatives traders will be required
to keep audio records of commodities transactions under U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission  rules  completed in a
private vote today.  The regulation, revised by commissioners to limit the
impact on smaller brokers, could help the CFTC’s enforcement
unit determine traders’ intent when investigating alleged
wrongdoing, the agency said in a statement. It is already common
practice for equities traders to make such recordings.  “The rule will make enforcement investigations more
efficient by preserving critical evidence that otherwise may be
lost to memory lapses and inconsistent recollections,” CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler said in a statement. “The commission will
have access to evidence of fraud and market manipulation, which
is expected to increase the success of enforcement actions for
the benefit customers, market participants and the markets.”  Under the rule approved in a 5-0 vote, derivatives brokers
and certain members of exchanges and swap-execution facilities
will be required to record quotes, bids, offers, trading and
prices that lead to transactions whether communicated by
telephone, voice mail, mobile or other electronic media.  The CFTC backed away from requiring records of oral
communications that lead to trades in grains, according to a
statement. Companies will have a year to comply with the rules.  Rule Delayed  The agency delayed consideration of the rule in September
amid resistance from industry groups representing trading firms
and exchanges including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , Cargill
Inc., Macquarie Bank Ltd. and the Kansas City Board of Trade.
Groups including the Commodity Markets Council and National
Grain and Feed Association said the proposed regulation would
unnecessarily capture commercial end-users trading derivatives
to hedge risk.  “Although we have not seen the final rule text, we
appreciate the commission’s responsiveness to the concerns of
CMC and other commercial market participants,” Sanjeev
Joshipura, president of the  Commodity Markets Council , said in
an e-mail statement. “While we continue to have concerns around
the cost of compliance with this rule, we believe today’s
modification is a helpful step.”  The CFTC used recordings of telephone calls in the probe
that led to its $200 million settlement with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over
claims that the bank helped manipulate interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  