-- Barnier Says No More Political Talks on Basel Law in 2012
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-17T18:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/barnier-says-no-more-political-talks-on-basel-law-set-for-2012.html
Michel Barnier, the European Union’s
financial services chief, said no further political negotiations
are scheduled this year on implementing Basel bank capital rules
in the bloc.  “Technical talks” on how to put in place the so-called
Basel III rules will continue this year, Barnier said on the
sidelines of a conference in Brussels today. The U.K. today
called for further talks on draft agreements including curbs on
banker bonuses, according to two people familiar with the talks.  The legislation would implement an international overhaul
of bank rules agreed on in 2010 by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. The “major stumbling blocks” in the
negotiations are how much flexibility should be given to
national regulators to set tougher capital rules than required
by the EU, and what capital surcharges should be set for banks
considered too big to fail, Philippe Lamberts, a Green group
lawmaker, said last week.  The U.K. today urged further discussions on draft
agreements on the law brokered last week by Cyprus, which holds
the rotating presidency of the EU, and European Parliament
lawmakers, said the two people, who couldn’t be named because
the meeting was private. Other nations also called for changes
to tentative agreements on the law, they said.  A spokesman for the U.K. government’s representation to the
EU declined to comment.  Cypriot officials reached a provisional deal with lawmakers
on Dec. 13 to ban banker bonuses that are more than double
annual salaries.  The accord would cap a banker’s bonus at the same level as
fixed salary, while giving room for larger awards with
shareholder approval. A maximum limit would be set forbidding
awards of more than twice fixed pay.  Barnier said today there’s possibility that political-level
meetings may resume this year if the technical discussions go
well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  