-- Beijing Bans Warhol’s Mao Portraits from China Exhibition
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-12-17T14:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/beijing-bans-warhol-s-mao-portraits-from-china-exhibition.html
Andy Warhol ’s famous images of
Chairman Mao won’t be part of the biggest ever traveling
exhibition of his works when they go to  China  next year, an
organizer said.  The show includes more than 300 paintings, photographs and
films, featuring Warhol’s iconic Campbell’s Soup cans, Jackie Kennedy and  Marilyn Monroe  as well as 10 Mao paintings which
Chinese authorities have decided to exclude.  If mainland fans of Warhol want to see silkscreens of the
Great Helmsman, they will have to catch the Hong Kong leg of
 “Andy Warhol: 15 Minutes Eternal”  which opened yesterday.  “They said the Maos won’t work,” Eric Shiner, director of
The Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, said in an interview in
 Hong Kong . “This is disappointing because his imagery is so
mainstream in Chinese contemporary art.”  A person familiar with the show, who asked not to be named
because of the political sensitivity of the issue, confirmed the
Mao works had been rejected by the Ministry of Culture. The
Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  didn’t
immediately respond to faxed questions seeking comment today.  The exhibition which opened first in Singapore, and runs
through to March 31 at the Hong Kong Museum of Art, will then
travel to Shanghai, Beijing and  Tokyo , as part of a 26-month
Asian tour to mark the 25th anniversary of Warhol’s death.  Nixon Visit  Warhol decided to create the Mao paintings after U.S.
President  Richard Nixon ’s historic 1972 visit to China,
employing the same technique of acrylic and silkscreen-ink on
canvas that he’d used to create portraits of celebrities
including Monroe, Kennedy and  Elizabeth Taylor .  According to the  Christie’s auction  website, Warhol chose
Mao as “the ultimate star”, using an image of him taken from
the portrait photograph reproduced in the Chairman’s so-called
Little Red Book.  “He wasn’t being disrespectful,” Shiner said.  Ten years later, Warhol’s own visit to China in 1982 was
documented by Christopher Makos, some of whose photographs are
included in the Hong Kong exhibition.  The show has already been a “huge” success, said Shiner,
who said that 175,000 people visited the exhibition in
 Singapore , more than the 120,000 annual visitors to the
Pittsburgh museum. Even without the Maos, he is hoping for as
many as two million attendees in China.  The Shanghai leg will be held at the Power Station of Art,
the city’s new contemporary art museum that opened on Oct. 1.
Shiner said he’s still finalizing details on the Beijing
location.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and
 Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  