-- Billionaire Ometto Ending Super Vote Fuels Cosan Gain
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-12-17T16:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/billionaire-ometto-ending-super-vote-fuels-cosan-gain.html
Cosan Ltd., Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
partner in the world’s top sugar-cane processor, is forecast by
analysts to rally as billionaire founder Rubens Ometto gives up
10-1 share voting rights.  The  discount  investors demand to hold shares of the
overseas parent relative to operating unit Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio may disappear, down from about 13 percent now,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Banco do Brasil SA. The
company, located in Hamilton,  Bermuda , has a sole holding of
59.3 percent of Sao Paulo-based Cosan SA. The Bermuda firm was
worth $4.54 billion as of Dec. 14, while the stake was worth 2.2
percent more at $4.64 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ometto, who turned Cosan into a sugar and fuels
conglomerate through 10 takeovers in five years, is seeking to
simplify the ownership structure after triggering a backlash
among shareholders when he created  Cosan Ltd. (CZZ)  in 2007 to sell
$1.1 billion in stock without diluting his holdings. He said
last month he will announce a detailed plan next year to delist
either the holding company or Cosan SA. Investors will wait for
the plan before buying the stock, HSBC’s Pedro Herrera said.  “It’s a punitive discount that tends to zero if Rubens
goes ahead with the plan,” Herrera, a New York-based analyst at
HSBC, said by telephone. “Rubens is seeking to leave the
problems with shareholders and corporate governance behind.”  The gap between the shares has narrowed from about 35
percent when the holding company was created in 2007, Herrera
said. Cosan SA trades at 22.9 times its forecast earnings for
next year, compared with 19.7 times for the parent, Bloomberg
data show.  Stock Rally  Cosan SA, which runs the Raizen sugar and fuels venture
with Shell and controls  Brazil ’s largest natural gas
distributor, has risen 30 percent in dollar terms in Sao Paulo
this year, while Cosan Ltd. rallied 51 percent in  New York . Sao
Paulo-based Sao Martinho, Brazil’s second-largest maker of the
sweetener by market value after Cosan, is up 30 percent and
Mannheim, Germany-based Suedzucker AG, the world’s top sugar
maker, has gained 25 percent.  Cosan SA rose 2.2 percent to 40.93 reais at 2:45 p.m. in
Sao Paulo, while Cosan Ltd. rose 0.8 percent to $16.93.  Shell and Cosan SA agreed to combine Brazilian sugar,
ethanol and fuel distribution assets into Raizen in 2010
following Cosan’s $826 million acquisition of Irving, Texas-
based Exxon Mobil Corp.’s network of service stations in the
country in 2008. Raizen owns 24 sugar and ethanol mills and
4,700 gas stations in Brazil.  This year, Cosan  bought  60.1 percent of Cia. de Gas de  Sao
Paulo , or Comgas, Brazil’s largest distributor of natural gas,
for $1.8 billion from BG Group Plc. It has also offered to buy
5.7 percent of Brazilian railroad operator  ALL America Latina
Logistica SA. (ALLL3)   Major Shareholders  While Ometto owns 39.3 percent of parent Cosan Ltd., the
Class B stock gives him 10 votes for every 1 Class A stock that
his minority shareholders own.  A press official representing Ometto declined to comment on
the delisting plan when contacted in Sao Paulo.  Grupo Rezende Barbosa, a holding company that received
Cosan SA stock as payment for four mills in 2009, is the
company’s second-largest shareholder with a 10.9 percent stake.
Brazilian private equity fund Gavea Investimentos, founded by
former central banker  Arminio Fraga , is the second-biggest
shareholder at parent Cosan Ltd., with 14.6 percent.  The complexity of the operation and the need to reach
accords with other major shareholders may mean Ometto will take
longer to carry out the restructuring than expected, said Andre Facury, who helps manage 2 billion reais ($959 million) at
Perfin Investimentos including Cosan SA and Cosan Ltd. stock.  ‘No-Brainer’  “Maybe Ometto is being overambitious when he says he will
announce it next year,” Facury said. “Still, it’s a no-brainer
he will go ahead. It’s just a matter of when.”  The tycoon will likely opt to delist the overseas parent
because Cosan’s operations are based in Brazil and the Sao
Paulo-traded shares are more liquid, said Henrique Koch, an
analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)   “The creation of the super vote was not forgotten, but
forgiven because Cosan is doing so well,” Herrera said. “The
end of the super vote will unlock value as Ometto puts it
behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  