-- Billabong Halts Stock on Possible Bid as Naude Eyes Offer
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-17T01:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/billabong-s-naude-plans-buyout-at-a-1-10-a-share-review-says.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  halted
its shares from trade before a potential takeover announcement,
after the Australian Financial Review reported that director
Paul Naude offered A$1.10 a share for the company.  The stock was halted pending a statement on “a possible
change of control proposal,”  Gold Coast , Australia-based
Billabong said in a filing today. Naude, who stepped aside as a
director and executive of Billabong on Nov. 19 to pursue a
leveraged buyout, made an offer at the weekend, the Review
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  Billabong has become a target after selling new stock at a
discount to repay debt, closing stores, firing workers and
posting a record loss amid a consumer slump. TPG International
LLC withdrew a A$694 million proposal in October, its second
since January, and a company which Billabong didn’t identify
walked away from a bid in September. The suitor was Bain Capital
LLC, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  “I can’t confirm or deny anything,”  Craig White ,
Billabong’s chief financial officer, said by phone before the
trading halt announcement.  Billabong  shares  climbed 4.8 percent to 98 Australian cents
before the halt, headed for the highest closing level in two
months. An offer at A$1.10 a share, 18 percent more than its
last closing price on Dec. 14, would value the company at A$527
million ($556 million).  The stock has lost more than 90 percent of its value since
peaking above A$14 in May 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant said via
his lawyer, Bruce Cowley of  Minter Ellison , that he would reject
an offer from TPG even if it rose to as much as A$4 per share,
according to a letter attached to a regulatory statement in
February.  Naude  owns  about 0.2 percent of Billabong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  