-- Billabong Said to Get Takeover Offer From Director Paul Naude
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-12-17T07:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/billabong-said-to-get-takeover-offer-from-director-paul-naude.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surfwear company that’s been targeted by TPG International LLC
and Bain Capital LLC this year, received a takeover bid from
director Paul Naude backed by Sycamore Partners LLC, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Naude and the U.S. private equity firm offered A$1.10 a
share, valuing the Australian company at $527 million ($555
million), said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
as the bid is confidential. Billabong’s board is considering the
proposal, the person said.  Billabong has become a target after selling new stock at a
discount to repay debt, closing stores, firing workers and
posting a record loss amid a consumer slump. TPG withdrew a
A$694 million proposal in October, its second since January, and
a company which Billabong didn’t identify walked away from a bid
in September. The suitor was  Bain Capital , people familiar with
the matter said at the time.  Billabong  shares  climbed 4.8 percent to 98 Australian cents
today before being suspended, after the Australian Financial
Review reported on Naude’s offer. The company cited “a possible
change of control proposal” as reason for the suspension in a
filing today, without identifying the bidder.  Naude temporarily stepped aside as a director and executive
of Billabong on Nov. 19 to pursue a leveraged buyout, the
company said at the time. He  owns  about 0.2 percent of the
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Billabong has
lost more than 90 percent of its value since peaking above A$14
in May 2007.  Sycamore Deals  “The company is in trading halt and will make the
announcement at the appropriate time,” Chris Fogarty, a
spokesman for Billabong, said by phone. He said he wasn’t able
to provide a contact for Naude because of restrictions on
talking to the media in the terms of the director’s leave from
the company.  Blair Fasbender, an external spokesman who has represented
Sycamore at Joele Frank Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, didn’t
respond to an e-mail sent out of office hours seeking comment.  Sycamore’s $369 million bid for women’s clothing retailer
Talbots Inc. was accepted by the Hingham, Massachusetts-based
company’s board in June. The company also bought a 51 percent
stake in Mast Global Fashions, the apparel-sourcing division of
Victoria’s Secret owner Limited Brands Inc., in November 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  