-- Billionaire Potanin Becomes Norilsk CEO as Owners End Feud
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-12-17T15:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/billionaire-potanin-appointed-norilsk-ceo-as-owners-resolve-feud.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (MNOD) ’s board
appointed billionaire Vladimir Potanin chief executive officer
as a part of an agreement with United Co. Rusal to resolve a
feud among shareholders in the world’s largest nickel producer.  Potanin, 51, replaces Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, Norilsk
announced at a press-conference in Moscow today. Potanin
selected Strzhalkovsky, 58, to run the company in 2008 as
conflict with Rusal over the management of Norilsk began.  “What some shareholders wanted has come to pass: Potanin
will start work tomorrow,” Strzhalkovsky told reporters. It’s
the best decision, he said.  Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, and
Potanin are settling a more than four-year battle over control
of Moscow-based Norilsk by balancing their representatives on
the board. As part of the accord, Roman Abramovich, the
billionaire Chelsea Football Club owner, will control voting
rights on a 20 percent stake to help quash shareholder disputes,
the parties said in a statement last week.  Abramovich’s Millhouse investment holding company is buying
a 5.9 percent Norilsk stake from the conflicting parties, last
week’s statement shows. Vedomosti newspaper reported today that
Alexander Abramov, Abramovich’s partner in steelmaker  Evraz Plc (EVR) ,
may also buy Norilsk shares.  Abramovich Partner  “We have had talks about this deal with Rusal and
Millhouse, and if Millhouse decides to have a partner in this
investment, we have no objection,” Potanin said. The agreement
between the Norilsk owners is valid for 10 years, he said.  Evraz’s press-service declined to comment on the
possibility of investing in Norilsk.  Norilsk will target paying dividends equivalent to not less
than a half of its annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, with distributions made twice a
year starting in 2014, Potanin said. Norilsk will seek a debt-
to-Ebitda ratio not exceeding 1, he said.  The stock advanced 3.7 percent by the close in Moscow to
5,573 rubles, the highest for almost nine months.  Interros, as a managing partner in Norilsk, will have the
right to adjust and delay dividend payments, depending on the
company’s performance, Potanin said. This will keep the dividend
policy flexible, Potanin said.  At current Ebitda projections, Norilsk will pay
shareholders not less than $2.5 billion a year, Kirill Chuyko,
BCS Financial Group head of equity research, said by phone in
Moscow. The company will target about $9 billion of dividends in
2012 through 2014, three people with knowledge of the owners’
agreement said last week.  CEO Payout  Potanin will stay as CEO for at least 1 1/2 to 2 years, and
he has the right to nominate a replacement for consideration by
the partners, he said today.  Strzhalkovsky has agreed to assist Potanin as the new CEO
makes a transition into the role, he said. Strzhalkovsky
confirmed that the board approved a $100 million compensation
payment to him on his retirement as CEO and that he will donate
a portion of it.  The Norilsk board has called an extraordinary shareholders’
meeting for Jan. 29 to vote on canceling 9.7 percent of the
treasury shares held by Norilsk Nickel Investment Ltd., Norilsk
said today in a statement. In total Norilsk, should cancel 17
percent of its capital under the owners’ agreement. That would
boost Rusal’s holding in the company to 27.8 percent and
Potanin’s to 30.8 percent.  An election of Norilsk directors will be held March 11 to
reflect changes in the shareholding structure following the
Rusal-Potanin agreement, Norilsk said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  