-- Billy Bob’s Soused Santa Tops Humbug List: Peter Rainer
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/bily-bob-s-soused-santa-tops-humbug-list-peter-rainer.html
With the possible exception of
Bible-based movies, the Christmas genre is the most likely to
suffer from reverence overload.  Treacle overload, too, wherein whiny kids turn cuddly,
bleary adults become lovable codgers and -- after the usual
obstacles are overcome and souls are saved, of course -- all’s
right with the world. Cue snow.  I hasten to add that I’m as much a sucker for holiday cheer
as the next guy. I just don’t like being strong-armed by it.  And in truth there have been memorable Christmas-themed
movies, some orthodox, others not.  Two classics by master directors feature memorable
Christmas parties.  Ingmar Bergman ’s “ Fanny and Alexander ”
(1982), set in turn of the 20th century  Sweden , opens with a
festive romp in which you can practically taste the sweetmeats.
John Huston’s “ The Dead ” (1987), derived from the classic
James Joyce story, holds within its swirling ensemble the gamut
of human emotion. It captures like no other Christmas-themed
film the dulcet melancholy of the occasion.  There are dozens of adaptations of “A Christmas Carol” on
big screen and small; easily the best is the 1951 Alastair Sim
version, in which Scrooge’s redemption is every bit as
believable as his bile. Regrettably this film doesn’t get
televised as often as it used to on Christmas Eve. Must we
really settle for  Bill Murray  in “ Scrooged ”?  ‘Miracle’ Man  For traditionalists, there’s “ Miracle on 34th Street ”
(1947), with ho-ho-ho-ing Edmund Gwenn as the real Kris Kringle,
working in Macy’s, and  Natalie Wood  as the disbelieving child to
whom he must prove himself. Accept no imitations.  The animated “ A Charlie Brown Christmas ” (1965) perfectly
captures the sardonic wit and underlying sweetness of the
“Peanuts” strip. And of course there’s Vince Guaraldi’s superb
jazz-inflected score.  “ A Christmas Story ” (1983) has become such a perennial
that it’s danger of fossilizing in the memory like that other
holiday mainstay, “ It’s A Wonderful Life ” (1946). But both
movies miraculously still hold up.  Set in the 1940s, “A Christmas Story” is a send-up of
holiday movies that has more heart than, with apologies to
 Irving Berlin , glucose-shock entries like “ White Christmas ”
(1954). Young Ralphie’s scheme to secure for himself a Red Ryder
BB gun is a boy’s Christmas fantasy come to rousing life.  Harrowing ‘Life’  Frank Capra’s “It’s A Wonderful Life,” by contrast,
achieves its fullblown yuletide uplift only after some of the
most harrowing scenes ever filmed on a Hollywood backlot.  In his lowest moments, as he prepares to swan-dive off a
local bridge, Jimmy Stewart’s George Bailey isn’t all that far
removed from the deranged obsessive he later played in
Hitchcock’s “ Vertigo .” (Both Clifford Odets and  Dorothy Parker 
had uncredited assists on the screenplay).  Of the umpteen “Nutcracker” adaptations, my favorite is
the undeservedly neglected “ Nutcracker: The Motion Picture ”
(1986), performed by the Pacific Northwest Ballet with sets by
Maurice Sendak and directed by the great Carroll Ballard (“ The
Black Stallion ”).  “ The Shop Around the Corner ” (1940), starring  Jimmy
Stewart  and Margaret Sullavan as lonelyhearts in a Budapest
novelty store, is my favorite Ernst Lubitsch movie and perhaps
the most gently beautiful of all Christmasy films. “ Meet Me In
St. Louis ” (1944), while not really a holiday movie, has  Judy Garland  singing “Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas.”  Crazy Muppets  Among the irreverent Christmas fare, “ Gremlins ” (1984) is
the nuttiest and best: An anti-“ E.T. ” set in a Norman Rockwell
town gone berserk. “ The Muppet Christmas Carol ” (1992) is
sweetly sacrilegious, with  Michael Caine  hamming it up with Miss
Piggy. “ The Ref ” (1993) has Denis Leary as a convict trapped
inside a dysfunctional family Christmas presided over by Judy
Davis and  Kevin Spacey . (Dysfunction has rarely been done
better).  Maybe the best bah-humbug movie ever made is “ Bad Santa ”
(2003), where Billy Bob Thornton at his most stubbly-grungy
plays a boozehound safecracker who teams each Christmas with a
3-foot-tall African-American elf ( Tony Cox ) to loot the
department store where they are currently employed. It even
features a groupie who has a thing for guys dressed up as Santa.  And let’s not forget that Marlon Brando’s Don Corleone gets
mowed down while buying Christmas apples in “ The Godfather ”
(1972).  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and a Zinta
Lundborg  interview .  To contact the writer of this column:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this subject:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  