-- Black Swan’s Taleb Says Reduced Volatility Adds Risks: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n
-- 2012-12-17T18:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/black-swan-s-taleb-says-reduced-volatility-adds-risks-tom-keene.html
Reduced financial-market volatility
may make the global banking system more fragile, according to
New York University’s Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , author of the book
“The  Black Swan .”  “We have a fear of volatility,” Taleb, who this year
published “Antifragile: Things That Gain From Disorder,” said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “If you spend a lot of time
lying in bed, you’d have a very smooth life, but the minute you
come out of it, you’re going to break a limb.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7  Volatility Index  of major
currencies declined on Nov. 13 to its lowest level since 2007.
The benchmark climbed to a record level in October 2008 after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Alan Greenspan , chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve from
1987 to 2006, cut the target rate for overnight  lending  between
banks to a then-record 1 percent in June 2003, and held the
benchmark at that level until June 2004. Greenspan said Aug. 9
in an interview with Bloomberg that since the financial crisis,
he has been criticized for keeping  interest rates  too low in
2003 and for failing to appropriately regulate subprime mortgage
standards. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank law to increase
regulation of the banking system following the financial
turmoil.  System Analysis  “We have fragilized systems, just as Greenspan fragilized
them by smoothing out the economic cycle, we have fragilized by
injecting artificial, what I call, suppression of variation and
variability in an organic system,” Taleb said.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate
to 0.75 percent in July and the Fed’s target rate has been at
virtually zero since December 2008. The ECB also said on Sept. 6
it would spend as much money as needed to restore confidence in
bond markets, while the Fed has pledged to continue stimulus
efforts until the economy improves.  “Every incident should save lives, and it does in
engineering,” Taleb said. “A bad environment is one in which
mistakes are very costly and don’t lead to any improvement, and
that’s what we’ve had over the past decade with the banking
crisis.”  The term “black swan” was popularized Taleb’s 2007 book
with the same title. It’s a metaphor for an unforeseen
catastrophe and derives from the once widespread belief in the
West that all swans were white, until European explorers
discovered black swans in Australia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keen in New York at 
 tkeen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  