-- Boeing Boosts Dividend 10%, Resumes $3.6 Billion Buyback
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/boeing-boosts-dividend-10-resumes-3-6-billion-buyback.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  resumed a $3.6 billion
stock-buyback plan that was suspended amid delays on its 787
Dreamliner, and analysts predicted more cash will be returned to
shareholders as profit rises along with jet deliveries.  “Investors are certainly expecting more cash to come their
way as the 787 and other legacy aircraft start to ramp up,”
Carter Leake, an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “This is the Boeing story.
It’s more about free cash flow generation than earnings.”  The share repurchases announced yesterday pick up the
remaining balance of a $7 billion program unveiled in October
2007, the month Boeing disclosed the first of what would become
more than three years of delivery delays for the 787 Dreamliner.
The Chicago-based company also said it will increase its
quarterly dividend by 10 percent to 48.5 cents a share.  Boeing said it will buy back as much as $2 billion of its
stock in 2013. That will be the first repurchases since the plan
was suspended in the first quarter of 2009, Yair Reiner, an
analyst with Oppenheimer & Co., said yesterday in a note to
clients. The buyback and dividend increase follow through on
Boeing’s intention to announce a plan by year-end to return more
cash to shareholders.  The dividend and the amount of buybacks were lower than
estimated, Carter Copeland, a Barclays Plc analyst, wrote in a
note yesterday. Copeland said the market had expected a dividend
increase of 12 percent to 15 percent and share repurchases next
year of as much as $2.5 billion.  “It appears to us that this presumed positive announcement
fell slightly short of expectations,” Copeland said in the
note. Boeing shares may “modestly underperform” in today’s
 trading , he said.  Defense Cuts  The company may have been cautious because of the potential
for defense cuts and higher taxes that will take effect at the
beginning of the year unless Congress reaches an agreement to
head off the so-called fiscal cliff, Leake said.  “If sequestration and fiscal-cliff discussions go better
than expected, they can always up this,” he said.  Boeing probably will buy back the $2 billion of shares
“fairly quickly” and announce a new program heading into 2014,
 Peter Arment , an analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., said in
a note.  “We think there will be more to come,” wrote Arment, who
recommends buying the stock.  Dreamliner Delays  The cash deployment comes as Boeing stock has suffered from
delays to the new Dreamliner model that has hurt the company’s
credibility. The shares are down about 26 percent since the
first delay was revealed in October 2007.  The stock was little changed in extended trading after
rising 0.9 percent to $74.65 at the  New York  close. The shares
have gained 1.8 percent  this year , compared with increases of 21
percent for  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , the parent
of Airbus, and 14 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Boeing held $11 billion in cash as of Sept. 30, which could
swell as the company completes a planned 60 percent production
increase in the four years ending in 2014 to work through a $307
billion order backlog.  Even though the buybacks and dividend increase may have
been a “shade” less than forecast, it foretells good cash
generation for next year,  Howard Rubel , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co., said in an interview.  “They painted the corner of the plate,” Rubel said of the
repurchase target and dividend. “It wasn’t down the center of
the plate, but it’s still a strike.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  