-- Brazil Analysts See Faster Inflation, Lower Growth in 2013
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-12-17T11:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/brazil-analysts-see-faster-inflation-lower-growth-in-2013-2-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil  forecast
slower growth and faster inflation this year and next, as the
world’s second-biggest emerging market continues to respond
unevenly to government stimulus efforts.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 1 percent this
year and 3.4 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts published today.
Analysts had forecast 1.03 percent and 3.5 percent respectively
the previous week. Inflation will reach 5.60 percent this year
and 5.42 percent in 2013, up from the previous estimates of 5.58
percent and 5.40 percent, the survey showed.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has continued to
pump stimulus into Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy, which
economists forecast will grow the slowest among major  emerging
markets  this year. This month government officials announced
measures aimed at luring billions of reais in port investments,
as well as tax cuts for the  construction industry . In the last
16 months, policy makers have also increased public spending,
reduced the benchmark interest  rate  to a record low and lowered
taxes on automobiles and appliances.  “Expansionist monetary and fiscal policies are fueling
inflation because they are creating consumption and demand,”
 Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said
in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “We are still not
seeing higher investments. Slower economic growth this year
reduces carry-over to next year.”  Falling Investment  Brazil’s GDP  grew  0.6 percent in the third quarter, half
the pace forecast by economists, as investments fell for the
fifth straight period. Sales of vehicles in November slipped 8.7
percent from October.  Recent economic indicators suggest a turnaround may be
under way. Brazil’s  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, rebounded more than analysts expected in
October. Retail sales in October increased for the fifth
straight month and at the fastest pace since July on higher
sales of computers, furniture and appliances.  Uneven growth has failed to tame inflation, which has
remained above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for over
two years.  Annual inflation  through November accelerated to 5.53
percent from 5.45 percent a month earlier on higher service
costs. Rousseff said in  France  last week that inflation is under
control.  The world’s sixth-largest economy grew 2.7 percent last
year, down from 7.5 percent in 2010. Brazil is creating
conditions necessary to grow more than 4 percent next year,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in Paris last week, adding
that fourth quarter growth will be stronger than in the prior
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  