-- Brazil 2013 Inflation Will Slow Toward Target, Tombini Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-12-17T14:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/brazil-2013-inflation-will-slow-toward-target-tombini-says-1-.html
Brazil’s inflation will slow toward
target next year even as growth accelerates, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said today.  Factors including lower wage increases and government
measures will help slow consumer price increases in 2013,
Tombini told reporters at a year-end event at central bank
headquarters in Brasilia, adding that the global economic
scenario will also help contain price increases. Brazil’s
economic recovery is firm, even as third quarter growth figures
showed a more gradual recovery than policy makers anticipated,
he said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has continued
efforts to pump stimulus into Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy
while keeping a lid on inflation, which has remained above the
central bank’s target for two years. This month, government
officials announced measures aimed at luring billions of reais
in port investments, as well as tax cuts for the construction
industry. In the last 16 months, policy makers have also
increased public spending, reduced the benchmark  interest rate 
to a record low and lowered taxes on automobiles and appliances.  “Brazil has all the conditions necessary to see stronger
growth from a monetary and financial stability point of view,”
Tombini said. “We are seeing slower inflation next year than
this year.”  Economist Forecasts  Analysts covering  Brazil  today reduced growth forecasts
while increasing inflation projections for this year and next,
as the world’s second-biggest emerging market continues to
respond unevenly to government stimulus efforts.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 1 percent this
year and 3.4 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts published today
before Tombini’s comments. Analysts had forecast 1.03 percent
and 3.5 percent respectively the previous week. Inflation will
reach 5.60 percent this year and 5.42 percent in 2013, up from
the previous estimates of 5.58 percent and 5.40 percent, the
survey showed.  “Expansionist monetary and fiscal policies are fueling
inflation because they are creating consumption and demand,”
 Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos, said
in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “We are still not
seeing higher investments. Slower economic growth this year
reduces carry-over to next year.”  Falling Investment  Brazil’s GDP  grew  0.6 percent in the third quarter, half
the pace forecast by economists, as investment fell for the
fifth straight period. Sales of vehicles in November slipped 8.7
percent from October.  Recent economic indicators suggest a turnaround may be
under way. Brazil’s  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, rebounded more than analysts expected in
October. Retail sales in October increased for the fifth
straight month and at the fastest pace since July on higher
sales of computers, furniture and appliances.  Uneven growth has failed to tame inflation, which has
remained above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for over
two years.  Annual inflation  through November accelerated to 5.53
percent from 5.45 percent a month earlier on higher service
costs. Rousseff said in  France  last week that inflation is under
control.  The economy grew 2.7 percent last year, down from 7.5
percent in 2010. Brazil is creating conditions necessary to grow
more than 4 percent next year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said in Paris last week, adding that fourth quarter growth will
be stronger than in the prior period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  