-- California Utilities Say Solar Raises Costs for Non-Users
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-12-17T15:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/california-utilities-say-solar-raises-costs-for-non-users.html
Booming rooftop solar installations
in  California  are bringing an unwelcome surprise to the homes
and businesses that don’t have the devices: an extra $1.3
billion added to their annual bills.  Power companies in the biggest U.S. solar state are
required to buy electricity from home solar generators at the
same price they resell it to other customers, meaning utilities
earn nothing to cover their fixed costs. The rules are short-
sighted because eventually rates must be raised to make up the
difference, according to Southern California Edison, which has
joined with competitors to estimate potential losses.  As more homes and warehouses get covered in solar panels,
higher rates imposed on traditional consumers risk a growing
conflict between renewable-energy advocates and power companies
that foresee a backlash in California and 42 other states with
similar policies. The tension has also emerged in countries
including Spain and  Germany , where solar investments are curbing
investment in the power grid.  “You get into a situation where you have a transmission
and distribution system with nobody paying for it,” said Akbar
Jazayeri, vice president of regulatory operations at Edison, a
unit of  Edison International (EIX)  and California’s second-largest
electric utility.  To deter losses as solar abounds, states typically set a
cap on the amount of photovoltaic power utilities must buy under
so-called net-metering policies. Those allow a meter to run
backward during the hours a day when a home or business is
selling the power to the utility. California’s limit is 5
percent of a utility’s aggregate peak load.  New Customers  About 20,000 customers of San Diego Gas & Electric had
connected 146 megawatts of solar panels to its grid as of Nov.
1, accounting for 1.2 percent of its peak load. The company is
adding 409 new net-metering customers a month, said Stephanie Donovan, a spokeswoman for the state’s third-largest utility.  SDG&E currently can’t collect about $18 million to $20
million a year in grid costs from customers with rooftop solar
panels, according to Dan Skopec, vice president of regulatory
affairs for San Diego-based  Sempra Energy (SRE) , the utility’s owner.  The utility will be shifting about $200 million in annual
costs to customers without panels when the state reaches its
cap, Skopec said in an interview. Solar customers “avoid
charges, not just for energy, but also the costs of the
transmission and distribution system,” he said. “That’s why we
say it is not sustainable.”  Passing Costs  Southern California Edison will transfer about $400 million
in annual costs to people without solar systems when the state
hits the cap, David Song, a spokesman, said in an interview.
 PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Pacific Gas & Electric, the state’s biggest
utility, will pass on about $700 million a year, according to
Denny Boyles, a spokesman, for a total of $1.3 billion from the
three utilities.  That’s about 3.9 percent of the $33.5 billion spent on
electricity in 2010 in California, based on the latest figures
available from the U.S. Energy Department.  “The problem exacerbates with each new system that goes on
a roof,”  Mark Bachman , an analyst at Boston-based Avian
Securities Inc., said in an interview. “Utilities will need to
get reimbursed for their grid costs by a shrinking number of
consumers.”  California utility customers installed 245 megawatts of
solar panels in 2011 and have already added more than 315
megawatts this year, according to the California Solar
Initiative, a state program to encourage rooftop energy systems.  Solar Growth  Installations of U.S. residential and commercial  solar
systems  totaled about 1,050 megawatts in the first three
quarters of the year, according to the Solar Energy Industries
Association, compared with about 1,100 for all of 2011.  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , which installs and owns rooftop solar
systems, has gained 49 percent since its Dec. 12 initial public
offering. The  San Mateo , California-based company has built
solar power systems on more than 45,000 U.S. building, and its
home state is its largest market, according to its  website .  Growing demand for rooftop solar has been driven, in part,
by net metering, said Eran Mahrer, vice president of utility
strategy at the Washington-based Solar Electric Power
Association.  The policy “has been the most important tool,” he said in
an interview. “There’s a lot of debate about what is fair. The
caps provide a checkpoint where regulators and utilities can
stop and revisit the effects.”  Raising Caps  The growth is also driving efforts to raise net-metering
caps. California revised the way it calculates its limit in May,
effectively doubling to about 5 gigawatts the amount of solar
energy that state utilities will eventually be required
purchase.  California utilities oppose efforts to expand net-metering
programs. Solar customers, who typically sell power to the grid
when the sun is shining and use the income to offset charges for
using electricity at night or on cloudy days, “are just using
our system as a storage device,” said Jazayeri. “They should
pay something for that service.”  So far, regulators haven’t been sympathetic to utilities’
complaints about rooftop solar power. The California Public
Utilities Commission  rejected  in January San Diego Gas’s request
to impose a “network use charge” that would have added a fee
to customers with rooftop solar panels.  Easing Stress  And solar developers say rooftop systems actually benefit
the  power grid  by providing power during the hottest parts of
the day. That eases stress on wires and transformers and helps
utilities defer maintenance and upgrades, said Todd Pedersen,
chief executive officer of Blackstone Group LP’s Vivint Inc.,
which installs residential solar.  “We need an honest cost-benefit analysis of adding
distributed solar to the grid,” Pedersen said in an interview
in  New York . “It’s in everyone’s interest to resolve this now
because I see no signs of slowing as solar becomes cheaper than
the utilities in most states.”  In  New Jersey , the second-largest solar state, utilities
had connected 689 megawatts of net-metered solar power to the
grid as of Aug. 31, about 3.6 percent of the state’s 19,000
megawatts of peak demand.  That exceeds the state’s 2.5 percent limit, so regulators
may now authorize utilities to stop accepting requests for grid
connections. They haven’t yet, partly because New Jersey power
companies are required to get 4.1 percent of their electricity
from sunlight in 2027 and promoting rooftop solar through net-
metering programs will help them reach that goal even if it
reduces revenue, the agency said in an e-mail.  German Backlash  People in other countries are protesting higher rates
stemming from net-metering programs. In Germany, the world’s
largest market,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is facing a backlash
against higher power bills related to renewable energy. Grid
fees will boost household bills an average of 10 percent next
year, according to industry analyst Verivox.  Permitting net-metering programs to grow indefinitely is
“not sustainable,” said California State Assemblyman Steven Bradford, who represents  Los Angeles . He wrote legislation that
was approved in August requiring the state to conduct a detailed
study on the economic impact of rooftop panels before making any
additional changes to the cap. He expects the study to show net
metering has a negative impact on utilities and customers who
don’t have solar systems.  “You can’t purchase wholesale power at retail prices and
not affect your bottom line,” Bradford said in an interview.
“Utilities are seeing it already.”  He said rooftop solar is becoming a significant burden to
both utilities and consumers, especially the poor who can’t
install panels. “Additional costs -- and we’re talking about $1
billion in the aggregate -- will disproportionately hit people
on fixed incomes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  