-- Canada October International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-12-17T13:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/canada-october-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for October
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents acquired $13.3 billion of Canadian securities in
October, led by corporate and government bonds. Meanwhile,
Canadian investors added $3.2 billion of foreign securities to
their portfolios, also focusing on bonds in October.  Foreign investment in Canadian debt led by new issues of
corporate bonds
Foreign acquisition of Canadian debt securities strengthened for
a fourth straight month, reaching $12.5 billion in October.
Investment was entirely comprised of bonds, as non-residents
reduced their holdings of short-term paper.  Non-residents acquired $15.5 billion of bonds, led by Canadian
private corporate debt. Foreign investors purchased $8.9 billion
of Canadian private corporate bonds, mainly new bonds
denominated in US dollars and placed in the  United States . This
inflow was the largest in more than 10 years and coincided with
significant overall net new issue activity over the month.
Corporate bond yields in the United States were down to near
record-low levels in October, while the Canadian dollar traded
above par against its US counterpart for a third straight month.  The remainder of the activity in the Canadian  bond market  was in
government debt, both provincial and federal instruments. Non-
residents added $4.4 billion of provincial bonds to their
holdings, mainly US dollar-denominated new issues. They also
acquired $3.6 billion of federal bonds on the secondary market,
primarily comprised of shorter-term bonds for a second month.  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian money market
instruments by $3.0 billion in October. Treasury bills accounted
for $1.5 billion of the divestment, as the overall supply
decreased over the month. Foreign holdings of provincial paper
were also down by $1.6 billion, the second monthly divestment
since December 2011.  Foreign investment in Canadian stocks slows
Non-residents added $0.7 billion of Canadian equities to their
portfolios in October, down from a $3.5 billion acquisition in
September. Foreign investors were focused on shares of oil and
gas extraction firms. Canadian stock prices rose 0.9% in
October, ending the month at the highest level since February.  Canadian investment in foreign securities led by bonds
Canadian investors acquired $2.9 billion of foreign bonds in
October. Investment in US  government bonds  was $1.5 billion and
targeted instruments with shorter-term maturities. In October,
US government bond yields increased to their highest level since
April. Canadians also acquired $1.0 billion of non-US foreign
bonds with the majority in asset-backed debt securities.  Canadian investors added $0.8 billion of non-US foreign stocks
to their portfolios while reducing their holdings of US stocks
by the same amount. This followed sizeable investments in US
stocks in September. US equity prices were down 2% in October
while other major world equity indices moved up.  Note to readers
The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and preferred
equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity of
one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-dollar
Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless otherwise
stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Washington at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  