-- Venezuelan Opposition Loses to Chavez Allies in Elections
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-12-17T19:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/capriles-defeats-chavez-candidate-in-venezuela-regional-vote-1-.html
Venezuela ’s opposition lost ground
in regional elections while retaining its de facto leader as the
country braces for another national vote should President Hugo Chavez lose his battle with cancer.  Opposition candidates lost the governorship in five of
eight states they held before yesterday’s vote, the national
electoral council reported. Chavez allies took 20 of 23 states
nationwide, building on the 58-year-old president’s re-election
win in October. Opposition governor and former presidential
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski said that his re-election
in Miranda state was an isolated win for his supporters.  “I’m happy for the people of Miranda, Lara and Amazonas,”
Capriles said last night, referring to the three states the
opposition held on to. “But I can’t feel happy for Venezuela.”  With Chavez recovering from cancer surgery in  Havana , his
fourth since June 2011, a victory for Capriles was crucial for
maintaining opposition unity behind a single leader. The broader
victory for Chavez’s allies is a sign the opposition may
struggle to beat the president’s successor if a vote is held in
the next few months, said Bret Rosen, a Latin America analyst at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York.  “Today’s elections went very much in favor of Chavismo,”
the political movement led by Chavez, Rosen said in an e-mailed
report yesterday.  Vote Count  Chavez’s socialist party, known as PSUV, obtained 4.8
million votes in yesterday’s election compared to 3.8 million
for opposition candidates, according to preliminary data
released by the National Electoral Council. In presidential
elections on Oct. 7, Chavez won with 8.2 million votes against
Capriles’s 6.7 million.  The government’s benchmark 2027 dollar bond fell 1.55 cents
to 99.46 cents on the dollar as of 10:25 a.m. today in  New York ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s yield rose
19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 9.32 percent, the
biggest daily increase since Oct. 9, the first day of trading
after the Oct. 7 elections.  “The market assumption was that if Capriles won it will be
good for the bonds,” Victor Sierra, managing partner and head
of sales and trading for emerging market fixed income at Torino
Capital LLC in New York, said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Now dealers are changing their game saying that the
strong victory for Chavismo is a sign that they will continue to
be in power.”  Dollar Debt  Venezuelan dollar debt has returned 48.1 percent this year,
trailing only  Ivory Coast  in  emerging markets , as investors bet
that Chavez will step down, paving the way for a transition of
power, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
The average yield on Venezuelan dollar debt has plunged 4.63
percentage points this year to 9.27 percent.  Chavez, who suffered bleeding during a Dec. 11 operation in
Havana, Cuba, has since improved and began communicating with
family and government officials three days ago, Technology
Minister Jorge Arreaza, who is also the president’s son-in-law,
said in a phone interview broadcast on state television
yesterday.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro , speaking from the National
Pantheon at an event commemorating 19th century South American
liberator  Simon Bolivar ’s death today, said he hasn’t spoken
directly with Chavez about the election results.  “We deeply respect the course of his treatment and we’re
going to try to make contact in the afternoon,” Maduro said
today in comments broadcast on state television.  With elections over, “political and media attention is now
back on Havana and Chavez’s post-surgery progress,” Diego Moya- Ocampos, a Venezuelan political analyst at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said in an e-mailed report today. “His supporters will
be expecting him to be in Venezuela on January 10, fit for the
inauguration of his 2013-19 constitutional term. Otherwise, a
transition could well start formally, paving the way for a fresh
presidential election.”  New Elections  Under Venezuela’s constitution, elections must be held
within 30 days if Chavez steps down in the first four years of
his new term, which is set to begin on Jan. 10.  On Dec. 10, before returning to Cuba for surgery, Chavez
urged Venezuelans to elect Maduro should the president be unable
to take office or fulfill his term.  “The people have given a present of love to comandante
 Hugo Chavez ,” Maduro said in a phone interview broadcast on
state television yesterday.  Capriles, who lost the presidential election to Chavez in
October by more than 10 percentage points, won 52 percent of the
vote in Miranda state against 48 percent for former Vice
President Elias Jaua. Voter turnout was 54 percent after
reaching 80 percent in October’s presidential elections.  Capriles Consolidated  “This consolidates Capriles as maybe the one person that
can really confront Chavismo,” David Smilde, a sociologist at
the  University of Georgia  who wrote a book about Chavez’s rule,
said in phone interview from Caracas. “In the coming months, it
looks like Maduro or whoever is the candidate would win an
election, though that won’t necessarily be the case in six
months time.”  Opposition rivals to Capriles found themselves voted out of
office. Pablo Perez, who came second to Capriles in a February
primary, lost his re-election bid for governor of Zulia, the
country’s most populous state. The opposition also lost
strongholds in Tachira, Carabobo and Nueva Esparta.  The government would need to hold elections as soon as
possible to capitalize on its momentum, said Smilde. Difficult
economic decisions, including a need to devalue the bolivar,
could quickly erode gains, he said.  Bank of America Corp. forecasts that Venezuela’s economy
will contract 3.6 percent next year as a result of the expected
devaluation. Venezuela needs to close a fiscal deficit that
widened to an estimated 8.8 percent of gross domestic product as
a result of a pre-election spending boom by Chavez. Devaluation
would help narrow the deficit because the government would earn
more in local currency from oil sales abroad.  “Every week that goes by, there will be less advantage for
Chavismo,” Smilde said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  