-- Carlyle Joins KKR in Europe Infrastructure Push: Credit Markets
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-12-17T16:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/carlyle-joins-kkr-in-europe-infrastructure-push-credit-markets.html
Money managers from  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
to KKR & Co. are setting up funds that will allow their
investors to take advantage of  Europe ’s $600 billion plan to
build its way out of a recession.  Carlyle, the second-biggest private-equity firm, raised
$1.38 billion last month to plow into energy projects, while
KKR, run by buyout pioneers Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , got
more than $1 billion in June for its first infrastructure fund.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest fund manager with $3.67
trillion in assets, hired a team from Blackstone Group LP in
November to start its first European investment advisory unit
for the industry.  European Union leaders, who pledged to restore growth when
they gathered in Oslo last week to accept the  Nobel Peace Prize ,
are wrangling over a 973 billion-euro ($1.3 trillion) budget for
the years leading up to 2020, almost half of which is earmarked
for infrastructure. For debt investors, the projects offer
higher returns at a time when interest rates are at record lows
and as banks cut back their financing.  “Investors are starting to look at infrastructure lending
as a mainstream asset class, and are positioning themselves to
lock in some attractive returns,” said Philippe Benaroya, a
managing director at BlackRock in  London  and one of three people
the firm hired to start the unit. “They won’t take the place of
the banks, but lenders’ pullback does mean there’s an
opportunity for the fund managers.”  Higher Returns  KKR’s $1 billion infrastructure fund seeks annual returns
of 10 to 15 percent, according to Vincent Policard, a London-
based director at the firm. That compares with a 4.4 percent
return this year for global government bonds and 10 percent for
euro-denominated corporate notes, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, corporate bond sales from the
U.S to Europe and  Asia  surpassed 2009’s record to reach $3.89
trillion this year. Global issuance is up from $3.29 trillion
last year and $3.23 trillion in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  With central banks holding down benchmark  interest rates  to
prop up the global economy, investors funneled an unprecedented
$455.7 billion into bond funds this year, according to EPFR
Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Companies from the riskiest
to the most creditworthy took advantage of yields that fell to
3.33 percent this month to lock in lower borrowing costs.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. declined for the first time in three days. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.4 basis points to a mid-price of 92.7 basis points
as of 11:42 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.69 basis point to 12.75 basis
points as of 11:42 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Edison International  Bonds of Edison International are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
48 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:43 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Edison Mission Energy, the unregulated generating unit of
Edison International, filed today for bankruptcy and said it
reached agreement on a reorganization plan with holders of its
$3.7 billion in debt and its parent.  EU policy makers proposed the 27-nation bloc spend 460
billion euros on projects such as building roads, bridges and
tunnels from 2014 to 2020 as they seek to pull the region out of
its recession.  That’s almost half of the 973 billion-euro total budget
discussed at a two-day meeting in Brussels last month and
includes 41 billion euros to improve Europe’s transport, energy
and digital networks, up from the 13 billion euros earmarked
from 2007 to 2013.  European Recession  Politicians failed to agree on the amounts after richer
northern European countries demanded cuts, and negotiations will
continue into the New Year.  The euro-area economy is in recession for the second time
in four years as trade slows and government spending declines.
 Gross domestic product  across the 17 countries shrank 0.1
percent in the third quarter, the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said on Dec. 6.  The global market for public and private infrastructure
investments will reach $50 trillion by 2030, according to an
estimate from the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  in Paris. Such debt investments are still new to
many pension funds, with less than 1 percent of them in this
market currently, the OECD said.  “Among the potential new sources of  debt capital ,
infrastructure debt funds are the most promising,” said KKR’s
Policard. “The investor community realizes now they can get
better returns investing in the infrastructure projects of a
country instead of buying the bonds of the country.”  Lender Pullback  The resurgence of interest by money managers follows a peak
in private participation during the last decade’s credit boom,
which has left projects burdened by debt now coming due for
repayment.  Funds are also entering the market as banks cut lending to
prepare for new rules that require them to boost their capital.
Loans to projects in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa fell to
$38 billion this year from $82 billion in 2011 and $156 billion
in 2007, according to Infrastructure Journal data. That compares
with a drop in global lending to $111 billion, from $205 billion
a year ago and $264 billion in 2007, the data show.  “A lot of small energy and power companies are being left
at the altar by European banks,” said New York-based David Albert, the co-head of Carlyle’s energy credit investment unit.  Money managers are betting investors will favor
infrastructure debt after interest-rate cuts, European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s unlimited lending program and $2.4
trillion of bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve  to stimulate
the  U.S. economy  pushed down yields on other investments.  BlackRock Focus  The Frankfurt-based ECB held borrowing costs at an all-time
low of  0.75 percent  on Dec. 6, while the Fed has held its
benchmark rate close to zero percent for four years.  That’s caused yields on  Germany’s two-year  note to drop to
as low as minus 0.03 percent today and rates on similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries to fall to 0.23 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  The new BlackRock team will target senior investment-grade
infrastructure debt paying about 250 basis points to 300 basis
points more than benchmark lending rates, said Benaroya.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer,
appointed Macquarie Group Ltd. to manage a $500 million fund
focusing on European infrastructure debt, it said Nov. 28.  Industry Funds Management Pty Ltd. of  Australia  hired David
Cooper, the former head of infrastructure and structured project
finance at Barclays Plc, to start a roads-to-bridges debt
investment fund for Europe.  “Infrastructure debt offers an attractive, low-risk yield
pickup for institutional investors, especially now that
investing in quality  government bonds  gives you very low if any
real return,” said Richard Abadie, the global head of
infrastructure financing at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
London. “We’re seeing an increasing number of new entrants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  