-- Cathay, Union to Attend Labor Meeting to Resolve Dispute
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-12-17T09:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cathay-union-to-attend-labor-meeting-to-resolve-dispute.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and its
Flight Attendants Union will attend a meeting called by the Hong
Kong Labor Department tomorrow as authorities step in to resolve
a wage dispute.  The  union , representing more than 5,800 of 9,000 flight
attendants, may go ahead with its planned industrial action if
negotiations don’t produce “significant progress” by Dec. 19,
it said in an e-mailed statement today. Cathay said in a Dec. 15
statement it received an invitation to meet representatives of
the government and the employees.  Members of the union last week authorized its leaders to
initiate industrial action after a disagreement over a proposed
pay rise for next year. The labor group had asked for a 5
percent pay increase, while Cathay offered about 2 percent. The
airline has said in an open letter that employees have seen
salaries go up about 12 percent in the past three years, with an
extra month of annual bonus.  Flight attendants may work to rule or refuse to do tasks
such as serving food in the days leading to Christmas, said Dora
Lai, the union’s chairwoman. Workers may go on strike over the
New Year or the February Lunar New Year holiday if Cathay fails
to respond to requests for further pay talks, she said.  ‘Travel Plans’  “We appreciate the Labor Department’s experience in
resolving issues such as this,” said Liza Ng, general manager
of cabin crew, in a statement. “We know many Hong Kong people
have travel plans over the peak year-end season and it is
certainly our priority to ensure that our customers are not
inconvenienced in any way.”  Cathay rose 0.9 percent to HK$13.98 at close of trading in
Hong Kong today while the Hang Seng Index dropped 0.41 percent.
The carrier’s stock has advanced 5 percent this year,  compared 
with 22 percent for the benchmark.  The last time Cathay flight attendants went on strike was
during the Lunar New Year holiday in 1993, when about 1,000
cabin crew walked out for 17 days, the longest in the union’s
history, said Tsang Kwok-fung, a spokesman for the Cathay
Pacific Airways Flight Attendants Union. Since then, there have
been smaller actions such as working to rule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  