-- Charoen Said to Seek Additional 10% Stake in F&N From Funds
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-12-17T12:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/charoen-said-to-seek-additional-10-stake-in-f-n-from-funds-1-.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi tried to buy a stake of about 10 percent in
Fraser & Neave Ltd. for S$9.60 a share from at least two funds
as he competes for control of the Singapore company, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The deal was not completed, the people said, asking not to
be identified as the information is private. Charoen, who
already owns about  35 percent  of F&N and needs more than 50
percent by Jan. 2 to prevent his takeover bid from failing,
enlisted Citigroup Inc. in an offer to buy 144 million F&N
shares, they said.  Charoen’s attempt indicates he may seek to top an offer for
F&N by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  The billionaire has
extended a deadline for his S$8.88 per share bid for the company
four times, while OUE offered to pay S$9.08 on Nov. 15. F&N,
with a market value of S$13.8 billion ($11.3 billion), has
traded above both bids since Oct. 19.  Citigroup contacted institutional investors about the
latest attempted stake purchase starting Dec. 14, two of the
people said.  Shares of F&N rose 0.6 percent to S$9.63 in Singapore
trading, a record close. The stock has surged 55 percent this
year. Thai Beverage gained 3.9 percent to 40 Singapore cents.  ‘Not Compelling’  Charoen failed to win support for his S$8.88 a share bid
from F&N’s board, which has said an independent adviser found
that offer “not compelling, though fair.”  OUE has enlisted Kirin Holdings Co., F&N’s second-largest
shareholder, in its bid. If its offer succeeds, OUE would get
the company’s property business and Kirin,  Japan ’s largest
drinks maker, would take the food and beverage unit.  Both takeover offers are conditional on the buyers getting
more than  50 percent  of F&N. Without crossing that threshold,
either buyer would have to return their shares to selling
shareholders, documents related to the bids show. OUE’s offer
expires Jan. 3.  Charoen’s TCC Assets Ltd., which made the offer to buy F&N,
said in an e-mailed statement it has been approached by beverage
company’s shareholders about the sale of their stock, adding
that there’s no certainty a transaction would materialize unless
it made a formal announcement. The statement was issued through
its advisers United Overseas Bank Ltd., DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
and Morgan Stanley.  Vichate Tantiwanich, a spokesman for Charoen’s  Thai
Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , the largest shareholder in F&N, and Richard Tesvich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on the attempted stake purchase.  Charoen, 68, has a net worth of $8.5 billion, according to
data compiled and calculated through the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . His unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate unit.
Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer, gets almost
all its revenue from its home market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  