-- China Scraps QFII Limit on Sovereign Funds, Central Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T03:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-scraps-qfii-limit-on-sovereign-funds-central-banks.html
China  scrapped a ceiling on
investments by overseas sovereign wealth funds and central banks
in its capital markets, part of government efforts to encourage
long-term foreign ownership and shore up slumping equities.  Sovereign funds, central banks and monetary authorities can
now exceed the $1 billion limit that still applies to other
qualified foreign institutional investors, according to revised
regulations posted Dec. 14 on the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange’s website. The statement did not mention a new
ceiling or an increase in the total investment quota allowed
under the program also known as QFII.  The removal of the investment limit on sovereign investors
“marks another step in the direction to gradually open up
China’s capital account,”  Wang Aochao , head of research at UOB
Kay Hian Investment Consulting ( Shanghai ) Co., said by telephone
today. “It’s part of a gradual process. QFII money still
accounts for a very small fraction of China’s capital markets.”  China would “definitely” expand the foreign-currency
quota provided under the QFII program once the current
allotments of $80 billion are filled, Guo Shuqing, chairman of
the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said last month.
Regulators have since 2003 approved a combined QFII quota of
$36.04 billion as of Nov. 30 under the program which allows
foreign investors to buy yuan-denominated securities, the SAFE
said on Dec. 11.  Confidence Boost  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.6 percent
today, extending a 4 percent gain Dec. 14 amid hopes that
increased inflow of foreign money will help bolster stocks.  The head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said Dec. 13
that China may relax or abolish a rule that requires  Renminbi 
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors to keep most of their
funds in bonds. The CSRC has cut trading fees, pushed companies
to increase dividends and allowed trust companies to buy
equities since Guo took over as chairman last year.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad will help
improve market confidence, promote stable growth in capital
markets and provide “robust” investment returns to domestic
investors, the regulator said in May, a month after the
government more than doubled the total quota for QFIIs to $80
billion from $30 billion.  The Shanghai Composite had lost 1.6 percent this year,
while the MSCI China Index of mostly Hong Kong-traded shares,
open to overseas investors, has gained 18 percent as U.S. bond
purchases spurred foreign funds to pour money into  emerging
markets .  New Rules  QFIIs can repatriate their principal and investment returns
after a lock-up period ends, though the monthly net remittances
cannot exceed 20 percent of their total onshore assets as of the
previous year, according to the Dec. 14  rules . Open-ended China
funds can remit funds on a weekly basis under the new
regulation, compared with monthly in the previous version
announced in 2009.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, Norges Bank, Government
of Singapore Investment Corp. and Temasek Holdings Pte’s
Fullerton Fund Management Co. have all reached the $1 billion
limit as of Nov. 30, with QFIIs’ approved quotas totaling $36.04
billion, according to SAFE, the currency regulator. Foreign
investors can only invest in capital markets through QFIIs.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund was applying for a QFII
license and a $5 billion quota to invest in China, the China
Securities Journal said on its website in June, citing Energy
and Industry Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  