-- China 1-Year Bond Yield Rises From Month’s Low on Recovery Signs
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-12-17T09:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-1-year-bond-yield-rises-from-month-s-low-on-recovery-signs.html
China ’s one-year government bonds
fell, with the yield rising from the lowest level this month, as
demand for safer assets dropped amid optimism a recovery in the
world’s second-largest economy is gathering pace.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index of stocks rose, after rallying
by the most in three years on Dec. 14. China’s new leaders vowed
to target “sustained and healthy development” as they maintain
a “prudent” monetary policy and “proactive” fiscal stance,
according to a report yesterday by the state-run Xinhua News
Agency after the annual central economic work conference in
Beijing.  “There’s a better economic outlook for 2013 and we have
better-performing equities,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “I’m looking for the yield
curve to steepen.”  The yield on the 2.94 percent government bonds due October
2013 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.86
percent in Shanghai, according to the National Interbank Funding
Center. It has climbed 24 basis points this year. The Dec. 14
level of 2.85 percent was the lowest since Nov. 28.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for sales of
seven-, 14- and 28-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The central bank also asked lenders to submit orders
for 28- and 91-day repurchase contracts this morning, the trader
said.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, increased three basis points to 3.03 percent in
 Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell 2.57 percentage
points this year.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, dropped three basis points to 3.33
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  