-- China May Delay Plan to Reform Income Distribution, Caijing Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T05:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-may-delay-plan-to-reform-income-distribution-caijing-says.html
China  may postpone releasing a plan
for income redistribution as the government couldn’t reach a
consensus on a draft by the National Development and Reform
Commission, Caijing magazine reported.  The plan will be issued next year, possibly after a meeting
of the National People’s Congress in March, the magazine said
yesterday on its website, citing unidentified officials who
contributed to the plan and academics who gave feedback. It had
been expected this year, Caijing said.  Investors and analysts are focused on how quickly China’s
new leadership headed by Xi Jinping will implement economic
changes to spur a shift to a consumer-driven society and sustain
the nation’s expansion. The state-run Xinhua News Agency said in
a Dec. 13 commentary that “the public’s expectations have been
raised” on issues from cracking down on corruption to improving
social equity through income policies.  Caijing didn’t detail the contents of the draft. It
reported previous comments by an NDRC official that regulating
the incomes of executives at state-owned enterprises was under
discussion.  Hu Jintao, in his last major speech as Communist Party
chief last month, vowed to double per capita income by 2020 from
2010, a target that HSBC Holdings Plc estimates would signal
real growth of about 7 percent a year.  China’s wealth gap is now 50 percent higher than a risk
level for social unrest, according to a study by the Survey and
Research Center for China Household Finance, a body set up by
the Finance Research Institute of the People’s Bank of China and
Southwestern University of Finance and Economics.  The Gini coefficient, an index measuring income inequality,
was 0.61 in 2010, the center’s study showed. The index ranges
from 0, which represents perfect equality, to 1, which implies
perfect inequality. Readings above 0.4 are used by analysts as a
gauge of the potential for social disturbances.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  