-- China Friction Awaits Abe as He Says Disputed Isles Are Japan’s
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-12-17T07:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-media-says-japan-s-new-leader-abe-must-repair-relationship.html
Japan’s incoming prime minister
Shinzo Abe reiterated his country’s claim to islands at the
center of a dispute with  China , where state media called on him
to repair bilateral relations frayed by the disagreement.  A day after his Liberal Democratic Party reclaimed power in
a landslide, Abe called China “an essential partner for
economic growth.” At the same time, he insisted that the
sovereignty of the islands, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu
in China, wasn’t an issue.  China’s media response to the election ranged from cautious
to stern, with the English-language Global Times saying Chinese
leaders must take a “firm stance” toward him. Bilateral
relations are at their lowest point since 2005 over the disputed
islands, with China stepping up sea and air patrols, and Abe
seeking greater control over the chain.  “If this friction creates a spark that leads to a major
showdown, that would be unwise and tactless,” Zhu Feng, a
professor of international relations at Peking University in
Beijing, said in a phone interview. “Maybe Shinzo Abe’s victory
will offer a moment for both sides to reconsider what sort of
compromise could be reached.”  The LDP, which held power for a half-century of almost
unbroken control until it was ousted in 2009, yesterday swept
aside Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s ruling Democratic Party of
 Japan . The result ensures Abe will replace Noda, returning him
to the office he left in 2007 after a year due to illness.  The idea of Abe as Japan’s leader “has left quite a few
people wondering whether Sino-Japanese ties will suffer further
setbacks,” Lu Chao, director of the Border Area Research
Institute, wrote in the China Daily today.  Summit Unlikely  At a nationally televised press conference today, Abe
called the relationship with China “one of the most important
for Japan,” while adding that “we are not in a situation where
we could hold a summit straight away or I could visit China.”  Abe has called for “unlimited” easing by the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  to combat more than a decade of deflation. That policy
risks lowering the credit rating of Japanese government bonds,
the China Economic Information Daily said.  Japan’s incoming leader, the seventh in six years, faces a
“rotten” economic situation and needs to improve Japan’s
relations with other nations, according to a commentary
published in the People’s Daily, written by Zhong Sheng, who
wasn’t identified.  The LDP’s manifesto maintains Japan should step up control
over the disputed islands and consider stationing officials
there permanently. It also promises to boost the presence of
police, coastguards and military personnel on Japan’s
southwestern islands in general. Abe wants to increase defense
spending and change the  constitution  to legitimize Japan’s
maintenance of armed forces, reversing postwar pacifist policy.  Handling Issues  Japan should seriously handle issues related to  Tokyo ’s
Yasukuni Shrine, where World War II war criminals are
memorialized, the islands dispute and the country’s
constitution, according to commentary in the People’s Daily.  Some Japanese political officials behaved “extremely
irresponsibly” during the election and used a sluggish domestic
economy to arouse nationalist sentiment, the People’s Daily
said, without naming them.  “Once Abe takes office, China should let him know about
its firm stance,” the Global Times said today. “Only with such
pressure will Abe hold China in esteem, otherwise he will think
China is in a weak position.”  Still, Lu in the China Daily wrote that Abe is an
experienced statesman and may seek to restore Sino-Japanese
relations.  ‘Better Neighborhood’  “We cannot choose our neighbors but we can work with them
to create a better neighborhood,” he wrote. “Adopting good-
neighborly policies is the common aspiration of wise leaders and
making enemies out of neighbors is bad diplomacy that can never
enjoy popular support.”  Abe worked to mended ties with China during his initial
time in office by heading there on his first foreign trip. Ties
had chilled during the previous five years due to former Prime
Minister Junichiro Koizumi’s annual visits to Yasukuni.  In order to maintain the “peaceful root” planted in past
years, the LDP should face up to the past, respect the postwar
international order, and stop the expansion of the nation’s
extreme-rightist force, by Xinhua News Agency said in an article
today written by Feng Wuyong, who wasn’t identified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  