-- China’s Stocks Advance, Extending Biggest Rally in Three Years
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-12-17T08:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-shares-will-extend-rally.html
China’s stocks  extended the
benchmark index’s biggest rally in three years as a government
plan to boost urbanization spurred gains in commodity producers.
Health-care companies fell the most in three months.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed at
least 2.7 percent.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology
Co. (000157)  advanced to a two-month high after its Hong Kong-traded
shares were upgraded at Credit Suisse Group AG. Kangmei
Pharmaceutical Co. plunged 10 percent. China will increase
urbanization next year to boost domestic consumption, an annual
economic conference concluded over the weekend.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent to 2,160.34
at the close. The gauge jumped 4.3 percent on Dec. 14, the most
since October 2009, amid speculation state-backed institutions
were buying shares as a manufacturing survey added to optimism
the world’s second-largest economy will rebound. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  climbed 0.5 percent to 2,366.70.  “Coal and material producers are rising because investors
expect demand to surge,” Xue Mingjie, an analyst at Rising
Securities in  Shanghai , said by phone today. “The weekend
conference by the leaders re-emphasized urbanization.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.1 percent
in  Hong Kong  from a nine-month high.  Gauges tracking energy and materials producers gained at
least 1.1 percent. Yanzhou Coal advanced 2.7 percent to 17.53
 yuan . Jiangxi Copper climbed 3.5 percent to 22.85 yuan, the
highest close since Sept. 14.  Cyclical Stocks  “Urbanization is a historic task with the country’s
modernization drive, and a main driver to boost domestic
consumption,” the  China Daily  reported today, citing an
official statement from the conference, which sets the tone for
economic policies the following year.  Investors should buy cyclical stocks such as cement and
property as those industries are key to the government’s plans
for urbanization, Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based China strategist at
Bank of Communications Co., wrote in a report today.  China ’s leaders also vowed to target “sustained and
healthy development” as they maintain a “prudent”  monetary 
policy and “proactive” fiscal stance, the Xinhua News Agency
said. There was no mention of seeking “relatively fast”
growth, a policy in place since 2006.  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 10 percent since
slumping to an almost-four year low on Dec. 3. The gains have
pared this year’s drop to 1.8 percent, which would be a third
straight annual loss. The measure trades at 11.9 times reported
earnings after valuations fell to 10.8 this month, the lowest
level since at least 1997,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sovereign Wealth  Trading  volumes  on the Shanghai Composite today were double
the 30-day average for this year.  Speculation on Dec. 14 that large institutions were buying
shares followed data showing the number of stock-trading
accounts containing funds declined to the lowest in two years.  China removed a $1 billion ceiling on investments by
overseas sovereign wealth funds and central banks in its  capital
markets , acccording to revised regulations posted Dec. 14 on the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange’s website. The
regulator kept the overall quota for qualified foreign
institutional investors at $80 billion. Approved quotas for QFII
funds total $36.04 billion, or less than 2 percent of stock-
market value.  Zoomlion Heavy added 0.5 percent to 8.94 yuan. Yang Y.
Song, analyst at Credit Suisse, said the stock was the top pick
in China’s construction industry.  Drugmakers Slump  A gauge of health-care companies sank 2.4 percent, its
biggest loss since Sept. 20. Kangmei Pharmaceutical dropped by
the 10 percent daily limit to 13.79 yuan. Shijiazhuang Yiling
Pharmaceutical Co. retreated 3.1 percent to 21.80 yuan.  “We may see some profit taking along the way but the
overall sentiment has improved,” Zhang Lei, an analyst with
Minsheng Securities Co., said by phone from Beijing. “The rally
looks likely to stay.”  Separately, China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman
 Guo Shuqing  said China will deepen reforms of listing methods
and study ways to clear the pipeline for initial public
offerings, the Shanghai Securities News reported.  Some 462 companies were awaiting IPO approval as of Dec.
13, according to the CSRC’s website.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S gained 1.4 percent on Dec. 14. The
 iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese exchange-
traded fund in the U.S., surged 1.8 percent to a nine-month high
of $39.34, extending gains last week to 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  