-- China Gas Has Enough Cash to Fund Fortune Purchase, CFO Says
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-12-17T22:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/china-gas-to-buy-fortune-oil-gas-unit-for-400-million-2-.html
China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , set to buy
 Fortune Oil (FTO)  Plc’s Chinese natural gas operations for $400
million, said it has enough cash to fund the transaction and is
looking for more acquisitions.  China Gas, which supplies natural gas to 172 Chinese
cities, holds more than HK$5 billion ($645 million) in cash and
won’t have to sell shares or debt, Chief Financial Officer Eric
Leung said yesterday in an interview. Fortune Oil will receive
$200 million in cash and either a $200 million deferred payment
or 250 million shares of China Gas, the Hong Kong-based company
said yesterday in a statement.  Buying Fortune Oil’s assets will give China Gas pipelines 
across Beijing, Tianjin, Chongqing and seven Chinese provinces,
a coal bed methane block in Shanxi and compressed and liquefied
natural gas operations. Much of Fortune Oil’s network covers 
areas where China Gas has no presence.  “The deal greatly expands our networks across the country,
and bring us upstream assets that can be used to feed our
customers,” Leung said. “It’s just the beginning of a trend
and we are looking to acquire more city gas assets when
opportunities emerge.”  Fortune Oil surged 18 percent, the biggest one-day jump in
almost two years, to close at 10.75 pence in  London  yesterday,
the highest close since April 26. China Gas was suspended from
trading in Hong Kong yesterday and will resume today, according
to a separate statement today.  Fortune Value  The deferred amount of $200 million will earn an annual
interest of 6 percent from the date the transaction is
completed, Fortune Oil said yesterday. Fortune Oil had a 181
million pound ($293 million) market value as of Dec. 14.  China Gas, which blocked a $2 billion bid from  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  with
Fortune’s backing in October, is looking at acquisitions to
expand after interim profit doubled, Chief Financial Officer
Eric Leung said in a Bloomberg TV interview last month.  “This will be very good for China Gas,” said Yan Shi, an
analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai . “They’re increasing
their customer base and they’ve worked with Fortune Oil before
to fend off the Sinopec takeover attempt, so it’ll be easy to
integrate the businesses.”  China Gas has the support of its major shareholders,
including China Petroleum, on the Fortune Oil deal, Leung said.
China Petroleum has held discussions with China Gas several
times in the past weeks to work out cooperation details, he
said.  Fortune Oil had teamed up with investors including China
Gas Founder Liu Minghui to buy China Gas shares at prices higher
than the HK$3.50 Sinopec and ENN Energy offered in December
2011.  Minghui Stake  Fortune Oil and China Gas Group held 18.4 percent of the
total issued shares in China Gas, the company said in its third-
quarter  statement  on Nov. 19. It didn’t mention the stake owned
by Minghui, who was reinstated as managing director on Aug. 20
after being arrested in December 2010 on suspicion of embezzling
company assets.  “Fortune Oil will continue to have access, through its
shareholding in China Gas, into the fastest growing natural gas
market in the world with an even larger platform,” Fortune
Chief Executive Officer Tee Kiam Poo said in the statement.
“Together we aim to accelerate China Gas’s share of the China
natural gas market.”  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , a Singapore-based edible oil
refiner and processor, will transfer its 15 percent stake in
Fortune’s gas unit to China Gas.  As part of the deal, Fortune Oil can nominate two directors
to China Gas, including the managing director, the company said
in the statement. The deal is subject to approval by
shareholders of both companies and Chinese regulators. Fortune’s
board said it would recommend shareholder approve the deal,
according to the statement.  The money raised in the sale will be used to pay down
Fortune Oil’s debt. BNP Paribas SA and Oriel Securities Ltd.
advised Fortune Oil on the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  