-- Cisco Seen Needing Citrix-to-NetApp for Growth: Real M&A
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-12-17T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cisco-seen-needing-citrix-to-netapp-for-growth-real-m-a.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s quest for
acquisitions while grappling with its worst stretch of sales
growth is making takeover candidates out of Citrix Systems Inc.,
NetApp Inc. and  Rackspace (RAX)  Hosting Inc.  Cisco, with its stock price  down  41 percent since November
2007, has gone too long without a “major” acquisition and
failed to invest enough in companies it purchased, Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  said Dec. 7. Four months
earlier, he bought NDS Group Ltd. for about $5 billion, Cisco’s
third-largest deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As the network-equipment industry matures, Chambers is
contending with two straight years of  sales  rising less than 8
percent and analysts estimating three more years below that
level, an unprecedented streak, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Citrix and its technology for delivering services over the
Internet may appeal to Cisco, Thrivent Financial for Lutherans
said. Data-storage company NetApp is another candidate,
according to Thrivent, while JMP Securities LLC says Rackspace’s
website-hosting business may prove alluring.  “They recognize that in order to grow, they’ve got to
expand,”  Erik Suppiger , a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP
Securities, said in a telephone interview. “It’s about Cisco
trying to identify market opportunities and going in some
different directions. That’s what I think is the urgency.”  Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for  San Jose , California-based
Cisco, declined to comment on the company’s takeover plans.
Today, shares of Cisco rose 1.3 percent to $20.11, the highest
closing level in seven months.  Juniper, Huawei  While Cisco is the largest maker of routers and switches
used in computer networking, competition with  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  and Huawei Technologies Co. has increased, forcing Chambers
to seek growth in other areas. The 28-year-old company has used
 acquisitions  to expand into new areas, including the 1993 deal
for Crescendo Communications that got Cisco into network
switching. That business generated 32 percent of Cisco’s fiscal
2012 revenue, making it the company’s  biggest  division.  Cisco has announced $6.79 billion of takeovers in 2012, its
busiest year since 2000, topping the $6.39 billion of takeovers
revealed in 2005 and $6.22 billion in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company agreed to purchase NDS for about $5 billion in
March, adding software used in next-generation video services.
NDS, which makes software for pay-TV channels, was co-owned by
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. and London private-equity firm
Permira Advisers LLP. The transaction closed in July.  Scientific-Atlanta  The purchase of NDS was the biggest for Cisco since 2006,
when it completed the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta Inc., a
maker of television set-top boxes, for $5.2 billion. Still,
Chambers said during a Dec. 7 conference with analysts that he’s
gone too long without a “major” deal, citing the $2.2 billion
purchase of Starent Networks Corp. in 2009 and the $3 billion
deal for Tandberg ASA in 2010 as examples. Starent made
equipment used by wireless carriers to deliver multimedia
content, while Tandberg made videoconferencing systems.  “You will see us more active in the M&A side of the
house,” Chambers said. “We’d done some very important
strategic smaller ones, but no major ones. And that cost us at
least 1 percent on revenue.”  Cisco’s  sales  rose 7.9 percent in fiscal 2011 and 6.6
percent in fiscal 2012, which ended in July. Analysts  project 
annual revenue growth ranging between 5.6 percent and 6.3
percent through 2015, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Growth has never stayed below 8
percent for so long, the data show.  Helping Sales  “Here’s a company that’s pretty sizable, and you need to
give more products and more capabilities to your salespeople to
sell,” William Choi, a New York-based analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, said in a phone interview. “New
opportunities are going to take several years of R&D.”  Chambers,  the CEO  since 1995, has stated he wants Cisco to
become the top information-technology company. To do so, he has
identified software and services as key areas for Cisco to
expand. International Business Machines Corp. embraced a similar
strategy when its hardware business dwindled. IBM is now the
largest computer-services provider.  A major acquisition could cost $10 billion or more,
according to JMP’s Suppiger. Both  Citrix (CTXS)  and NetApp have market
values of about $12 billion. Rackspace trades for $9.4 billion.
Chambers, during the Dec. 7 event, said $20 billion was too big.
Cisco’s market capitalization is $107 billion.  Possibly Citrix  Citrix is a possibility, said Thrivent Financial’s Peter Karazeris. Buying the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based company
would give Cisco virtualization software and other technologies
for delivering so-called cloud services over the Internet. Cisco
and Citrix already have a relationship and announced a
“significant expansion” of that partnership in October.  “There’s a lot of things that Citrix is participating in
that Cisco has talked about,” Karazeris, a Minneapolis-based
analyst at Thrivent, which oversees $76 billion in assets and
owns shares of Cisco and Citrix, said in a phone interview.
“Citrix is a  software company , it fills that hole. Software
tends to be higher margin. That’s accretive to Cisco’s gross
margin.”  Citrix will increase revenue between 13 percent and 16
percent each year in 2012 through 2016, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s shares rose on
Dec. 7 following Chambers’ comments about takeovers, climbing
3.3 percent.  NetApp’s Valuation  Laura Heisman, a spokeswoman for Citrix, didn’t return a
message seeking comment on Cisco. Citrix shares added 1.8
percent today to $66.18, the highest close in two months.  NetApp (NTAP) , which would give Cisco data-storage hardware and
software to flesh out Cisco’s existing offerings in servers and
networking gear, is another candidate, Karazeris said. Last
month, its enterprise value sank to 5.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the cheapest
level since 2008. The valuation for the Sunnyvale, California-
based company is now 8.2 times.  While NetApp’s revenue grew 22 percent in fiscal 2012,
increases will be between 1 percent and 8.7 percent annually
through 2017, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Financially, it’s a good transaction,” Karazeris said.
“Strategically, it’s not crazy. It does fit.”  Thrivent owns NetApp shares.  Web Hosting  Jodi Baumann, a spokeswoman for NetApp, didn’t return an e-
mail or voice mail seeking comment. Today, NetApp rose 0.6
percent to $33.18, ending a three-day losing streak.  Rackspace, a San Antonio-based company that hosts websites,
could be another candidate because it would give Cisco widely
used data-center technologies, JMP’s Suppiger said. Analysts see
sales growth averaging 22 percent between 2012 and 2016, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rachel Romoff, a spokeswoman for Rackspace, declined to
comment. Rackspace shares slipped 0.3 percent to $68.55 today.  Other possible targets include Linthicum, Maryland-based
 Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , which makes switches, and Sunnyvale, California-
based  Infinera Corp. (INFN) , which sells semiconductor chips and
equipment for optical networks, according to Alexander Henderson, a New York-based analyst at Needham & Co.  Representatives at Ciena and Infinera didn’t return e-mails
or voice mails seeking comment. Ciena shares fell 2.6 percent
while Infinera rose 0.7 percent today.  Selling Linksys  Cisco’s history of deals isn’t without blemishes. It spent
$590 million in 2009 buying Pure Digital Technologies Inc., the
seller of Flip video recorders, only to stop making the devices
after they were supplanted by smartphones.  Cisco has hired Barclays Plc to find a buyer for Linksys,
which makes routers for home wireless access, said people with
knowledge of the matter. Linksys is likely to fetch much less
than the $500 million Cisco paid for it in 2003 because it is a
mature consumer business with low margins, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process isn’t
public.  “Their track record is spotty,” Needham’s Henderson said
in a phone interview.  With $45 billion in  cash and equivalents , Cisco is poised
to do a deal, Karazeris said.  “We know they’re going to be spending their cash,” he
said. “It’s not so much buying for growth. I think that’s what
led them down the wrong path before. It’s making strategic
acquisitions that will increase margins. What a shareholder is
going to care most about is doing an acquisition that will
create good returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  