-- Cisco Said to Hire Barclays to Sell Linksys Division
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-12-17T21:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cisco-said-to-hire-barclays-to-sell-linksys-division.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest
maker of equipment for computer networks, has hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
to find a buyer for Linksys, which makes routers for home
wireless access, said people with knowledge of the situation.  The unit may attract the interest of TV set makers seeking
a recognized brand and technology, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the process isn’t public. Linksys
is likely to fetch much less than the $500 million Cisco paid
for it in 2003 because it is a mature consumer business with low
margins, the people said.  Linksys has lost market share to Netgear Inc. and competes
in an industry where prices are falling, said  Joanna Makris , an
analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. Cisco
doesn’t break out Linksys figures, but it’s a primary component
of a division whose sales have fallen 35 percent over the past
two years, according to regulatory filings.  “I’m just glad they’re getting rid of it,” Makris, who
has a buy rating on Cisco stock, said in an interview. “They’re
gradually admitting some of their mistakes.”  Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-based
Cisco, and Marc Hazelton, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment.  Consumer Foray  Cisco wants to sell Linksys as part of its  strategy  to exit
consumer businesses while expanding in corporate software and
technology services. Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers 
eliminated 7,800 jobs over the past year and a half and closed
businesses such as the Flip video-camera unit amid a slowdown in
 sales growth  after a foray into consumer technologies backfired.  The company’s shares rose 1.3 percent today to $20.11. The
stock has increased 11 percent this year.  Potential buyers for Linksys include  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) ,
Belkin International Inc.,  Arris Group Inc. (ARRS)  and  Pace Plc (PIC) , which
all make networking products, Makris said. Arris and Pace have
each placed bids on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Home Business, which
sells set-top boxes, Bloomberg News reported Dec. 10.  Leah Polk, a spokeswoman for Belkin, Steve Shattuck, a
spokesman for Western Digital and Alex Swan, a spokesman for
Arris Group, declined to comment. A representative for Pace
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  In addition to Linksys, Cisco operates in the home market
with its Scientific Atlanta set-top-box unit and with NDS Group
Ltd., a software maker for paid-television channels used by
British Sky Broadcasting Group, Canal Plus and DirecTV. Cisco
bought NDS in July for $5 billion.  Barclays is also advising Google on the sale of its set-top
box division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  