-- Cleary, Skadden, Clifford Chance: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-17T12:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cleary-skadden-clifford-chance-kilpatrick-business-of-law.html
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton
LLP and SyCip Salazar Hernandez & Gatmaitan acted as legal
advisers to  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) , the largest publicly traded
Coke bottler by volume, which agreed to buy a 51 percent stake
in Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines Inc. for $689 million in its
first acquisition outside of Latin America. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing Coca-Cola Co.  Cleary partner Chantal Kordula and counsel Grant Binder are
leading the corporate team. Partner William McRae is leading the
tax team and partner Arthur Kohn is leading the team on employee
benefits matters.  The Skadden team includes partners Martha McGarry and Sean Doyle.  The agreement includes an option for Coca-Cola Femsa to buy
the rest of the Philippine bottler within seven years of the
deal closing, the Mexico City-based company said in a statement.
It will also have the option to sell its ownership to  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  any time during year six, it said.  Coca-Cola Femsa, which sells  2.5 billion cases  of soda
annually across nine Latin American countries, has used at least
24.5 billion pesos ($1.9 billion) of new stock since the start
of 2011 to acquire soft drink makers and add bottling rights.
The Dec. 14 announcement adds 23 production plants and sales of
about 530 million unit cases of beverages this year.  The deal is expected to close early next year, according to
the statement.  Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, the world’s biggest soft-drink
maker, has owned all of the Philippine unit since buying the 65
percent stake owned by  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  in 2007 for $590
million.  Coca-Cola Femsa is 49 percent-owned by Fomento Economico
Mexicano SAB and Coca-Cola Co. has a 29 percent stake, according
to its  website .  For more, click here.  Clifford Chance Advises CLP in Sale to Fund Power Projects  Clifford Chance LLP partner Amy Lo led a team advising  CLP
Holdings Ltd. (2) , Hong Kong’s biggest electricity supplier, in
raising HK$7.6 billion ($981 million) in a share sale to fund
power investments as the company said it doesn’t intend to cut
its dividend payout.  U.S. securities law advice was provided by Shanghai-based
partner Jean Thio.  The company is offering as many as 120.3 million shares at
HK$63.25 apiece, according to a statement sent to the Hong
Kong’s stock exchange Dec. 14. The price represents a discount
of 5.9 percent to its closing share price of HK$67.20 Dec. 13.  The share sale comes as CLP’s Indian and Australian
businesses have stalled in the past year, and tariff increases
in Hong Kong haven’t kept pace with higher fuel costs, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. CLP officials told a conference
call with analysts Dec. 14 that they won’t fund investments by
cutting the dividend payout.  The proceeds will be used for “investment in the Hong Kong
electricity business, such as in infrastructure related to gas
supply from the mainland, and in additional generating capacity
in those markets where the group is already present,” CLP said
in the statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
are arranging the sale, according to the statement.  Fees  Gupta Says He Shouldn’t Pay Goldman Sachs for Legal Fees  Rajat Gupta , the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director
who’s appealing his conviction for  insider trading , said he
shouldn’t have to pay the firm as much as $7 million in legal
fees and other expenses.  Gupta, 64, who sat on the board of New York-based Goldman
Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted
of passing information he gathered at board meetings to Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Goldman Sachs, supported by
U.S. prosecutors in the case, is seeking restitution from Gupta
as a victim of Gupta’s fraud.  Goldman Sachs has “not even begun to satisfy its burden of
showing the fees are recoverable,” Gupta said in papers filed
Dec. 14 in Manhattan federal court.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . The federal
appeals court in New York said that it will hear Gupta’s appeal
as early as April 1. It ruled he may remain free on $10 million
bail while it considers the case.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  News  Clifford Chance Advises Autonomy’s Mike Lynch and Others  Clifford Chance  LLP is advising Mike Lynch, the
entrepreneur who sold Autonomy Corp. to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  last
year and was accused by HP of miscategorizing sales in an $8.8
billion writedown.  Hewlett-Packard, which published the allegations on Nov.
20., bought Autonomy to diversify away from hardware and expand
in software for businesses.  Meg Whitman said the misrepresentations caused Hewlett-
Packard to value Autonomy incorrectly before the deal, which
ultimately cost the Palo Alto, California-based company $11.1
billion.  Clifford Chance is also advising other former members of
Autonomy. The firm declined to name them or the firm’s lawyers
who are advising Lynch.  Lynch, who was fired from the combined company in May, said
he had expected the writedown because Cambridge, England-based
Autonomy had lost much of its talent under Hewlett-Packard.  The writedown was another blow for Hewlett-Packard, which
is already suffering from management turmoil and slowdowns in
its personal-computer, printer and technology-services
businesses.  Lynch founded Autonomy as a spinoff from the University of
Cambridge in 1996 and built it into the U.K.’s second-largest
software company.  John Schultz , Hewlett-Packard’s general counsel, has said
among those practices, which accounted for $200 million in
miscategorized or false revenue, was reselling  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
hardware and recording it as software revenue.  Hewlett-Packard knew about this practice ahead of time and
continued it after the acquisition, Lynch said.  Moves  Lane Powell Adds Intellectual Property Partner Wesner  Gregory F. Wesner joined Lane Powell PC as a shareholder in
the intellectual property and technology practice group in
Seattle. He previously held partnership positions at Frommer
Lawrence & Haug and at K&L Gates LLP, the firm said.  Wesner focuses his practice on patent, trademark and other
intellectual property litigation and related counseling. His
patent litigation experience includes work with pharmaceuticals
and medical devices, laser telemetry, wireless infrastructure
technology, high-speed scanning radio technology, among others.
Wesner also has experience litigating trademark and Internet and
technology law cases.  Lane Powell has more than 200 attorneys in six offices in
Washington state, Oregon, Alaska and London.  Kilpatrick Hires Former Kellogg Lawyer in Denver  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP added attorney Brian
O’Donnell to its intellectual property department as counsel on
the patent litigation team in Denver.  O’Donnell joins the firm after serving as intellectual
property counsel for  Kellogg Co. (K)  in Battle Creek, Michigan,
where he oversaw the company’s patent and trademark portfolio.
He was also responsible for patent, trademark and copyright
licenses, and intellectual property matters related to mergers
and acquisitions, the firm said.  Kilpatrick Townsend has lawyers at 19 U.S. and
international offices.  Litigation  News Corp. Settled 22 More U.K. Tabloid Phone-Hacking Cases  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for more than 150 victims of phone
hacking by journalists at the now-defunct News of the World
tabloid, described confidential accords for 22 lawsuits in a
London court Dec. 14.  The sides must now select seven or eight lead cases for
trial, including “famous and non-famous” people, to help
determine a range of damages, Judge Geoffrey Vos said at the
hearing.  “There remains a need to have people from different walks
of life” represented in the lead cases, Vos said. While all the
victims had their privacy violated, celebrities who voluntarily
lived in the public eye may be treated differently than
individuals who led strictly private lives, he said.  British actor  Hugh Grant , who hasn’t settled, is among the
victims who sued over claims their mobile-phone voice mail was
intercepted by journalists seeking private information. The
 Metropolitan Police Service  has given many of the victims
evidence to back their cases, including notes by  Glenn Mulcaire ,
the tabloid’s private investigator arrested in 2006.  The settlements announced were made with victims including
Jeff Brazier, a U.K. soccer player who became a reality-
television star; Jamie Theakston, a TV and radio presenter in
Britain; and Colin Stagg, who was wrongly accused of murder in
1992 and later became the subject of tabloid news coverage, even
after he was cleared.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the newspaper
last year in response to the scandal. More than 70 civil
lawsuits were settled by February, resulting in the cancellation
of a trial scheduled for that month.  More than 80 people have been arrested in relation to
wrongdoing at News Corp.’s U.K. operation, including Rebekah Brooks, its former chief executive officer. Brooks is among
eight former News Corp. journalists charged in July with
conspiring to hack the phones of more than 600 people between
2000 and 2006. A criminal trial is scheduled for September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  