-- Connecticut Was Cradle of Gun Culture Centuries Before Massacre
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/connecticut-was-cradle-of-gun-culture-centuries-before-massacre.html
Dean Price thought about keeping the
shooting range he operates outside Newtown,  Connecticut , closed
the day after 20 children and six adults were shot and killed at
Sandy Hook Elementary School.  “We considered it,” said Price, the 58-year-old head of
the Danbury Shooting Sports Association, who has run the range
in the Wooster Mountain State Park for 19 years. “I wasn’t so
sure people wanted to hear gunfire today.”  Yet on Dec. 15 the gates on the dirt road to the Wooster
Mountain Shooting Range were open and almost 40 men and women
were at the edge of an open field firing handguns and rifles,
aiming at targets hung from frames, as well as bowling pins
scattered in the dirt at the bottom of an imposing hillside.  While Connecticut has one of the lowest rates of U.S. gun
ownership at less than 20 percent of the population, demand has
been on the upswing since 2007, when burglars invaded a doctor’s
home in Cheshire, sexually assaulting and killing his wife and
two daughters, according to Robert Crook, executive director of
 Coalition of Connecticut Sportsmen . The lobbying group, based in
Hartford, estimates that pistol permits have increased to
170,000 from 145,000 in five years.  Colt’s Home  The state has been central to the firearms industry for
more than 200 years, with companies such as  West Hartford ’s Colt
Defense LLC, whose founder, Samuel Colt, invented the revolver
in 1836. The  National Shooting Sports Federation , a
manufacturers group, is even based in Newtown. The federation,
formed in 1961 and representing more than 3,000 U.S. companies
and organizations, had two guards in its parking lot Dec. 15
asking people to leave.  Jake McGuigan, its director of government relations, told
state lawmakers last year that the firearms industry has a $1.3
billion impact on Connecticut, including 5,400 jobs and $81
million in  tax revenue .  Sturm, Ruger & Co. (RGR)  of Southport was founded in 1949,
according to its website. Today, it produces “hundreds of
thousands of firearms each year for hunting, target shooting,
collecting, self-defense,  law enforcement , and government
agencies,” the website says.  Mossberg & Sons Inc. in North Haven manufactures shotguns
and rifles. “The shooting sports have been an American tradition
for generations,” the company says on its website.  Legal Bushmaster  Yet the state that makes so many guns also has some of the
most restrictive laws in the U.S., including an assault-weapons
ban. Connecticut ranks fifth among states with the strictest gun
laws, according to a 2011 scorecard from the Brady Campaign to
Prevent Gun Violence, a Washington group that claims to be the
country’s largest gun-control lobby.  More than 35 automatic and semi-automatic weapons are
prohibited. The Bushmaster .223 semi-automatic rifle, which is
modeled after the military’s M-16 and was what authorities say
20-year-old Adam Lanza used at Sandy Hook, isn’t among the
proscribed guns listed on the state’s  website .  Connecticut residents who aren’t in a police force or the
military need a hunting license or pistol permit to buy a
weapon, Crook said in a telephone interview. They need to be 21
to get a pistol permit, he said.  The state’s industry has beaten back attempts to add
regulations in the past three years.  “I think the gun owners of Connecticut are more than
satisfied with the gun laws as they are now,” Crook said.  Capacious Magazines  Crook said he expects lawmakers to revive legislation to
limit the capacity of ammunition magazines to 10 bullets.  Similar proposals set off protests by gun enthusiasts last
year after Jared Lee Loughner killed six people in Tuscon,
 Arizona , as he attempted to assassinate former U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords . In 2009, the industry helped
kill a bill to force the state’s manufacturers to engrave a
microscopic marking in their weapons to improve traceability.  Authorities are tracing guns found at Lanza’s mother’s home
and the school, said Ginger Colbrun, spokeswoman for the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.  Bureau agents pored through records at the Wooster Mountain
Shooting Range after reports that the Lanzas practiced shooting
near Newtown, according to Price. He said there are no records
showing they ever went there.  “We have more than enough gun laws,” Price said as shots
echoed against the mountain outside Newtown. “Their resources
would be better spent on education, on how to prevent someone
like that from doing something like that again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  