-- Copper Gains for First Time in Three Days on China Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T07:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/copper-gains-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-china-demand.html
Copper climbed for the first time in
three days on speculation that  China ’s plan to seek growth of
higher “quality and efficiency” next year will bolster demand
for industrial metals in the largest consumer.  Metal for delivery in three months rose as much as 0.5
percent to $8,104.25 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
before trading at $8,085.50 by 3:07 p.m. Shanghai time. The
contract gained 6.4 percent this year. Copper for March delivery
on the Shanghai Futures Exchange gained 0.5 percent to close at
58,130  yuan  ($9,326) a ton.  Chinese leaders vowed to target “sustained and healthy
development” next year by maintaining a “prudent” monetary
policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy as they concluded a
two-day central economic work conference in Beijing yesterday,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  “These policies are good for China in the long term, and
are what China needs at the moment,” said Fang Junfeng, an
analyst at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. “Recent economic data are
fairly good, fueling a rally in stocks, which seems to be
helping boost commodity sentiment.”  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose, extending
the biggest rally in three years, amid speculation state-backed
institutions were buying shares after preliminary reading of a
purchasing managers’ index for December showed manufacturing
expansion accelerated on Dec. 14.  Copper for immediate delivery on Shanghai’s Changjiang
market traded at a premium of 60 yuan a ton today to the front-
month SHFE contract, compared with a discount of 25 yuan a ton a
week earlier.  The March contract on the Comex was little changed at
$3.6875 a pound. Net-long  positions , or wagers on rising prices,
held by funds were 22,123 futures and options contracts as of
Dec. 11, compared with 13,481 a week earlier, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  On the LME, tin climbed, while aluminum, zinc, lead, and
nickel were little changed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  