-- Company Bond Sales Reach $3.9 Trillion to Beat Global Record
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-12-17T21:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/corporate-bond-sales-reach-3-89-trillion-to-beat-global-record.html
Corporate bond  sales  from the U.S to
 Europe  and  Asia  surpassed 2009’s record to reach $3.9 trillion
this year as borrowing costs plunged to the lowest ever.  Global issuance is up from $3.29 trillion last year and
$3.23 trillion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With central banks holding down benchmark  interest rates  to
prop up the global economy, investors funneled an unprecedented
$455.7 billion into bond funds this year, according to EPFR
Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Companies from the riskiest
to the most creditworthy took advantage of yields that fell to
3.33 percent this month to lock in lower borrowing costs.  “If you’re looking, as an issuer, to come to market, why
wait for next year when there are a variety of unknowns?”  Kevin Flanagan , the chief fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney, said in a phone interview. “Why not take
advantage of the rate environment that was very friendly for
issuance this year?”  The extra yield that investors demand to own corporate
bonds rather than government debt is at 223 basis points,
narrowing from 351 at the end of last year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporate & High Yield index.  “This low-rate environment is definitely creating a unique
market,” said Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Investor demand
definitely exceeded expectations.”  Nudging Ahead  Global issuance nudged ahead of 2009’s all-time high of
$3.89 trillion, when sales were stoked by government guarantees
intended to rebuild confidence in the banking system and help
the recovery from the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Yields have declined to 3.34 percent, from 4.83 percent on
Dec. 31 and after touching an unprecedented 3.33 percent on Dec.
6, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Borrowing
costs have tumbled from an all-time high of 9.05 percent in
October 2008, when credit markets seized in the weeks following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The global economy is expected to expand 2.22 percent this
year, down from 2.9 percent growth in 2011, according to the
average estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Dec. 12 that it will continue
quantitative easing, buying $45 billion a month of  Treasury
securities  starting in January. It’s held benchmark interest
rates at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Whatever It Takes’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s unlimited
bank-lending program and pledge this year to do “whatever it
takes” to support the euro also helped stoke corporate bond
sales. The Frankfurt-based ECB held its main interest rate at an
all-time low of  0.75 percent  on Dec. 6.  “There might’ve been finally a sea change in attitude with
respect to rates,” said Morgan Stanley’s Flanagan, who’s based
in Purchase,  New York . Investors realized “maybe this is the
interest-rate environment going forward, and instead of sitting
on cash at zero, I need to move out and try to get some total
return,” he said.  Corporate bonds handed investors 11.5 percent this year,
the most since they returned 20.5 percent in 2009 and following
a 4.86 percent gain in 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  In the U.S.,  issuance  also reached a record, climbing to
$1.45 trillion from $1.13 trillion in 2011 and exceeding the
 previous all-time high  of $1.24 trillion in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refinance Debt  Refinancing was listed as a use of proceeds in about 63
percent of investment-grade, dollar-denominated offerings in the
third quarter, according to data from Moody’s Capital Markets
Group.  “It’s a good, healthy sign to see that type of issuance,
and it shows that financial markets are functioning well,” said
Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL
Financial , which oversees $350 billion of assets.  A $14.7 billion offering from drug and medical-device maker
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  last month was the biggest dollar-
denominated sale since February 2009, when  Roche Holding AG (ROG) 
issued $16 billion of debt, Bloomberg data show.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker, led
issuance this month with $6.2 billion of bonds, Bloomberg data
show.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  raised $2 billion in its first offering
since 2009.  “It’s been a real food fight out there in terms of these
issues,” said Bonnie Baha, the head of global developed credit
at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees more
than $50 billion. “You’d have thought at this point it would’ve
slowed down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  