-- Court Action Seen as Option If Mississippi Blasting Fails
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-12-17T18:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/court-action-seen-as-option-if-mississippi-blasting-fails.html
U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin  said the
Obama administration has assured him “every option is on the
table” if blasting away rock structures fails to keep the
drought-depleted  Mississippi  River open for barge traffic.  Durbin, who met today with representatives of U.S.  Army
Corps  of Engineers, the Coast Guard and industry groups affected
by low levels on the river, said options may include an appeal
to the White House to increase the flow of water from the
Missouri River into the Mississippi, or the pursuit of a court
order seeking the same result.  “We’re at the mercy of the weather, and if the weather
continues to cooperate, with rain and the like, then we should
be able to get through this difficult period,” the  Illinois 
Democrat told reporters today in a drizzle in East Alton,
Illinois, alongside the Mississippi, the nation’s busiest
waterway. “If not, we’ll have to consider other options.”  The Corps today began blasting rock structures in the
riverbed, called pinnacles, along a 15-mile stretch of the
Mississippi near Thebes, Illinois, to help keep the river open,
part of a plan that includes dredging.  The blasting, which was expedited at the request of Durbin
and other lawmakers, is expected to take 30 to 45 days, during
which barge traffic will be restricted from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.  The Army Corps on Dec. 6 rejected a request from shippers  to
increase the flow of water from the  Missouri . Jo-Ellen Darcy,
the Army’s assistant secretary for civil, siding with officials
from the Dakotas, Kansas and  Montana , said unleashing water
stored in reservoirs along the Missouri would put drinking
supplies and wildlife at risk and may raise hydropower bills.  Last week, the agency began to increase the flow from
Carlyle Lake on the Kaskaskia River system in southwest
Illinois, which it said may add six inches of water to the
lowest point in the Mississippi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  