-- Cowboys’ Brent Attends Game After Crash That Killed Teammate
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-17T05:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cowboys-brent-attends-game-after-crash-that-killed-teammate.html
Dallas  Cowboys defensive tackle Josh
Brent was on the sideline in street clothes during yesterday’s
overtime win against the Pittsburgh Steelers, one week after
being charged with intoxication manslaughter for a one-car
accident that killed teammate  Jerry Brown .  Brent, 24, was welcomed by the team on a day that Brown was
remembered with a moment of silence, while Cowboys players wore
a decal with Brown’s No. 53 on their helmets.  “His mother asked all of his teammates, everybody to have
Josh’s back, to support him,” Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  told
reporters about Brown’s mother. “She knew Josh loved her son
Jerry. She knew Jerry would want this. His teammates asked him
to come and be down there with them.”  Brent’s presence on the sideline -- wearing a Cowboys
sweatshirt and hat -- during the nationally televised National
Football League game in Arlington, Texas, was questioned by CBS
Sports NFL analyst Boomer Esiason.  “Am I the only one that is wondering what in the world the
Cowboys are thinking with Josh Brent on the sideline?” Esiason
said on his Twitter account during yesterday’s game.  “I do know certainly there is the other side of the
coin,” Jones said about whether Brent should have been at the
game. “But this is a case of the people who he’s arguably the
closest to really wanting him around.”  Brent was charged on Dec. 8 after the vehicle he was
driving at high speed hit a curb and flipped at least once in
Irving,  Texas . Brown, his close friend and former college
teammate at the  University of Illinois , was found unresponsive
at the scene and died at a local hospital. Brent had a blood
alcohol level that was more than twice the legal limit, the
Dallas Morning News reported.  Brent said last week in a statement that he was devastated
and would live with the “horrific and tragic loss every day”
for the rest of his life. Brown’s mother, Stacey Jackson,
forgave Brent at her son’s memorial service, saying the death
wasn’t entirely his fault, and Brent attended Brown’s funeral in
Dallas on Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  