-- VeriFone Sued for $250 Million Over New York Taxi Ad Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-17T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/creative-mobile-sues-verifone-over-ads-in-new-york-taxis.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , the largest
maker of credit-card terminals, was sued by Creative Mobile
Technologies LLC for more than $250 million over an agreement to
place advertisements on screens in  New York  taxis.  Creative Mobile was founded in 2005 in response to the
city’s mandate that cabs install passenger information monitors,
according to the complaint filed today in state court in
 Manhattan .  Creative Mobile, based in New York, developed media systems
that are now in more than 6,600 city cabs, and it entered into a
sales agreement  with Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc.’s  Clear
Channel Taxi Media LLC to place ads on the screens, according to
the complaint.  VeriFone acquired Clear Channel Taxi Media in 2009. The
suit accuses the  San Jose , California-based company of
“intentionally and maliciously” violating and interfering with
Creative Mobile’s rights under the agreement and causing Clear
Channel Taxi Media to breach the pact, according to the
complaint.  Creative Mobile accuses VeriFone of refusing to supply data
and information needed to calculate amounts due under the
agreement and putting ads on screens not operated by Creative
Mobile while not paying the company its share of revenues under
the pact.  Outside City  VeriFone also allegedly caused its taxi media unit to put
ads in cabs outside of New York without first offering Creative
Mobile the opportunity to carry the ads, as called for under the
agreement.  “VeriFone intentionally caused and directed these breaches
to damage CMT and to tortiously remove CMT both as its only
competitor in the  New York City ” passenger-information monitor
market “and also as its only significant competitor in markets
outside New York City,” Creative Mobile said in the complaint.  Andy Payment, a spokesman for VeriFone, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  The case is Creative Mobile Technologies LLC v. VeriFone
Systems Inc., 654379/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  