-- Credit Suisse Said to Cut Dubai Investment Banking Business
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-12-18T13:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/credit-suisse-said-to-cut-investment-banking-business-in-dubai.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , whose
second-largest shareholder is the  Qatar  Investment Authority, is
cutting its investment banking business in Dubai to focus on
Qatar and  Saudi Arabia , a person familiar with the matter said.  Two bankers will move to Doha from Dubai as part of plans
to shift the regional investment banking department headquarters
to Qatar, the person said, asking not to be named as the news
isn’t public. The bank will also cut about three positions in
Dubai and transfer another as it moves its equities business to
 Riyadh , the person said. Bassam Yammine, MENA investment banking
department co-head, already left the bank, the person said.  Qatar and Credit Suisse are boosting ties after the nation
took a 6 percent stake in the Zurich-based bank, bought its
London headquarters and formed asset manager Aventicum Capital
Management. The country, which has the world’s third-largest gas
reserves, is snapping up assets to reduce its energy dependency
and has $30 billion to invest this year, Qatar Investment
Authority board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in April.  “Credit Suisse remains committed to providing a range of
banking services to the MENA region,” the bank said yesterday
in a statement in response to questions on the cuts, referring
to the  Middle East  and North Africa region. “We continue to be
proactive about monitoring the size of our business relative to
client opportunities and market conditions. This involves
realigning resources to growth areas and adjusting capacity to
meet client needs and to manage costs across our businesses.”  Cost Cuts  The bank said in October it will trim an additional 1
billion francs ($1.09 billion) in annual costs by the end of
2015, adding to a 1 billion-franc savings program from July and
2 billion-franc cut in expenses achieved since last year.  Credit Suisse rose 0.9 percent to 22.72 Swiss francs as of
2:28 p.m. in Zurich, after earlier gaining 1.5 percent.  The bank announced in November 2011 that it was planning to
expand in Qatar this year by providing asset-management services
to local and international investors. The bank’s board of
directors met in Qatar about a year ago and earlier this year
shifted staff to Doha from Dubai, two people familiar with the
matter said in September.  Credit Suisse has only been an underwriter for two bond
deals in the Gulf Cooperation Council valued at $67 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This makes it the 40th
underwriter in the region out of 46, the data shows.  Industry Slump  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  is
trimming staff to pare costs amid an industrywide slump that’s
prompted more than 300,000 job losses in the past two years. The
bank last month shook up its investment-banking unit to speed
the process, merging asset management with the private bank.  The government-run Qatar Financial Center Authority,
charged with expanding the country’s financial services
industry, announced a strategy in 2010 to make Qatar a hub for
asset management and reinsurance.  Hasnain Malik, Citigroup’s head of research for the Middle
East and North Africa, left the bank in recent weeks and won’t
be replaced, according to two people familiar with the matter,
asking not to be named as the departure wasn’t made public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  