-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Ease on Budget Talks; Bond Sales at Record
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-12-17T23:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-ease-on-budget-talks-bond-sales-at-record.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the least in almost two months as investors weighed
prospects for a budget deal in  Washington .  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 3.3
basis points to a mid-price of 91.9 basis points at 6 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since Oct. 18.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met
at the White House for discussions on avoiding more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases that take effect next
month without action by Congress and threaten to slow the
world’s largest economy. Obama is considering a possible budget
concession on Social Security cost-of-living increases after
Boehner dropped his opposition to raising tax rates for some top
earners, two people familiar with the talks said.  “All that’s coming down to progress on the fiscal cliff,”
Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL
Financial , which oversees $350 billion of assets, said in a
telephone interview. “The fact that Boehner came out and said
he’s open to higher tax rates is the key driver.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  in Washington says a
failure of lawmakers to avert the fiscal cliff may tip the
economy back into recession.  The swaps index also decreased after Japan’s  Liberal
Democratic Party  returned to power on calls for more monetary
easing. While “markets will view that skeptically, more central
bank easing is generally positive for risk assets, and will keep
the risk-on tone going despite lingering concern,” Valeri said.  ‘Bad Idea’  The credit-swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, declined for
the first time in three business days as investors positioned
for a potential selloff in investment-grade credit stemming from
the U.S. budget situation.  “A bunch of folks were buying protection late last week
trying to play fiscal cliff,” so as the markets rally on the
Japanese election and prospects for a budget deal improving,
investors are “realizing that being short risk is a bad idea,”
said  Ashish Shah , the head of global credit investment at New
York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees $245 billion in
fixed-income assets.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million.  Sales Record  Corporate bond sales from the U.S. to Europe and Asia
surpassed 2009’s record today to reach $3.9 trillion this year
as borrowing costs plunged to the lowest ever. Global issuance
is up from $3.29 trillion last year and $3.23 trillion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of high-yield companies that  Standard & Poor’s 
has upgraded to investment grade increased by two to 26 since
the last reporting period, accounting for $60.5 billion of rated
debt,  Diane Vazza , head of S&P’s global fixed-income research,
said in a note dated today.  Companies have been downgraded to junk at a faster rate,
with 40 so far this year through Dec. 10, S&P said in the note.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 16.8 basis points to 464.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with the one-year low of
445.4 basis points.  “We’re at a near-term peak,” Valeri said. “We’d need
another catalyst to break through that. This is as much
improvement as we’re likely to see. I don’t think the market in
general is looking for an additional rally here, but a lot of
good news is priced in.”  Edison Mission  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
Edison Mission Energy dropped after the unregulated generating
unit of Edison International filed for bankruptcy and said it
reached agreement on a reorganization plan with holders of its
$3.7 billion in debt and its parent.  The contracts declined 6.3 percentage points to 46 percent
upfront as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Under the agreement, Edison International will transfer its
stake in Edison Mission Energy to unsecured creditors, the unit
said in a statement today. The  Santa Ana , California-based
company listed $5.13 billion in assets and $5.09 billion in
liabilities in Chapter 11 papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  