-- Croatia Yields Jump as IMF Help Ruled Out After Downgrade
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-17T15:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/croatia-yields-jump-as-imf-help-ruled-out-after-downgrade.html
Yields on  Croatia ’s bonds surged to
an almost three-month high after a ratings downgrade that
spurred Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to say the government
won’t seek a loan from the International Monetary Fund.  The yield on dollar-denominated notes due in March 2021
jumped 21 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 4.746
percent, the highest level since Oct. 1, at 4:25 p.m. in the
capital Zagreb. The kuna declined 0.1 percent to 7.5335 per
euro, the weakest since Dec. 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Adriatic Sea nation had its long-term credit rating cut
to BB+, the highest non-investment level, at Standard and Poor’s
on Dec. 14. The company said Croatia’s structural and fiscal
overhaul is insufficient to promote growth and make government
finances more sustainable. Croatia can “do it alone” without
outside help, Milanovic said on Nova TV late yesterday.  “An IMF program would provide a key anchor for the
market,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in e-mailed response to
questions. “I don’t see why the government is so eager to rule
it out.”  Stocks Fall  Croatia’s Crobex stock index declined 2.3 percent at 4:26
p.m. in Zagreb to 1,680.55, the lowest since Sept. 6. Shares of
 INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  closed at 3.835 kuna per share, 4.1
percent down from the previous close, while shares of  T-Hrvatski
Telekom d.d. , a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , fell 1.7 percent to
close at 196 kuna per share, the lowest since June 19.  Central bank Governor Boris Vujcic said yesterday that
Croatia should continue to borrow both abroad and domestically,
adding there is no need for the release of foreign-currency
reserves to aid borrowing.  Public debt, estimated at 172 billion kuna ($30 billion) at
the end of June, will increase to 55 percent of gross domestic
product next year, while state borrowing will total 27 billion
kuna, according to government figures. The government is
expected to sell about $2.5 billion of debt in January on the
U.S. and European markets, with a second round later in 2013 on
Asian markets.  The cost to protect against the risk of non-payment on
Croatia’s bonds for five years with credit default swaps rose 25
basis points to 282, the highest since Oct. 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Struggle  The swaps, which fall as perceptions of creditworthiness
improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Croatia is struggling to return to growth after the economy
shrank in four consecutive quarters. The government on Nov. 19
said the budget deficit will widen as the Cabinet repays debt
and begins contributing to EU coffers after its entry in July
2013. It also cut the 2012 GDP forecast to a 1.1 percent
contraction, citing an investment drought due to  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  “Structural and fiscal reforms implemented so far have
been insufficient to foster economic growth and place public
finances on a more sustainable path,” S&P said in the
statement.  Negative Outlook  The downgrade puts Croatia’s credit rating on par with
Romania and  Indonesia . Fitch Ratings on Nov. 29 lowered its
outlook for the former Yugoslav republic’s debt, which it rates
at the lowest investment grade, to negative from stable. Moody’s
Investors Services on Nov. 19 confirmed an equivalent Baa3
credit rating, with a negative outlook.  “A country with a liquid banking system and neutral
current account with limited repayments in 2013 can perfectly
cope on its own even after the downgrade,” Petr Grishin, a
senior credit analyst at VTB Capital, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Croatia’s problems are structural, not
cyclical.”  The 11-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ,
which has vowed to reduce public spending and remove obstacles
to investment to speed up the sale of state companies, predicts
the budget deficit will widen to 3.1 percent of GDP next year,
while the economy will grow 1.8 percent.  Unemployment in the country of 4.2 million reached 19.6
percent in October, while there were no reductions in the public
sector, which employs about 17 percent of the workforce.  The  economy  will contract 2 percent this year and stagnate
in 2013, recovering gradually to trend growth of 2 percent by
2015, according to S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  