-- Cuban-Americans Reject Immigrant Parents’ Party Alliances
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-12-17T18:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/cuban-americans-reject-immigrant-parents-party-alliances.html
Abelardo and Lucy Gomez, like many
of their generation who fled Cuba, have voted for every
Republican U.S. presidential candidate for the past 40 years.  Their son is another story.  Albert Gomez, 39, who works in the family business in South
Florida, has a bobblehead doll of President  Barack Obama  perched
on his desk. A self-described pacifist who campaigned against
offshore oil drilling as a teenager, he has voted for a
Republican presidential candidate just once.  “I’m very upset with my son,” said Lucy Gomez, 65,
interviewed at her $2 million home in a gated Coral Gables
neighborhood along a canal near Biscayne Bay. “He’s my son and
he has a big heart. But Albert is a Democrat.”  Like Albert Gomez, the children of Cuban-American
immigrants are increasingly likely to buck their parents’
Republican allegiance and vote for Democrats, according to
polling data. This change helped President Barack Obama become
the first Democrat in 68 years to win Florida twice and creates
new hurdles for Republicans, who are searching for ways to win
favor among Hispanic voters after losing four of the last six
presidential contests.  Cuban-Americans account for just 3.3 percent of the 54
million Hispanics in the U.S., Census data show. Yet two-thirds
of the nation’s 1.8 million Cubans-Americans live in  Florida ,
creating a powerful voice in what has been the largest electoral
prize for more than a decade among states considered competitive
by both political parties.  Obama Win  Obama won 48 percent of the Cuban-American vote in Florida
this year, nearly twice as much as Al Gore, the Democratic
presidential candidate in 2000, according to exit polls from
Miami-based Bendixen & Amandi International, a polling firm
specializing in Hispanic community surveys. The change is due to
a generational shift in political views, according to the firm.  “The trend shows a real danger for Republicans,” said
Dario Moreno, a Florida International University political
science professor and adviser to Marco Rubio, the state’s
Republican and Cuban-American U.S. senator. “They’re losing
support among one of their strongest bases.”  Even though he votes for Democratic candidate, Albert calls
himself a moderate and isn’t affiliated with a party. He has one
sister, Lissette Arevalo, 40, who’s a registered Democrat and
another, Ivette Alvarez, 42, a Republican.  ‘Go Nuts’  When the Gomez family gathers for regular Sunday dinners at
Abelardo’s and Lucy’s home, decorated with art from Cuba and the
Dominican Republic, political discussions can “go nuts, go
crazy if we go too deep,” Albert said.  Debates can grow heated over abortion, gay marriage and
welfare programs as they try to convince their son to vote
Republican, according to Abelardo Gomez, 75.  “They try to tell me what’s what,” Albert said about his
parents. “But I’m pretty savvy. I make my own opinions.”  The Republican roots for Abelardo and Lucy, like thousands
of Cuban-born voters, can be traced to the Bay of Pigs military
invasion under then-President John F. Kennedy, a Democrat, that
failed to oust Fidel Castro and the communists.  That was in 1961, 12 years before Albert Gomez was born.  Albert, whose dark, combed-back hair is graying above the
ears, initially registered as a Republican and cursed “that
damn JFK who left us on the beach.” The U.S. failed to come to
the rescue of Cuban exiles who landed at the Bay of Pigs when
they were overcome by Castro’s forces.  His Republican affiliation was a rite-of-passage in the
Cuban-American culture, Albert said. He dropped it when he was
in his 20s because the party didn’t represent his political
philosophy, he said.  Social Principles  “Republicans abandoned the social principles that were the
framework of the party,” Albert said. “Those social ethics are
really important to me.”  His parents say Democratic social policies are ruining
America. There are signs of communism in an American culture
that relies on “handouts,” increasingly supports gay marriage
and where men no longer wear suits to work, Abelardo said.  He also pointed to young Cuban-Americans favoring
Democrats.  “When Castro took over, the first thing he did was try to
destroy the family: son against father, husband against wife,”
Abelardo said. Cubans were encouraged to report family members
who weren’t loyal to Castro, he said. “I see that division
taking place in the United States. Maybe not to the same degree,
but it’s happening.”  Losing Everything  For Lucy, whose cheeks rise toward her dark brown eyes when
she smiles, the experience of losing everything in Cuba and
having to rebuild in the U.S. reinforced her belief that
Republicans represent the party of personal responsibility.  She wants “investigators” stationed outside welfare
offices to make sure those receiving cash assistance aren’t
driving fancy cars.  Lucy and Abelardo both came to the U.S. in the months after
the Bay of Pigs.  When they met years later, Abelardo had four jobs,
including one collecting money for a bookie. Lucy had three: Two
at insurance companies and another at a coffee shop.  She was caring for two younger brothers, including one who
would steal  milk  when they needed it from the doorsteps of Miami
homes where he delivered the morning newspaper.  “I had to put Black Flag on the legs of the bed so the
cockroaches won’t eat us at night,” Lucy said.  Culture Shock  The work was a culture shock for Lucy, who grew up in a
sprawling Havana home with marble floors, matching columns and
its own chapel. Her mother, imprisoned after helping to free her
sister -- Lucy’s aunt -- from jail, gave up her home to Castro’s
government in exchange for her freedom.  The life that led to her Republican values is not one she’d
want for her son, she said.  “I went through a process that Albert never had to go
through,” Lucy said, explaining their political differences.
“And I will never allow it for him to go through that.”  Abelardo, whose gray-blue eyes open wide when he speaks of
baseball or cigars, was an only child in what he described as an
upper middle-class family. His father oversaw sugar production
for the government while his mother ran a store, called La
Quincallera, selling medicine, shampoo and perfume. As a
teenager, Abelardo had his own shop, La Quincalla, selling
books, guayaberas and other items.  “I remember being 10 years old and taking my bike and
collecting money from people that owed money to my mother,” he
said. “We’ve been business people from the very beginning.”  Clean Bathroom  One of Abelardo’s jobs in Miami was cleaning bathrooms at a
manufacturer. On his second day, the owner demanded to see the
new janitor. “He said he never saw a bathroom so clean in his
life,” Abelardo said.  Abelardo eventually became the company’s vice president of
marketing and sales, the second-highest position. After 20
years, he opened his own sales company out of his garage.  Today, he runs two companies that assemble and sell
components for manufacturers. Industrial Components and I.C.
Assemblies have about $36 million in yearly sales, he said.  Some years, Albert is his father’s best salesman. He’s the
worst performer other times, as in 2010 when Albert spent weeks
in  Haiti  after the earthquakes. A phone call from a friend
wanting to respond to the disaster led to Albert coordinating
the delivery of more than $15 million in food and medical
supplies on 30 flights and five boats.  Studying Geology  Albert, who went to Catholic school and studied geology at
Florida International University before earning a bachelor’s
degree in marketing, is volunteering in New York after  Hurricane
Sandy . He and his colleagues have focused on Rockaway, a
community in the New York City borough of Queens where they’re
trying to solve mold and other health issues.  Albert’s time away from the family business is an issue.  “He’s not helping the way he should be helping us,”
Abelardo said. “But he’s doing a super job on this other thing.
He’s helping the guy who doesn’t have anything.”  Growing up in a home along a golf course in suburban Miami,
Albert said he was interested in science and always “civic
minded.” He joined campaigns in the 1980s to oppose offshore
drilling and the Turkey Point nuclear  plant  near Miami.  Reading about deforestation and strip-mining as a youngster
gave him reservations about his family’s manufacturing business,
he said. He was upset by the violent protests in 1999 of the
World Trade Organization conference in  Seattle . Later, he joined
his parents’ company.  “The only way I could do any kind of social innovation was
to get into the belly of the best,” Albert said. “Coming in
with money has given me the latitude to look at social problems
and see it’s bigger than just taking care of yourself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Coral Gables, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  