-- Dallah Healthcare Soars in Trading Debut: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-18T07:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/dallah-healthcare-soars-in-saudi-trading-debut-riyadh-mover.html
(Corrects number of listings in penultimate paragraph.)  Dallah Healthcare Holding Co. (DALLAH) , a
Saudi Arabian provider of medical services, surged 51 percent on
its first day of trading in Riyadh.  The shares soared to 57.5 riyals at the close in the Saudi
capital after the initial public offering priced shares at 38
riyals each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 35
million shares were traded today. The stock was the most-traded
by volume and value on the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index,
which rose 0.3 percent. Dallah sold 14.2 million shares in the
offering, according to bourse data.  The listing has appealed to investors “due to its
performance and its potential in the future as the company plans
to utilize the IPO proceeds to finance its future expansion and
growth,” said Mohammed Al-Omran, a financial analyst and
president of the Gulf Center for Financial Consultancy, in
Riyadh. “The IPO valuation is fairly priced.”  Dallah’s net income rose 20 percent to 113 million riyals
($30 million) in 2011, according to a company prospectus. Sales
advanced 12 percent to 527 million riyals.  The IPO of the health-care services provider follows
listings in the kingdom this year that included Alinma Tokio
Marine  Saudi Arabia ,  Najran Cement Co. (NAJRAN) ,  City Cement Co. (CITYC) , Takween
Advanced Industries,  Al Tayyar Travel Group (ALTAYYAR) ,  Saudi Enaya
Cooperative Insurance Co. (ENAYA)  and  Saudi Airlines Catering Co. (CATERING)   Northern Region Cement Co. will offer a 50 percent stake in
an IPO in January, with shares priced at 10 riyals each, the
nation’s market regulator said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  