-- Danish Power-Plant Closing May Narrow Price Discount to Germany
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-17T16:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/danish-power-plant-closing-may-narrow-price-discount-to-germany.html
Shutdowns of unprofitable coal-fired
generating capacity in  Denmark  by the country’s biggest utility
will bring power prices in the nation more in line with higher
costs in  Germany , according to Bixia AB.  Dong Energy stopped power production at the 670-megawatt
Enstedvaerket-3 coal-fed power plant in Aabenra, southern
Jutland, Denmark, the company said on Dec. 14. The shutdown will
boost Denmark’s dependence on electricity imports during cold
snaps and peak demand, narrowing the discount of Danish power
prices compared with ones in Germany, said Robin Skoeld, a
trader at Bixia, Sweden’s fourth-largest power-trading company.  “Danish power prices will more often track the German
market,” Skoeld said today by phone from Linkoeping, Sweden.
“It may also have a knock-on effect of higher power costs in
southern  Sweden  during low wind output.”  This year’s average price for power for next-day delivery
in the Nordic region is the lowest in five years, according to
data from the Oslo-based Nord Pool Spot AS exchange, making
generation at plants like Enstedvaerket unprofitable.  Electricity in Denmark has averaged 36.85 euros ($48.48) a
megawatt-hour this year on mainland Jutland and 38.02 euros on
the Island of Zealand, the highest prices in the Nordic region,
data from Nord Pool Spot show. That compares with an average
baseload cost of 43.66 euros a megawatt-hour for Germany in the
same period, according to broker data on Bloomberg.  The plant shutdown will compound Denmark’s power deficit
during peakload, with the security of supply depending on a
“very high usage of the import capacity” in cold periods,
Entsoe, a Brussels-based group of national grid operators, said
in a Nov. 19  report  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  