-- Democrats Vow Action on Gun Control After School Shooting
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-17T20:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/democrats-vow-action-on-gun-control-after-school-shooting.html
The No. 2 Senate Democrat called
today for restrictions on military-style assault weapons as
pressure built for new limits on gun sales.  Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin  of Illinois said
individual possession of assault weapons should be banned, a day
after Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and senior
member of the Judiciary Committee, said she’ll introduce
legislation to restore a prohibition on assault-style weapons
when the new Congress convenes in January.  Durbin told reporters today in East Alton, Illinois, that
any discussion on banning assault weapons would include
sportsmen and hunters.  “I want to protect their right to hunt, but that doesn’t
include high capacity ammo clips and military assault weapons
and body armor,” Durbin said. “For goodness sakes, that’s way
beyond any Second Amendment right.”  Two Democratic U.S. senators that have been supported by
gun-rights groups,  Mark Warner  of Virginia and  Joe Manchin  of
West Virginia, responded to the killings at a Newtown,
Connecticut, elementary school by saying they were willing to
consider new  gun-control  measures.  Warner Shift  “Every American has Second Amendment rights, the ability
to hunt is part of our culture,” Warner told WTVR-TV in
Richmond. “But, you know, enough is enough. I think most of us
realize that there are ways to get to rational gun control.”  “I don’t know anyone in the sporting or hunting arena that
goes out with an assault rifle,” Manchin said today on  MSNBC .
“I don’t know anybody that needs 30 rounds in a clip to go
hunting. I mean, these are things that need to be talked
about.”  Senate Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy  said today that his
panel would hold hearings early next year on the shootings.
“Congress can and should be part of this national discussion
and search for answers,” the Vermont Democrat said.  On the Senate floor, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada
said today that lawmakers would explore actions to take to avoid
a repeat of the shootings in Connecticut and elsewhere.  “We need to accept the reality that we are not doing
enough to protect our citizens,” Reid said. “We have no
greater responsibility than keeping our most vulnerable and most
precious resource -- our children -- safe. And every idea should
be on the table as we discuss how best to do just that.”  Republican Silence  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky made
no comments about gun control or other legislation in his floor
speech.  “We stand with the people of Newtown today and in the days
ahead,” McConnell said. “We can do nothing to lessen their
anguish, but we can let them know that we mourn with them, that
we share a tiny part of their burden in our own hearts.”  Twenty children and six adults were shot to death on Dec.
14 by a man with an assault rifle at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown. The suspect, Adam Lanza, 20, killed himself
at the school with one of the two handguns he also was carrying.
He shot his mother, Nancy, earlier at their nearby home,
Connecticut state police said.  Leadership Call  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , an independent,
criticized President Barack Obama for failing to act on an
assault-weapons ban and other firearm restrictions.  “It’s time for the president to stand up and lead,”
Bloomberg said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “His job is
not just to be well-meaning. His job is to perform and to
protect the American public.”  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said on Twitter today that the
assault-weapons ban should be renewed. Emanuel’s former boss,
President  Bill Clinton , signed the prohibition into law.  “President Clinton and I fought to pass the assault-
weapons ban,” he said. “It’s time to renew and strengthen it.
An easy vote.”  An  ABC News/Washington Post poll  taken after the
Connecticut shootings showed 54 percent of respondents backing
new limits on gun rights, with 43 percent opposed. When asked
about banning ammunition clips that contain more than 10
bullets, 59 percent supported the idea, while 38 percent opposed
it. In addition, 52 percent backed a ban on semiautomatic
handguns, with 44 percent in opposition.  Obama Appearance  Obama, speaking yesterday at a memorial vigil in Newtown,
said that while there is no single solution to the complex
problem of violence in U.S. society, “that can’t be an excuse
for inaction.” Without offering a prescription, he vowed to do
everything in his power to begin the search for an answer.  “We can’t accept events like this as routine,” he said.  Bloomberg, co-chairman of  Mayors Against Illegal Guns ,
urged Congress to renew the 1994 ban on semi-automatic firearms
that expired in 2004. He called for improved databases to trace
gun ownership, stricter enforcement of gun trafficking and more
laws to prevent sales to criminals.  “We don’t need people carrying guns in public places,”
Bloomberg said on NBC. “That’s not what the founding fathers
had in mind. Quite the contrary, it makes us have a much more
dangerous society.”  Second Deadliest  It was the nation’s second-deadliest school shooting, after
a 2007 rampage on the Blacksburg campus of Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University, where 33 people died.  Lanza used his mother’s legally obtained guns, including an
assault rifle, according to Connecticut’s Democratic Governor
 Dan Malloy . Lanza “shot his way into the building,” Malloy
said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. “These are
assault weapons. You don’t hunt deer with these things.”  The U.S. experienced at least seven mass murders -- the
killings of at least four people in one incident -- this year.
Those incidents claimed at least 65 lives.  “We could be at a tipping point,” Senator  Charles Schumer 
of New York, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program. “The public will not accept as a
new normal one of these incidents every month.”  Speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” retiring Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who ran on a gun-control
platform as Vice President  Al Gore ’s Democratic running mate in
the 2000 presidential election, called for a national commission
to examine gun laws, the nation’s mental health system and
violence in video games and other entertainment.  Rural Votes  During the 2000 campaign, Gore and Lieberman argued for
“common-sense gun-safety measures,” a position that cost them
rural votes and helped give a narrow victory to Republican
 George W. Bush .  Many Republicans and Democrats oppose gun regulation,
citing the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Allowing
more Americans to carry weapons is one way to limit casualties
in mass shootings, said Representative Louis Gohmert, a Texas
Republican.  He cited the “heroic stories” of Sandy Hook principal
Dawn Hochsprung trying, and failing, to protect her pupils.  “I wish to God she had had an M4 in her office, locked up,
so when she heard gunfire, she pulls it out,” Gohmert said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “She didn’t have to lunge
heroically with nothing in her hands, but she takes him out,
takes his head off before he can kill those precious kids.”  Assault Rifles  A semi-automatic Bushmaster assault rifle, similar to the
M4 carbine used by the U.S. military, was used in most of the
school killings, according to Connecticut State Police.  “Every mass killing of more than three people in recent
history has been in a place where guns were prohibited, except
for one” Gohmert said. “They chose this place. They know no
one will be armed.”  Feinstein sponsored the 1994 assault-weapons ban, which
prohibited the sale of certain guns with high-capacity magazines
that allow them to re-load automatically after being fired.
Fully automatic weapons, which fire multiple rounds with a
single pull of the trigger, continue to be regulated under
federal law. The Feinstein measure, which applied to firearms
manufactured after the law’s enactment, expired in 2004.  Since then, Congress has enacted no major firearms
regulations other than a law aimed at improving state reporting
for federal background checks on gun purchasers.  The dearth of new gun laws reflects the political influence
of the  National Rifle Association , said Sanford Levinson, a
constitutional law professor at University of Texas in Austin.  “The NRA has sufficient control over the  Republican Party 
and the  Democratic Party  is, for good reason, scared stiff to go
out on a limb on this issue,” Levinson said. “There is
absolutely no chance whatsoever of bipartisan gun control
legislation.”  The NRA declined to comment on the school shooting “until
the facts are thoroughly known,” according to a statement
released by its communications office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  