-- Denmark Delays Netherlands Power Link, Integration to 2017
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-17T08:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/denmark-delays-netherlands-power-link-integration-to-2017.html
Energinet.dk, the Danish
transmission grid company, pushed back the first planned power
cable to the Netherlands, delaying electricity integration.  A  700-megawatt cable , called  Cobra , could be completed in
2017, a year later than planned by Energinet and its Dutch
partner TenneT Holding BV, according to the Danish grid
company’s revised  strategy plan , issued on Dec. 14.  “This is a massive step backward for the Danish power
system at a time when the country’s dependence on cross-border
cables is growing,”  Charlotte  Soendergren, chief consultant at
the Danish Energy Association, said by e-mail on Dec. 14.  Denmark is planning to boost electricity links to other
countries as it prepares for the growing role of intermittent
renewable sources of power, to help offset variable demand and
supply.  Over the next eight years, the share of wind power in
Danish electricity supply is set to almost double from last
year’s 26 percent to 50 percent, increasing the country’s
reliance on imports during periods of high demand, such as cold
and dark winter afternoons.  Energinet also plans to establish a new land-based
connection to  Germany  in 2018, in addition to a sea-based link
via the planned Kriegers Flak offshore wind farm in the Baltic
Sea in 2019. Plans for a cable to the U.K. exist, without any
firm timeframe.  The delayed Netherlands cable will put  Denmark  at a
disadvantage, as other Nordic countries get a head start in
boosting their links to the rest of  Europe , according to the
Danish lobby.  “While Energinet goes into hibernation, Norwegians are
building new links to the U.K., the Netherlands and Germany,
undermining both Denmark’s benefits from new cables and the
country’s ability to optimize the balancing of our power
system,” Soendergren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  