-- Depositary Receipt Trading Drops to Six-Year Low, JPMorgan Shows
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-17T14:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/depositary-receipt-trading-drops-to-six-year-low-jpmorgan-shows.html
Trading of depositary receipts fell
to a six-year low in 2012 as concern about Europe’s debt crisis
and  China ’s economic slowdown damped investor confidence,
according to data compiled by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The value of receipt trading dropped 30 percent in the
first 11 months of the year to the lowest level since 2006,
JPMorgan said in a  report . Trading volume declined 14 percent
from the same period of 2011 as initial public offerings that
included global depositary receipts declined.  “The capital raising environment was not great, but the
activity numbers have dropped less than the broader markets,
which is a good sign,” Dennis Bon, the global head of
Depositary Receipts at JPMorgan, said in a telephone interview
from New York on Dec. 14. “We saw a blip in the last couple of
years, with a lot of activity, and now we begin to see the trend
line getting back to normal.”  The value of depositary receipts traded in the first 11
months was $2.5 trillion, below the $3.6 trillion seen in the
same period last year, according to the JPMorgan data. A backlog
of potential IPOs in China and  Russia  may bolster trading of
receipts next year, according to JPMorgan.  Latin America  was the second-biggest market for depositary
receipt trading.  Brazil  accounts for 75 percent by value in the
region, with programs from raw-material producers Vale SA and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA leading volumes in the year.  Worldwide, depositary receipt capital raising through IPOs
and follow-on offers totaled $12.4 billion, the lowest value
since 2004, according to JPMorgan. Fifty-two equity offerings
were withdrawn or postponed in Latin America, emerging  Asia  and
Eastern Europe this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bon expects offerings to pick up in 2013, led by Latin
America and Russia.  “Russia is a large issuer, the pipeline is huge in terms
of companies looking to IPO, and there’s still a lot of investor
interest,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  