-- Deutsche Bank Says Clients to Determine Fate of Banks
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-18T10:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/deutsche-bank-says-clients-to-determine-fate-of-banks.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Co-Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Fitschen , who was included in a German tax-
evasion probe last week, said lenders that fail to keep the
trust of their clients will disappear.  “We’re criticized, and rightly so,” Fitschen, 64, said
yesterday in a speech in the western German city of Essen. “In
the long term, it’s the clients that decide if a bank
survives.”  Global regulators are slapping banks with fines for past
infractions that range from lying about their borrowing costs to
giving terrorists and drug cartels access to the U.S. financial
system. Fitschen has come under fire from politicians after he
made a call to a senior lawmaker last week, when investigators
raided Deutsche Bank offices as part of a probe into fraud in
the carbon market.  “We have to anchor responsibility more strongly for every
one of the bank’s employees, controlled by the group and
demonstrated by management,” Fitschen said of his efforts to
instill “culture change” at Deutsche Bank and its peers. “We
want to implement this, regardless of the fact that we have a
past which we have to work off and that’s making headlines.”  Deutsche Bank said Dec. 16 that it will investigate
prosecutors’ allegations that employees deleted e-mails
requested as part of the tax-evasion probe. Fitschen and Chief
Financial Officer Stefan Krause, 50, are among 25 people being
investigated because they signed the firm’s 2009 tax
declaration, according to the Frankfurt-based company.  Fitschen Complaint  Fitschen called Volker Bouffier, the prime minister of the
state of Hesse, where Frankfurt is located, Christian Streckert,
a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said on Dec. 16. He declined to
say what they discussed.  Fitschen said in an interview with German newspaper
Handelsblatt on Dec. 13 that he felt “unfairly treated” and
that the prosecutor’s approach was “excessive.” Fitschen
regrets the call to Bouffier, Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  It would be “incredible” if Fitschen had complained to
Bouffier about the Frankfurt General Prosecutor, Hesse Deputy
Premier and justice minister Joerg-Uwe Hahn said today in Bild-
Zeitung,  Germany ’s best-selling newspaper.  Bouffier is a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s ruling
Christian Democratic Union, while Hahn is a Free Democratic
Party lawmaker. The FDP is also a junior coalition member in the
federal government.  Federal Elections  While opposition lawmakers have criticized Fitschen’s phone
call before next year’s federal elections, he wasn’t criticized
by  Peer Steinbrueck , the Social Democratic Party’s candidate for
chancellor, who shared the panel with him in Essen yesterday.
The conference was organized by companies based in the Ruhr
region, Germany’s industrial heartland.  Steinbrueck, who has called for Deutsche Bank to split its
securities unit from its retail bank to protect depositors,
focused his remarks on Germany’s exit from nuclear power and
European integration. The SPD is Germany’s largest opposition
party.  Fitschen, who also addressed imbalances between capital
rules for lenders in the U.S. and  Europe  and the role of
 emerging markets  in the global economy, said banks must be
allowed “to develop and innovate like other industries.”  “I’d ask you, especially in the tough times, to trust
banks not to repeat what happened before the crisis, to trust
that we will work for a new normality with the regulators who
set the rules and our clients,” Fitschen said. “No business,
even if it is legal, is good enough if it shakes our trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  