-- Deutsche Bank Employees Are Said to Seek Jail Release
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-12-17T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/deutsche-bank-employees-are-said-to-seek-jail-release.html
The four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees
in jail while being investigated for obstruction of justice and
money laundering allegations have asked a German court to
release them, two people familiar with the situation said.  The employees include the head of litigation at the bank
and another member of the legal department who are being held
over instructions given to information technology staff
following a 2010 probe into tax issues, according to the people,
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak about the matter.  Prosecutors and police last week raided Deutsche Bank’s
Frankfurt headquarters, arresting five employees, in a tax probe
involving the sale of carbon-emission certificates. Prosecutors
are looking at co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and
Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , who signed tax returns
related to value-added tax on the certificates.  One of the five arrested was released a day later for
health reasons while the other four were ordered to stay in jail
while the probe continues.  The latest motion, appealing last week’s ruling by a local
court, will be heard by a chamber of the Frankfurt Regional
Court which tried and convicted six suspects in the original
carbon emission tax probe, the people said.  Prosecutors claim a phone call by the head of litigation
prompted IT staff to delete e-mails at the bank related to the
tax investigation and the second company lawyer helped him with
that, the people said.  The local court ordered the four suspects, among them two
IT employees and a manager responsible for anti-money laundering
compliance, to stay in custody to prevent them from tampering
with evidence, one of the people said.  Klaus Winker, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours seeking comment on
employees’ request. The bank said yesterday it is probing the
allegations that e-mails were destroyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  