-- Draghi Predicts ECB Policy Will Foster Euro-Area Recovery
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/draghi-sees-euro-area-recovery-fostered-by-ecb-policy-reforms.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said ECB policies and governance reforms in the
euro area have revived confidence that will help foster a
gradual economic recovery in the second half of next year.  A commitment in July to preserve the euro at any cost and
the establishment of a single banking supervisor have improved
financial-market sentiment, Draghi said in Brussels yesterday.
One priority for 2013 is now to create a single resolution
mechanism to complete  Europe ’s banking union, he said.  “The impression that one has of this year, at least of the
second part of this year, is of a gradual improvement in
financing conditions which is one of the reasons why we foresee
a beginning of a recovery in the second part of next year,”
Draghi said in testimony at the European Parliament’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee. Still, “the medium-term outlook
for economic activity remains challenging.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB cut its economic forecasts earlier
this month, predicting the 17-nation region will contract 0.5
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013. The Governing Council
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.75
percent, even though a majority of policy makers were open to
easing borrowing costs, according to three officials speaking on
condition of anonymity.  ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch told German
newspaper  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  in an interview to be
published today that he doesn’t “quite understand” the
discussion about lower interest rates because non-standard
measures have become the primary policy tools.  Banking Oversight  Draghi said that monetary policy will remain independent
from banking oversight when the ECB takes over supervisory
powers over the region’s 6,000 lenders.  European Union finance ministers last week set a March 2014
target date, 12 months after the legal framework is planned to
be in place, and Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier 
said about 200 banks should automatically qualify for direct ECB
supervision.  Draghi said “the numbers would speak for something in the
order of 130, 150 of so-called direct supervision and the rest
indirect supervision.”  The supervisory mechanism “has all the powers to be
effective; the challenge now is really in its implementation,”
he said. “It’s important to do it soon but it’s even more
important to do it well.”  Draghi urged European lawmakers to create a single
resolution mechanism alongside the single supervisor.  “The aim of resolution is to deal with non-viable banks
through measures that include their orderly winding down and
closure while preserving financial stability,” Draghi said.
“Such a mechanism will make it possible for banks to fail in an
orderly manner” and “one of the key decisions to take is
whether creditors are going to be bailed in or not, whether
shareholders are going to be wiped out or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  