-- Eagles Coach Andy Reid’s Son Had Steroids at Time of Overdose
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-17T20:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/eagles-coach-andy-reid-s-son-had-steroids-at-time-of-overdose.html
The oldest son of Philadelphia
Eagles coach Andy Reid had steroids in his room at the team’s
training camp when he overdosed from heroin in August, according
to Northampton County District Attorney John Morganelli.  The steroids weren’t a factor in the death of Garrett Reid,
Morganelli said at a news conference today. Reid was found dead
in his dorm room on Aug. 5 at Lehigh University in Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania , during Eagles training camp and the county coroner
later ruled it a heroin overdose.  Morganelli said in a telephone interview that there was no
evidence Reid, who was working as a strength and conditioning
coach for the Eagles, was supplying steroids to the players.  “The players who were interviewed were all very
cooperative with the police department, to my knowledge,” the
prosecutor said. “He was a body builder himself, from what I
was told, and a lot of these steroids go in and out of your
system quickly, so someone using steroids for that purpose could
use a lot of them over a short period of time.”  Andy Reid  said today in a statement that Morganelli’s
report further confirmed his 29-year-old son’s troubles, and
that Eagles players were in no way involved.  “I am confident that my son’s decisions did not affect our
football team in any way,” Reid, 54, said. “I cannot apologize
enough for any adverse appearances that my son’s actions may
have for an organization and a community that has been nothing
but supportive of our family.”  Heroin Death  Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek said in an October
news conference that Garrett Reid’s body showed signs of
persistent heroin use.  “Unfortunately Garrett Reid did have a battle with drug
use,” he said.  Morganelli said his office came across the steroids while
investigating the source of the heroin Reid used, as well as
syringes and 19 vials of unknown liquid found in his gym bag.
Morganelli today identified the substances as Testosterone
Propionate, Boldenone Undecylenate, Nandrolone Phenyl Propionate
and Trembolone Acetate, all anabolic steroids that can be used
as muscle builders.  Lehigh University  police have closed their investigation
into Reid’s death after interviews with friends and
acquaintances and a review of mobile-phone use prior to his
death failed to produce leads on where he obtained the heroin or
other drugs, Morganelli said.  Andy Reid took a six-week leave from the team in 2007 after
the arrest of Garrett and another son, Britt Reid.  Garrett Reid was sentenced to 23 months following a guilty
plea to charges of recklessly endangering another motorist and
driving under the influence after causing a traffic collision.
Police found him in possession of heroin and amphetamines after
the accident.  Britt Reid pleaded guilty to charges including felony
possession of a firearm without a license after he was accused
of pointing a handgun at another driver in a traffic
confrontation on the same day. Britt Reid served 22 months in
jail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  