-- Health Exchanges to Be Run by 18 States as Most Governors Pass
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-12-17T14:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/health-exchanges-to-be-run-by-18-states-as-most-governors-pass.html
Governors in 18 of the 50 U.S.
states agreed to build health-insurance exchanges, a final tally
that leaves the federal government with the duty of running
marketplaces for the majority of the nation through 2014.  Idaho , Nevada and  Utah  were among the states that submitted
blueprint applications to the Obama administration by the Dec.
14 deadline to create exchanges for residents to shop for
insurance as part of the Affordable Care Act, the  Department of
Health  and Human Services said today. Governors who opted out
said they balked at the federal regulations they would have to
adhere to and long-term costs they would have to bear.  Politics, not practical concerns, is the reason why states
led by Republican governors’ rejected a program crafted by a
Democratic president, said Robert Blendon, a health policy
professor at the Harvard School of  Public Health  in Boston. The
law still lets a governor take over the federal exchange for
their state any year after 2014, allowing them “to watch this
without taking a great political risk,” he said.  “If these things are working and people who favored them
do well in the 2014 election, I think these governors will just
discover it’s worth having,” Blendon said in an interview.  The state exchanges sit at the heart of the law’s mandate
to expand medical coverage to as many as 30 million people. The
number of states opting out gives the Obama administration an
opportunity to ensure some consistency nationally in how the
exchanges are structured, said  Dan Mendelson , chief executive
officer of Washington-based consultant Avalere Health.  “From that perspective, they see that as a positive,” he
said in a telephone interview.  State Partners  The 18 states participating are: California, Colorado,
Connecticut,  Hawaii , Idaho, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Minnesota,  Mississippi , Nevada,  New Mexico , New York, Oregon,
Rhode Island,  Vermont , Utah, and  Washington  state, according to
a blog post by the health agency. Washington, D.C., is also
building an exchange.  Four states -- Delaware, Illinois, Iowa and  North Carolina 
-- plan to contribute some services to a federally built
exchange in a partnership with the Obama administration, Gary Cohen, who directs the U.S. Center for Consumer Information and
Insurance Oversight, said last week. Those states may take on
functions such as plan selection and customer assistance, while
the federal government builds the websites and other
infrastructure.  Avalere projects that the number of states in partnership
with the government may eventually reach 12.  Federal Funding  Under the law, the exchanges are designed to allow
consumers who don’t have medical coverage through their jobs
beginning in 2014 to easily compare health plans, and then buy
coverage online and through telephone services. The U.S. is
subsidizing the cost for those who can’t afford coverage.  Funding for states to build their own exchanges is
essentially unlimited, and the U.S. has given $1.8 billion so
far, including to some states that have said they won’t complete
the work, Cohen said in prepared remarks for a Dec. 9
congressional hearing.  States still have to come up with their own money to run
the marketplaces. Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, a Republican,
 said  it would cost about $81 million a year to run an exchange
while the federal government could do the same job for about 27
percent of that amount.  Connecticut  anticipates a cost of about
$30 million a year, said Kevin Counihan, the CEO of the
Connecticut Health Insurance Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  