-- Heating Oil Falls on Concern U.S. Manufacturing Growth Slowing
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-17T20:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/heating-oil-falls-on-concern-u-s-manufacturing-growth-slowing.html
Heating oil fell as a report showed
manufacturing shrank more than forecast in the New York region,
raising concern about the strength of the U.S. economic recovery
and fuel demand.  Futures slipped as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic  index  dropped to minus 8.1, the fifth month of
contraction, from minus 5.2 in November. Reports on Dec. 14
showed U.S. industrial production rose in November by the most
in two years, and China’s manufacturing is expanding at a faster
pace in December.  “The good industrial output data that came out on Friday
is being tempered by the New York manufacturing index numbers
indicating the economy still has a ways to reach some sustained
growth,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston.  Heating oil for January delivery fell 2.44 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $2.9563 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 0.7 percent this year.  The median forecast of 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for minus 1 in the New York manufacturing index. Readings
of less than zero signal contraction in New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities rose 1.1
percent last month after a revised 0.7 percent drop in October
that was more than initially estimated, Fed data released Dec.
14 showed.  Gasoline for January delivery fell 0.75 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $2.6546 a gallon. Prices have fallen 1.2
percent this year.  Budget Talks  Gasoline rose 1.95 cents earlier on optimism U.S. budget
talks are advancing. President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker
 John Boehner  met at the White House today to continue
negotiations. Obama, a Democrat, and Boehner, the top Republican
in the GOP-controlled House are working to avert more than $600
billion in automatic tax increases and budget cuts set to take
effect in January.  Boehner in a Dec. 14 offer to Obama signaled openness to
allowing tax rates to rise for millionaires after previously
opposing increased rates for any income level. Obama, who wants
higher rates for incomes above $250,000, rejected that offer.  “Boehner’s given a little on taxes on the wealthy,” said
 Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “It shows we’re making progress on the fiscal cliff
and that’s supportive.”  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  sank 0.9
cent to a $3.248 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest level since Dec. 27.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  