-- Edison International Unit Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-12-17T19:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/edison-international-unit-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Edison Mission Energy, the
unregulated generating unit of  Edison International (EIX) , filed for
bankruptcy and said it reached agreement on a reorganization
plan with its parent and holders of its $3.7 billion in debt.  Under the agreement, Edison International will transfer its
stake in Edison Mission Energy to unsecured creditors, the unit
said in a statement today. The Santa Ana, California-based
company listed $5.13 billion in assets and $5.09 billion in
liabilities in Chapter 11 papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Chicago.  Edison Mission Energy President Pedro Pizarro said the
agreement is a first step in enhancing the unit’s liquidity. The
company has been challenged by high fuel costs and depressed
energy and capacity prices, according to the statement.
Subsidiaries including Midwest Generation also filed for  Chapter
11 bankruptcy protection .  The companies “have been hit by a sea change in the power
market’s competitive landscape, dramatically higher
environmental capital expenditure requirements, and debt payment
maturities that have severely limited the debtors’ ability to
compete effectively,”  Maria Rigatti , Edison Mission’s chief
financial officer, said in court papers.  Edison Mission sells the electricity it generates in
competitive wholesale power markets where the prices aren’t set
by regulators.  Unsecured Creditors  Edison Mission Energy’s largest unsecured creditors listed
in court papers hold $1.24 billion in 7 percent senior notes due
in 2017 and $834 million in 7.2 percent senior notes due in
2019, under trustee Wells Fargo Bank NA.  Edison International will record a $1.5 billion charge
during the fourth quarter as a result of its unregulated unit’s
bankruptcy, the company said today in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The bankruptcy isn’t expected to have a “material adverse
effect” on Edison International since the unit hasn’t been
making dividend payments to the parent company because of its
operating losses and excessive debt,  Hugh Wynne , a utility
analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research note
today.  Southern California Edison, another Edison International
unit, is California’s second-largest utility, providing power to
14 million people, according to the company’s website.  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) , based in  San Francisco , owns California’s largest
electric utility.  The case is In re Edison Mission Energy, 12-49219, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at   atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  