-- Tele2 Is Perfect Fit for Rostelecom, Shareholder Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-12-18T14:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/tele2-is-perfect-fit-for-rostelecom-shareholder-says.html
OAO Rostelecom’s largest owner after
the Russian state, Konstantin Malofeev, is urging the country’s
dominant fixed-line operator to buy the local unit of  Sweden ’s
 Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  to form a fourth nationwide wireless carrier.  “Tele2 would make a perfect fit for Rostelecom because
their networks are complementary, allowing the formation of a
nationwide operator in the fastest and cheapest possible way,”
Malofeev, whose Marshall Capital controls 10.5 percent of
Moscow-based Rostelecom, said in an interview.  Rostelecom is following the evolution of international
peers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  in building a
wireless business to offset declining fixed-line revenue. The
company provides mobile service in 30 of the country’s 83
regions and plans to begin wireless service in the two biggest
markets, Moscow and St. Petersburg, within a year.  Tele2, based in  Stockholm , depends on  Russia  for more than
half of its users. Its Russian unit emerged as a takeover target
after it failed to win one of four licenses to operate a so-
called fourth-generation network that were awarded in July.
Three of the four permit winners -- Rostelecom,  OAO Mobile
TeleSystems (MBT)  and  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  -- have expressed interest in the
unit, even though Tele2 CEO Mats Granryd said Dec. 12 that the
company intends to stay in the Russian market and hasn’t felt
“forced” to change its strategy.  Kirill Alyavdin, a spokesman for Tele2 Russia, declined to
comment on a potential unit sale, as did Rostelecom officials.  Tele2  fell  0.2 percent to 117.20 kronor at 3 p.m. Stockholm
time. Rostelecom rose 1.5 percent to 118.50 rubles in Moscow.  Chief Departing  Tele2 Russia may be worth 4.5 times its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
Anna Kurbatova, a BCS Financial Group analyst. Based on nine-
month figures, that implies a value of at least $3.1 billion.  With no wireless frequencies for faster mobile services,
Tele2 Russia’s “only realistic option” may be a deal with
Rostelecom, Espirito Santo Investment Bank’s London-based
analysts said today in a note.  Yesterday, Tele2 said the head of the Russian unit, Dmitry Strashnov, will leave the company on Dec. 31 after four years
“to seek new challenges,” without being more specific. The
departure probably wasn’t planned, Espirito Santo analysts
including Will Draper said in the note.  Billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s Mobile TeleSystems, or
MTS, has the most mobile customers in Russia, at 71 million at
the end of the third quarter, followed by billionaire  Alisher
Usmanov ’s MegaFon and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  at 63 million and 56
million, respectively, according to data compiled by  AC&M
Consulting . Tele2 has about 22 million Russian subscribers and
Rostelecom has about 14 million.  Government Scrutiny  Ivan Streshinskiy, a MegaFon board member and head of
Usmanov’s USM Advisors LLC, said in an interview Dec. 6 that
Rostelecom “needs proper management because the current one is
affiliated with one private shareholder.” Rostelecom lost its
focus on fixed-line broadband and is wasting money on mobile
expansion, Streshinskiy said.  Streshinskiy’s criticism of Rostelecom is shared by Prime
Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s government, which is seeking to
replace CEO Alexander Provotorov, who previously worked for
Malofeev at Marshall Capital. Rostelecom declined to comment on
the matter.  Communications Minister Nikolay Nikiforov  criticized 
Rostelecom’s development strategy in October, while Deputy Prime
Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  called for a “renewal” of company
management. In September, Dvorkovich told the  Vedomosti 
newspaper he’s against state companies’ expansion in the telecom
business when asked about potential Rostelecom deal with Tele2.  Police Raids  The pressure on Malofeev and Provotorov intensified in
November, when police raided their homes. The Interior Ministry
said  at the time  that the probe didn’t involve Rostelecom
directly, but “certain individuals” who were “allegedly privy
to embezzlement of a loan by one of the banks.” It didn’t
elaborate.  Rostelecom’s stock has fallen 17 percent since reaching a
six-month high Sept. 24, compared with a 1.4 percent decline for
the benchmark Micex Index in the same period. The company now
has a market value of about $11.2 billion.  “I am a minority shareholder and I am concerned when the
representatives of the key shareholder -- the government, my
senior partner in Rostelecom -- have taken actions leading to a
reduction in the company’s market value,” Malofeev said.  Collateral Pledge  “It doesn’t matter if Provotorov runs Rostelecom or
another professional manager picked by the government,”
Malofeev said. “What is important to us is the shares’
appreciation and Rostelecom’s expansion into wireless business,
which has proven to be the key growth driver for fixed-line
operators globally.”  Malofeev’s stake of Rostelecom is pledged as collateral for
loans from OAO Gazprombank, according to Vedomosti. The stock’s
decline hasn’t prompted banks to ask him to hand over any stock,
Malofeev said, declining to elaborate.  His stake is due to increase to 12 percent once Rostelecom
completes its merger with its holding company, Svyazinvest, and
cancels treasury shares. The Russian state  controls  55.2 percent
of Rostelecom’s votes.  In order to keep the government’s stake above 50 percent
after the reorganization, Rostelecom’s unit Mobitel would need
to buy preferred shares in the market for 3.1 billion rubles to
6.7 billion rubles,  Kommersant  reported today, citing a
Renaissance Capital proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  