-- Emerging Stocks Halt 8-Day Rally as Apple Suppliers Sink
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-17T23:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/emerging-stocks-halt-eight-day-rally-as-apple-suppliers-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
snapping the longest rally since October 2011 in the benchmark
index, as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  suppliers tumbled on iPhone sale concerns
and the U.S. budget standoff reduced risk appetite.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , which assembles iPhones in
Taipei, slumped the most since April, while  Largan Precision
Co. (3008) , a camera lens supplier for Apple, led a  gauge  of
developing-nation technology stocks to the steepest loss in two
months.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  sank to a two-week
low in Sao Paulo.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , or
 PGNiG (PGN) , rose to the highest since Jan. 2008 after UniCredit SpA
upgraded the stock. Mexico’s IPC Index rose to a record high as
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  surged to the highest since August.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.3 percent to
1,040.02 by 4:34 p.m. in New York, halting eight days of gains.
The gauge has jumped 13 percent this year. Apple  suppliers  sank
after Citigroup Inc. cut estimates for iPhone shipments and
downgraded the Cupertino, California-based company’s stock. U.S.
lawmakers haven’t reached a deal on the budget with two weeks
until more than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases, known as the fiscal cliff, come into force.  “We are highly vulnerable if the fiscal cliff doesn’t get
resolved or if there are extensive delays, but the outlook for
2013 for emerging markets is relatively constructive,” said
Geoffrey Dennis, the global emerging-markets strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said by phone. “There may have been
a short-term hit from Apple. The link between Apple technology
and these markets is somewhat tenuous, but of course it plays a
role.”  The 21 countries in the  emerging-markets  index send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S., according to data
compiled by the World Trade Organization.  Brazil, Russia  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.3
percent to $43.50, paring a 15 percent gain this year. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, declined 1.6 percent to 20.67.  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  was little changed, while OGX sank
5.3 percent, the most since Nov. 26.  Mexican IPC Index (MEXBOL)  added 0.7
percent to a close at a record high, adding to a yearly advance
of 17 percent. Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB led advances in
Mexico City, jumping 4.8 percent, the biggest advance since Aug.
16.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.5 percent, set to advance
4.8 percent this year. The Moscow Exchange will add 20 new
stocks to the ruble-denominated Micex Index from tomorrow,
making its composition identical to the 50-stock RTS Index,
which will remain priced in dollars.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met
for about 45 minutes at the White House today with two weeks
remaining to avert the so-called fiscal cliff. Obama is
considering a possible budget concession on Social Security
cost-of-living increases after Boehner dropped his opposition to
raising tax rates for some top earners, two people familiar with
the talks told  Bloomberg News .  Currencies  The ruble weakened for a third day versus the dollar, while
the South African rand strengthened 0.9 percent. The Hungarian
forint weakened 1.4 percent versus the euro, the biggest slump
this year.  PGNiG, Poland’s biggest gas distributor, climbed 2.7
percent in Warsaw. UniCredit upgraded its target price to 5.42
zloty in an e-mailed note released on Dec. 14 after the end of
trading.  Dallah Healthcare Holding Co. (DALLAH) , a Saudi Arabian provider of
medical services, surged 51 percent on its trading debut in
Riyadh.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel added 3.7 percent, the highest close
since March 19 in Moscow. The company’s board appointed
billionaire Vladimir Potanin chief executive officer as a part
of an agreement with United Co. Rusal to resolve a feud among
shareholders in the world’s largest nickel producer.  “It’s been a good run,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-
markets strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by e-
mail. “Fiscal cliff still remains a concern, so investors would
rather take profits now.’  Slowest in Decade  The Shanghai Composite advanced 0.5 percent as a government
plan to boost urbanization spurred gains in commodity producers.
The Chinese stock gauge closed at the highest level since Aug.
10.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, slipped 0.4
percent in Mumbai, while the rupee weakened 0.7 percent against
the dollar. Asia’s third-largest economy may expand at about 5.7
percent to 5.9 percent in the year through March, less than an
earlier estimate of as much as 7.85 percent, the Finance
Ministry said in a mid-year review today. That would be the
slowest pace in a decade and matches the 5.8 percent estimate
released by the central bank in October.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  slid 2 percent, while affiliate Kia
Motors Corp. slumped 3.6 percent. Hyundai Mobis Co., South
Korea’s biggest auto-parts maker, dropped 3 percent and Mando
Corp., which also manufactures automotive parts, retreated 4.1
percent. South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  slid 0.6 percent, trimming a 8.6
percent advance for the year.  Weak Shipments  The gauge of  information technology stocks  in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index sank 1.4 percent, its biggest decline in
two months and the most among 10  industry  groups. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index fell 0.9 percent, paring a 7.9 percent advance this year.  ‘‘When the demand for the iPhone slows down, all these sub-
parts might eventually slow down as well,” Tan Lip Kwang, who
helps manage the equivalent of $1 billion at K&N Kenanga
Holdings Bhd., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur . “The weakening of
the Japanese yen” translates into increased competition for
Korean and Taiwanese suppliers.  The prospect of weak iPhone 5 shipments creates near-term
earnings downside for Apple’s supply chain, and the companies
will probably see further selling pressure in the near term,
 Kevin Chang , an analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a note dated Dec.
14. The bank lowered its recommendation on Apple to neutral from
buy and reduced its price target to $575 from $675.  Apple Suppliers  Largan Precision dropped 5.5 percent to its lowest close
since Nov. 23 in Taipei. Hon Hai Precision, the world’s largest
contract maker of electronics, tumbled 4.7 percent. Speaker
supplier AAC Technologies Holdings Inc. retreated 5.7 percent in
 Hong Kong . Flexium Interconnect Inc., another Apple vendor, fell
6.3 percent in Taipei.  Huabao International Holdings Ltd. jumped 7.1 percent in
Hong Kong, for the  biggest gain  in the MSCI emerging-market
gauge.  The MSCI developing-nations index’s 13.5 percent advance
this year compares with 12.9 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades
at 11.9 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
13.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed by four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 268 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  