-- ATP Tour Opposes U.S. Open Move, Prize Money Distribution
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-17T15:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/men-s-tennis-tour-against-monday-u-s-open-men-s-final.html
The men’s tennis tour said it
opposes a switch of the U.S. Open final to a Monday and wants a
shake-up of prize-money distribution at the tournament.  The  United States Tennis Association , which runs the annual
Grand Slam event at the National Tennis Center in New York, last
week announced it was moving the women’s final to a Sunday and
the men’s final to a Monday from 2013. The aim is to provide a
rest day between the semifinals and finals.  Rain has forced the men’s final, previously scheduled for
Sunday afternoons, into Monday in each of the past five years.
Players complained last year that the schedule, especially if
altered due to rain delays, gave them no time to recuperate. The
U.S. Open, which doesn’t have a roof, was the only major that
scheduled the men’s semifinals and finals on consecutive days.  Although the ATP World Tour welcomed the rest day, it said
in an e-mailed statement today that it “made clear to the U.S.
Open that we do not support a Monday final.”  “We strongly believe the U.S. Open should keep a similar
schedule to the other Grand Slams, with the men’s semifinals
completed by Friday and the final on Sunday,” the ATP said.
“It is unfortunate the U.S. Open response did not reflect our
views on this issue and the ATP and its players will continue to
pursue this matter in its discussions with the USTA.”  The USTA also announced last week that it would boost U.S.
Open prize money by $4 million to $29.5 million. It follows the
Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon, who have all boosted
prize money this season.  Greater Share  Although the ATP welcomed what it said was the biggest U.S.
Open prize-money increase since 1990, the rise didn’t reflect
discussions held with the four majors regarding a more even
distribution of prize money that the ATP says would benefit
players across all levels of the tour. The ATP has also been
fighting for a greater share of the revenue generated at the
four Grand Slams.  “Over the last nine months the ATP and its players have
asked that the U.S. Open fully recognize the fundamental role of
the players in driving U.S. Open revenues, which are the largest
in our sport,” the ATP said.  “The ATP therefore remains committed to continuing
discussions on this issue, with the objective of ensuring that
the players’ share of the revenues at the U.S. Open truly
reflects the value that they generate for the event,” it added.  Possible Strike  USTA spokesman Chris Widmaier declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  There had been talk of a possible strike by players
including Britain’s Andy Murray during last year’s U.S. Open.
The players’ total prize money accounts for less than 20 percent
of revenue at the Australian, French and U.S. Opens. Wimbledon
doesn’t disclose its revenue.  The women’s tour was more positive.  “We appreciate the USTA’s announcement of increased prize
money and 40 years of equal compensation for the athletes of our
sport,” WTA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Stacey Allaster  said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “The
changes made for the 2013 U.S. Open are steps in the right
direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  