-- Encana’s PetroChina Partnership May Be First of Many
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-12-17T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/encana-s-petrochina-partnership-may-be-first-of-many.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s C$1.18 billion ($1.2
billion) joint venture with state-owned  PetroChina Co. (857)  signals
the first of many foreign deals as companies seek to navigate
new Canadian rules that favor minority stakes over takeovers.  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , Talisman Energy Inc. and  Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  may attract overseas investors eager to
gain access to oil and natural gas resources, as the companies
seek funds for drilling and development costs.  “There are probably going to be more joint ventures,”
said Leo De Bever, who oversees C$70 billion including Encana
shares as chief executive officer of Alberta Investment
Management Corp. in Edmonton. “Now that there is some clarity
on the rules, people may feel less hesitant about getting into
something that has political overtones, rather than just
economic overtones.”  The agreement between Encana,  Canada ’s largest gas
producer, and Beijing-based PetroChina is the first since Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  unveiled new restrictions on Dec. 7 for
state-owned companies seeking to invest in the  oil sands .
PetroChina’s 49.9 percent stake in the joint venture is in line
with the rules, which prohibit purchases by state-owned
enterprises unless there are “exceptional circumstances.”  Joint ventures are the “way of the future” for companies
like Encana and Canadian Natural, said  John Stephenson , who
helps manage C$2.7 billion at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. including Encana shares.  Minority Stake  “Encana has tons of land but so what?” Stephenson said by
phone from Toronto on Dec. 13. “It’s been harder for them in a
low gas price environment to make any dough.”  Under the joint venture agreement, announced Dec. 13,
PetroChina will get a 49.9 percent stake in Encana’s Duvernay
Shale acreage in Alberta for C$1.18 billion upfront and C$1
billion in development costs during the next four years.  Athabasca Oil,  Talisman (TLM)  and Canadian Natural also have
acreage in the Duvernay, a formation that holds an estimated 443
trillion cubic feet of gas and 61.7 billion barrels of oil,
according to  Canada’s Energy Resources Conservation Board .  Athabasca Oil, holder of the largest publicly disclosed
Duvernay rights with 640,000 acres, had its biggest two-day rise
since September after the PetroChina deal was announced. Heather
Douglas, a spokeswoman for the Calgary-based company, said CEO
Sveinung Svarte wasn’t available to comment on potential joint
ventures.  ‘Prime Candidate’  Encana  fell  1 percent to C$19.76 at the close in Toronto,
while Athabasca Oil rose 0.4 percent to C$10.31.  The size of Athabasca Oil’s Duvernay position, its
ownership of infrastructure and recent drilling results make the
company a “prime candidate” for a future joint venture, Jared Dziuba and  Randy Ollenberger , analysts for BMO Capital Markets
Corp. in Calgary, said in a Dec. 13 note.  “This is an area where smaller companies will have to take
partners in the future if they want to develop in a timely
fashion,” Athabasca Oil’s Svarte said on Oct. 16.  Talisman Chief Financial Officer Scott Thomson said Sept. 6
that the Duvernay is among several areas where the company is
considering seeking a partner for its acreage. Phoebe Buckland,
a spokeswoman for the Calgary-based company, didn’t respond to
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Duvernay Valuations  The PetroChina purchase, which equates to C$9,800 an acre
in the Duvernay, implies a valuation of as much as C$6 billion
for Athabasca Oil’s Duvernay land position, according to Dziuba
and Ollenberger. Canadian Natural’s 500,000 acres would be worth
C$4.9 billion and Talisman’s 350,000 acres C$3.4 billion, Phil Skolnick, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New York ,
said in a Dec. 13 note.  Talisman and Canadian Natural both gained on the day the
Encana agreement was announced. Talisman has dropped 15 percent
this year and Canadian Natural is down 28 percent.  Encana has been pursuing a strategy of asset sales and
joint-venture agreements to boost  cash flow  as North American
gas prices dropped to a decade-low in April.  The company talked to the government in advance “to ensure
that our understanding was consistent and this kind of
transaction was the kind of transaction that the government
would welcome,” Encana Chief Executive Officer Randy Eresman
said in a Dec. 13 phone interview.  Mao Zefeng, a spokesman for PetroChina in Beijing, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment outside of regular business
hours.  Shifting Gears  Harper, who approved Chinese-owned  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1
billion proposed purchase of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  on Dec. 7, said the
acquisition marks the “end of a trend” in the oil sands.  Canada is deciding whether the PetroChina deal will be
reviewed, Margaux Stastny, a spokeswoman for Industry Minister
Christian Paradis, said in a Dec. 13 e-mail.  Encana has reported as much as 300 barrels of petroleum
liquids per million cubic feet of gas in the Duvernay, a
formation analysts and executives have likened to the liquids-
rich Eagle Ford Shale in  Texas . Petroleum liquids include
ethane, butane and propane that typically fetch higher prices
than gas.  Chinese state-owned companies will continue to invest in
Canada in similar sized deals to the joint venture between
Encana and PetroChina, said Gordon Houlden, director at the
University of  Alberta ’s  China  Institute in Edmonton.  “China will shift gears” to adhere to the new guidelines,
Houlden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  