-- Nuclear Stock Rally in Japan Ignores Public Opposition
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r ,   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-12-18T08:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/tepco-leads-power-utilities-rally-as-abe-seen-restarting-nuclear.html
Japanese power-company stocks that
rallied after the pro-nuclear  Liberal Democratic Party  was
elected may struggle to sustain gains because of public
opposition to restarting atomic plants.  The  Topix Electric Power & Gas Index (TPELEC)  fell 1.8 percent today
after surging 9.2 percent yesterday, with  Kansai Electric Power
Co. (9503)  sliding 4.5 percent.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the most
punished in the stock market after the Fukushima disaster last
year, gained 17 percent, the only nuclear utility to rise.  Uranium stocks rose, including a 33 percent increase in
Australia’s  Bannerman Resources Ltd. (BMN)  today. The LDP has said
 Japan  needs its 50-reactor fleet working to reduce costs of
importing fuel for gas- and coal-fired plants.  “Just because politicians say they want to restart
reactors doesn’t mean they will actually be able to do it,”
said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo , which has about $400 billion in assets.
“It’ll be hard to maintain these stock gains,” she said.  Any reactor restart will need approval from the Nuclear
Regulation Authority, which is investigating six atomic plants
on concern they were built on active  fault lines . Japanese law
states reactors cannot be built on active faults, indicating the
plants may be decommissioned.  ‘Really Hard’  “Proving safety is going to be really hard,” Sera said.  Regulators earlier this month said Japan Atomic Power Co.’s
Tsuruga plant may be on an active fault. The extra yield
investors demand to own the utility’s 1.422 percent notes due
December 2019 over government debt jumped 500 basis points to a
record 900 basis points last week, according to JS Price. The
spread on similar-maturity 1.405 percent notes sold by Kansai
Electric, the second-biggest stakeholder in Japan Atomic,
climbed 35 to 175 basis points on Dec. 13, the highest ever, the
data show.  The meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power reactors and ensuing
radioactive contamination led nations from China to France and
 Switzerland  to review atomic policies, including the phase-out
ordered by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . Countries including
Britain affirmed plans to rely more on atomic power.  European Backpedaling?  The likelihood of backpedaling on nuclear power in central
Europe is even slimmer than in Japan, “for the simple reason
that Japan’s energy crunch without nuclear is far greater than
in countries like  Germany  or Switzerland,”  Mark Hibbs , senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment nuclear policy program in
Berlin, said.  Andreas Loeschel, an adviser to Germany’s government on
monitoring its energy transformation, said in a telephone
interview that there’s unlikely to be an impact on the country.  “The energy shift in Germany has such a momentum that it
is not influenced by a change of government in Japan,” said
Loeschel, a professor who heads environmental and resource
economics at the Centre for European Economic Research ZEW in
Mannheim.  Japan’s LDP, led by former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, took
294 seats in the 480-member lower house of parliament, public
broadcaster NHK said yesterday. The party governed for all but
10 months since 1955 and oversaw Japan’s development of atomic
energy. It was ousted in 2009, two years before an earthquake
and tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
releasing radiation and forcing the evacuation of 160,000
people.  LDP Voters  “People who voted for the LDP are supporting their
economic-stimulus measures, not nuclear power policy,” said
Toshihiro Inoue, a member of the “ Goodbye Nuclear: the Action
of 10 Million ” civil movement, whose online petition to stop
atomic reactors in Japan has so far received about 8.2 million
signatures.  The LDP promised during the election campaign to push for a
2 percent inflation target from the  Bank of Japan (8301) , compared with
1 percent now, and “unlimited” monetary easing. That stance
has weakened the yen to a near 20-month low, a boost to export-
based manufacturers. A weak yen also pushes up the cost of
procuring gas and coal, among other raw materials.  Tens of thousands of nuclear power opponents held weekly
protests outside outgoing Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
official residence this year. A government-backed public forum
found in August that 47 percent of participants favored cutting
nuclear power to zero, while newspaper polls in the last 18
months showed support for ending atomic power in Japan.  All but two of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors are idled due to
public safety concerns. Noda’s  Democratic Party  of Japan said it
would phase out nuclear power by the end of the 2030s after the
repeated mass public rallies.  LDP Opinion  In contrast, LDP General Council Chairman Hiroyuki Hosoda
said on Nov. 27 that Japan must restart reactors quickly because
of the high prices for gas, coal and oil used to fire thermal
 power plants .  The rally by utilities “is fairly reflective of the
market’s expectation for reactor restarts,” Edward Sterck, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  London , said today by phone.
“It reduces the likelihood of further uranium price declines.”  Under current rules set up by the DPJ, four cabinet
members, including the prime minister and the energy minister,
need to give approval in addition to nuclear watchdog clearance
for a Japanese nuclear reactor to restart.  Kansai Electric 
restarted two units at the Ohi station in July, the only
approvals since the Fukushima disaster.  Revise Policy?  While the four cabinet members can permit a restart by
itself, the approval of prefectural and municipal authorities is
traditionally sought. It takes several days for a reactor to be
brought back online after a shutdown.  The change of ruling party should mark an alteration in
nuclear policy, according to Kansai Electric’s Chief Executive
Officer Makoto Yagi.  The Federation of Electric Power Companies, which includes
Japan’s dominant nine regional utilities that own atomic plants,
would like the new government to revise the nuclear energy
policy of the previous administration, Yagi, who is also the
chairman of the federation, said yesterday in a statement.  Kansai Electric relied on nuclear for almost half its
generated power in the year before the 2011 disaster. It
reported a record first-half loss of 117 billion yen ($1.4
billion) after the shutdown of reactors forced the utility to
import fuels for gas-, oil- and coal-fired plants.  Fukushima Not Over  Tepco, which was trading at 2,121 yen before the tsunami
struck its plant last year, has gained 56 percent this week, to
close at 237 yen today.  Kansai Electric, which had its biggest jump since at least
Sept. 11, 1974 yesterday, dropped 4.46 percent to 879 yen.
 Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506)  slipped 6.9 percent to 798 yen after
climbing 15 percent yesterday.  The Metropolitan Coalition Against Nukes, another civil
movement, said on its website it will protest the restart of
nuclear reactors outside the prime minister’s official residence
on Dec. 21.  “Even for the LDP it will be difficult to gain support
from residents living near nuclear stations for restarting them,
as the tragedy in Fukushima is not over,” Inoue at Goodbye
Nuclear said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  