-- Merkel Says Euro Crisis Recovery Is Worth Austerity Pain
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-12-17T18:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/merkel-says-euro-crisis-recovery-worth-pain-brought-by-austerity.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the
promise of lifting the euro area out of its debt crisis is worth
the pain that’s being caused by German-inspired austerity.  Merkel cited progress in  crisis management  over the last 2
1/2 years and lauded European leaders for establishing fiscal
rules and the foundation for a so-called banking union. Speaking
to members of the foreign press today in Berlin, she added that
“we’re not at the end of the road.”  “We still have a distance to go,” Merkel said. “Still,
I’m convinced that our path has been the right one, even if it’s
meant a huge challenge for many people in  Europe  -- the biggest
and most difficult of those being youth unemployment.”  The German leader, asked whether she had dissuaded the
Spanish government from seeking bailout assistance or if she’d
pressed Italy’s  Mario Monti  to hold on to his premiership, said
governments and leaders must make their own decisions.  “If somebody asks me for counsel in a friendly way and we
discuss things, I don’t give recommendations, nor do I say what
one shouldn’t do -- rather I give my assessment,” Merkel said.
“A decision on who or what requests assistance or not is always
a completely autonomous decision of each government.”  Rajoy Praised  Merkel lauded Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  for his
efforts to control the country’s budget and shore up its banks
and said efforts undertaken by European leaders had eased
 Spain ’s burden, including on borrowing costs.  “I want Spain to have great success and I think especially
since we’ve started the process of bank recapitalization, if you
look at the  interest rates , I think we’ve had success as far as
Spain’s concerned,” Merkel said.  In a speech in Berlin later today, Merkel termed the EU a
“unique project of civilization” that’s worth every effort to
maintain.  “The EU is currently going through its biggest test”
since its founding treaty of 1957, Merkel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  