-- Essar May Stop Diesel Exports at Second-Largest Indian Plant
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-12-18T11:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/essar-may-stop-diesel-exports-from-second-biggest-india-refinery.html
Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , the operator of
 India ’s second-largest non-state refinery, may halt diesel
exports from the country’s west coast by 2016 to concentrate on
demand from domestic users.  “In the next three years, diesel demand and diesel
capacity should even out in India,” Chief Executive Officer
L.K. Gupta said in an interview in New Delhi. “By 2016, I feel
diesel exports from domestic refineries won’t be there.”  Essar, based in Mumbai and controlled by billionaire
brothers Shashi and  Ravi Ruia , is betting on increasing diesel
use in India, where Standard Chartered estimates that
consumption of the fuel grew as much as 8 percent this year.
Selling the fuel, known as  gasoil , inside India will cut costs
related to taxes and freight, Gupta said. The company operates a
400,000 barrel-a-day refinery in the western Indian state of
Gujarat.  Indian oil-product exports climbed to 6.1 million metric
tons, or about 1.5 million barrels a day, in October, data from
the government’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell show.
That’s a record, the  International Energy Agency  said in a
report on Dec. 12. Gasoil accounted for 39 percent of the
shipments, according to the IEA.  ‘Sporadic Exporter’  “We see the country becoming just a sporadic exporter of
oil products to destinations outside of  Asia  in the second half
of this decade,” JBC Energy GmbH, an industry consultant, said
in a note today. More than a million barrels a day of refining
capacity is coming online by 2015 in the  Middle East , while
India cuts exports, JBC said.  Essar, a unit of London-listed  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , currently
exports about 30 percent to 35 percent of the total production
at its plant, Gupta said. The company has sold as much as
570,000 tons of fuels including gasoil, naphtha, gasoline and
vacuum gasoil for loading in December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  It most recently sold as much as 45,000 tons of gasoil with
sulfur content of 500 parts per million to  Itochu Corp. (8001)  for
December, the data show.  Profits from making gasoil from crude may rise 5 percent in
2013 to $21 a barrel and to $23 by 2015, according to a Standard
Chartered report on Nov. 9. The margin was at $19.21 a barrel
today, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a crude
and products broker in  London .  Refining Capacity  Nearly half of the new refining capacity in India will be
used to produce diesel, said Gupta.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the
nation’s largest refiner, and  Nagarjuna Oil Refinery Ltd. (NOFL)  are
scheduled to add 21 million tons of capacity, with 10 million of
that geared toward gasoil output, he said. That will easily be
absorbed by the country’s buyers, he said.  “Today we consume about 65 million tons of diesel a
year,” said Gupta. “If you consider 6 percent to 8 percent
growth, in the next four to five years you’ll consume
everything.”  Gupta is more than happy to see Essar’s exports decline as
it meets more demand from within India since the company will
avoid paying a 2 percent central sales tax.  “Exports will decline over a period as the demand goes up
here,” he said. “That definitely helps my bottom line.”  A $1.6 billion expansion of the Gujarat  refinery  that
finished this year has improved profits at the plant after it
added a coking unit, he said. A coker breaks down  fuel oil  into
higher-value fuels such as gasoline and diesel.  Crude Imports  The margin increases have followed a surge in imports of
less expensive crude from  Latin America , including Columbia,
which produce oil that is more viscous, or heavy, and higher in
sulfur, he said.  “After our complexity has gone up and the expansion, we
have moved from a cracking refinery to a coking refinery,” said
Gupta. “Latin American grades have increased substantially,
from 5 to 10 percent it has increased to 40 percent.”  The company’s refining margins are now about $8 to $9 a
barrel, compared with $4 to $5 before adding the new capacity,
Gupta said.  Essar’s crude imports are about 17 million tons of crude a
year, compared to its total requirement of 20 million tons a
year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  