-- EU Carbon Drops at Expiry as Emission Reductions Rise Record 42%
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-12-17T18:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/eu-carbon-drops-at-expiry-as-emission-reductions-rise-record-42-.html
European Union carbon permits
dropped to an 11-day low and United Nations Emission Reduction
Units posted a record one-day gain as the contracts expired.  EU contracts for December fell 1.5 percent to close at 6.47
euros ($8.52) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. ERUs jumped 5 cents to 17 euro cents a ton, while
Certified Emission Reductions for this month gained 10 percent
to 34 euro cents.  EU carbon has lost 12 percent in the past year as flagging
economic growth sapped demand and supply of UN offsets surged. A
proposal by the European Commission to temporarily delay the
sale of 900 million metric tons of carbon allowances in the
three years through 2015 to fix the glut poses a big risk to the
bloc’s industry,  Germany ’s Economy Ministry said today. That
statement may lower the chance of regulatory intervention in the
first three quarters of next year, keeping carbon prices muted,
Barclays Plc said today in an e-mailed research note.  The most the EU will probably be able to temporarily remove
from the market next year has shrunk to about 200 million tons
from 500 million after nations last week failed to agree on the
supply plan, according to  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at the
bank in London.  “This suggests that the regulatory proposal will now need
to be adjusted,” he said.  Germany’s Economy Ministry said the proposed tightening was
“a big risk for the competitiveness of German and EU
industry,” according to its report.  Welcome Drop  Industry needs a long-term, reliable legal framework to
plan investment and the commission’s proposals amount to
“exactly the opposite” as they would make cost planning
“incalculable,” the ministry said.  The plan, known as backloading because supply would
probably return to the market later in the decade, would drive
up power prices too, the ministry said. Because of the bloc’s
debt crisis and weaker economic outlook, the drop in carbon
prices “is to be welcomed,” the ministry said.  It said its position is different from the nation’s
 Environment Ministry , according to the report. That department
argues that without intervention carbon prices may not rise
through 2020.  As part of their bid to curb the glut, EU regulators may
not be able to ban Russian ERUs before April 30 because policy
changes usually take longer than that, said Climate Mundial Ltd.  EU nations are considering eligibility of ERUs approved
directly by nations including Russia and Ukraine under a process
known as Track 1. The Dec. 14 record low of 12 cents was “a
perverse reaction” to the potential ban, Daniel Rossetto,
managing director of Climate Mundial, said by e-mail today. The
commission’s plans are often challenged legitimately and need to
be revised, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  