-- Euro-Area Exports Decline for Second Month Amid Recession
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-17T10:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/euro-area-exports-decline-for-a-second-month-amid-recession.html
Euro-area exports fell for a second
month in October as the economy struggled to pull out of its
second recession in four years.  Exports from the 17-nation currency bloc declined a
seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent from September, when they fell
1.3 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Imports rose 0.6 percent in October and
the  trade surplus  narrowed to 7.9 billion euros ($10.4 billion)
from a revised 11 billion euros in the previous month. Labor-
cost growth accelerated to 2 percent in the third quarter from
1.9 percent in the prior three months, a separate report showed.  The  euro-area economy  shrank 0.1 percent in the third
quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction in the previous three
months. The  European Central Bank  this month lowered its outlook
for this year and 2013. Still, investor confidence in  Germany ,
the region’s largest economy, jumped to a seven-month high this
month and economic confidence in the euro area unexpectedly rose
in November.  “There aren’t many signs that the economy will be
improving before the second half of next year,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in  London . “At least,
things aren’t going to be worse than this year. Confidence has
improved because of the perception that the ECB and European
leaders are slowly but surely moving in the right direction.”  Export Declines  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3156 at 11:01 a.m. in Brussels, down less
than 0.1 percent on the day.  Exports from Germany fell 3.6 percent in October from the
prior month, while imports increased 3.4 percent, today’s report
showed. France and  Italy  reported export declines of 2.1 percent
and 1.4 percent, respectively. Shipments from  Spain  rose 3.8
percent.  “Weak activity is expected to extend into next year,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said on Dec. 6. The Frankfurt-based
central bank now forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.5
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2013. Risks to the outlook
remain on “the downside,” Draghi said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
estimated last month that the euro-zone economy will contract
0.4 percent in 2012 and 0.1 percent next year.  Roller-Bearing Maker  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and  Asia . Puma SE, Europe’s second-biggest sporting-goods
producer, said in October that it anticipated a performance
“significantly below” forecasts amid a weakening consumer
climate in  Europe  and  China . On Dec. 12, Puma said Chief
Executive Officer Franz Koch would leave the company as earnings
decline.  Some investors are confident that the European economy will
gather momentum next year and that exporters may benefit from
higher demand. Stocks have rallied since Draghi said in July
that he would do whatever it takes to save the euro. He
announced an unlimited bond-buying program in September and
investors are now waiting for countries like Spain to apply for
aid from Europe’s bailout fund and to sign up for conditions to
trigger ECB debt-market interventions.  Euro-area finance ministers in November eased the terms on
emergency aid for  Greece  and last week approved the release of
49.1 billion euros of payments to keep the country solvent.  Luxury Cars  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, said on Dec. 7 that it was targeting higher sales
and profit next year and announced in November that it was on
track to achieve  record sales  this year. Deliveries through
November rose about 10 percent to 1.66 million vehicles, after a
20 percent jump the month before.  “The euro-area economy reaches its bottom in the fourth
quarter of this year,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at
Deutsche Postbank in Bonn. “From then on, it will go upwards. I
expect a stabilization starting in the first quarter of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  