-- European Stocks Are Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-17T16:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/european-stock-futures-little-changed-amid-u-s-talks.html
European stocks  were little changed
as concern U.S. lawmakers won’t agree on a budget before the
holiday offset the election in  Japan  of a party that backs more
economic stimulus.  Royal KPN NV slumped 15 percent as the Dutch phone company
partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB scrapped its
dividend. Aggreko Plc, the world’s largest provider of mobile
power supplies, slumped the most in more than 10 years after
saying earnings will be “slightly lower” next year. PSA
Peugeot Citroen gained 6.4 percent as  Europe ’s second-biggest
carmaker said it is close to finalizing a deal with lenders to
refinance debt at its banking unit.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 0.1 percent to 279.18
at the close of trading, after earlier falling as much as 0.5
percent. The measure has still rallied 14 percent this year as
the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve expanded asset
purchases.  “The market appears to be driven today by single names
like KPN in the Netherlands and  Aggreko (AGK)  in the UK,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $23 billion as associate
director for equities trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH
in  Frankfurt , wrote in a message. “In the last full week of the
year, the books are almost closed.”  U.S. lawmakers continue to discuss a budget deal to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts due to take effect
next year. The Congressional Budget Office has said a failure to
prevent those changes may lead to a recession in the first half
of 2013.  Japanese Election  Japan’s Liberal Democratic Party reclaimed power three
years after surrendering half a century of control. The victory
of Shinzo Abe’s party gives him a mandate to implement fiscal
and monetary stimulus plans.  National benchmark indexes rose in 10 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC slipped 0.1 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 lost 0.2 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX advanced 0.1
percent.  KPN (KPN)  slumped 15 percent to 3.94 euros, its biggest decline
in 11 years. The company cut its dividend as it spent 1.35
billion euros to buy frequencies for faster mobile networks.  KPN said Dec. 14 that it won’t pay a final dividend for
2012, after its 12-cent interim dividend, and that next year’s
payout will be 3 cents a share. That compares with a previous
plan to pay 35 cents a share for this year and at least the same
amount for 2013.  HSBC Holdings Plc. cut its recommendation on the stock to
underweight, a rating similar to sell, from neutral, and
forecast a target price of 4 euros for KPN’s shares.  Aggreko Tumbles  Aggreko sank 22 percent to 1,664 pence, its steepest drop
since June 2002. Chief Executive Officer Rupert Soames said the
company is facing the same conditions as in 2008 when it
suffered a “pretty sharp” drop-off in orders for four
quarters.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  slipped 1.7 percent to 158.2 pence.
Deutsche Telekom AG lost 0.3 percent to 8.52 euros. Tele2 AB
retreated 1 percent to 117.40 kronor. All three companies
participated in the Dutch government’s spectrum auction, with
Vodafone paying 1.4 billion euros and T-Mobile paying 911
million euros, according to the government.  A gauge of telecoms companies contributed the most to the
Stoxx 600’s decline.  UBS Settlement  UBS AG (UBSN)  lost 0.5 percent to 14.97 Swiss francs, after
earlier dropping as much as 1.5 percent. The Zurich-based bank
is set to pay as much as $1.6 billion to settle claims of Libor
manipulation by the U.S. Justice Department, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the U.K. Financial Services
Authority and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority,
said a person familiar with the probes.  The announcement could come by tomorrow, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the matter.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  gained 6.4 percent to 5.60 euros as the
carmaker said it is close to finalizing a deal with a pool of
banks to refinance debt at its banking unit.  Talks with lenders are “on track” and should lead to an
agreement by Christmas, Carole Dupont-Pietri, head of investor
relations at Peugeot, said in a telephone interview. She
declined to provide details.  Centamin Plc (CEY)  surged 22 percent to 42.14 pence after the
gold producer said that exports from its Sukari mine in  Egypt 
have resumed. Centamin said production will restart within the
next few days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  