-- Mexico Peso Declines as U.S. Manufacturing Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-17T15:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/mexico-peso-declines-as-u-s-manufacturing-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso dropped as factory
output in the New York region shrank more than forecast in
December, fueling concern about weakness among manufacturers in
the Latin American country’s biggest trading partner.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 12.7671 per U.S. dollar at
9:10 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its rally this year of 9.1 percent is still the
biggest among the greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts.  While an improvement in the U.S. housing market has helped
buoy the outlook for Mexican exports, a slowdown in
manufacturing is fueling concern the world’s biggest economy is
slumping. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index, where readings of less than zero signal
contraction in New York, northern New Jersey and southern
 Connecticut , was negative for a fifth month in December. Mexico
sends about 80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  “All the data that has to do with manufacturing activity
influence” the peso,  Mario Copca , a strategist at Metanalisis
SA in Mexico City, said in a phone interview. “From very early
on we’ve had some pressures on the peso.”  Copca said the lack of an agreement between U.S. political
leaders on a budget is also weighing on the peso today. The
Congressional Budget Office says the U.S. will probably tumble
back into a recession should lawmakers fail to reach an accord
to avoid the more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to start Jan. 1.  The Fed New York manufacturing index, released today,
dropped to minus 8.1, from minus 5.2 in November. The median
forecast of 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for minus
1.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 were little
changed at to 5.46 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price rose 0.04 centavo to 139.9 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  