-- Exxon Agrees to Buy Stake in Offshore South Africa Blocks
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-12-17T21:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/exxon-agrees-to-buy-stake-in-offshore-south-africa-blocks.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest U.S.
oil company, will begin exploring off the coast of  South Africa 
after it agreed to buy a 75 percent stake in blocks owned by
Impact Oil & Gas Ltd.  Exxon will control operations in the area it’s acquiring in
the Tugela South Exploration Right from closely held Impact,
according to a statement from the Irving, Texas-based company
today. Terms weren’t disclosed for the acquisition, which
includes the right to buy a 75 percent stake in three other
offshore areas Impact has permits to study.  Exxon has been facing  production declines  as discoveries
from past decades falter and governments in the  Middle East  and
Latin America prohibit exploration by foreign businesses or make
it too expensive. The company is turning to South Africa, which
has become one of Africa’s hottest attractions for energy
producers such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)   “South Africa is one of the new areas offshore that there
seems to be growing interest in,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst
at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview.
“Thoughts have been that South Africa is probably an uptapped
market that could really see production grow in coming years.”  Exxon doesn’t have any existing operations in South Africa
and will explore for oil and natural gas, Patrick McGinn, a
company spokesman, said in e-mailed responses to questions
today. Information on the cost and schedule of Exxon’s
exploration program is considered confidential, he said.  Exploration Rights  The Tugela South Exploration Right covers 2.8 million acres
near Durban off the east coast of South Africa, in water depths
of as much as 6,500 feet (2,000 meters). The additional
exploration rights cover 16 million offshore acres.  Impact, based in  London , has one of the largest holdings
off the South African coast by a closely held company, according
to its  website .  “We believe South Africa has significant potential and we
will continue to look for additional opportunities there,”
Stephen Greenlee, president of Exxon’s exploration company, said
in the statement.  Separately, the company also got a permit from the South
African government to study the potential of the deep-water
Durban Basin, covering about 12.4 million acres. Exxon has
exclusive rights to study the area for a year and can seek a
permit if it wants to explore further.  Orange Basin  Last month, The Hague-based Shell said it was collecting
seismic data in the Orange Basin off the north-west coast of
South Africa. The company may make a decision on drilling in the
next year or so. Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , has
interests in about 24 million gross acres off western South
Africa, according to a company presentation.  Exxon is lagging behind rivals in finding new energy
sources. It found enough oil and gas last year to replace 107
percent of what it pumped from wells, a so-called reserve-
replacement ratio that was less than one-third that of OAO
Rosneft, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Exxon formed a
partnership with  Russia ’s Rosneft last year to increase its
access to resources in the Arctic and Black Sea region.  Exxon, in a report earlier this month, raised its long-term
global energy-demand growth estimate to 35 percent from 32
percent as expanding populations in Africa and  India  use more
electricity.  The company remains growth-challenged given its size and
scale, and it’s hard for Exxon to find new areas that can
“really move the needle,” said Youngberg, who has a hold
rating on Exxon shares and doesn’t own any. If South African
exploration is successful, production may come online near the
end of the decade, he said.  “They have the  cash flow  to explore numerous areas around
the world on an ongoing basis in order to hopefully find some
new production that could help them over time,” Youngberg said.  Exxon  rose  0.9 percent to $88.87 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  