-- Facebook Leads in U.S. Mobile-Dispay Ads, EMarketer Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-17T20:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/facebook-leads-google-in-u-s-mobile-display-ads-emarketer-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  will lead the mobile
display-advertising market in the U.S. this year as total
spending on ads for wireless devices rises almost threefold to
more than $4 billion, EMarketer Inc. estimates.  While Facebook didn’t enter the mobile-ad market until
earlier this year, the company may win 18.4 percent of the
mobile display-ad market, edging out Google Inc., which is
estimated to grab 17 percent,  EMarketer said  in a statement
today. For all mobile ads in the U.S., including search and
display, Google will have 57 percent of the market this year,
while Facebook will have 8.8 percent.  The world’s largest social-networking service is ramping up
its mobile advertising efforts as consumers increasingly use
smartphones to access the service instead of desktop computers.
Emarketer said it raised estimates for Facebook after the  Menlo
Park , California-based company said in October that mobile made
up 14 percent of advertising revenue in the third quarter, or
$150 million.  “Facebook is now expected to earn more display revenue
than any other mobile publisher this year thanks to its ability
to --more or less -- redistribute revenue from mobile to desktop
through its native display products,” EMarketer said.  Facebook in September was set to be No. 6 in U.S. mobile
display ads in 2012 with 6.6 percent market share.  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the radio service, was  previously 
estimated to be the No. 1 player with 21 percent market share
and is now expected to be No. 3.  Twitter, Apple  In overall mobile advertising, Pandora is expected to be
the No. 3 player, behind  Google (GOOG)  and Facebook. Microblogging
service Twitter Inc. should have 3.5 percent.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker
of the iPhone, should have 3.2 percent.  While the overall market is growing more quickly than
earlier estimated, mobile-ad spending is still expected to grab
just 2.4 percent of the total advertising market in the U.S.
this year. It should reach 11 percent by 2016, where it will top
radio and still be less than print, according to EMarketer.  The earlier estimate for overall U.S. ad growth was 80
percent, the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  