-- Fed’s Stein Says Renewed Central Bank Swap Lines Reduce Stresses
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-12-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fed-s-stein-says-renewed-central-bank-swap-lines-reduce-stresses.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein said liquidity swaps between central banks and new U.S.
regulations will curtail the risks from the ways foreign banks
finance their operations.  “The Federal Reserve’s temporary dollar liquidity swap
lines with the European Central Bank and other central banks are
an effective response to stresses in dollar funding markets,”
Stein said in the text of a speech today in  Frankfurt .  Stein, a former Harvard University professor, drew on
academic research he had written with his former Harvard
colleagues Victoria Ivashina and David Scharfstein showing that
 Europe ’s debt crisis may be reducing lending by that continent’s
banks in the U.S. more than in Europe.  The research supports the Fed’s decision last week to
extend its temporary dollar-swap agreements with four major
central banks through Feb. 1, 2014. The arrangements include the
Bank of Canada, the Bank of  England , the European Central Bank
and the Swiss National Bank, according to the Fed. The
arrangements had been authorized through Feb. 1, 2013.  The Fed first opened swap lines in December 2007 to provide
the global financial system with dollar liquidity as the
subprime mortgage crisis began to create doubts about the
quality of assets on bank balance sheets around the world. The
swaps were closed in February 2010 and re-opened in May of that
year as a squeeze in dollar funding re-emerged with the European
financial crisis.  Outstanding swaps on the Fed’s balance sheet were at $12.4
billion Dec. 12, down from as high as $109 billion in February.
Foreign banks hold billions in dollar assets without the broad
deposit-based funding structure of U.S. banks. The Fed swaps
provide a backup to market sources of dollar funding.  New Rules  Stein also said the research supports the need for new Fed
rules proposed last week to subject foreign banks with at least
$50 billion of global assets to stricter U.S. capital rules.  The Fed proposed that most of the banks also be forced to
comply with more-stringent liquidity rules and pass stress tests
analyzing how they would fare in a severe economic downturn. The
board voted Dec. 14 to seek public comment on the plan, which
would take effect in July 2015.  “These rules should reduce the pressure on foreign banks
that rely heavily on short-term dollar funding to either sell
illiquid dollar assets or cut back on dollar lending in times of
financial stress,” Stein said.  Stein, 52, was nominated by President  Barack Obama  last
December to a term at the Fed lasting through January of 2018.
Stein and Jerome Powell, an attorney and private equity
investor, were confirmed by the U.S. Senate on May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  