-- Fed’s Lacker Says Reaching 6.5% Unemployment May Take 3 Years
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-12-17T16:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fed-s-lacker-says-reaching-6-5-unemployment-may-take-3-years.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said it could take as long as three
years for the U.S. unemployment rate to fall to 6.5 percent, the
central bank’s threshold for an interest-rate increase.  Lacker also said the Fed’s decision last week to tie its
outlook for borrowing costs to the  jobless rate  and to boost its
monthly purchases of long-term assets will put a strain on its
credibility. Lacker dissented against both decisions.  “It should be pretty clear that this committee is
straining to provide as much stimulus as possible without
endangering our price-stability credibility,” Lacker told CNBC
in an interview. “My worry, and the reason I dissented on this
and the asset purchases, is that we seem to be willing to test
the very limits of that credibility.”  The Federal Open Market Committee on Dec. 12 decided to
keep the main  interest rate  near zero as long as the jobless
rate remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation
stays at no more than 2.5 percent one or two years in the
future. Unemployment fell to 7.7 percent in November from 7.9
percent in October.  “I see unemployment coming down” to the low 7 percent
range sometime in 2014, Lacker said in the interview. “It could
take a while to get down to 6.5” percent, he said.  The central bank also said last week it will keep buying
$40 billion in mortgage bonds each month and will also purchase
$45 billion in longer-term Treasuries a month after its
Operation Twist Program expires at the end of December.  “When you make a test, sometimes it doesn’t come out
right,” Lacker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  