-- FIFA Says Bin Hammam Resigns From Soccer, Is Banned for Life
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-12-17T17:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fifa-says-bin-hammam-resigns-from-soccer-is-banned-for-life.html
Soccer ruling body  FIFA  said it
banned Mohamed  Bin Hammam  from the sport for life after he quit
his roles on the body’s executive committee and as president of
the Asian Football Confederation.  Bin Hammam has been involved in a long-running battle with
FIFA and ran against Sepp Blatter in the body’s presidential
election last year.  The Qatari was previously banned for life by FIFA for
allegedly bribing officials in his bid for the group’s
presidency, an accusation he denies. While that ban was
overturned by the Court of Arbitration for Sport on July 19, Bin
Hammam has since been provisionally suspended by FIFA.  FIFA said in a statement today that Bin Hammam had resigned
from all his soccer positions with immediate effect “and will
never be active in organized football again.”  “In view of the fact that under the new FIFA code of
ethics, the FIFA ethics committee remains competent to render a
decision even if a person resigns, the adjudicatory chamber
decided to ban Mohamed Bin Hammam from all football-
related activity for life,” FIFA said.  FIFA said its investigatory panel found Bin Hammam had
violated its ethics code with alleged conflicts of interest
during his time as AFC president and as a member of the FIFA
Executive Committee in the years 2008 to 2011, and this
“justified a life-long ban from all football related
activity.”  ‘Trumped Up’  Bin Hammam has repeatedly said that FIFA’s actions are
political because he stood against Blatter for the presidency.  He said he’s tired of what he calls “trumped up
allegations,” Agence France-Presse reported today, citing an e-
mailed statement.  “For me, the decision by CAS (Court of Arbitration for
Sport), the highest independent authority in sports arbitration,
that FIFA’s ban was unjustified is enough,” he was cited as
saying.  “I do not want to spend any more of my life fighting
trumped up allegations and to focus instead on my family and
businesses,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 