-- Fiji Braces as Cyclone Evan Approaches Pacific Islands
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-17T02:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fiji-braces-as-cyclone-evan-approaches-pacific-islands-1-.html
Fiji , an island chain in the South
Pacific, is bracing for the arrival of tropical cyclone Evan,
which left two people dead and 3,000 others homeless in  Samoa 
last week.  The category 4 cyclone was about 35 kilometers (22 miles)
south of the northwestern island of Yasawa-I-Rara at midday
local time, moving southwest at about 20 kilometers per hour,
according to the Fiji Meteorological Service  website . Winds at
the storm’s center will average 185 kilometers per hour, with
some gusts of 270 kilometers per hour, the agency said.  “I cannot stress how serious this is -- every Fijian will
be affected,” Fiji’s Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “If the weather
forecasters are correct it will affect Fiji in a very damaging
way, bringing about destructive winds and flooding.”  Fiji is a 332-island archipelago 3,240 kilometers northeast
of  Australia . The cyclone season in the South Pacific region
runs from November to April and storms sometime cause flooding
and landslides.  Air  New Zealand  canceled today’s return service from
Auckland to the Fijian settlement of Nadi, it said in an e-
mailed statement. It’s increasing capacity into Samoa to
accommodate extra passengers and cargo, it said.  Airlines including Air Pacific, Jetstar and Pacific Sun
have canceled all flights out of Fiji today, and Fiji’s Reserve
Bank Governor has ordered all commercial banks closed until
further notice, the ABC reported today. The cyclone is the
strongest to threaten the country in 20 years, it said.  Tourist Visitors  Some areas of Fiji were already without power and
experiencing flash flooding, New Zealand website  stuff.co.nz 
reported.  The Australian government said it is monitoring the cyclone
and offered assistance to Fiji and Samoa. More than 300,000
Australian tourists visit Fiji every year and Australia is the
nation’s largest aid donor, according to a statement from
Foreign Minister Bob Carr’s office in Canberra.  New Zealand will give NZ$50,000 ($42,335) in aid to Samoa,
including search assistance for missing fishermen,  Radio New
Zealand  reported on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  