-- First Quantum Chasing Inmet Seen Start of Bids: Real M&A
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-12-18T21:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/first-quantum-chasing-inmet-seen-start-of-bids-real-m-a.html
The cheapest copper mining deal in
five years has traders convinced that  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd. (FM) ’s latest bid for  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  won’t be its last.  The C$5.1 billion ($5.2 billion) offer values Inmet, owner
of the second-biggest copper mine under construction, at the
lowest multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization for a deal of its size in the industry since
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inmet shares
climbed yesterday 1.2 percent above the C$72-a-share proposal --
First Quantum’s third offer for the Toronto-based company since
October -- indicating arbitrageurs who bet on acquisitions
expect another boost, the data show.  After Inmet last week raised estimates for the amount of
copper contained at its Cobre Panama mine, Canaccord Financial
Inc. said it would take a bid of at least C$80 a share to win
over investors, particularly with the top  shareholders 
controlling a majority of the stock. While Inmet could draw
other suitors, Vancouver-based First Quantum’s desire for a
friendly deal suggests it may be willing to pay more whether or
not there are rival bidders, according to Bank of Montreal.  “The market is clearly saying that we are going to need a
higher price to push this through,”  Barry Schwartz , a Toronto-
based  fund manager  at Baskin Financial Services Inc., which
oversees about C$450 million including Inmet shares, said in a
telephone interview. Cobre Panama “is going to be one of the
greatest mines that’s going to come on stream in the second half
of the decade. We’re running out of quality finds of copper, and
Inmet has one of them.”  Twice Spurned  Flora Wood, a spokeswoman for Inmet, declined to comment on
the potential for an increased bid. The company yesterday said
it hadn’t yet received the latest offer and that it will
evaluate any formal proposal.  Sharon Loung, a spokeswoman for First Quantum, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  First Quantum, a producer of copper in  Africa  and nickel in
Australia and  Finland , said on Dec. 16 that it offered C$72 in
stock and cash for each Inmet share, raising its bid for the
company after Inmet spurned two earlier unsolicited proposals of
C$62.50 and C$70. The latest price is 36 percent more than
Inmet’s closing level on Nov. 27, the day before the company
disclosed the two prior offers and adopted a poison pill to
thwart a hostile takeover.  Including net debt, the proposal values Inmet at 7.6 times
its Ebitda during the past 12 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest Ebitda multiple among deals of
$500 million or more in the copper-mining industry since  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  bought Aur Resources Inc. in 2007, the data show.  ‘More Value’  Inmet gained 4.3 percent yesterday to C$72.85 on news of
First Quantum’s increased offer, signaling traders expect an
even higher bid, said  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Tullett Prebon Plc.  Today, Inmet shares fell 0.2 percent to C$72.71.  “I don’t think this is the final number,” Shah said in a
phone interview. “This mine obviously has more value.”  Inmet’s Cobre Panama  deposit  contains an estimated 51
billion pounds of copper, according to the company, the second-
highest of any undeveloped copper project. It’s expected to cost
$6.2 billion and produce an average of 266,000 tons a year of
the metal when construction is complete.  Deal Catalyst  “The Cobre Panama project is the catalyst, if you like,
for our interest in Inmet,”  Clive Newall , First Quantum’s
president, said in a Dec. 16 phone interview. “Our desire in
all this is always to engage with Inmet to have the opportunity
to look at the project and see what benefits we can bring to
it.”  Given the value of the Cobre Panama project, First Quantum
may need to increase its offer to C$80 to C$90 a share to
convince  investors  to sell, according Orest Wowkodaw, a Toronto-
based analyst for Canaccord. That’s at least a 52 percent
premium to Inmet’s Nov. 27 closing price.  “With an attractive suite of low-cost operating assets,
and significant projected future growth from the Cobre Panama
project, we believe there is a strong likelihood that Inmet will
attract an improved offer from First Quantum” or another
suitor, Wowkodaw wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Teck Possibility  Teck Resources, the owner of  Canada ’s largest  copper mine ,
would be the most likely competing bidder because it operated
the Cobre Panama project until 2008 when “it got into severe
balance sheet stress,” Wowkodaw said. The company is better
positioned to buy Inmet now that it has C$3.9 billion in  cash 
and “no material near-term  debt maturities ,” he said.  Chris Stannell, a spokesman for Vancouver-based Teck, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation about mergers and
acquisitions, when asked whether it’s considering a bid for
Inmet.  The Dec. 16 statement from First Quantum suggests it’s
interested in negotiating a friendly deal with Inmet, which
implies that it may be willing to boost its offer even if other
buyers don’t step in, Stephen Bonnyman, an analyst at Bank of
Montreal, wrote in a note that day.  First Quantum may be able to find “further savings”
should Inmet provide it with more detailed information on Cobre
Panama, and it would be open to discussing with Inmet’s board
“how the benefits of such additional savings might best be
shared between the shareholders of the enlarged group,” the
company said in its statement.  All Cash  “We advise clients to hold for a higher bid,” Bonnyman,
who’s based in Toronto, wrote in his note. “This is likely the
first step in a bidding process, with likelihood of other
bidders.”  An all-cash offer for more than C$80 a share would probably
seal the deal, especially given that merger arbitrageurs and
hedge funds may have taken positions and would prefer cash to
shares in another company, said Schwartz of Baskin Financial
Services. Still, he’s so bullish on the Cobre Panama project and
Inmet’s  prospects  that he said he’d be “perfectly happy” if
the company remained independent.  On the other hand, before First Quantum’s interest was
disclosed, Inmet traded for 28 percent less than yesterday’s
price and there’s risk that the stock could return to that level
should First Quantum walk away and other buyers not emerge.  Buy Recommendations  Still, 13 out of 15 analysts  recommend  purchasing Inmet
shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They estimate on
average that the stock will climb above C$78 in the next year,
higher than First Quantum’s latest offer, the data show.  Salman Partners Inc.’s  Raymond Goldie  has the highest
share-price target at C$121 and says an offer below C$79 is
likely unacceptable, based on premiums paid in historical deals
and the long-term price of copper.  “Anything below C$79 won’t work,” Goldie said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “Either another bidder or some other
catalyst is going to get the price up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  