-- Foreign Buying of U.S. Assets Was Below Estimate in October
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-12-17T15:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/foreign-buying-of-u-s-assets-was-below-estimate-in-october.html
International purchases of U.S.
 financial assets  rose less than forecast in October as
confidence grew that European leaders were moving toward
resolving their debt crisis.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$1.3 billion during the month, down from net purchases of $3.2
billion in September, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington.  Economists surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $25 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “It seems foreigners reduced their U.S. stock position as
the market corrected,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  New York , said in
an e-mail after the report. “It feels like we are getting some
very sizable moves in banks’ foreign-exchange asset-liability
management.”  Net foreign purchases of U.S. equities plunged to $598
million in October from $23.8 billion the month before.  European Union leaders capped a third year of debt-crisis
management with  Greece  ready to obtain fresh financial aid and a
euro bank regulator taking shape. Financial-market tensions have
abated, thanks mainly to a pledge by the  European Central Bank ,
first made in late July and yet to be acted on, to put a floor
under the bond markets of vulnerable countries such as Spain or
Italy.  Obama, Boehner  In the U.S., investors are now awaiting the outcome of
talks between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  to reach a compromise on averting spending cuts and tax
increases set to take effect next year.  Obama rejected a Dec. 14 offer by Boehner to raise rates on
 household income  above $1 million a year and lift the federal
debt ceiling in exchange for containing entitlement program
costs. While Obama wants higher rates for income above $250,000,
Boehner’s offer marked movement because he has opposed increased
rates for any income level.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners sold a net $56.7 billion in October, as opposed to
net purchases of $4.3 billion the previous month.  Assets Rebound  “Flows into U.S. assets are likely to rebound in the last
two months of the year as heightened anxiety about the impending
U.S. fiscal austerity pushes foreign investors back into
Treasuries,”  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist for TD
Securities Inc. in New York, said before the report was
released.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in October after its holdings rose $7.9 billion to $1.16
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Japan , the second-largest holder, saw its Treasury holdings
rise $5.2 billion to $1.13 trillion.  Foreigners bought a net $15.8 billion of Treasuries in
October, according to today’s report, as opposed to sales of
$17.3 billion the month before.  Net foreign purchases of U.S. corporate bonds totaled $3.64
billion in October, up from sales of $6.42 billion a month
earlier.  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
October ranged from net selling of $35 billion to net buying of
$65 billion, according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  