-- Foreign Purchases of Canadian Bonds to Ebb Next Year, RBC Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-12-17T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/foreign-purchases-of-canadian-bonds-to-ebb-next-year-rbc-says.html
Canada ’s allure to foreign investors
as a haven will dim next year, pushing demand down and
government-bond yields up, according to Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit.  Foreigners snapped up one-third of Canada’s annual gross
bond issuance of C$100 billion ($102 billion) as they fled
crisis-ridden bond markets in Europe, according to a Dec. 13 RBC
note to clients. The purchases cut 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, from 10-year government bond yields, according
to RBC estimates. The benchmark reached a six-decade  low  of
1.565 percent in July.  An improving outlook in the euro region will “redirect”
fund flows into shunned European peripheral government-bond
markets, RBC analysts led by  Mark Chandler , chief bond
strategist, wrote.  “Strong international demand for Canadian  government bonds 
has kept yields, particularly in the belly of the curve, lower
than what they otherwise would have been,” the analysts wrote.
“As 2013 progresses, an expected gradual repair of financial
conditions abroad should bring a commensurate easing in safe-
haven demand for Canadian bonds.”  Non-residents  bought  C$8.15 billion of government bonds and
C$8.93 of private corporate debt -- the largest investment in
more than 10 years -- while divesting C$2.97 billion of money-
market paper,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.  The RBC note recommended investors amass holdings of the
debt of European peripheral countries, such as Spanish 10-year
bonds. The  European Central Bank ’s commitment in July to
preserve the euro at any cost and the establishment of a single
banking supervisor have improved sentiment in financial markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  