-- Forint Weakens Most in Three Months on Monetary Easing Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-17T17:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/forint-plunges-most-in-three-months-on-monetary-easing-outlook.html
The forint plunged the most in
three-months on bets the central bank will cut the benchmark
 interest rate  for a fifth time this year tomorrow and ease
monetary policy further in 2013.  The forint depreciated as much as 1.7 percent and was 1.5
percent weaker at 288.1 per euro by 5:45 p.m. in Budapest, the
biggest daily decline since Sept. 6 to the weakest level since
Sept. 7. Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds were up two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.47 percent after
falling to a 2 1/2 year low of 6.44 percent last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank has cut its benchmark rate by 1 percentage
point since August to 6 percent as rate-setters appointed by the
government outvoted Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor.
All 19 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg project another 25 basis
point cut tomorrow to 5.75 percent. The central bank’s new
leadership, which will take office after Simor’s term expires in
March, will be allied with the government in boosting economic
growth, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a radio
interview on Dec. 15.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cabinet “will make sure the
central bank will be fully aligned with the government’s
policy,”  Luis Costa , a London-based strategist at Citigroup
Inc., wrote by e-mail today, adding that the forint was
“poised” to slump against the euro.  The government may ask the new head of the central bank to
limit the amount commercial banks can buy in two-week bills and
make the central bank buy debt on the secondary market, hvg.hu
reported last month, citing unidentified people in Orban’s
ruling Fidesz party.  Foreign-Currency Bonds  The yields on  Hungary ’s euro-denominated bonds fell to the
lowest in seven weeks after Matolcsy said the government may
stay away from international debt markets again in 2013.  Yields on the notes maturing in 2019 dropped 11 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.35 percent, the lowest
since Nov. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary scrapped plans to issue foreign-currency bonds this
year as the forint and local-currency debt were among the best
performers in the EU and the government expected to conclude aid
talks with the  International Monetary Fund .  “Investor sentiment needs to be great and forint-based
issuance to rise further for Hungary to be able to avoid
Eurobond issuance next year,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst
at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  Export-Import Bank  State-owned Export-Import Bank Zrt. sold $500 million in
bonds this month, which the government said was a “test” ahead
of a possible sovereign issuance. Yields on dollar-denominated
securities due in 2021 plunged 22 basis points to 4.92 percent
today, the least since Dec. 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Local-currency borrowing costs may rise next year if Orban
stays away from foreign-currency debt markets, said Erste’
Arokszallasi and Akos Kuti, an analyst at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt.  “It would put pressure on the forint bond market, which
may lift yields,” Kuti wrote in a research report today. “It
would also increase supply on the forint market, so the currency
would suffer too.”  The forint plunged more than 15 percent in the second half
of 2011 after Orban nationalized privately managed pension
assets and forced banks to take losses on foreign-currency
loans, costing the nation its investment-grade  credit rating .  Hungary’s currency rebounded 9 percent this year as Orban
sought a “safety net” from the IMF and as bond buying by
central banks in the U.S. and  Europe  boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  “We are certainly not confident that it is happy days for
the forint given Hungary’s serious structural and political
problems,”  Lars Christensen , a Copenhagen-based analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  