-- Fortis to Sell Dental Corp. Unit to Bupa for $285 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T07:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fortis-to-sell-dental-corp-unit-to-bupa-for-285-million-1-.html
Fortis Healthcare Ltd. (FORH) ,  India ’s
second-biggest hospital operator, agreed to sell its 64 percent
stake in Australia’s Dental Corp. to Bupa for A$270 million
($284 million), citing limited expansion opportunities.  Fortis shares surged as much as 9.4 percent to 119.50
rupees in Mumbai trading, headed for the biggest gain since July
2009, before trading at 117.20 rupees at 12:21 p.m. The stock is
the  second-biggest  gainer on the BSE 500 Index today.  The sale is “in line with Fortis’s strategic decision to
focus on health care in  Asia  including India,” the New Delhi-
based hospital operator said in a statement today.  Fortis, which initially invested in  Dental Corp.  in January
2011, later increased its shareholding and added 50 clinics to
the 140 dental practices in Australia and  New Zealand , the
Indian company said. The model “has remained confined to the
two countries and, in spite of exploration and backing, has
found limited acceptance in other Fortis geographies,” it said.  The sale is expected to be completed in March, subject to
shareholder and regulatory approval, Fortis said.  Dental Corp. brought in 28 percent of revenue for Fortis in
the year ended March 31, making it the biggest contributor to
sales outside India, according to an  Aug. 20  corporate
presentation.  Aged-Care Homes  Bupa will own 100 percent of Dental Corp. on completing the
deal, it said in a separate e-mailed statement. The London-based
company already sells health insurance, and runs aged-care homes
and retirement villages in  Australia  and New Zealand, Bupa said.  Fortis’s “reason for selling the business because they
can’t replicate the model in Asia is difficult to digest,”
Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at ICICI Direct, said in a
telephone interview. “They are selling off their most
profitable unit and the ebitda is going to drop going forward.”  Dental Corp. had an earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization margin of 18 percent in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, making it one of the most profitable
entities in the Fortis portfolio, according to an investor
presentation on its  website . Fortis’s India business had an
ebitda margin of 13.8 percent in the same period.  Fortis on Oct. 19 listed its hospital assets on the
 Singapore Exchange  through the  Religare Health Trust (RHT) , raising
S$511 million ($419 million). The business trust will invest
primarily in health-care assets in Asia, Australia and  emerging
markets  in the rest of the world, Religare said in its
prospectus.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  