-- Fuji Xerox May Miss Fiscal 2013 Revenue Target, President Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-12-17T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/fuji-xerox-may-miss-fiscal-2013-revenue-target-president-says.html
Fuji Xerox Co.,  Japan ’s biggest
maker of color printers, may miss its sales target for the next
fiscal year because of slowing demand.  “Even if we manage to achieve our  earnings  plan this
fiscal year, it will still be quite hard for us to boost sales
enough to reach the target,” President Tadahito Yamamoto said
in an interview today. He was referring to the closely held
company’s revenue estimate of 1.1 trillion yen ($13 billion) for
the year starting April 1.  Business is slowing in  China , where the Tokyo-based company
suspended a new television commercial featuring Hong Kong film
actor Tony Leung, Yamamoto said. The easing sales in China add
to uncertainty about the company’s business outlook after
corporate clients in mature markets began investing at a slower
pace, he said.  Fuji Xerox, the biggest unit of  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) ,
hasn’t yet decided whether its medium-term management  goals  need
to be revised, Yamamoto said.  “There are still measures such as making an acquisition”
that can help the company meet the goals, he said. Fuji Xerox,
which doesn’t have a specific target in mind, would consider a
deal “if there is an opportunity,” he said.  The copier maker, 25 percent owned by Norwalk, Connecticut-
based  Xerox Corp. (XRX) , is aiming at an operating margin of 10
percent or more and revenue of 1.1 trillion yen in the year
ending March 2014, it said in October 2011.  Salmat Acquisition  Fuji Xerox completed an acquisition of a business process
outsourcing division from North Sydney-based  Salmat Ltd. (SLM)  for
A$375 million ($395 million) in October this year.  Sales fell 3.3 percent to 247.2 billion yen in the three
months ended Sept. 30, Fuji Xerox said Oct. 31. Operating
profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and administrative
expenses, dropped 33 percent to 17.1 billion yen during the
period, the company said.  Even after second-quarter revenue and profit declined, the
office-equipment maker aims to boost both revenue and profit for
the year ending March 31, the president said.  “Earnings from document solution services in Japan are
higher than our expectation,” Yamamoto said. “Cost-reduction
measures will show a bigger effect in the fiscal second half”
started Oct. 1, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  