-- Gazprom Neft to Boost Output Spending, Weigh Buying Hess Unit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-12-17T15:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/gazprom-neft-to-boost-output-spending-weigh-buying-hess-unit.html
OAO  Gazprom Neft , the oil arm of
 Russia ’s largest natural-gas producer, will boost spending 23
percent as tax incentives spur drilling, as it plots
acquisitions that could include a Russian unit of  Hess Corp. (HES)   Gazprom Neft earmarked investment of $7.5 billion in 2013
compared with about $6.1 billion this year, Chief Financial
Officer Alexey Yankevich said in an interview. The company plans
to spend $23.3 billion from 2013-2015 with $10.2 billion of that
going to tap new deposits, according to a presentation today.  The goal is to almost double oil and gas output to 100
million metric tons a year by 2020 as Gazprom Neft develops
Siberia’s largest new deposits. New developments in Yamal,
Orenburg, the  Barents Sea  Offshore, East Siberia,  Venezuela  and
 Iraq  currently producing less than 5 million tons of oil a year
will gradually rise to just under 40 million tons in 2020,
according to the presentation.  “We have a lot of reserves that are ready for
development,” Yankevich said in Moscow. “We have had a number
of things come together for us, mainly that we have clarity,
more or less, on taxes.”  Russia, which earns about half its revenue from an oil and
gas industry dependent on Soviet-legacy fields, is seeking to
balance budget needs and tax breaks to spur investment in new
deposits. Putin’s call to keep oil output above 10 million
barrels a day for at least the next decade has seen companies
such as OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil increase investments in
drilling.  Potential Acquisitions  The  St. Petersburg , Russia-based company will set aside
about $800 million of next year’s spending for acquisitions
including for Russian state licensing auctions where the
Imilorskoye field will be offered, Yankevich said.  Hess’s Samara-Nafta asset in Russia’s Volga region has also
drawn Gazprom Neft’s interest, according to Vadim Yakovlev,
Gazprom Neft’s deputy chief executive officer. He did not
provide further details.  Hess has retained Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as financial
adviser as it seeks to sell the unit, which produces 50,000
barrels a day of oil equivalent, according to a Nov. 12
statement.  OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, is
transfering oilfield licenses to Gazprom Neft for development.
Gazprom Neft gained control of the Novoport field in the Yamal
region last week and expects to get the Prirazlomnoye field in
the Barents Sea next year, Yankevich said. Gazprom Neft will
spend $600 million on Novoport next year and $1.1 billion the
following year, according to the presentation.  Gazprom Neft is also in talks with Gazprom on operating
some oil output from the parent company’s gas fields, Yakovlev
said.  Cash Flow  Free  cash flow  will be negative until 2015 due to
investment in projects, according to the presentation. Free cash
flow will rise above $5 billion after 2017 and above $10 billion
in 2020 as output is ramped up, according to the presentation.
Dividend payments will remain at 22 percent of net income next
year and may increase after 2016, Yankevich said.  Gazprom Neft is confident it can recoup spending as it
secures breaks on mineral-extraction taxes and lower export
duties at some northern fields, Yankevich said. “The extra
investment is mainly linked to this,” he said. The board will
meet to review the business plan on Dec. 21, he said.  Gazprom Licenses  With the addition of projects from Gazprom, including
fields in the Orenburg region transfered last year, Gazprom Neft
has outstripped competitors on output growth. Production rose
4.4 percent to 1.19 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in
the first nine months of this year, according to Gazprom Neft’s
 website . That beat state-run Rosneft, Russia’s largest producer,
which increased oil and gas output 3.4 percent, its  website 
shows.  Output will rise 4.4 percent to an estimated 59.8 million
tons of oil equivalent this year, according to the presentation.
Gazprom Neft will refine 43.5 million tons this year, up from
40.5 million tons the previous year.  Borrowing will remain at this year’s level, or about $2
billion to $2.2 billion, even as spending rises, Yankevich said.
Gazprom Neft will consider dollar, euro and ruble debt and has
plenty of room to borrow more, he said. No debt sales are
planned before the end of the year, he said.  “It’s a sin not to borrow with such a low debt load and
good rates,” Yankevich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  