-- GE-Backed Wagon Maker Seeks Africa Rail Orders
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e
-- 2012-12-18T11:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/ge-backed-wagon-maker-seeks-africa-rail-orders-corporate-india.html
Titagarh Wagons Ltd., a  General
Electric Co (GE) .-backed supplier to the Indian Railways, is seeking
railroad orders in  Africa  to reduce dependence on its home
market amid slowing sales.  The wagon maker, which acquired a company in France in
2010, will use that unit to bid for projects on the continent,
Managing Director Umesh Chowdhary said in an interview in
Kolkata. Titagarh has also filed for patents for wagons it has
designed to carry automobiles, he said.  The Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s cut Titagarh’s rating
outlook this month and said the view may be revised if the
company improves operating margins and diversifies to reduce
dependence on Indian Railways. The wagon maker is turning to
Africa, where the economy is  forecast  by McKinsey & Co. to rise
to $2.6 trillion by 2020 from $1.6 trillion in 2008.  “Africa is going to be a future market and we are looking
for potential in freight markets,” Chowdhary said on Dec. 13.
“It is also a risk mitigation process because over the past few
years we have seen a bit of an inconsistent wagon purchasing
policy by the  Indian Railways .”  Profit Decline  Profit (TWL) , excluding at units, fell 79 percent in the six
months ended Sept. 30 and sales declined 49 percent after fire
at one of its factories disrupted output and inadequate supply
of raw materials from the Indian Railways, the company said last
month. Net income, excluding units, dropped 5.9 percent in the
year ended March 31, the first decline in at least nine years.  Crisil Ltd. cut its  rating  outlook on the long-term bank
facilities to stable from positive, it said Dec. 11.  Shares of Titagarh, which is 12.7 percent owned by GE
Capital International (Mauritius), have declined 3.1 percent
this year, compared with a 25 percent gain in the key Sensitive
Index. Titagarh fell 1.4 percent to close at 369.50 rupees in
Mumbai trading.  There are concerns about the benefits for Titagarh from an
overseas push.  “Exports are difficult due to high transportation costs,
competition with other countries, and because of different gauge
requirements,” said Tejas Sarvaiya, an analyst with Trust
Financial Consultancy Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “So I doubt
whether it will move the needle for the company in the short to
medium term.”  French Connection  Arbel Fauvet Rail, located at Douai in northern  France , was
acquired by Titagarh two years back and will be leveraged to
expand presence in Africa, Chowdhary said. The unit is now
called Titagarh Wagons AFR.  “A lot of the West African countries have been French
colonies, so that gives us a natural advantage to enter these
markets in a resistance-free manner vis-a-vis competition,”
said Chowdhary. “We will have a low-cost manufacturing base in
India wherein we can do the assembling and have the French
company to back us in terms of design and marketing.”  The strategy to expand in Africa could help the company
grow, according to Chetan Kapoor, an analyst with IDBI Capital
Market Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  “It will be profitable to do business in Africa because
it’s not as developed a market,” said Kapoor. “So
manufacturing in  India  and sending it there is a more reasonable
option rather than setting up a whole factory there.”  Double Revenue  The French company is expected to double its revenue in the
current fiscal year ending March 31 from about 20 million euros
($26 million) in the previous 12 months, Chowdhary said.  It has 70 million euros of orders and is negotiating for
another 40 million euros of contracts over the next two to three
months, he said.  In contrast, the wagon orders on offer from  Indian Railways 
in the current fiscal year shrunk to 16,000 units from 18,000
units budgeted in the previous 12 months.  That’s prompted Titagarh to look at other customers and
restructure some businesses to accelerate growth.  Titagarh, set up in 1997, has developed wagons for carrying
vehicles and won orders from  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker. The  company  is talking to more
customers for supply of specialized wagons, Chowdhary said.  This segment has a “huge potential” because a small
fraction of automobiles produced in India move by rail, compared
with about 70 percent in the U.S. and 60 percent in  Europe ,
Chowdhary said.  Separating Units  Last month Titagarh’s board approved separating its rail
coaches division into an existing subsidiary of the company and
its heavy earth moving and mining equipments division demerged
into another unit.  “As of now, these two divisions are really not
contributing to the topline or bottomline of Titagarh,” said
Chowdhary. “So separating them and putting the thrust to grow
would be more logical.”  These changes will help increase the contribution of
business from private companies to about 40 percent of total
revenue over the next two to three years from about 15 percent,
Chowdhary said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  