-- German Stocks Little Changed Amid Japan Vote, U.S. Budget
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-17T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/german-stocks-little-changed-amid-japan-vote-u-s-budget.html
German stocks  were little changed as
the election of a Japanese party that supports more economic
stimulus offset concern that U.S. lawmakers won’t agree on a
budget before the holidays.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  gained 1.3 percent after
 Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported that the company will extend its
share buyback program.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  dropped 2.4 percent
after Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.1 percent to 7,604.94 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark earlier slipped as
much as 0.4 percent. The gauge has risen 29 percent this year,
the biggest rally of 24 developed equity markets tracked by
Bloomberg. The broader HDAX Index also added 0.1 percent today.  “Probably the bigger driver for today is going to be Japan
because while all the polls were suggesting that the Liberal
Democratic Party probably would win, the scale of their victory
was bigger than expected,”  Andy Lynch , a portfolio manager at
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in London, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “The current  Bank of Japan 
governor has been very conservative, not wanting to really print
money, push the yen down. The politicians now are going to be
able to appoint someone who is going to agree with them and go
down that route.”  Japan’s Liberal Democratic Party reclaimed power in a
landslide victory yesterday. Shinzo Abe’s LDP now has a mandate
to implement fiscal and monetary stimulus plans.  In the U.S., Republicans and Democrats must agree on a
budget compromise to prevent more than $600 billion of tax
increases and spending cuts from automatically coming into force
at the beginning of next year.  Infineon Rises  Infineon Technologies advanced 1.3 percent to 5.89 euros,
its third day of gains. Europe’s second-largest semiconductor
manufacturer intends to extend its share-buyback program,
Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported, citing an interview with Chief
Executive Officer Reinhard Ploss. The CEO also said the company
may make small or medium-sized acquisitions.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  gained 1.9 percent to 14.03 euros.
Macquarie Bank Ltd. raised the shares of Europe’s biggest
airline to outperform from neutral, meaning that investors
should increase their holdings.  Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , increased 1.6 percent to 41.34 euros.  Metro AG (MEO)  added 1.2 percent to 21.54 euros. Chief Executive
Officer Olaf Koch said the company’s major shareholders have not
indicated that they will significantly reduce their holdings in
Germany’s largest retailer. Koch spoke in an interview with
Capital magazine.  Deutsche Wohnen  Deutsche Wohnen fell 2.4 percent to 14.36 euros, declining
for a third day. Germany’s largest residential landlord by
market value was downgraded to hold from buy at Deutsche Bank,
which cited its recent performance and the increased potential
for disappointment in the short term. The shares have rallied 44
percent from the beginning of this year.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , the broadcaster controlled by KKR
& Co. and Permira Advisers LLP, lost 5.1 percent to 22.45 euros.
The shares were downgraded to neutral from overweight at HSBC
Holdings Plc “after a significant run-up and limited upside.”
ProSiebenSat.1 has jumped 60 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  