-- Gilts Decline for Seventh Day Before U.K. Consumer-Price Report
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-17T16:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/gilts-decline-for-seventh-day-before-u-k-consumer-price-report.html
U.K. government bonds fell, with 10-
year gilts sliding for a seventh day, before a government report
tomorrow that economists said will show consumer-price inflation
remained at the fastest since May.  Ten-year  yields  climbed to the highest level in six weeks
even as an industry report today showed U.K.  house prices 
declined in December, damping optimism the economy is
recovering. Gilts have declined this month as the  Bank of
England  decided to keep on hold its program of bond purchases,
known as quantitative easing. The pound strengthened to a two-
month high against the dollar.  “The overall trend for gilts is pretty bearish,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in
Edinburgh. “The inflation picture is somewhat murky at the
moment. Quantitative easing has probably come to an end.”  The 10-year gilt yield climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.89 percent at 4:41 p.m. in  London , the
highest level since Nov. 2. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 dropped 0.265, or 2.65 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,620) face amount, to 98.74.  Investors are boosting their forecasts for U.K. inflation,
bond yields show.  The 10-year  break-even rate , a measure of expectations of
inflation derived from a difference in yield between regular and
index-linked bonds, widened one basis point to 2.78 percentage
points, the most since April 19.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent last month from a year
earlier, matching the October reading, the  Office for National
Statistics  will say tomorrow, according to the median estimate
of 34 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Faster inflation
erodes the purchasing power of the fixed income from bonds.  Average house prices in  England and Wales  fell 3.3 percent,
the most since January 2002, Rightmove Plc said. London home
sellers cut asking prices 4 percent from November, the property
website said.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1 percent this month
through Dec. 14, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 0.4 percent and Treasuries declined 0.3 percent.  Bank of England officials in two days will release the
minutes of their Dec. 6 meeting, when they maintained the
central bank’s asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds and
the key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook on Britain’s AAA
credit rating to negative last week, meaning there is a one-in-
three chance that it may be cut in the next two years.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Britain is not
“dancing to the tune” of credit-rating companies.  “I don’t think the decision of each and every credit
rating agency is the be-all and end-all,” he said after a
speech in London. “We’re not dancing to the tune of the credit-
rating agencies. We’re seeking to do the right thing for the
British people.”  The pound strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.6202 after rising
to $1.6216, the highest since Oct. 5. Sterling appreciated 0.1
percent to 81.28 pence per euro.  The U.K. currency has gained 1.4 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro declined 1.4 percent
and the dollar fell 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  