-- Goldwind Plans New Wind Projects to Tap Australia’s 2020 Target
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-12-17T04:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/goldwind-plans-new-wind-projects-to-tap-australia-s-2020-target.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. (002202) ,  China ’s largest wind-turbine maker, is studying
new projects to take advantage of  Australia ’s 2020 renewable
energy target.  Australia is set to install as much as 8,000 megawatts of
wind power by the end of the decade, and Goldwind is “looking
to be a serious participant,” John Titchen, managing director
of its local unit, said in a Dec. 14 interview in Sydney. “We
see a range of project opportunities,” he said.  Goldwind is among wind-power companies seeking to expand in
Australia, which intends to generate at least 20 percent of its
power from renewable energy by 2020. Australia requires
electricity retailers to buy renewable energy certificates from
producers of wind and solar power, providing an incentive to
developers of the projects.  Goldwind (2208) , which entered Australia in 2009, started
construction last month on the 165.5-megawatt Gullen Range wind
farm in New South Wales state, the second project in the country
to use the Chinese company’s turbines. Gullen Range is scheduled
to start operating in early 2014, Titchen said.  Wind developers in Australia will increasingly focus on
Victoria and New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state,
Titchen said, declining to discuss projects being considered.
Urumqi, Xinjiang-based Goldwind said in June it sold its  Mortons
Lane wind farm  in Victoria state to China Guangdong Nuclear Wind
Energy Co.  Smallest Share  Goldwind has the smallest share of the Australian wind
turbine market among nine companies, with  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS)  and  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  the biggest suppliers, according to
data provided by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  While a glut of renewable energy certificates has driven
their price down and discouraged investment in new wind farms,
Goldwind expects demand to increase, Titchen said.  The Climate Change Authority is scheduled to release its
final report reviewing Australia’s renewable energy policy on
Dec. 19. In a preliminary review in October, the government
adviser said that the goal of generating 41,000 gigawatt hours
of electricity from renewable sources by 2020 should be retained
in its current form to boost investor confidence.  “There were some difficult times in the market in recent
years, but we’re now coming out of that oversupply,” Titchen
said. “The report on the government’s policy also shows the
CCA’s view that the market is working and that the rules should
be left alone so we can get on with the job.”  Goldwind,  whose stock  dropped 25 percent in  Hong Kong  this
year through Dec. 14, is facing competition from local and
overseas companies including  Denmark ’s Vestas. Goldwind said in
October it expects a 50 percent decline in earnings this year as
heightened competition drives prices lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  