-- Google Said to End FTC Probe With Letter Promising Change
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-12-17T19:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/google-said-to-end-ftc-probe-with-letter-promising-change.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is poised to make
voluntary concessions that will end a 20-month U.S. antitrust
probe of its business practices without any enforcement action,
two people familiar with the matter said.  Google, which has been under investigation by the Federal
Trade Commission, is preparing a letter promising not to copy
content from rival websites without permission and to allow
advertisers to compare Google’s ad-campaign data with
performance on other Internet search engines, one of the people
said yesterday. That will close the investigation without a
lawsuit or settlement, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  An end to the probe without any enforcement action would be
a blow to Google’s competitors including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yelp
Inc. and Expedia Inc., which formed an alliance to press the
agency to act. They claim Google’s dominance of Internet search,
combined with favoring its own services in answers to queries,
violates antitrust laws and impedes competition.  “The notion of voluntary commitments is close to
worthless,” said William Kovacic, a former FTC commissioner and
chairman and a professor of law at George  Washington  University.
“They are feeble policy-making instruments and they will not in
any way placate the complainants, who will correctly see them
for what they are, which is an attempt to provide cover to walk
away.”  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, declined to comment on
whether Google is preparing to announce concessions or any
matters involving the FTC. Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman for
the FTC, also declined to comment.  Commission Vote  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” Kovacevich said in an e-mail.  In another investigation of Google, the FTC will probably
announce a consent decree this week that would limit the
company’s ability to seek injunctions against competitors’
products that rely on so-called standard-essential patents, said
the people. The decree would stop short of a complete ban on
Google’s ability to seek court orders barring competitors’
products where the company has agreed to license the technology
on “fair and reasonable terms,” the people said.  A majority vote of the agency’s five commissioners is
required both to close the investigation into Internet search
and to accept a consent decree on standard-essential patents.  Settlement Talks  Google has been engaged in settlement talks with the FTC
for about two weeks, people familiar with the talks have said.
The Mountain View, California-based company has resisted the
FTC’s efforts to reach a formal settlement agreement over
allegations that it skews search results to favor its services,
saying such an agreement may hurt its business prospects, said
the people.  “Enforcement authorities should not allow Google to retain
an unfair advantage in the market gained through years of anti-
competitive behavior,” Fairsearch.org, the alliance that
includes Microsoft, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“If the FTC fails to take meaningful action after a nearly two-
year investigation, Google will only be emboldened to act in
ways that are more harmful to consumers and innovators.”  Fairsearch.org claims that Google puts its own restaurant
reviews, maps and shopping services at the top of the results
page and that the first three answers to a query garner 88
percent of users’ clicks.  Favored Services  “At a minimum, if the government is going to concede that
the practice isn’t unlawful, it should make it clear that Google
is favoring its own services,” said Gary Reback, an antitrust
lawyer in Menlo Park,  California , who represents companies that
have complained about Google’s practices.  Google’s position, made publicly by Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  during a Senate Judiciary antitrust hearing in September
2011, is that its rankings help consumers who seek the best
direct answer to a query rather than links to other information
sources.  “Our challenge is to return the most relevant answers
first,” Schmidt said at the hearing. “This means that not
every website can come on top.”  Reback criticized the FTC’s investigation, saying that many
of his clients, which include NexTag Inc. and other shopping-
comparison websites, received no follow-up questions, including
about the anticompetitive effects of Google’s practices.  Under Pressure  The agency has been under pressure to extract concessions
from Google after winning a battle with the Justice Department’s
antitrust division over which regulator would probe the world’s
most popular search engine.  “If there’s no antitrust case, the right thing to do is to
walk away,” said Kovacic. “The agency set high expectations
and gave signals they were going to do something bold. They
painted themselves into a corner,” he said.  It’s unlikely the antitrust division of the Justice
Department would take up the investigation after an FTC
decision, he said.  Google also is in discussions with European Union officials
to resolve their antitrust concerns. Those include Google
ranking its services higher than rivals’ offerings in search
results, copying competitors’ Web content, and making agreements
with websites and developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  The attorneys general of some states, including  Texas ,
California, New York and  Ohio , have also been investigating
Google’s practices in Internet search.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 