-- Gun Debate Must Avoid Crazy 2nd Amendment Claims
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-17T20:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/gun-debate-must-avoid-crazy-second-amendment-claims.html
The rise of the Second Amendment as
a serious obstacle to U.S. gun control legislation is
astonishingly recent.  Its rise is a tribute less to the vision of the Founding
Fathers than to the skill, money and power of the contemporary
gun-rights movement, which has not only exerted disproportionate
influence on Congress, but also helped  transform  the landscape
of constitutional argument. We should be able to have a serious
national discussion uninhibited by wild and unsupportable claims
about the meaning of the Constitution.  Here’s a quick way to see how rapidly things have changed.
Warren Burger was a conservative Republican, appointed U.S.
chief justice by President  Richard Nixon  in 1969. In a  speech  in
1992, six years after his retirement from the court, Burger
declared that “the Second Amendment doesn’t guarantee the right
to have firearms at all.” In his view, the purpose of the
Second Amendment was only “to ensure that the ‘state armies’ --
‘the militia’ -- would be maintained for the defense of the
state.”  A year before, Burger went even  further . On
“MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour,” Burger said the Second Amendment
“has been the subject of one of the greatest pieces of fraud --
I repeat the word ‘fraud’ -- on the American public by special
interest groups that I have ever seen in my lifetime.” Burger
wasn’t in the habit of taking stands on controversial
constitutional questions on national television. In using the
word “fraud,” Burger meant to describe what he saw as a clear
consensus about the meaning of the Constitution.  Ambiguous Text  To understand what Burger was thinking, consider the  words 
of the Second Amendment: “A well regulated Militia, being
necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the
people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” Fair-minded readers have to acknowledge that the text is ambiguous.
Sure, it could fairly be read to support an individual right to
have guns. But in light of the preamble, with its reference to a
well-regulated militia, it could also be read not to confer an
individual right, but to protect federalism, by ensuring that
the new national government wouldn’t interfere with citizen
militias at the state level.  A lot of historians believe, with Chief Justice Burger,
that some version of the latter interpretation is the right one.
Until remarkably recently, almost all federal judges have
agreed. It is striking that before its 2008 decision in  District
of Columbia v. Heller , the  Supreme Court  had never held that the
Second Amendment protects an individual right to have guns.  For almost seven decades, the court’s leading decision was
 U.S. v. Miller . The 1939 case involved a ban on the possession
of a sawed-off shotgun. Sounding like Burger, the court
unanimously said that the Second Amendment’s “obvious purpose”
was “to assure the continuation and render possible the
effectiveness of” the militia. Without evidence that the
possession of a sawed-off shotgun was related to preservation of
a well-regulated militia, the court refused to say that the
Second Amendment protected the right to have such a weapon.  For decades, federal courts overwhelmingly rejected the
conclusion that the Second Amendment protects an individual
right. It wasn’t until the 21st century that lower federal
courts, filled with appointees of Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and
 George H.W. Bush , started to adopt the individual-rights
position. And, of course, the Supreme Court itself adopted that
view in 2008, by a 5-to-4 vote.  Cautious Path  I am not saying that the court was wrong. The legal
question is genuinely difficult, and people disagree in good
faith how to solve it. What is important to see is that in the
very recent past, the U.S. has lived through a Second Amendment
revolution, spurred by an intensely focused and well-funded
social movement with both legal and political arms.  More important still, the Supreme Court has proceeded
cautiously, and it has pointedly refused to shut the door to all
gun regulation. On the contrary, the court  said , “Nothing in
our opinion should be taken to cast doubt on longstanding
prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons and the
mentally ill, or laws forbidding the carrying of firearms in
sensitive places such as schools and government buildings, or
laws imposing conditions and qualifications on the commercial
sale of arms.”  To this the court added that the sorts of weapons it was
protecting were those “in common use at the time” that the
Second Amendment was ratified. We should respect the fact that
the individual right to have guns has been established, but a
lot of  gun-control  legislation, imaginable or proposed, would be
perfectly consistent with the court’s rulings.  In the political arena,  opponents  of gun control, armed
with both organization and money, have been invoking the Second
Amendment far more recklessly, treating it as a firm obstacle to
any effort to regulate guns and bullets. As a result, they have
made it difficult for Congress, and many state legislatures,
even to hold serious discussions about what sorts of regulation
might save lives. Consider this disturbing  statement  by Stephen
Halbrook, a lawyer who has represented the  National Rifle
Association , about the very kinds of guns used in the
Connecticut tragedy: “They get a lot of coverage when there’s a
tragedy, but the number of people unlawfully killed with them is
small.”  Reasonable people can debate about what policies would
actually work. That is a debate worth having. It is past time to
stop using the Second Amendment itself as a loaded weapon,
threatening elected representatives who ought to be doing their
jobs.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 