-- Mind-Controlled Robotic Hand Allows Woman to Pour Water
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-12-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/mind-controlled-robotic-hand-allows-woman-to-pour-water.html
A woman paralyzed from the neck down
was able to move a robotic hand using her thoughts almost as
freely and naturally as people without disability, aided by tiny
electronic implants in her brain, scientists said.  The 52-year-old patient, diagnosed 13 years earlier with a
rare degenerative disease that wears away brain and spinal
structures, moved the prosthesis by the second day of training,
 researchers  said today in the Lancet medical journal. Scientists
at the University of Pittsburgh conducted the study.  Two microelectronic devices were implanted into the left
motor cortex of the woman’s brain and connected to a detached
robotic hand. The procedure allowed her to perform activities --
such as pouring water from one glass to another -- with a level
of coordination and skill close to that of an able-bodied
person, said  Andrew Schwartz , the lead researcher. The results
build on earlier, similar efforts to create devices that
transform neural activity into control signals to robotic limbs.  “These are very natural movements instead of simplified
machine movements,” said Schwartz, professor of neurobiology at
the  University of Pittsburgh , in a phone interview. “We have a
much, much higher level of control than we had before.”  The medical advance was achieved through development of an
algorithm that draws on 25 years of basic scientific research
into how the brain works when we move our arms and wrists,
Schwartz said. That has allowed his team to retrieve much more
detailed information from the brain compared with earlier
research, he said.  Previous Work  Researchers at Brown University’s Institute for Brain
Science published a study in the journal Nature in May,
describing two people paralyzed by strokes who were able to
control robot arms using their thoughts. The procedure enabled
the patients to grasp objects made of foam.  While this field of neuroprosthetics may soon become a
“revolutionary” treatment model for paralysis, several
challenges lie ahead,  Gregoire Courtine  of the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology wrote in a comment accompanying the
article.  The study was conducted in a controlled environment of
laboratories where highly skilled engineers can fine tune the
technology daily, Courtine said. Technical issues such as making
the system wireless and operational for decades without daily
tweaking remain, he said.  Next steps include adding sensory elements so that the
patient may be able to distinguish between hot and cold, and
smooth and coarse surfaces, the authors said.  Research on prosthetic hands and arms also serves as a
gateway toward ultimately helping patients move their own limbs
through electrical pulses, Schwartz said.  “But that is much more difficult to do,” he said. “As an
intermediary step, we’re having the subjects use a prosthetic
arm.”  The research was funded by the U.S.  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency  and Department of  Veterans Affairs ,
among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  