-- Indian 10-Year Bond Yields at Seven-Week Low as Inflation Eases
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-17T12:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/indian-10-year-bond-yields-at-seven-week-low-as-inflation-eases.html
Indian bond yields were at a seven-
week low on optimism easing  inflation  will create room for the
central bank to relax monetary policy.  The wholesale-price index rose 7.24 percent in November
from a year earlier, compared with a 7.45 percent jump in
October and the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 7.6
percent, official data showed last week. The monetary authority,
which last lowered the repurchase  rate  by 50 basis points to 8
percent in April, reviews policy again tomorrow.  “Purely going by the inflation number, there is probably a
case for a rate cut but it will be a close call,” said Lakshmi Iyer, head of fixed income at Kotak Mahindra Asset Management
Co. in Mumbai. “The underlying stance is going to be dovish.”
Investors have built up some expectations for policy easing
ahead, she added.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 was at
8.142 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system, the lowest level since Oct. 29.  India ’s government debt
has returned 10 percent this year, second only to  Indonesia 
among 10 Asian indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will reduce the cash-reserve
 ratio  by 25 basis points to 4 percent, according to 19 of 23
economists in a separate survey, with one seeing a 50 basis
point cut and the rest no change. The central bank will hold the
benchmark borrowing rate at 8 percent, according to 24 of 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, while one predicted a 50 basis
point cut.  Bond Purchases  “While a CRR reduction is possible, the resumption of
open-market bond purchases could be an argument against it,”
said Iyer.  The RBI resumed debt buybacks this month after a five-month
hiatus to boost cash supplies and revive the economy. The
central bank bought 1.1 trillion rupees ($20 billion) of
 government securities  this fiscal year that started April 1.  Asia ’s third-largest  economy  will expand about 5.7 percent
to 5.9 percent in the fiscal year through March, the  Finance
Ministry  said today, less than an earlier forecast of as much as
7.85 percent. That would be the slowest pace in a decade and is
in line with the central bank’s Oct. 30 estimate of 5.8 percent.
At the last review, RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled he
may ease policy in the January-to-March quarter.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.63 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  