-- Indian Stocks Fall as Government Cuts GDP Estimate Before Policy
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-12-17T11:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/indian-stocks-fall-as-government-cuts-gdp-estimate-before-policy.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks dropped for the sixth
time in seven days as the government slashed the nation’s
economic growth estimate before the central bank’s policy
meeting tomorrow.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 0.4 percent
to 19,244.42 at the close in Mumbai. Volumes in the 30-stock
measure exceeded the 30-day average by 17 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  and  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) 
fell more than 1.5 percent each.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
and Bharti Airtel Ltd. dropped at least 3 percent each.  Asia’s third-largest economy may expand about 5.7 percent
to 5.9 percent in the year through March, less than an earlier
estimate of as much as 7.85 percent, the  Finance Ministry  said
in a mid-year review today. That would be the slowest pace in a
decade and matches the 5.8 percent estimate made by the central
bank in October. The monetary authority may keep a key  interest
rate  unchanged at a review tomorrow, though it may reduce the
reserve ratio for lenders, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The central bank may like to see one or two more data
points before loosening policy,” Kaushik Dani, a fund manager
at Peerless Mutual Fund, which has $886 million in assets, said
by phone from Mumbai. “No one is hoping for an interest-rate
cut tomorrow.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has so far resisted calls from
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram for lower borrowing
costs, opting to keep the repurchase rate at 8 percent to damp
inflation in October while cutting the reserve ratio. To boost
confidence in an economy with one of Asia’s worst performing
currencies this year, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in recent
months pushed through policy overhauls to allow more foreign
investment in aviation and retail, and curbed energy subsidies.  Inflation Woes  Conflicting inflation indicators last week caused investor
expectations on  interest rates  to fluctuate. An acceleration in
a consumer-price index helped drag the Sensex to a two-week low
on Dec. 13, while an unexpected drop in a wholesale-price index
caused the stock gauge to climb the most in a week on Dec. 14.  Borrowing costs have remained unchanged since a 50 basis-
point cut in April. Inflation has risen to a high level, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in New Delhi on Dec. 15.  The government won parliamentary support in the first week
of December on foreign investment in supermarkets. The cabinet
approved last week changes to a law governing purchases of land
for industry and highways, while Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan said the government has set up a panel to speed up
approvals of infrastructure projects.  Sensex Rally  The Sensex has risen 25 percent this year, headed for its
biggest annual advance since 2009, as the government’s policy
announcements attracted foreign investors.  Overseas funds were
net  buyers  of local stocks for a 21st straight day on Dec. 13,
taking net purchases in 2012 to $22.2 billion, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex’s advance this year drove its valuation to 16.4
times reported profit on Dec. 6, the highest since February. The
measure trades at 15.2 times compared with a multiple of 12 for
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The 30-day  volatility  in the
gauge was at 10, compared with the year’s lowest reading of 9.06
set on Nov. 26, the data show.  The S&P CNX  Nifty Index (NIFTY)  on the National Stock Exchange of
India lost 0.4 percent to 5,857.90. India VIX, which measures
the cost of protection against losses in the Nifty, jumped 4.9
percent to 14.92.  Housing Development Finance shed 1.8 percent to 836.85
rupees. HDFC Bank also dropped 1.8 percent to 676.5 rupees. Tata
Consultancy Services slumped 3 percent to 1,205.5 rupees.  Wipro
Ltd. (WPRO) , the third-biggest software services provider, retreated
1.5 percent to 370.2 rupees.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  plunged 3.8
percent to 300.55 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  