-- Intercell Jumps on Sale to France’s Vivalis
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-17T17:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/intercell-jumps-on-sale-to-france-s-vivalis.html
Intercell AG (ICLL)  rose the most since
January after the Austrian vaccine maker agreed to sell itself
to  Vivalis SA (VLS)  of  France  for about 124.5 million euros ($164
million) following setbacks in clinical trials.  Intercell jumped 13 percent to close at 1.96 euros in
Vienna, giving the company a market value of 108.2 million
euros. The gain was the biggest since Jan. 30. Vivalis fell 6.1
percent to 6.94 euros in Paris.  Shareholders of Vienna-based Intercell will receive Vivalis
stock valued at 2.26 euros a share, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Vivalis’s stock price today and terms of
the deal outlined in a joint statement late yesterday. That’s
about 30 percent above Intercell’s Dec. 14 closing price.  A competing bid is “relatively unlikely” even though  the
deal allows for a higher offer to be made for either party,
Thomas Lingelbach, Intercell’s chief executive officer, said in
a telephone interview today. There’s no breakup fee, he said.  The combination of the two companies “represents an
excellent strategic fit which takes advantage of complementary
skills and assets and provides a more resilient base for future
growth than either company had alone,” Gary Waanders, an
analyst at Nomura Code Securities Ltd. in  London , wrote in a
note to clients.  New Entity  Vivalis, a vaccine developer that has partnerships with
Sanofi and other drugmakers, plans to change its name to Valneva
SE when the acquisition closes and move its headquarters from
Saint-Herblain, near Nantes in western France, to Lyon in
eastern France.  The new entity will aim to be profitable by 2015,
Lingelbach said. Neither company has made a profit since 2008.
Valneva will also look to sell or find a partner for Vivalis’s
contract-manufacturing unit and Intercell’s antibody unit. The
businesses could fetch about 5 million euros each, Lingelbach
and Vivalis CEO Franck Grimaud said.  Intercell was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Vivalis was advised by Societe Generale SA.  Before today, Intercell’s stock had plunged 95 percent from
its 2008 peak after a vaccine patch to prevent diarrhea in
travelers failed in two patient studies in 2010, and partner
Merck & Co. stopped testing the company’s experimental vaccine
against a deadly hospital infection.  Stockholders will receive 13 Vivalis ordinary shares for
every 40 Intercell ones they own. They also will get 13 new
preferred shares for every 40 Intercell shares. Each preferred
share will convert into 0.4810 of a Valneva ordinary share if
Intercell’s vaccine against infections caused by the Pseudomonas
aeruginosa bacterium is approved for sale in the U.S. or  Europe .  Rights Issue  Valneva plans a 40 million-euro rights issue after
completion of the deal, which the companies expect in May. The
French government’s Strategic Investment Fund agreed to
participate in the offering for as much as 25 million euros, the
companies said.  The companies described the transaction as a merger of
equals. Based on the current issued share capital, Vivalis
shareholders will own 55 percent of the combined entity, while
Intercell holders will have 45 percent.  Lingelbach will be the CEO of Valneva, while Vivalis
Chairman Frederic Grimaud will become chairman. The supervisory
board will be split evenly between Vivalis and Intercell, and
one member from the French fund.  Intercell had sales of 33 million euros last year from its
sole marketed product, a vaccine called Ixiaro against Japanese
encephalitis. The company’s largest shareholder is Swiss
drugmaker Novartis AG, with 13 percent. Novartis supports the
deal, Lingelbach said.  Vivalis was founded by Groupe Grimaud, which controls 51
percent of the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company sells cells used in the production and research of
vaccines and antibodies. It had sales of 10 million euros last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  