-- Lira Weakens as Turkey Jobless Data Spurs Interest-Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-17T15:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/lira-weakens-as-turkey-jobless-data-spurs-interest-rate-cut-bets.html
The Turkish lira sank the most
almost in a month as an increase in the unemployment rate
prompted bets the central bank will cut interest rates tomorrow
to stimulate economic growth.  The lira lost 0.3 percent against the dollar at 1.7832 at
5:17 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest drop since Nov. 21, paring
this year’s gains to 6 percent, the third-biggest appreciation
among 10  emerging markets  in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa .
Yields on two-year benchmark debt were unchanged at 5.74
percent.  The unemployment rate in  Turkey  climbed to 9.1 percent in
September, the Ankara-based statistics office said today,
exceeding the estimates of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
 Gross domestic product  advanced 1.6 percent on an annual basis
in the third quarter, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession,
the agency said last month.  “The data confirms that the markedly slower economy
cannot” revive the job market, Felix Herrmann, a research
analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.
“Against this background, expectations the central bank might
even deliver a 50 basis point cut tomorrow may have risen.”  The central bank may lower the benchmark interest rate by
25 basis points to 5.5 percent, according to the median estimate
of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It will keep the top-
end of its so-called interest-rate corridor at 9 percent after
lowering it by 50 basis points on Nov. 20, the median estimate
of seven analysts shows.  “All key macroeconomic indicators are supporting
expectations of an interest rate cut,” Istanbul-based  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK)  said in an e-mailed note today.  Turkey’s economic growth may slow to 3 percent this year
from 8.50 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
24 analysts on Bloomberg. The slowdown has prompted the central
bank to drive down the  average cost of funding  for banks by more
than a half this year to 5.59 percent on Dec. 14, helping the
benchmark bond yields fall 527 basis points this year in the
biggest rally globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  