-- Irish GDP Seen Rising 0.6% in Third Quarter as Growth Resumes
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-12-17T12:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/irish-gdp-seen-rising-0-6-in-third-quarter-as-growth-resumes.html
Ireland’s economy probably returned
to growth in the third quarter as exports rebounded and  consumer
spending  strengthened, economists said before a report tomorrow.  Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, when it was
unchanged, according to the median of five estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey conducted by phone today. The economy
expanded 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the survey showed.  “The trade numbers should be good and retail sales
rebounded,” said  Alan McQuaid , an economist at Merrion Capital
in Dublin. “You are going to see a better second half than the
first half.”  Ireland’s economy will probably expand 1.5 percent next
year, according to the survey. That’s in line with the forecast
published by the government  earlier this month  when it
introduced additional austerity measures aimed at narrowing the
 budget deficit . Ireland is seeking to exit its international
bailout at the end of 2013 after returning to both short- and
long-term debt markets this year.  The  Central Statistics Office  is scheduled to publish the
third-quarter GDP data at 11 a.m. in Dublin tomorrow. The
forecasted growth would mark the first expansion since the final
three months of 2011, when the economy grew 0.6 percent. Conall Mac Coille, chief economist at Dublin-based stockbroker Davy,
said that while most indicators suggest expansion, quarterly GDP
figures are “exceptionally volatile” and tend be heavily
revised.  According to a separate Bloomberg survey published on Dec.
13, Ireland’s economy will probably expand 1 percent next year
and 2 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  