-- Lithuanian Court Doesn’t Recognize Arbitration Ruling on Gazprom
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-12-17T16:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/lithuanian-court-doesn-t-recognize-arbitration-ruling-on-gazprom.html
A Lithuanian court refused to
recognize a July decision by the Stockholm arbitration court
that terms of a shareholders’ agreement precluded the Lithuanian
government from suing  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  in national courts.  “The implementation in  Lithuania  of such a decision of the
Arbitration Institute would violate public order,” the
government’s legal rights and the right of national courts to
determine their own competence, the Court of Appeal in the
capital Vilnius said today in an e-mailed statement.  Lithuania is fighting what it considers unjustly high
prices for natural gas from  Russia , it’s only source. Among
other measures, including the instigation of an EU probe into
Gazprom’s practices, the state has sought the help of courts to
force gas utility Lietuvos Dujos to negotiate a better price for
Russian supplies. Gazprom controls the utility together with EON
AG, while Lithuania’s Energy Ministry owns 18 percent.  The arbitration court, responding to a complaint from
Gazprom, said on July 31 that a suit against Gazprom by the
Lithuanian ministry in Vilnius District Court in part violated
an agreement between the three main shareholders of  Lietuvos
Dujos (LDJ1L)  to settle their disputes through arbitration. The
arbitration body had no right to decide about a case that was
already underway in a national court, the Court of Appeal said.  “There cannot be two processes at the same time for the
same matter, one in arbitration and the other in a court,” it
said. “The Lithuanian state filed its claim at Vilnius District
Court before Gazprom appealed to arbitration.”  The Court of Appeal said its decision could be appealed to
Lithuania’s  Supreme Court  within 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  