-- Japan’s Abe Faces Ratings Pressure on Sales Tax Increase
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-12-17T11:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/japan-s-abe-faces-ratings-pressure-on-sales-tax-increase.html
Japan ’s incoming prime minister
Shinzo Abe risks action by rating companies unless he implements
a sales tax rise to limit the world’s largest public debt.  Failure to raise the sales tax “would be a credit negative
development,”  Tom Byrne , a senior vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in an interview in  Tokyo  today. Large
budget deficits “can’t be continued indefinitely so something
will have to give.”  Abe today promised to implement a “large” extra budget to
stem the nation’s economic slide, a move that could increase
debt that has grown to more than twice the economy’s size. While
outgoing Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  passed a bill this year
to raise the sales tax to limit borrowing, Abe said yesterday
implementing the increase depends on the health of the economy.  The Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition won a two-thirds
majority in yesterday’s lower house election, enabling it to
override most decisions of the upper chamber where it holds less
than half the seats.  Standard & Poor’s  would consider “lowering
the long-and short-term ratings if the government’s debt
trajectory were to remain on its current course,” Elena Okorochenko, managing director and lead analytical manager for
Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings at S&P said in an e-mail.  The tax is set to rise to 8 percent in April 2014 and 10
percent in October 2015 from the current 5 percent. Japan’s
gross public debt may reach 230 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development projects.  Budget Deficit  The government projected in August that the primary  budget
deficit  -- which excludes payments on debt -- will be 2.8
percent of GDP in the 2020 fiscal year, short of the targeted
surplus even if the  sales-tax  increase is phased in as planned.  The LDP may unveil between 5 trillion ($60 billion) and 10
trillion yen in extra spending as early as next month, according
to Kyohei Morita, chief economist at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent in Tokyo today,
heading for its sixth week of gains on investor’s expectations
for fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Moody’s has an Aa3 rating on Japan, while S&P ranks it at
AA-. Fitch Ratings Ltd. downgraded Japan’s sovereign rating in
May because of the nation’s “leisurely” efforts to tackle its
debt, lowering the long-term, local-currency grade by one step
to A+ with a negative outlook.  “In terms of rating triggers, the fiscal consolidation
timetable is the key one,”  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based
head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns for Fitch said in a telephone
interview today. “The longer the debt keeps rising, the greater
the risk of some form of accident.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  