-- Jimmy Choo, Rob Pruitt Combine on $15,000 Panda Clutches
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/jimmy-choo-rob-pruitt-combine-on-15-000-panda-clutches.html
U.S. artist Rob Pruitt’s new designs
for cult brand  Jimmy Choo  bring the bling to zoology.  They include leopard-print patent-leather wallets, zebra-
patterned high heels and $15,000 limited-edition panda clutches
decorated with more than 11,000 Swarovski crystals.  Pruitt is known for concocting the Oscar-like Art Awards
and fashioning the 7-foot-tall Warhol tribute called “The Andy
Monument,” commissioned by the Public Art Fund.  I spoke with him over tea at Leitzes & Co, a  New York 
marketing and consulting company that represents him in the
collaboration.  Rosboch: How did you react when Jimmy Choo approached you?  Pruitt: It was one of the best offers I’d ever gotten.  I think that my art really comes alive when it’s activated
in these kinds of ways. I would feel terribly sad if it only had
an existence on the walls of galleries and, hopefully, museums.  Rosboch: What did you have in mind when you started working
on the collection?  Pruitt: When the invitation came, it was about making a
 collection  for cruise wear. So I was thinking about most of the
winter still ahead and a cruise being like a moment to fly
somewhere tropical and be somebody that you haven’t necessarily
been before.  That’s why the collection looks the way it looks, with all
those hot colors and clashing designs.  Rosboch: You were also inspired by your own work?  Panda Project  Pruitt: More recent works. The gradient motif which is on
the bottom of most of the shoes comes directly from a series of
paintings of abstract faces.  Then there’s the panda project that started as this wild
animal that needed protection and became an international symbol
of youth and pop culture.  Rosboch: Did you think the collaboration would help promote
your work?  Pruitt: I didn’t really think about whether it would help
or hurt the paintings. I did it for myself. I thought it would
be great to take their iconography and get it out on the street.  Rosboch: Is there another designer you’d like to work with?  Pruitt: Two summers ago I was invited to a party on the
Missoni yacht and I was so inspired by the way it looked, so
easy, comfortable and elegant, that I thought these are people I
would like to get to know better and work on a project with. I
would also love to work with  Marc Jacobs .  Rosboch: Will you ask them?  Pruitt: I tend to wait to be asked. Even for my art career,
I never ask an  art dealer  if I can have a show.  Rosboch: Why is that?  Gauging Success  Pruitt: I suppose it’s a way for me to gauge how successful
what I’m doing is. If no one is asking then that makes me think
that I need to work a little harder.  Rosboch: Would you ever consider becoming a fashion
designer?  Pruitt: Sure. Life is long and there are a lot of hours in
the day. There’s always time to do more.  Rosboch: But you wouldn’t give up painting?  Pruitt: No, I don’t think I could. I might get thrown out
of the art world, but I will never give it up.  Rosboch: Do you think fashion’s on the same level as art?  Pruitt: I think they’re equal but different. They’re not
going to build temples to fashion, but the level of creative
talent involved is probably not that different from the art
world. It’s just that it’s disposable.  I’d like a woman to buy a pair of these shoes and just wear
them once and then put them on a pedestal or shelf. It’s an idea
that makes me smile.  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine, Zinta Lundborg
on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 