-- Johnson Controls Appeals A123 Bankruptcy Sale to Wanxiang
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-12-17T16:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/johnson-controls-appeals-a123-bankruptcy-sale-to-wanxiang.html
Johnson Controls (JCI)  Inc., the lead
bidder at the auction for assets of bankrupt  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) ,
said it is appealing the court decision that gave Wanxiang Group
Co. approval to buy most of the assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved the sale at a
Dec. 11 hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware , saying “the auction
was robust, the price is adequate.” Wanxiang beat a joint bid
from Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls and Tokyo-based NEC Corp.  The sale was questioned by some Republican lawmakers
because the battery maker would go to an overseas company.  A123, which received a $249.1 million federal grant, held
the auction behind closed doors in the Chicago law offices of
Latham & Watkins LLP. The auction began on Dec. 6 with
prospective bidders including Johnson Controls, Wanxiang,
Siemens AG of Germany and Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)   Johnson Controls, the lead bidder for the auction with a
$125 million offer for the auto business, drew criticism from
the unsecured creditors’ committee, which claimed the jilted
bidder was attempting to undermine the sale.  The creditors asked Carey to set aside a $5.5 million
payment that Johnson Controls was set to receive for being
outbid at the auction and its auction-related expenses.  “We appreciated the opportunity to serve as stalking
horse, which resulted in significant value to the estate,
creditors and employees,” Alex Molinaroli, president of Johnson
Controls Power Solutions, said today in a statement.  Breakup Fee  The company said it is appealing the order to obtain the
breakup fee and expense reimbursement previously approved by the
court.  Wanxiang,  China ’s biggest auto-parts maker, will acquire
substantially all of A123’s assets including its automotive,
energy-grid and commercial businesses for about $256.6 million.
A123 received approval to sell its government business to
Woodridge, Illinois-based Navitas Systems LLC for about $2.25
million.  The Wanxiang deal is still subject to review by the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. CFIUS, as it is
known, is a federal interagency group led by the Treasury
Department that reviews mergers and acquisitions for national-
security concerns when a takeover may give a foreign owner
control of a U.S. company.  A123, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , listed assets of
$459.8 million and debt of $376 million as of Aug. 31 in court
documents.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 