-- JPMorgan, Goldman Ask Judge to Dismiss Mortgage Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-17T23:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/jpmorgan-goldman-ask-judge-to-dismiss-mortgage-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks asked a New York state judge to
dismiss a $1.8 billion lawsuit brought by residential mortgage-
backed securities investors.  The investors, which included Phoenix Light SF Ltd., sued
New York-based JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and the other lenders in
New York state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  in May, accusing them
of making misrepresentations about the loans backing the
securities.  The defendants in documents filed on Dec. 14 asked Justice
Charles E. Ramos to dismiss the suit, saying the investors
failed to show they’re entitled to the requested relief and that
their claims are barred by a three-year statute of limitations
under German law. The defendants also say the investors have
failed to identify “any actionable misrepresentation” that
they relied upon.  “Plaintiffs made their purchases before the bulk of the
prospectus supplements containing the alleged misrepresentations
were even created or filed, and, as some of the most
sophisticated investors in the world, plaintiffs had an
affirmative duty to conduct an independent investigation into
the risks associated with their investments,” the banks said in
the court documents.  Legal Claims  Phoenix is a limited liability company based in Dublin that
inherited legal claims from six separate legal entities “that
collapsed or nearly collapsed,” according to the complaint.  The entities include Dusseldorf, Germany-based WestLB, the
180-year-old German state-owned lender that ceased operations on
June 29 as part of European Union conditions tied to a 17
billion-euro ($22.4 billion) bailout following the 2008
financial crisis, according to the complaint.  Investors including Phoenix Light have filed similar suits
in the same court over the past year, including a complaint
filed against Deutsche Bank AG in February and actions against
Bank of America filed in September and November.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Phoenix Light SF Ltd. v. JPMorgan Securities
LLC, 651755-2012,  New York  state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  