-- JPMorgan Wins Approval for First U.S. Physical Copper ETF
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-12-17T22:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/jpmorgan-wins-approval-for-first-u-s-physical-copper-etf.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won regulatory
approval for the first U.S. exchange-traded fund backed by
physical copper, which some industrial users said may disrupt
the market.  The proposed rule change by NYSE Arca Inc. to list JPM XF
Physical Copper Trust was approved, the regulator said in an
order on its website dated Dec. 14.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and ETF
Securities Ltd. also have said they plan to start physically
backed ETFs for industrial metals in the U.S.  A group of industrial copper consumers including AmRod
Corp., Southwire Co. and  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  and hedge fund RK
Capital LLP opposed the plan, saying funds backed by copper
would leave less of the metal available for manufacturers,
creating shortages and driving up prices. Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat who in July had advised rejecting the ETF,
said in a statement today that the approval is “a blow to
American businesses and consumers that rely on copper,” and
that Congress should review the move.  A study released last month by an SEC division concluded
that asset flows from exchange-traded products tied to metals
don’t have a significant impact on the price of the commodity.
Those findings were disputed by the copper-users group.  Patrick Burton, a London-based spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment on when the firm plans to introduce the
fund.  ETFs trade like stocks, giving investors access to
commodities such as copper without taking physical delivery. ETF
Securities started the first exchange-traded products backed by
copper, nickel and tin in  London  in December 2010. Company data
shows that the copper fund holds about 2,000 metric tons of the
metal, compared with more than 20 million tons that the
International Copper Study Group  said  will be mined and used
this year.  Surplus Metal  Copper will have its first production surplus in four
years, with output set to top demand by 458,000 tons next year,
the ICSG said Oct. 10.  Inventories of the metal in warehouses tracked by the
London Metal Exchange,  down  19 percent this year, climbed 9.5
percent in a day to 298,625 tons, the most since Sept. 5, 2008,
exchange data showed today. Inventories tracked by the Shanghai
Futures Exchange advanced for a second week, rising 7,406 tons
to 205,385 tons, data from the bourse showed Dec. 14.  NYSE Arca Inc., the electronic platform of NYSE Euronext,
filed with the SEC to list and trade JPM XF Physical Copper
Trust, according to an April 2 document. It sought approval to
list BlackRock’s iShares Copper Trust on June 19.  Through Dec. 14, copper for delivery in three months
climbed 6.1 percent to $8,065 a ton on the LME this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  