-- JPMorgan Sued by Credit Union Agency Over MBS Documents
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-17T17:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/jpmorgan-sued-by-credit-union-agency-over-mbs-documents.html
The  National Credit Union
Administration  board sued a  J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit
claiming Bear Stearns & Co., which it acquired in 2008, used
misleading documents in selling $3.6 billion in mortgage-backed
securities to four credit unions that later failed.  The documents said the mortgage originators had adhered to
underwriting guidelines that actually had been “systematically
abandoned,” the credit union agency said in a federal court
lawsuit filed Dec. 14 in Kansas City, Kansas.  “Because the mortgages in the pools collateralizing the
RMBS were largely underwritten without adherence to the
underwriting standards in the offering statements, the RMBS were
significantly riskier than represented,” the National Credit
Union Administration said in its complaint.  The Alexandria, Virginia-based agency is responsible for
recovering losses to minimize the costs to its industry-funded
stabilization fund. Its complaint was filed as liquidator of the
U.S. Central Federal Credit Union and the Western Corporate
Federal Credit Union, both placed into conservatorship in 2009
and involuntary liquidation a year later, and the Southwest
Corporate Federal Credit Union and Members United Corporate
Federal Credit Union, which were placed in conservatorship and
then liquidation in 2010.  JPMorgan Spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  Today’s complaint follows similar lawsuits the credit union
agency filed against other banks, including one in September
against  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and those previously against a unit of
Credit Suisse Group AG,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
Wachovia Corp. unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group (GS) 
Inc.  JPMorgan was also the target of a separate claim in June
2011.  Barclays last month filed papers seeking dismissal of the
lawsuit against it, arguing the claims were filed too late.  Earlier Accords  Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
agreed in November 2011 and March to pay a combined $171 million
to resolve similar accusations, with $145 million from Deutsche
Bank, $20.5 million from Citigroup and $5.3 million from HSBC.
The banks didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  “Firms like Bear, Stearns acted unfairly by ignoring the
rules for underwriting,” NCUA Board Chairman Debbie Matz, said
today in a statement. “They packaged these securities and then
told buyers the paper was sound. When the securities plunged in
value, we learned the truth. NCUA is now working to hold these
underwriters accountable and secure recoveries on behalf of
federally insured  credit unions .”  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Bear Stearns & Co., 12-cv-2781, U.S. District Court, District of
Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington
at   jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 