-- Keppel May Acquire China Yard on Oil-Rig Demand: Southeast Asia
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-12-18T10:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/keppel-may-acquire-china-yard-on-oil-rig-demand-southeast-asia.html
Keppel Corp. (KEP) , the world’s biggest
oil-rig builder, may consider buying a yard in China as the
nation boosts offshore drilling to meet rising energy demand.  Keppel, which already has one yard in China making parts
for oil rigs, will seek out acquisitions if the government opens
offshore projects by state-owned enterprises to foreign
companies, Chief Executive Officer Choo Chiau Beng said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday in  Singapore .  “If China is willing to open up its market to foreign-
invested yards, for example, then of course we would be
interested,” Choo said. “Right now, if a Chinese state-owned
company wants to build a rig, they go to one of their own yards.
In  Brazil , we’re given the same chance as everybody else.”  Keppel is targeting  emerging markets  including China, West
Africa and  Mexico , as oil producers expand in new areas to
offset waning reserves. The Singapore-based rig-builder, which
operates yards in its home city as well as in the U.S., Qatar,
Brazil and  Indonesia , is seeking to move closer to its customers
with new locations.  The possible expansion in China comes as the government
encourages local shipyards to move into the offshore business.
The country is targeting 20 percent of the global market for
rigs, production facilities and other offshore products by 2015,
according to the  China Association of the National Shipbuilding
Industry .  Offshore Threat  Chinese shipbuilders boosted output of offshore equipment
22 percent to 22.9 billion  yuan  ($3.7 billion) in the first 10
months, according to the shipbuilding group. New ship orders
slumped 47 percent in the first 11 months to the least since
2003, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  “Eventually, the Chinese yards will pose a threat to
Keppel in the offshore business,” said Yeak Chee Keong, an
analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Research Pte in Singapore, who rates
Keppel a buy. “But in the short-term, customers will prefer
established yards like Keppel because they know their orders
will be delivered on time and on budget.”  Keppel won S$9 billion ($7.4 billion) worth of new orders
this year through Nov. 26, helping increase its order book to
S$12.2 billion. The company expects to deliver a record 21 rigs
next year, exceeding its previous high of 14 in 2009.  The rig-maker has climbed 17 percent this year in Singapore,
compared with 19 percent advances for the benchmark  Straits
Times Index (FSSTI)  and its biggest rival,  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)   Picking Battles  Chinese shipyards  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Ltd. (YZJ)  and Jinhai
Heavy Industry Co. both announced their first offshore orders
this month, helped by lower prices. Yangzijiang’s $170 million
order for jack-up rig announced on Dec. 3 was lower than a
similar order Keppel secured in April for $205 million. Lower
prices are squeezing the profit margins of existing yards,
including those operated by Keppel, Choo said.  “We must find new ways to compete, we must find
battlefields that we can win,” Choo said. “We don’t compete
with the giant in every area. There’s no need to. We can choose
our battlefield.”  Keppel is building a second yard in Brazil as state-owned
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  develops the biggest oil discovery in the
Americas in three decades off the country’s coast.  Keppel signed a $4.1 billion order in August to build five
semi-submersible rigs for Sete Brasil Participacoes SA, an
affiliate of Petrobras. It also received contracts worth $950
million to participate in building two floating oil production 
units for Petrobras.  The state oil producer is spending $236.5 billion as part
of its five-year investment plan. The company has faced delays
in carrying out exploration in the region and getting the rigs
it needs to tap oil trapped under as much as 3,000 meters (9,800
feet) of salt and rocks below the Atlantic seabed.  “In Brazil, the Chinese yards can’t compete with us even
though they’re cheaper in  China ,” Choo said. With Keppel’s rigs,
“they can get delivery and go to work and earn money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  