-- Keystone Judge Refuses to Hold Hearing Over Paperwork Snafu
-- B y   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-17T18:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/keystone-judge-refuses-to-hold-hearing-over-paperwork-snafu.html
A Texas judge declined to hear
testimony in a landowner’s bid to stop construction of part of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline because the property
owner didn’t correctly file legal papers.  Michael Bishop ’s lawsuit against the Texas Railroad
Commission, which regulates pipelines in Texas, challenges the
agency’s certification of Keystone as a common carrier under
state law. Bishop was seeking a temporary injunction to stop
work on the pipeline in the eastern part of the state.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Yelenosky in Austin, the state
capital, agreed with Assistant Attorney General Megan Neal’s
argument that Bishop didn’t properly serve the commission with
the lawsuit.  “You’ve made a mistake because the lawsuit can’t start
until the entity you are suing is properly served,” Yelenosky
told Bishop. “Now is the time to note the mistake and see if
you can remedy it.”  Bishop separately sued Calgary-based TransCanada in East
 Texas , alleging they coerced him into a settlement that granted
an easement across his farm near Nacogdoches, about 100 miles
(160 kilometers) northeast of Houston. He claimed the pipeline’s
permits are invalid because Keystone is permitted to carry only
crude oil, not bitumen from Canadian tar sands.  A ‘Setback’  TransCanada last week won a bid to lift a temporary court
order blocking construction.  After the hearing today, Bishop, who is representing
himself, said he will have the papers served properly. He said
he was pleased the judge didn’t rule on any of the facts or
other issues in the case yet.  “He was fair,” Bishop said. “It’s a setback in a sense.
It doesn’t alter any of the facts.”  Tom Kelley , a spokesman for the office of Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott , said in an e-mail that the state declined
to comment on the hearing.  Bishop said he said he doesn’t want to represent himself,
but he and groups opposed to the pipeline cannot find a lawyer
to accept the case.  He said one attorney told him that his case can’t be won
because “this is an oil and gas state.”  TransCanada has been battling landowners and environmental
groups at sites along the southernmost leg of its 2,151-mile
pipeline between western  Canada  and the U.S. refining industry
complex on the Texas Gulf Coast.  So far, none of the legal challenges has permanently halted
construction on the pipeline, which will carry liquefied bitumen
obtained by heating  tar sands , along with traditional crude oil
produced from fields in  North Dakota ,  Oklahoma  and West Texas,
Tom Zabel, a lawyer for TransCanada, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelley Shannon in Austin, Texas, at  kelley@kelleyshannon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 