-- Knicks Boast Improved Team, Brand as Lin Returns to New York
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/knicks-boast-improved-team-brand-as-lin-returns-to-new-york.html
The first-place  New York Knicks , off
to the franchise’s best start since 1972, have strengthened
their team and brand since overnight sensation Jeremy Lin last
played at Madison Square Garden.  Lin, 24, became a National Basketball Association
phenomenon in February, taking over as a starter and leading the
Knicks to seven straight wins while helping attract sponsorships
from a pair of Taiwanese companies.  He returns to New York tonight for the first time since the
Knicks declined to match a three-year, $25 million contract
offer from the  Houston Rockets  during the offseason, after which
neither of those sponsorship deals was renewed.  Madison Square Garden Co., which owns the arena and the
Knicks, meanwhile has expanded its sponsorship portfolio in the
past few months, adding partnerships with  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and
Lexus, spokeswoman Stacey Escudero said in an e-mail. The Knicks
are 18-5, two games ahead of LeBron James and the defending-
champion Miami Heat atop the Eastern Conference standings.  “You’re in New York and you’re winning,” NBA TV analyst
 Steve Smith  said last week in a conference call. “When you
start winning, the sponsorships obviously come back.”  While tickets rose to an average of $491.65 per game during
the height of “Linsanity,” there is less demand to see Lin for
his only trip to the Garden this season, according to ticket-
aggregator TiqIQ.  The average resale listing for tonight’s game is $329.63,
according to the website, just 1.06 percent above New York’s
league-high $326.17 home average, the website said. It ranks
21st among the team’s 41 home dates.  Marketing Force  “Knicks fans have obviously gotten over the fact the team
didn’t re-sign the fan favorite this offseason, probably due to
the fact the team is 18-5 and playing really well,” TiqIQ
spokesman Chris Matcovich said yesterday in an e-mail.  Lin, a graduate of Harvard University and the first
Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to play in the NBA, became a
global sensation in February after taking over as the starting
point guard and leading the Knicks on a winning streak.  He earned praise from President Barack Obama; a new flavor
of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream, and Modell’s Sporting Goods Inc.
received daily shipments of gear to satisfy demand for Lin
merchandise. The attention was even credited with helping to
settle a price dispute between  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  and
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)   Lin also became a marketing force, with broadcasters in
Asia adding more Knicks games to their schedules.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
posted advertisements in Chinese to its courtside signs at the
Garden, and the Knicks signed sponsorship deals with Taiwan-
based companies Maxxis International and  Acer Inc. (2353)   Knicks’ Brand  Despite the fact that neither of those sponsorships was
renewed once Lin departed, former Sacramento Kings forward and
NBA TV analyst Chris Webber said the Knicks’ brand is stronger
than it was in February because of their early success.  “Lin is a good player, but you don’t want your brand to be
the story about a good player,” Webber said last week in a
conference call. “That story would have had no extension this
year, and I think they’ve proven that they have a team-first
brand.”  While losing Lin, New York added  Jason Kidd , a 39-year-old
guard; 38-year-old center Marcus Camby; 38-year-old forward
Rasheed Wallace, and re-signed guard J.R. Smith, 27. The Knicks
are scoring 103.2 points per game, best in the conference, while
averaging a league-low 10.6 turnovers per contest.  Lexus joined  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (BUD) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
and Coca-Cola as a Signature Partner this year, according to
Escudero. The Knicks have sold out 76 consecutive home games and
2012-13 season tickets sold out for the third straight year, she
said. The Garden is two thirds through a $1 billion renovation.  All-Star Voting  Lin is averaging 10.8 points with a team-high 6.0 assists
per game this season. He is third among Western Conference
guards in All-Star voting, trailing  Kobe Bryant  of the  Los
Angeles Lakers  and  Chris Paul  of the  Los Angeles Clippers , the
Associated Press reported last week.  Lin told reporters yesterday that he was excited to gain
closure tonight.  “If I were to be realistic, there will probably be some
nostalgia and reminiscing and thankful for those times because
those were some great times, but at the same time it’s the next
chapter,” he said after Houston’s 103-96 loss to the Toronto
Raptors.  Webber said he would not be surprised if Lin received a
standing ovation from Knicks fans when he is introduced tonight.  “The Knicks weren’t any fun watching last year -- he was
the bright spot,” Webber said. “So if I were a season ticket
holder last year, I would make sure I thanked him.”  -- Editors: Rob Gloster, Dan Baynes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  