-- Getco Said to Sweeten Takeover Bid for Knight as Decision Nears
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-18T19:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/knight-said-to-near-decision-on-takeover-bids-from-virtu-getco.html
Getco LLC sweetened its offer to
acquire  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  as the market maker’s board
prepares to decide between competing bids, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  The Chicago-based high-frequency trader raised the cash
element of its proposal to $3.60 a share for 60 percent of
Knight, up from $3.50 for 50 percent, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private. Virtu Financial
LLC, the other suitor, is offering to pay $3.20 a share to take
Knight private, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
unidentified sources. Directors of Knight will probably decide
within days which suitor to back, another person said yesterday.  Getco and Virtu, rivals seeking to acquire the market maker
four months after it lost more than $450 million in a computer
malfunction, are the only bidders for  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based Knight, one of the people said yesterday. The offers
represent divergent  structures  for the company led by Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce, forcing Knight to choose between
immediate cash from Virtu and a value that depends in part on
the stock market’s view of Getco.  CNBC reported Getco had boosted its cash offer to $3.60 a
share earlier. Knight’s shares climbed 2.8 percent to $3.35 as
of 2:13 p.m. in New York. They’ve rallied 35 percent since the
bids were first reported Nov. 23.  Getco’s cash and stock offer would keep Knight public.
Knight was bailed out by six financial companies in August, its
capital depleted after malfunctioning computers bombarded
exchanges with orders.  Automated Trading  Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman at Knight, Getco’s Sophie Sohn and Alan Sobba, a spokesman for Virtu, declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is assisting with Virtu’s
financial, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which had previously been in talks to
lead Virtu’s financing, is no longer in that role, another
person said.  Knight, Getco and Virtu are automated market makers. While
Getco and Virtu operate across asset classes mainly on exchanges
and similar platforms around the world, Knight focuses on U.S.
equities. It’s also a wholesale market maker that services
hundreds of retail brokers including  Fidelity Investments  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  by executing buy and sell orders for
individuals. Neither Getco nor Virtu is in that business.  Getco is proposing a two-step reverse merger under which
Knight would be reorganized as a holding company. Under the
revised proposal, cash would represent about 60 percent of the
takeover value, with the rest in shares of the combined firm.  Market Maker  Automated market-maker  Virtu  in  New York  has asserted in
talks with Knight that its offer is more attractive than Getco’s
because it is for all of Knight’s shares and is more likely to
be completed, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Virtu has sought to convince directors that Knight and its
employees would be better off if the firm is restructured as a
private company. Virtu would go public later, the person said.  Knight had more than 1,545 employees at the end of
September, it said in a regulatory filing. Getco had more than
400 in June after eliminating 40 jobs, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter. Virtu has about 150 employees.  Knight shares  were above $10 before the trading malfunction
and bailout, which diluted existing owners by more than 70
percent. The company dodged bankruptcy almost four months ago
when financial firms including Getco provided $400 million to
restore the company’s capital after the trading malfunction,
when incorrectly installed software caused it to bombard U.S.
exchanges with unintended orders.  Book Value  The ultimate value in combining Knight and Getco may depend
in part on whether the shares trade at a discount or premium to
their book value, which Getco estimated at $3.50.  In the first half of this year, Knight’s market-making unit
posted pretax  earnings  of $51.1 million, or 86 percent of the
company’s total, according to a statement. Institutional sales
and trading generated $7.2 million in the first six months of
this year. Electronic execution services had pretax earnings of
$23.6 million while the company’s corporate division had a loss
of $22.5 million before taxes.  Knight has transformed over the last decade from mainly
handling orders from individuals sent by brokers into a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading and businesses in fixed income and currency.
It owns the Hotspot FX and BondPoint platforms, provides
research and asset management and got into the reverse mortgage
business in 2010.  Along with Getco, founded in 1999, the firms that provided
capital to Knight in August included Blackstone Group LP,
brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and Ameritrade and investment
banks Stephens Inc. and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  Virtu does not have
a stake in the company.  Knight would have about 365.5 million shares outstanding,
including Getco’s stake, should all of the stock issued in the
August bailout be converted into common stock, Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. analyst  Niamh Alexander  estimated last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  