-- Korea Election May Hang on Youth as Park Seeks Women Votes
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-18T06:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/korea-poll-may-hang-on-youth-turnout-as-park-seeks-women-votes.html
Shin So Yoon had wanted to spend
tomorrow’s national holiday in Seoul indulging her appreciation
of “Edward Scissorhands” director  Tim Burton ’s works. Instead,
she’ll be skipping the exhibition and voting.  How many of the 29-year-old high school nutritionist’s
generation join her in South Korean voting booths tomorrow may
determine whether Park Geun Hye, daughter of the nation’s 1970s
military dictator, or Moon Jae In, a former human-rights lawyer,
becomes president. In the last election, when Park’s party won,
voters in their late 20s made up the lowest share of votes.  Shin said she will vote for Moon, countering the Park vote
from her mother, who at age 64 exemplifies the appreciation of
some older voters for the rapid growth under Park Chung Hee four
decades ago. At issue for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is how
concerted an effort will be made under the incoming government
to rein in the role of chaebols, the conglomerates that Park
senior embraced to propel exports and development.  “The support from those above age 50 is strong but it’s
not enough to guarantee a win for Park,” said Kim Ji Yoon,
director of the Public Opinion Studies Center at the  Asan
Institute for Policy Studies  in Seoul. “Moon hasn’t been in the
lead but he has shown a steady rise, especially a steep one
toward the end,” she said, referring to opinion polls that
closed on Dec. 12.  Voter Turnout  Shin is among the more than 60 percent of swing voters
below 50 years old who will decide tomorrow’s outcome.  “Every president eventually ends up being the same and
rarely does anything change fundamentally for the better,” Shin
said in an interview last week, demonstrating the skepticism of
many in her age group toward voting.  The winner will inherit an economy forecast by the central
bank to grow 2.4 percent in 2012, the weakest since 2009. At the
same time, the nation’s exchange rate has climbed 7.5 percent
against the dollar this year, an advance that risks undermining
export competitiveness. Stocks have gained, with the benchmark
Kospi Index up 8.9 percent in the same period.  In 2007, voter turnout was 63 percent, with voters in their
50s recording the highest participation rate of all age groups.
A turnout of more than 70 percent this time may give Moon, 59, a
win, according to Kim. The victor takes office in February,
replacing  Lee Myung Bak , who has seen support slide during his
term as economic growth weakened and an income-gap widened.  While Shin’s mother is pushing her to the voting station,
she doesn’t share her parent’s desire to help Park, 60, become
South Korea’s first woman president.  ‘Very Uncomfortable’  “I don’t know why my mom supports the daughter of a
dictator, which I find very uncomfortable,” Shin said. South
Korea’s development coincided with a spate of violent crackdowns
under Park Chung Hee, the country’s longest-serving military
dictator.  Support for Park stood at 48 percent, 0.5 percentage point
ahead of Moon, according to a Dec. 12 poll by the Seoul-based
Realmeter and JTBC, a cable television affiliate of the JoongAng
Ilbo newspaper. The survey of 2,000 respondents had a margin of
error of 2.2 percentage points.  South Korea  by law bans public
opinion surveys from being published six days ahead of election
day until voting ends.  The biggest bloc of voters is in their 40s, accounting for
21.8 percent of 40.5 million registered voters, according to the
National Election Commission. Another 15.5 million voters are
from age 19 through their 30s, while 16.2 million are over 50.  Distant Connection  Younger voters have a more distant connection to Park Geun
Hye’s background, rooted in the country’s postwar turmoil. Her
father took power in a military coup in 1961 and ruled until
1979, when he was shot dead by his security chief. Park served
in her father’s government for five years from the age of 22,
acting as first lady after her mother was killed in a North
Korean attempt to assassinate the president.  Park senior oversaw South Korea’s economic rise through the
growth of automaking, steel and shipping, promoting chaebols,
including  Samsung Group , whose flagship unit Samsung Electronics
Co. is the world’s biggest maker of smartphones and a rival and
supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Now, the top 10 chaebols account for more
than half of the total market capitalization of the Korea Stock
Exchange.  “Some sacrifices had to be made and Park senior took the
bullet, literally, to lead the country toward progress and
development,” said Han Sook Ja, the nutritionist’s mother.
“Times have changed and you do have to evolve, just as Park has
had to. But she does so based on reason. She doesn’t make blind
promises like Moon.”  Disparity  Widening income disparity -- the nation’s richest 20
percent last year earned 7.86 times more than the bottom 20
percent -- has shown the flip-side of the strength of the
chaebols, prompting both candidates to pledge reining in their
influence. While they dominate the nation’s exports, the 30
largest chaebols employed just 6 percent of the nation’s
workforce.  Both Park and Moon have pledged stronger support for small-
and medium-sized businesses to help them compete with the
conglomerates. While Moon calls for chaebols’ existing and new
cross-shareholdings to be banned to reduce the risk of
monopolies, Park says that existing shareholdings should be left
exempt to avoid a negative impact on the economy.  On  North Korea , both candidates say they will
unconditionally resume dialogue with Kim Jong Un’s regime. Moon
said he will invite North Korean officials to his inauguration
and hold summit talks with Kim by the end of next year. Park,
while also willing to meet the country’s leader, is more
cautious with promises of re-engagement, emphasizing the
importance of national security and “dialogue based on trust.”  Jailed  A former human-rights lawyer, Moon was jailed in 1975 for
leading street protests against the government of Park’s father,
and was then assigned to a front-line position in a special
operations unit during his military service. He later served as
chief of staff to President Roh Moo Hyun, who was in office from
2003 to 2008.  Tomorrow’s forecast is for crisp, partly cloudy winter
weather. Shin said she’d rather be out meeting friends than
waiting in line to vote.  “I don’t care for politics but I think there at least
needs to be some momentum for change,” Shin said. “Park is
anything but change with her father’s legacy and coming from the
same ruling party as Lee Myung Bak.”  Should Park win, she’ll need to heed Shin’s skepticism,
said Lee Nae Young, a political science professor at Korea
University in  Seoul .  “To be a successful president, Park must answer to the
wants of young people, regardless of whether they’re
ideologically moderate or progressive and didn’t support her,”
Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  