-- KPN Drops After Cutting Dividend to Purchase Spectrum
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-12-17T13:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/kpn-drops-after-cutting-dividend-to-purchase-spectrum.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partly owned by Carlos Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMX) , fell
the most in 11 years in Amsterdam trading after scrapping a
dividend to buy frequencies for a faster wireless network.  The stock dropped as much as 16 percent to 3.90 euros for
its biggest intraday slump since November 2001, and traded at 4
euros as of 1:47 p.m. local time. The stock has lost 57 percent
this year and trades near its lowest level in more than a
decade. The number of shares that changed hands was almost four
times the three-month average daily volume.  KPN said after market close on Dec. 14 that it won’t pay a
final dividend for 2012, following a 12 cent-a-share interim
dividend, and that next year’s payout will drop to 3 cents. That
compares with a previous plan to pay 35 cents for this year and
at least the same amount for 2013. The company bought 1.35
billion euros ($1.8 billion) of wireless frequencies.  Carriers are spending on faster networks as consumers use
smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets based on
Google Inc.’s Android system to surf the Web, download music and
watch movies. European peers including  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom  SA have also cut or scrapped
dividend plans as a result of rising spectrum investments and
falling phone revenue amid the region’s debt crisis.  “That’s the cost of staying in business for KPN,” said
Ulrich Rathe, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. who
projects company’s shares will underperform its peers. “The
price is higher than we expected, but the dividend cut reflects
underlying balance sheets issues as well.”  New Services  Fitch Ratings  cut KPN’s long-term issuer default rating to
BBB-, the lowest investment grade, from BBB. KPN spent almost 1
billion euros more on wireless licenses than Fitch estimated and
following the dividend cut the carrier will have “very limited
financial flexibility within the constraints of an intensely
competitive domestic market,” the ratings company said today.  KPN’s debt is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the second-
lowest investment grade, and an equivalent Baa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service.  The relative yield on KPN’s 700 million euros of 5.625
percent notes due 2024 increased six basis points to 236 basis
points, the most since Nov. 20, according to Bloomberg generic
prices.  The stock reached its lowest price in 11 years last month
after Sanford C. Bernstein cut its recommendation and Chief
Executive Officer Eelco Blok said he may temporarily accept a
lower  credit rating  as he assesses options and need for
investments.  Rating Cut  After the latest dividend cut, KPN had its  rating  cut to
underweight from neutral by HSBC Holdings Plc. Nomura reduced
its price estimate for the stock to 4.70 euros from 5.40 euros,
keeping its neutral rating.  The Dutch government raised 3.8 billion euros from the
spectrum auction, with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Deutsche Telekom’s T-
Mobile unit and  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  also buying frequencies. Vodafone paid
1.4 billion euros and T-Mobile paid 911 million euros.  Vodafone slipped as much as 3.1 percent in London. Deutsche
Telekom fell as much as 1.6 percent on the Frankfurt exchange,
while Tele2 lost as much as 2.6 percent in  Stockholm .  “It’s a considerable investment, but we look ahead and not
back,” Blok said on a conference call Dec. 14, adding that the
Dutch sale was more expensive compared to other European
markets.  The company, based in The Hague, plans to introduce faster
mobile services based on so-called long-term evolution
technology in February and achieve countrywide coverage by the
second half of 2014. The dividend cut will save the company 800
million euros, Blok said.  Job Eliminations  KPN, who in October reported a 32 percent drop in third-
quarter profit, has accelerated job cuts and plans to eliminate
as many as 5,000 positions in the Netherlands by the end of
2013. The carrier already had cut its 2012 dividend in July to
35 cents a share from previously 90 cents a share.  The former phone monopoly reiterated its 2012 forecast for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
cash flow and investments.  KPN also said Dec. 14 it sold its Spanish Simyo operator to
France Telecom to raise cash. No financial details of the deal
were given.  Earlier this year, KPN tried unsuccessfully to sell Belgian
mobile-phone unit Base and ended discussions on a potential
merger involving its German E-Plus wireless unit and
Telefonica’s business in  Germany .  Blok said in October that KPN is in talks with investor
 America Movil  to shape cooperation efforts after  Carlos Slim ’s
wireless carrier obtained more than a quarter of the Dutch
telecom operator’s shares in an unsolicited bid.  Slim, the world’s richest man, has expanded America Movil
into Europe to take advantage of phone company valuations that
have fallen during the euro-region crisis. The Mexican company
said it bought 28 percent of KPN in June, the same month it
purchased a stake in  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  