-- New IMF Thinking on Capital Controls Is a Good Start
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-17T15:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/new-imf-thinking-on-capital-controls-is-a-good-start.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
has rethought its  doctrine  on capital controls. The IMF,
which previously favored unfettered flows of money across
borders, now accepts that controls are sometimes necessary.  This is a real improvement, yet it’s incomplete
because it lacks a mechanism for supervision and
enforcement. The fund can’t rectify that omission by
itself. Member governments can and should.  The previous orthodoxy said that restricting
international flows of capital is almost always wrong: The
benefits of liberalized capital markets exceed the costs.
Even before the global recession that started in 2008,
successive financial crises had challenged this idea.
Surging capital flows are capable of destabilizing and even
overwhelming the financial systems of  developing countries .  The new thinking is that  capital controls  are
sometimes the lesser evil. In adopting this as its new
official position, the IMF has tried to spell out the
conditions under which resorting to controls makes sense.
The aim is to give members consistent advice.  There’s still a presumption in favor of open capital
markets -- and rightly so -- yet on a milder scale. When
other policies are available to restore financial
stability, the IMF says, they will usually be preferable.
But sometimes capital controls are the only effective
response.  Dangerous Inflow  One way to curb a destabilizing inflow of capital, for
example, would be to cut  interest rates . Suppose, though,
that an economy is overheating: Lower interest rates would
make that problem worse. Instead, the government could let
the  exchange rate  appreciate -- unless its currency was
already overvalued. The combination of accelerating
inflation and an overvalued currency narrows the options
for dealing with a dangerous inflow. Under those conditions
capital controls might make sense.  The IMF’s new position continues to stress the
drawbacks of capital controls and the need to use them
reluctantly. “Only rarely,” it says, would capital controls
“be the sole warranted policy response to an inflow surge.”
In addition, the fund says, the effectiveness of controls
tends to erode over time, so they should usually be seen as
a temporary expedient. Nonetheless, they are the best
choice sometimes.  This qualified approval is the right basic approach.
Trouble is, capital-flow restrictions can also be abused,
including when they are designed to maintain a deliberately
undervalued exchange rate for purposes of export promotion.  The IMF can advise against such policies, and it has
surveillance powers that let it examine the harm that  un-
neighborly capital controls  can inflict on trade partners.
Still, governments are mostly under no obligation to do as
it recommends.  The fund’s governing document generally precludes it
from making the removal of capital controls a condition for
access to its resources. As we’ve previously argued,
stronger rules to prevent abuse need to go hand-in-hand
with the view that capital controls can sometimes be the
right policy.  For this, the global trade rules enforced by the  World
Trade Organization  are the right model. Both the form of
capital controls and the rationale for resorting to them
should be regulated. For the sake of efficiency, controls
should be price-based rather than quantity-based, similar
to a rule of thumb in trade policy: Tariffs that slightly
raise the price of each imported item are preferable to
quotas that limit the overall volume of that item.  Moderate Tax  A moderate tax on capital flowing into a country,
subject to a cap, would cause less collateral damage than a
restriction on the quantity of money coming across the
border.  Governments imposing controls, moreover, should have
to show an oversight body (possibly the WTO) that their
intent is to prevent financial instability rather than to
seek advantage by creating or perpetuating a currency
misalignment.  Armed with its improved doctrine, the IMF could do for
capital controls what the WTO does for trade barriers. The
global  capital markets  would run more smoothly. For that to
happen, governments must give the IMF the power.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 