-- New York Thruway Abandons 45% Toll Increase for Trucks
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-12-17T20:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/new-york-thruway-abandons-45-toll-increase-for-trucks.html
New York’s Thruway Authority
abandoned a plan to raise truck tolls by 45 percent after months
of opposition by farmers and upstate business groups who said it
would hurt the state’s economy.  Instead, the authority will approve a spending plan that
eliminates jobs, shifts the cost of patrolling the longest U.S.
toll road to the state operating budget and trims benefits, said
Executive Director Tom Madison.  “The 2013 budget will put the Thruway Authority on firm
financial footing,” Madison said today at a news briefing in
 Albany  with Governor  Andrew Cuomo . “At the same time, we’re
setting the stage for the authority to build bigger and better
than ever before.  In May, the authority proposed raising truck tolls on the
570-mile (917-kilometer) roadway to generate $85 million. It
would have been the fifth increase since 2005. The agency also
proposed a two-year plan to reduce operating expenses by $100
million to pay for $1.5 billion in capital projects and
refinance debt.  Raising truck tolls would help align Thruway charges with
those in other states, officials said at the time.  “We are very pleased that the Thruway Authority has
withdrawn its ill-advised 45 percent truck toll hike,” Brian
Sampson, executive director of the business group Unshackle
Upstate, said in a statement. “Had it gone through, it would
have done tremendous damage to the upstate economy.”  Last Resort  The agency plans to cut $130 million in operating spending
over the next three years, Madison said. By the end of 2013, the
Thruway Authority will have cut 361 jobs since 2011, he said.
Transferring the cost of New York State Police patrols will save
$60 million annually, he said.  Madison said Thruway officials had general discussions
about the plan with credit-rating companies and that they
received the information favorably. The Thruway plans to meet
with the companies in January to explain details, he said.  “My position was that the toll increase be a last
resort,” Cuomo said. “It would be counterproductive from an
economic-development point of view, especially in upstate New
York.”  Also at today’s meeting, the authority plans to select a
$3.14 billion bid by a  Fluor Corp (FLR) .-led group to build a new
Tappan Zee Bridge over the  Hudson River .  Fluor’s bid was the lowest of three submitted and about $2
billion below the state’s $5.2 billion estimate. The other
teams, headed by Bechtel Group Inc. and  Skanska AB. (SKAB) , submitted
bids for about $4 billion.  Tappan Zee  The 57-year-old Tappan Zee, a toll-bridge about 20 miles
north of  Manhattan , carries about 138,000 vehicles each day
between Westchester and Rockland counties, 40 percent more than
its designers intended.  In August, Cuomo’s administration released projections that
tolls on the bridge may have to triple to $14 for cash customers
from the current $5 to help pay for the 3.1-mile bridge. The
state has requested a federal loan, which can cover as much as
49 percent of a project’s cost, to help pay for the bridge.  “What are the tolls, we can’t tell you today,” Cuomo
said. “A big variable is, do we get a federal loan and if we
get that loan how much is that loan for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  