-- News Corp. Asks Judge to Dismiss Macpherson Aide’s Hacking Claim
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-12-17T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/news-corp-asks-judge-to-dismiss-macpherson-aide-s-hacking-claim.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit
asked a London judge to dismiss a phone-hacking claim filed by a
former adviser to  Elle Macpherson , arguing there is no evidence
her voice mails were accessed.  Mary-Ellen Field’s claim is “not fanciful, it is
fantasy,” Michael Silverleaf, a lawyer for News Corp., said at
a hearing today. “One is very sorry for the hurt that has been
caused but the problem is, she suffered it at the hands of other
people.”  Field, who believes voice mails she left Macpherson were
intercepted by journalists at News Corp.’s now defunct News of
the World, acted as a business adviser to the model until
November 2005 when she was fired under suspicion of leaking
private information to the tabloid press.  “One of the prime witnesses has thus far declined to
assist the claimant,” Augustus Ullstein, Field’s lawyer, said
in court. “Some of the most vital evidence is what was the
basis for her dismissal by Ms. Macpherson.”  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the newspaper
last year in response to the scandal. More than 70 civil
lawsuits were settled by February, resulting in the cancellation
of a trial scheduled for that month. Another 22 lawsuits were
settled last week.  Judge Geoffrey Vos adjourned the hearing in order for
Field’s attorneys to contact Macpherson to provide information
regarding the firing and alleged leaking of information.  “It does appear to me that this is all a bit ham-fisted,”
Vos said. “I have great concern for the basis of your claim.
You have to focus on how it can be proven. The party has got to
stop at some point.”  News Corp. settled 22 more lawsuits Dec. 14 as the company
seeks to avoid a group civil trial next year. Singer James Blunt
also settled his claim with the company according to a statement
released today by his lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  