-- Nigeria Inflation Rate Rises to 12.3% on Flood Impact
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-12-17T10:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/nigeria-inflation-rate-rises-to-12-3-on-flood-impact.html
Nigeria ’s  inflation  rate rose for
the second consecutive month in November to 12.3 percent as the
worst floods in decades cut farming output.  Inflation in  Africa ’s largest oil producer accelerated from
11.7 percent in October, the Abuja-based  National Bureau of
Statistics  said today in an e-mailed report. The median estimate
of nine economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was 12.1 percent.  Nigeria’s two biggest rivers, the Niger and the Benue,
overflowed their banks, killing 363 people and displacing 2.2
million between July and October, according to the National
Emergency Management Agency. Farming communities along the river
banks saw the worst damage.  The impact of the floods will probably boost inflation this
month before price pressures begin easing early next year,
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said on Nov. 20,
after leaving the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 12
percent. The inflation rate may decline close to the central
bank’s target of less than 10 percent in January, mainly because
of base effects from the reduction of a subsidy on gasoline in
January this year that boosted prices, Sanusi said.  “With this inflation reading it will make it a little more
difficult to get into the single digits by January,”  Alan Cameron , an economist at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd., said by phone
from  London  today. Interest rates will probably remain the same
until at least March, he said.  Food prices, the biggest component of the consumer index,
rose 11.6 percent in November from a year earlier, compared with
11.1 percent in October, the statistics agency said.  The naira fell 0.1 percent to 157.7 a dollar at 9:36 a.m.
in Lagos, the commercial capital. The currency of sub-Saharan
Africa’s second largest economy has risen 2.9 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  