-- Nissan Revamps Infiniti Model Names to Start With Q, QX
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-18T01:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/nissan-revamps-infiniti-model-names-to-start-with-q-qx.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti, lagging
larger German and Japanese luxury brands, is rechristening its
models with names starting with Q and QX as the company seeks a
bigger share of the premium auto market.  Starting next year with the introduction of the Q50 sedan,
a replacement for the current G sport sedan, Infiniti cars will
begin with a Q designation, the company said today in a
statement. The brand’s light truck names are to begin with QX,
with all Infinitis to be renamed for the 2014 model year.  “The need for a new identity and direction to promote
consumer familiarity with our model range as we expand the
portfolio became evident,” Johan de Nysschen, president of the
Hong Kong-based Infiniti brand, said in the statement. “To
achieve this, we clearly needed a simple and consistent
nomenclature framework.”  In the U.S., the biggest luxury auto market, Infiniti ranks
No. 7 in sales this year, trailing Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus ,
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi. Sales of Infiniti models gained 23 percent
through November to 107,250, aided by the addition of the JX
crossover.  ‘Simple Names’  “The new naming strategy reminds people of BMW and Volvo,
whose sedans and coupes have simple names, with crossovers
adding the letter X,” said Takeshi Miyao, managing director at
market researcher Carnorama Japan. “Nissan is now focusing on
the crossover vehicles in  North America  so it’s better for it to
have distinguishable names from standard models.”  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Yokohama, Japan-
based Nissan, hired de Nysschen, a long-time Audi executive, to
revamp Infiniti as the brand seeks a bigger share of China’s
fast-growing luxury auto market and boost global sales of the
brand to 500,000 units a year.  To assist that goal, Infiniti shifted its global operations
to Hong Kong in May. The company also said this year that it
will start producing Infiniti vehicles in China  in 2014 .  The Q50 that will debut in Detroit next month at the North
American International Auto Show is a “visible and tangible”
sign of the new direction for Infiniti, de Nysschen said in a
conference call today from Yokohama.  The current G sedan and coupe models are the brand’s top
sellers in the U.S., with a combined 54,328 sales this year, or
51 percent of its volume in that market.  Detroit Debut  “The new Infiniti naming convention is intuitive and will
make it relatively easier for consumers to remember the various
models in their lineup,”  Jesse Toprak , senior analyst for
TrueCar.com, a vehicle pricing and data website, said by e-mail.
“The new Q50 that will be unveiled at the  Detroit Auto Show 
will have more direct impact on Infiniti’s future performance
than the change in their model names.”  Along with the renamed G sedan, the current G Coupe will
become the Q60 and the M sedan will be renamed the Q70, Infiniti
said. Among Infiniti’s crossovers, the JX will become the QX60;
the EX will be called QX50; the FX model is to be the QX70; and
the full-sized QX sport-utility vehicle is the new QX80, the
company said.  “The former names were very complicated and didn’t really
reflect the style of the vehicles,” Carnorama’s Miyao said.  U.S. headquarters for Nissan and Infiniti are in Franklin,
Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  