-- North Dakota Owners Fight for Shoreline Mineral Rights
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/north-dakota-owners-fight-for-shoreline-mineral-rights.html
North Dakota property owners are set
to ask a state court judge to rule against the government and
declare them the owners of subterranean mineral rights worth
millions of dollars in lands along navigable waterways.  The band of earth between the high- and low-water marks,
known as the shore zone, increased in value after it was
discovered to contain oil. The property owners argue the state
relinquished title to that strata when it set the boundary for
its own riparian rights at the low-water mark after entering the
union in 1889.  “The state cannot renege on that choice -- made nearly 125
years ago -- simply because oil has been discovered in the shore
zone,” they told Williams County District Court Judge  David W.
Nelson  in September.  North Dakota did nothing of the sort, Attorney General
Wayne Stenehjem’s office said in its own filing in October,
asking the court to decide the issue in the state’s favor.  Nelson, at the hearing in Williston about 70 miles south of
Canadian border, is scheduled today to hear arguments from
lawyers for each side, and from attorneys for Brigham Oil & Gas
LP who raised the same issue in a separate case.  The oil is being extracted from the Bakken shale formation,
part of the geologic region called the Williston Basin, centered
beneath Williston, a city of 14,716 according to the 2010
census.  The state produced more than 21.7 million barrels of crude
in August, second only in U.S. production to  Texas ’ 62 million,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration  data .  Economic Health  That productivity has driven North Dakota to the top of
Bloomberg’s rankings of the economic health of U.S. states for
the one-year period ending with the second quarter of 2012.  The “plaintiffs allege that North Dakota only recently
asserted title to minerals under the shore zone, and that it has
done so only because oil money is to be had,” the attorney
general argued in his October filing. “The allegations are
unsubstantiated, and silly.”  North Dakota’s ownership of the zone and its resources was
innate upon its statehood and has been consistently and
repeatedly asserted, Stenehjem said, citing U.S. Supreme Court
precedent.  Lawyers for lead plaintiff Stanford Reep, and a proposed
class of land owners, concede that point in part, contending
that while the state held the lands in a “public trust”
requiring it to preserve the public’s use of navigable waterways
and riverbeds, North Dakota also had the authority to transfer
its shore zone interests and did so.  Low-Water Mark  “The state chose to enact a statute providing that upland
owners take their interest to the low-water mark, which
necessarily includes the shore zone,” Reep’s lawyers said in
court papers, adding that some form of that statute has remained
part of the state’s laws since 1889.  “No authority in North Dakota -- the courts, the attorney
general, the state engineer or the legislature -- ever has
suggested that the public trust applies to subsurface
minerals,” the plaintiffs’ lawyers said, adding that the
state’s shore zone interest is limited to its preservation of
public waterways and the surface of its river beds.  “Private owners of shore zone minerals have been deprived
of millions of dollars in payments by the state’s taking and
leasing of their interests,” lead lawyer Jan Conlin said in
closing in her Sept. 21 filing.  Stenehjem asked the court to look at the issue more
broadly.  “The public values associated with the land along our
rivers and lakes are not just ‘economic,’” he argued in his
filing. “These lands have extraordinary benefits and they will
be compromised,” if title is transferred to private parties.  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota , 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  