-- Mortgage Risk Under Fire in Nordics as Bubbles Fought
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-18T09:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/norway-proposes-boosting-risk-weight-floor-on-mortgage-loans-2-.html
Sweden and  Norway  say their banks
have underestimated the risk in their mortgage portfolios and
will need to set aside more capital to guard against losses as
the two nations move to stop debt bubbles forming.  Norway’s government said yesterday it wants to triple the
risk weights assigned to mortgage assets, bringing the minimum
requirement to 35 percent. That followed a similar decision in
neighboring Sweden, where the regulator on Nov. 26 set the
minimum risk-weight requirement at 15 percent, almost three
times existing levels.  As central banks respond to the crisis in Europe with
interest rate cuts, households are amassing record amounts of
debt. In Norway, the world’s fourth-richest nation per capita,
private debt will swell to more than 200 percent of disposable
incomes next year, while  Sweden ’s debt load hit a record 173
percent this year, the countries’ central banks estimate. That’s
putting pressure on regulators to ensure banks have buffers that
can withstand sudden adjustments in asset prices.  “There is a substantial risk that there is a housing
bubble” in Norway, Harald Magnus Andreassen, chief economist at
Swedbank First Securities in Oslo, said in a phone interview.
“If you look at a graph, you would be quite confident that
something could be wrong.”  Overvalued Assets  House prices in Norway have doubled since 2002 to reach a
record, according to the Norwegian Association of Real Estate
Agents. Sweden’s National Housing Board has warned that the
property market in the largest Nordic economy is in the grip of
a bubble. Bengt Hansson, an analyst at the board, estimates
Swedish house prices are 20 percent overvalued, adjusting for
the effect of inflation.  “This is based on an optimism regarding rising prices in
the future and low interest rates in combination with very
generous lending policies,” Hansson said by phone yesterday.  Yet banks argue that stricter capital and risk-weight rules
will put them at a competitive disadvantage relative to their
rivals elsewhere in Europe.  In Sweden,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB AB and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  already need to meet a minimum core Tier 1
capital requirement of 10 percent next year, rising to 12
percent in 2015. That compares with the 7 percent set by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Extra Capital  Risk weights, as defined by Basel II regulations, on
mortgage loans in Norway are now 11 percent, compared with 15
percent in  Germany  and as high as 35 percent in Spain, according
to data provided by Sweden’s central bank. Norway’s proposed 35
percent floor would be the highest in the Nordic region.  Raising risk weights to 15 percent in Sweden would force
the largest banks there to set aside an additional 20 billion
kronor ($3 billion) in capital, the FSA estimates. Norway’s
regulator hasn’t provided estimates for the cost to its banks.  Handelsbanken and Swedbank had core Tier 1 capital ratios
at 17.9 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively, of their risk-
weighted assets at the end of September. SEB’s core Tier 1 ratio
stood at 16.5 percent at the end of the third quarter, while
Nordea’s was 12.2 percent.  DNB’s common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.4 percent
of risk-weighted assets last quarter, not including so-called
transitional rules. The bank’s shares slipped 1.1 percent
yesterday, and lost a further 0.3 percent to trade at 70.05
kroner as of 9:50 a.m. in Oslo.  Customer Pays  Lenders will respond by raising customer rates, Jan
Digranes, head of the banking and capital markets department at
Finance Norway, which represents about 180 financial
institutions, said by phone from Oslo. “Banks have to increase
interest rates to increase net earnings and they will have to
discuss whether it will be necessary to issue more capital to
comply with the new requirements.”   DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, hasn’t changed its
financial targets based on yesterday’s announcement. The
government’s proposal, which the regulator is due to follow up
on in March, sets risk weights “too high,” DNB spokesman
Thomas Midteide said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Both Sweden and Norway are pushing stricter regulatory
requirements after enduring a banking meltdown in the 1990s.
That credit event required the Swedish government to step in and
take control of toxic property loans. Nordea, Scandinavia’s
biggest bank, is the product of a series of state-engineered
mergers following that crisis.  Housing Adjustment  Household debt levels now are even higher than they were at
their peak back then, according to  Michael Wolf , chief executive
officer of Sweden’s largest mortgage lender Swedbank AB. Wolf
said in a Dec. 4 interview that Sweden’s housing market probably
faces “some sort of adjustment.”  Household debt levels in Norway and Sweden have continued
to rise even after both countries introduced an 85 percent cap
on loans relative to property values. That’s spurred discussion
among central bankers on the extent to which monetary policy
should be deployed to curb housing-market imbalances. Swedish
central bank Governor Stefan Ingves, who is also the chairman of
the Basel Committee, has argued in favor of using policy
interest rates to stem the threat of housing bubbles.  Yet Ingves, like his counterparts elsewhere in  Europe , is
finding his freedom to raise rates curtailed by the fallout of
the debt crisis further south. His bank cut its main rate today
by a quarter point to 1 percent.  Policy makers in Norway and Sweden need to decide whether
the imbalances in their housing markets are temporary or long
term. That could guide them to the right response, according to
Andreassen at Swedbank.  “Risk weighting is more a structural argument, in the
sense that if it is too cheap for banks to extend credit to
housing then you have a risk at all times to have too much
debt,” he said. “Usually you would think of the interest rate
as a business cycle adjustment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  