-- Lockheed Poised for $2.6 Billion U.S. Satellite Contract
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-17T21:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/lockheed-poised-for-2-6-billion-u-s-satellite-contract.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is expected to
receive a military satellite contract from the U.S. Air Force by
Dec. 31 that may be valued at almost $2.6 billion, according to
the service and the company.  The contract would cover the purchase of two space
vehicles, the final installment in a six-satellite constellation
of the Advanced Extremely High Frequency communications  program .  The contract would be a fixed-price incentive type,
requiring Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense
contractor, to share the cost of overruns or material failures.
Contracts for the previous four satellites were cost-plus types
that required the Air Force to foot the entire bill.  The contract’s final value is under negotiation and won’t
be known until completion, which is expected by year-end, Air
Force spokesman Captain Nick Plante said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We’re in discussions right now,” Lockheed Martin Chief
Operating Officer Marillyn Hewson said in a Dec. 14 interview.
“It is an important contract, an important capability that we
are providing,” she said.  Lockheed Martin rose 1.6 percent to $90.42 at the close in
 New York  trading and has climbed 12 percent this year.  The Advanced EHF satellite program is aimed at creating a
constellation of satellites capable of withstanding shocks from
a nuclear attack to allow secure communications among top
commanders, including the president.  It also would provide transmission of tactical
communications, such as real-time video, battlefield maps and
targeting data. Two of the six are in orbit.  Northrop Grumman  The fiscal 2012 defense authorization bill directs that the
contract shouldn’t exceed $3 billion.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  is
the primary subcontractor.  Lockheed Martin has already received about $489 million in
advance payments to start buying and making hard-to-get parts,
according to Air Force figures.  “As we transition from development to production,
technical and schedule risks are better understood, making it
appropriate to shift transition from a cost-plus to a fixed-
price contract,” Michael Friedman, a spokesman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin said in an e-mailed statement.  The contract type “allows the government to limit its risk
while also targeting cost reductions,” he said.  General William Shelton, head of the Air Force Space
Command, said in written remarks this year to the House Armed
Services Committee that buying the fifth and sixth satellites
separately would cost as much as $1.95 billion each. Bought
together, the price would be $1.55 billion apiece, for a savings
of about $800 million, he said.  “We are targeting a significant cost reduction” compared
with the previous satellites, Friedman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  