-- Oil Rises for Second Day on Fiscal Deal Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-17T20:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/oil-rises-for-second-day-in-new-york-on-fiscal-deal-speculation.html
Oil rose for a second day in New
York on optimism that a U.S. budget agreement will be reached,
narrowing the discount to Brent crude to less than $20 for the
first time in eight weeks.  Prices gained 0.5 percent as House Speaker John Boehner
proposed to raise tax rates on household incomes above $1
million a year in exchange for containing entitlement program
costs. President  Barack Obama  is considering a concession on
Social Security cost-of-living increases after Boehner dropped
his opposition to raising tax rates for some top earners.  “There is some progress with Boehner indicating a tax
increase,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We are
moving closer to a resolution here and that’s helping to
stabilize things.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery advanced
47 cents to settle at $87.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The increase is the fourth in five days. The February
contract gained 42 cents to $87.67.  Brent for February fell 54 cents to settled at $107.64 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent’s
premium to WTI slipped 96 cents to $19.97 a barrel, the
narrowest spread in almost two months.  The Brent-WTI spread declined as  Enterprise Products
Partners LP (EPD)  expects to begin operating the expanded Seaway oil
pipeline in early January. Seaway reversed its flow in May to
carry crude to Houston from Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for New York oil futures.  Shale Boom  WTI has declined 12 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the  glut  at Cushing, America’s biggest storage hub.
That has left it at an average $17.35 below Brent this year,
compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10 years
through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than half the
world’s crude, has risen 0.5 percent this year.  Obama and Boehner met for about 45 minutes at the White
House today with two weeks remaining to avert more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to start in
January.  Obama, who wants a tax increase for households with income
above $250,000, rejected the proposal from Boehner, who
previously opposed higher rates for any income level.  Switching the inflation yardstick to the so-called chained
consumer price index would reduce Social Security cost-of-living
benefit increases and generate fresh revenue because it also
would reset income-tax brackets. Some Democrats in Congress have
said they’re willing to make that change.  ‘Some Optimism’  “You are getting some optimism that there will be a fiscal
deal,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The overall sentiment is
getting better and more hopeful.”  The oil market is focusing on “the macroeconomic
picture,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, in an e-mail. Equities advanced, with
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gaining as much as 1 percent.  Prices also rose on speculation that the Federal Reserve
will maintain low interest rates to stimulate the economy after
manufacturing in the New York region shrank more than forecast
in December. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic  index , known as the Empire State Index, dropped to
minus 8.1, the fifth month of contraction, from minus 5.2 in
November.  ‘Raising Hopes’  The Fed said last week that interest rates will stay low
“at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent
and if inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.
The thresholds replace the Fed’s earlier view that rates would
stay near zero at least through the middle of 2015.  “They put the continuity of their monetary easing on the
unemployment number and the economy,” said Bill Baruch, senior
market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “The negative
Empire manufacturing number is raising hopes for more
stimulus.”  Money managers lowered net-long positions, or wagers on
higher U.S. oil prices, by 21 percent in the seven days ended
Dec. 11, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Dec. 14 Commitments of Traders report. It was the biggest drop
since the week ended May 8.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 429,126
contracts as of 3:33 p.m. Volume totaled 690,911 contracts on
Dec. 14, 33 percent above the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.52 million.  -- With assistance from Heidi Przybyla, Kathleen Hunter and
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  and Aaron Clark in New York.
Editors: Richard Stubbe, Dan Stets  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 