-- Crude Increases on Signs of Demand Growth From China to U.S.
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-12-17T08:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/oil-rises-second-day-on-speculation-u-s-china-to-boost-demand.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York , extending gains into the fifth week in six as signs of
economic growth in the U.S. and  China  stoked speculation that
fuel demand will grow.  Futures advanced as much as 0.6 percent after the  Federal
Reserve  reported Dec. 14 that industrial output in the U.S.
climbed by the most in two years in November. A preliminary
purchasing managers’ index showed manufacturing in China
expanded at a faster pace this month. Syrian fighter jets bombed
a Palestinian camp in Damascus, reviving concern that unrest in
the  Middle East  may spread to oil-producing countries.  “A positive outlook for global growth is confirmed by
those numbers out of the U.S. and China,” said  Michael McCarthy ,
a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney. “That’s
also supportive of  oil prices  around the globe.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery was at
$86.88 a barrel, up 15 cents, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:26 p.m. Singapore time. Front-
month prices advanced 0.9 percent for the week ended Dec. 14.  Brent for February settlement fell 2 cents to $108.17 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
January contract settled $1.24 higher at $109.15 when it expired
Dec. 14. The European grade was at a premium of $20.78 to WTI,
down from $22.42 on Dec. 14.  U.S. Factory Output  WTI has fallen 12 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened the glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s biggest
storage hub and the delivery point for Nymex futures. That has
left it at an average discount of $17.36 to Brent this year,
compared with a premium of about 7 cents in the five years
through 2010. Brent, the benchmark grade for more than half the
world’s crude, has risen 0.9 percent this year.  Money managers lowered net-long positions, or wagers on
higher U.S. oil prices, by 21 percent in the seven days ended
Dec. 11, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Dec. 14 Commitments of Traders report. It was the biggest drop
since the week ended May 8.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 1.1
percent last month after a revised 0.7 percent drop in October
that was more than initially estimated, the Fed reported.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent advance, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Manufacturing also surged 1.1 percent in
November, the most this year.  In China, a preliminary purchasing managers’ index by HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated a reading of 50.9,
for December, higher than a median estimate of 50.8 in a
Bloomberg survey. It followed a reading of 50.5 in November,
which was above the expansion-contraction dividing line of 50
and was the first growth in 13 months.  Syria Fighting  China will consume 9.9 million barrels a day of oil,
115,000 more than previously projected, in the last three months
of this year, the  International Energy Agency  said in a Dec. 12
monthly report.  “Demand is affected by the good numbers for manufacturing
in the U.S. and China,” Fahad Alturki, Riyadh-based senior
economist at Jadwa Investment Co., said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The aerial bombardment of the Yarmouk camp in Damascus
killed eight civilians, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights  said on its Facebook Inc. page. Forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad are battling to defend military
barracks, heavy weapons, oilfields and roads across the country
against well-armed rebels.  The uprising against al-Assad began in March 2011. Former
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted in February 2011 in
the wake of popular demonstrations, while Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  was toppled and killed last October after seven months
of fighting that all but froze exports from North Africa’s
biggest crude producer. The Middle East and North Africa account
for more than a third of global oil production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  