-- Studios Call Off Red Carpet Premieres Following Shooting
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-18T00:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/hollywood-postpones-violent-movies-after-school-shooting.html
Movie studios and television
programmers postponed screenings and alerted viewers to violent
content after a shooting left 20 children and six adults dead in
a Connecticut elementary school last week.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount studio postponed the Pittsburgh
premiere of “Jack Reacher,” a crime drama based on the Lee
Child novels starring Tom Cruise, to Dec. 19. It was set for
Dec. 15, the day after the murders. Separately,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Showtime aired warnings before two violent shows last night.  The killings by a single gunman armed with two handguns and
a semi-automatic rifle have reignited debate over the need for
gun control and violence in Hollywood’s movies. President  Barack Obama   said  he would “use whatever power this office holds” to
prevent further tragedies.  “Due to the terrible tragedy in Newtown, Connecticut, and
out of honor and respect for the families of the victims whose
lives were senselessly taken, we are postponing tomorrow’s
Pittsburgh premiere of ‘Jack Reacher,’” Paramount said in an e-
mailed statement on Dec. 14. “Our hearts go out to all those
who lost loved ones.”  The film opens Dec. 21 as planned, according to the studio.
Cruise will travel to Pittsburgh to screen the movie for fans in
the city where it was filmed, Paramount said, adding there will
be no red carpet.  ‘Django Unchained’  Weinstein Co. canceled its premiere for “Django
Unchained,” scheduled for tomorrow night in Los Angeles, the
studio said in an e-mailed statement.  The film, from director Quentin Tarantino, opens on Dec.
25. The studio will hold a private screening for cast, crew and
their families tomorrow in lieu of a premiere, according to the
statement. The R-rated picture features Jamie Foxx as a former
slave who becomes a bounty hunter.  Showtime also acknowledged the  Connecticut  killings, the
second-most fatal mass shooting in the U.S., before the season
finales last night of “Dexter,” a show about a serial killer,
and “Homeland,” an Emmy-winning show about domestic terrorism.  “In light of the tragedy that has occurred in Connecticut,
the following program contains images that may be disturbing.
Viewer discretion is advised,” the network’s on-screen message
read before each show.  “Dexter” drew the highest rating ever for a Showtime
original show, with 3.43 million viewers for the night, the
network said today in an e-mailed statement. “Homeland” drew
the largest audience of its two seasons, a total of 2.7 million
viewers, Showtime said.  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  said it had canceled
“American Guns,” a reality-based serial about a family of
gunmakers, before the Connecticut shootings, contradicting an
earlier Fox News report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  