-- Hong Kong Police Arrest 34 for Illegal Lending, Laundering
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-17T10:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/hong-kong-police-arrest-34-for-illegal-lending-laundering-1-.html
Hong Kong  authorities arrested 34
people on suspicion of illegal  lending  and money laundering in
cases that involved more than 5,000 victims.  The victims borrowed as much as HK$55 million ($7.1
million) in total, the city’s police said in a statement today.
Two companies, which had acted as intermediaries to money
lenders, charged commissions as high as 50 percent of principal,
the police said.  Low-income Hong Kong residents made up most of the victims,
who had borrowed amounts ranging from HK$6,000 to HK$180,000,
said Gar Kam-lam, a senior inspector at the  Hong Kong Police .
More than 10 domestic workers were charged  interest rates  as
high as 260 percent by other maids, he said.  Hong Kong Police investigated 38 reports involving lenders
charging more than 60 percent interest, which violates the  Money
Lenders Ordinance , in 2011, up from 23 reports two years
earlier, it said in an October statement. The penalty includes
imprisonment for as long as 10 years and fines of as much as
HK$5 million.  Some of the victims who couldn’t pay back the money offered
their personal banking accounts for laundering cash, the police
said. The arrests were made after an investigation started about
three months ago, according to the police.  Financial intermediary companies and licensed money lenders
aren’t regulated by the  Hong Kong Monetary Authority , which
doesn’t track lending outside the city’s 23 loan-issuing banks
and 25 deposit-taking companies.  Thousands of women employed in Hong Kong, most from
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines , are working off debt by turning
over almost all of their pay for months to loan companies and
agencies that place them with families, according to interviews
with workers, nonprofit groups and academic researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  