-- Monte Paschi Rescue Aid Wins Temporary Approval From EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-17T11:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/monte-paschi-wins-temporary-eu-approval-for-5-1-billion-aid.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
won temporary European Union approval for a 3.9 billion-euro
($5.1 billion) recapitalization from the Italian government to
help it meet minimum capital requirements.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, must submit a
restructuring plan within six months before regulators can make
a final decision on the state aid, the European Commission said
in an e-mailed statement today. The EU has to approve large
state payments to banks and can require lenders to shed
businesses to compensate for the harm the aid may cause rivals.  “The commission found that the recapitalization of Monte
Paschi through hybrid capital is necessary to preserve the
stability of the Italian financial system,” the Brussels-based
authority said in the statement.  Monte Paschi is the only Italian bank still lacking minimum
 capital requirements  set by the European Banking Authority. The
lender said Nov. 28 it will seek an additional 500 million euros
of state aid, raising the total to 3.9 billion euros, to cover
potential losses from “structured transactions,” which it
wouldn’t detail.  The Siena-based bank is borrowing the funds by selling
bonds to the state and giving shares to the Treasury instead of
interest on the debt if it reports an annual loss. The bank must
give shares to the government at market value instead of the
higher book value, the Italian government said last week.  In case of losses, the amendment published on Dec. 12
allows Monte Paschi to pay the annual interest on aid by selling
new bonds to the Treasury rather than giving a stake in the bank
to the government.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola is seeking state aid
to bolster the company’s balance sheet after he was unable to
find private investors. He’s also selling assets and reducing
risk and costs in a three-year plan to restore liquidity.  Monte Paschi and the Italian Finance Ministry declined to
comment on the EU announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 