-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Falls; Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Bets
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2012-12-17T12:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/top-oil-market-news-crude-falls-hedge-funds-cut-bullish-bets.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Brent Crude Futures Drop Amid Disagreement in U.S. Budget Talks  Brent crude  fell for a second time in three days amid
concern that deadlock in U.S. budget talks may threaten to curb
economic growth and fuel demand.  TOP OIL MARKET STORIES  Oil Bulls in Biggest Retreat in Seven Months: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  cut bullish oil bets by the most since May as
U.S. production reached the highest level in almost 19 years and
a looming budget stalemate in  Washington  raised the specter of
an economic slowdown.  Fracking Boom Is Dollar Boon in Energy Independence: Currencies  Oil’s negative drag on the dollar is weakening as rising
U.S. natural gas and crude production propels the nation to the
highest level of energy self-sufficiency in two decades.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Saudi Aramco to Shut Riyadh Plant for Works, Modify Jeddah Unit  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. will shut its Riyadh refinery for
maintenance in 2014 and stop producing gasoline and other light
fuels at a similar facility in  Jeddah , a company official with
knowledge of the plan said.  Inpex to Close 4,700 Barrel-a-Day Kubiki Oil Refinery Tomorrow  Co. is closing facility in Japan’s Niigata prefecture due
to decline in crude production from domestic fields and plant
inefficiency, Keisuke Yano, a spokesman, said by phone.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Iran  Raises  Asia  Crude, Saudis Seek Gasoil: Persian Gulf Oil  Iran raised premiums for January shipments of most of its
crude to Asia, widening the spread between differentials for its
Light and Heavy grades compared with comparable Saudi blends.  Vitol Said to Buy Fuel Oil Cargo From Indian Oil at Discount  Vitol Group bought 30,000 metric tons of fuel oil for
loading in January from Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, said three traders who asked not to be identified
because the information is confidential.  Angola  to Export 40 February Crude Lots, Partial Plan Shows (1)  Angola, Africa’s second-largest oil producer, will export
40 cargoes of crude in February, a partial loading program
obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed.  Indian Oil Said to Offer 65,000 Tons Naphtha for January Loading  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, offered to
sell a total of 65,000 metric tons of naphtha for loading in
January, said two traders who asked not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Asia’s Gasoil Crack Rises to Highest in a Week: Oil Products  Asia’s gasoil crack spread widened to the most in about a
week, signaling increasing profits for refiners turning crude
into the middle distillate. Trafigura Beheer BV bought cargoes
of the fuel in  Singapore , the region’s biggest oil-trading
center.  Unipec, Gunvor Said to Buy Fuel From Indian Oil for January (1)  China  International United Petroleum & Chemical Co., or
Unipec, and Gunvor Group Ltd. bought naphtha and  fuel oil 
cargoes for January loading from Indian Oil Corp., said two
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Tepco Leads Utilities Rally as Abe Seen Restarting Nuclear (1)  Tokyo Electric Power Co. led a surge in the stocks of
Japanese power utilities after the Liberal Democratic Party,
which has championed nuclear power, won a landslide election
victory yesterday.  China Gas to Buy Fortune Oil Gas Unit for $400 Million (2)  China Gas Holdings Ltd., the supplier of natural gas to 172
Chinese cities, will buy Fortune Oil Plc’s Chinese natural gas
operations for $400 million, expanding its service territory
across China.  Rosneft Seeks Delay to $3 Billion Shareholder Suit Against BP  OAO Rosneft asked a Siberian court to delay a decision on a
100 billion-ruble ($3 billion) lawsuit brought against BP Plc by
a minority shareholder in OAO TNK-BP Holding, a unit of the
Russian oil venture it’s acquiring.  California Utilities Say Solar Raises Cost for Non-Users: Energy  Booming rooftop solar installations in California are
bringing an unwelcome surprise to the homes and businesses that
don´t have the devices: an extra $1.3 billion added to their
annual bills.  OTHER MARKETS  European Stocks Drop for Third Consecutive Day; Yen, Gold Weaken  European stocks fell for a third day on concern that U.S.
lawmakers won’t agree on a budget before year-end holidays. The
yen weakened to the lowest since April 2011 after the  Liberal
Democratic Party  returned to power on calls for more monetary
easing, and gold declined.  Stocks Are Held Hostage as S&P 500 CEOs Plan to Cut Spending (1)  The U.S. budget debate is holding stocks hostage, as chief
executive officers prepare to cut  capital spending  for the first
time since 2009 should President  Barack Obama  and Congress fail
to reach an accord.  Hedge Funds Reduce Bullish Bets by Most in a Month: Commodities  Hedge funds cut bullish commodity bets by the most in a
month as the  Federal Reserve  warned the U.S. budget impasse may
damage the economy, increasing concern about demand just as
prices head for the first loss since 2008.  SPORTS  Knicks Boast Improved Team, Brand as Lin Returns to New York  The first-place  New York  Knicks, off to the franchise’s
best start since 1972, have strengthened their team and brand
since overnight sensation Jeremy Lin last played at Madison
Square Garden.  49ers Beat Patriots; Giants Fall Into Three-Way NFL Division Tie  The  San Francisco 49ers  blew a 28-point lead before pulling
out a 41-34 victory at New England in a matchup of National
Football League division leaders, ending the Patriots’ seven-
game winning streak to seal a playoff spot.  Cowboys’ Brent Attends Game After Crash That Killed Teammate  Dallas Cowboys defensive tackle Josh Brent was on the
sideline in street clothes during yesterday’s overtime win
against the Pittsburgh Steelers, one week after being charged
with intoxication manslaughter for a one-car accident that
killed teammate  Jerry Brown .  Mets’ Dickey Would Join Jays With Extension, Fox Sports Says  R.A. Dickey will join Toronto as the centerpiece of a
multiplayer trade with the  New York Mets  provided the National
League’s Cy Young Award winner agrees to a contract extension
with the  Blue Jays , Fox Sports said.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
86.65  -0.08  -0.1  Nymex     Jan. Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    107.93
 -0.25  -0.2    ICE     Feb. Gasoil ($/Ton)         923.25
+0.25  +0.0    ICE     Feb. Gasoline (c/Gal)       266.37  +0.16
 +0.1  Nymex     Jan. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.36  +0.04  +1.3
 Nymex     Jan. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.51  -0.53  -0.5
OTC  21 Days Heating Oil            297.92  -0.15  -0.1  Nymex
  Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----Dollar Index            79.61    --Gold ($/Oz)  1,697.00    --MSCI World Index     1,326.00    --  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  