-- Morgan Stanley Fined $5 Million by Massachusetts on Facebook IPO
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-12-18T05:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/morgan-stanley-pays-5-million-fine-in-state-s-facebook-ipo-case.html
Morgan Stanley’s handling of
 Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  initial public offering, a deal that cost
investors billions of dollars, broke a decade-old pledge to
block investment bankers from influencing analysts, according to
 Massachusetts  regulators, who fined the bank $5 million.  A senior Morgan Stanley banker wrote a script that
Facebook’s then-treasurer used to update research analysts on
the company’s revenue outlook before the IPO, according to a
settlement document with Secretary of the Commonwealth William Galvin. He faulted Morgan Stanley for dishonesty, ethics
violations and failing to supervise employees -- the first
regulatory claims to stem from the bank’s handling of the deal.  A plunge in Facebook’s stock after it began trading in May
has fueled government probes and more than 40 lawsuits, with
some investors claiming the social-network company failed to
disclose revised forecasts before the IPO. The small size of
Morgan Stanley’s fine relative to investors’ losses shows other
regulators may struggle to pin much blame on the bank, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the University of Michigan’s Stephen M.
Ross School of Business.  “They paid a little bit of lunch money as a fine, they’re
not getting disqualified, and they agreed once again to abide by
a consent order they agreed to nine years ago,” Gordon said
yesterday. “Coming from Massachusetts, where they could’ve
gotten hit a lot harder, if anything, this is not encouraging to
attorneys general.”  Influenced Research  Wall Street banks including Morgan Stanley agreed in 2003
to overhaul internal controls and wall off businesses after
regulators found some firms let investment bankers influence
analyst research. The abuses, which resulted in analysts
recommending clients buy into IPOs handled by their own firms,
helped fuel an Internet stock bubble that burned investors.  The Massachusetts consent order describes the process by
which Facebook, with  Morgan Stanley’s (MS)  advice, put out a public
filing alerting investors to negative revenue trends related to
mobile advertising. Facebook’s treasurer at the time, working
from a Philadelphia hotel, then called research analysts and
gave them more-detailed estimates of the impact those trends
would have on revenue in the second quarter and all of 2012,
according to the document. The treasurer and the senior
investment banker had rehearsed the conversations beforehand.  As calls took place, “I was far down the hall so I
wouldn’t hear anything,” the banker told investigators,
according to the order. “I took extra precaution to do that,
and sat on the floor,” he said. The banker had e-mailed another
executive that night to say the treasurer “was a champ.”  Specific Numbers  The order finds Morgan Stanley in violation of securities
law against dishonest and unethical practices, without
specifying what those practices were. Galvin, in a statement
announcing the settlement, criticized the firm for helping
Facebook provide analysts with more-detailed information than
other investors received.  “While retail investors were left to interpret vague
qualitative information” from a regulatory filing, analysts
were given “specific numbers” to lower their revenue
estimates, Galvin said in the statement. New York-based Morgan
Stanley didn’t admit or deny Galvin’s claims in settling.  While the consent order didn’t name the investment banker
involved, it said he had been employed at Morgan Stanley since
May 1995 and worked in the bank’s Menlo Park offices. Michael Grimes, the firm’s global co-head of technology investment
banking who helped lead the IPO, joined Morgan Stanley in May
1995 and works in those offices, according to records with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Grimes and a spokesman for Galvin’s office didn’t respond
to messages seeking comment on the unidentified banker described
in the complaint. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan
Stanley, declined to say whether Grimes is the banker.  Robust Compliance  “We are pleased to have reached a settlement with
Secretary Galvin and the Massachusetts Securities Division and
to have put this matter behind us,” Delaney said in an e-mailed
statement. “Morgan Stanley is committed to robust compliance
with both the letter and the spirit of all applicable
regulations and laws.”  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment on Morgan Stanley’s settlement.  Citigroup Inc. was fined $2 million by Massachusetts in
October after a junior analyst improperly disclosed confidential
information before Facebook’s IPO.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also is looking
at the IPO, a person familiar with the probe said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  