-- Zuckerman Gives Columbia $200 Million for Brain Institute
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-12-17T18:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/mortimer-zuckerman-gives-columbia-200-million-for-mind-research.html
Mortimer Zuckerman, chairman of
 Boston Properties (BXP)  Inc., pledged $200 million to  Columbia
University  to endow a Mind Brain Behavior Institute for
neuroscience research.  The gift will help support 65 faculty members, and
eventually 1,000 scientists and staff, the university in New
York said today in a  statement  on its website. The institute
will be based at the Jerome L. Greene Science Center under
construction at Columbia’s new Manhattanville campus.  Zuckerman, 75, co-founded Boston Properties in 1970, and
the company now owns skyscrapers including Boston’s Prudential
Tower and New York’s General Motors Building. Zuckerman also
owns media companies including U.S. News & World Report and the
New York Daily News. A native of Montreal, he attended  McGill
University , the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania 
and  Harvard University .  “At its root, this is an investment in accomplished
scholars whose collective mission is both greater understanding
of the human condition and the discovery of new cures for human
suffering,” Zuckerman said in the statement. “I can hardly
think of anything more important than that.”  Columbia’s Mind Brian Behavior Institute is designed to
help cure diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s and
unravel the connections between the brain’s biology and human
behavior. It is intended to link researchers at Columbia
University Medical Center and school of engineering with
professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.  The institute is home to two Nobel Prize winners, Richard Axel and Eric Kandel, who, with Thomas Jessell, will serve as
co-directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  