-- Peter Madoff Says He Was a Victim of Brother’s Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-17T23:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/peter-madoff-seeks-leniency-from-court-citing-punitive-fine.html
Bernard Madoff’s younger brother
 Peter Madoff  told a judge he was a victim of the multibillion-
dollar fraud at their former firm and asked to be allowed to
attend his granddaughter’s bat mitzvah in January before he goes
to prison.  Peter Madoff, 67, who worked for Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC four decades, pleaded guilty in June
to helping his brother pull off the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in
history. As part of an agreement with prosecutors, Peter Madoff
agreed not to seek less than the maximum 10-year prison term
allowed by law and to forfeit his assets up to $143 billion. He
asked the court to let him attend the bat mitzvah before his
prison term begins.  “In some respects this case constitutes a personal tragedy
for an otherwise decent and compassionate man,” Peter Madoff’s
lawyer, John R. Wing, said in a letter to the sentencing judge,
U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan . “Although
a clear beneficiary of his older brother’s largess, he was also
a victim of his brother’s Ponzi scheme.”  The letter, which is dated Dec. 6, was made public today.  Peter Madoff’s guilty plea to two criminal charges came
three years to the day after his brother was sentenced to 150
years in prison. During his plea hearing, Peter Madoff told the
court he had no knowledge of  Bernard Madoff ’s scheme until Dec.
9, 2008, the night his brother confessed to him that the
investment business was a sham. Bernard Madoff was arrested and
confessed to authorities two days later, on Dec. 11.  Falsifying Records  Peter Madoff pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and
one count of falsifying records of a  investment adviser . Both
offenses carry maximum sentences of five years in prison.  Peter Madoff admitted to improperly avoiding taxes by
having the firm pay many of his expenses, which he didn’t report
as income. He also said he filed false reports with regulators
that helped conceal the fraud. And after learning of the Ponzi
scheme, Peter Madoff said he helped his brother parcel out $300
million remaining in the firm to select friends and family
members.  Peter Madoff repeatedly lied and violated the trust
investors put in the firm, prosecutors said. His crimes began in
about 1996 and continued until December 2008 when the firm
collapsed, according to the government.  Had regulators and clients known the truth about the sham
compliance program, “it is possible that the fraud would have
been detected years earlier and losses to the many victims would
have been avoided,” prosecutors said in court papers Dec. 14.  ‘World Was Shattered’  According to the letter made public today, Peter Madoff’s
“world was shattered” when his brother disclosed the fraud to
him.  The forfeiture order and Peter Madoff’s agreement to be
barred from the securities industry mean he will “live out his
days as a jobless pariah,” Wing said in the letter. His client
won’t even be permitted to collect  Social Security , he said.  “The only question is whether Peter will die in prison or
share a few more years living with his cherished family,” Wing
wrote.  Wing asked that his client be assigned to a federal prison
camp in Otisville, New York, 70 miles northwest of  New York
City .  Jewish Faith  Bernard Madoff insulted and degraded his brother, including
for his devotion to his Jewish faith, Wing said.  “Despite the abuse, Peter seemed to be blind to his
brother’s flaws,” Wing said. “He loved, trusted, admired and
even idolized his brother, believing him to be a trading
genius.”  The youngest of three children in his family, Peter Madoff
looked up to Bernard and competed with him, Wing said in the
court filing. A friend said that, even as an adult, Peter Madoff
viewed himself as “a little fat boy who wanted so much to
please his father and his older brother.”  He graduated from Queens College and Fordham University Law
School, joining his brother’s firm in 1970, Wing said. Peter and
Marion had two children: Shana, who would later work for the
Madoff firm, and Roger, who worked as a Bloomberg News reporter
and died of leukemia in 2006.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  