-- Philippine Peso Snaps 5-Day Drop as Yield Premium May Draw Funds
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-12-17T08:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/philippine-peso-snaps-5-day-drop-as-yield-premium-may-draw-funds.html
The Philippine peso halted a five-
day decline on speculation  Japan  will step up monetary easing,
spurring demand for higher-yielding assets.  Japan’s  Liberal Democratic Party  reclaimed power in an
election yesterday and its leader, Shinzo Abe, has called for
“unlimited easing” by the  Bank of Japan  to revive economic
growth. The Philippine central bank’s benchmark interest rate of
3.5 percent compares with a maximum 0.25 percent in the U.S. and
Japan. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas left its rate unchanged last
week,, after cutting it by a total of 100 basis points this
year.  Government bonds  due 2031 held steady today.  “More monetary stimulus by Bank of Japan will support
Asian currencies,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. In the
Philippines, “the strong growth story, and not just
remittances, will also be good for the currency,” he said.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 41.045 per dollar in Manila,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency reached 40.840 on
Nov. 29, the strongest level since March 2008. It’s advanced 6.8
percent this year, a performance second only to South Korea’s
won among Asia’s 11 most-used currencies. RBS predicts the peso
will advance to 40.90 by the end of this month, Tanuwidjaja
said.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 4.4
percent.  Remittances from Filipinos working overseas, transfers that
are equivalent to about 10 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product, increased 8.5 percent in October from a year
earlier, the monetary authority reported today. The median in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists was 6 percent.  Gross domestic product rose 7.1 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the most in two years, official
data showed last month.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
was unchanged at 5.55 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  