-- Philippines Will Suspend Stocks That Don’t Meet 10% Float
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-12-17T08:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/philippines-will-suspend-stocks-that-don-t-meet-10-float-2-.html
San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  and  PAL
Holdings Inc. (PAL)  are among 25 companies that face a year-end
deadline to have at least 10 percent of their shares trading
publicly or be suspended by the exchange. Shares of San Miguel
Brewery and parent San Miguel Corp. sank.  Listed companies that don’t meet the minimum by Dec. 31
will be suspended “immediately,”  Philippine Stock Exchange
Inc. (PCOMP)  Chief Executive Officer Hans Sicat said in a statement.
Suspensions will last not more than six months as companies will
be “automatically” de-listed if still non-compliant on June
30, he said.  LT Group Inc. (LTG) , one of the 25 non-compliant
companies, said it has boosted its public float to meet the
rule, according to a stock-exchange filing released today.  The exchange, which revoked a minimum public ownership
requirement in 2005, reinstated it in 2010 to boost trading,
giving companies until the end of this year to comply. The
Philippines bourse is the fourth-smallest among Asia’s major
markets, with a $224.4 billion capitalization, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Share prices of companies that don’t meet the requirement
will be negatively affected because this could trigger investors
to sell out of these stocks,” Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps
manage about $18.5 billion as senior vice president at BPI Asset
Management Inc., said by phone. “It could negatively affect
overall market sentiments since what investors would like to see
is a broader universe of investible stocks.”  Largest Brewer  Shares of San Miguel Brewery, the nation’s largest brewer,
declined 2.9 percent to 33 pesos at the close of trading in
Manila, the sharpest loss since June 1.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , which
owns 51 percent of the brewer, sank 4.6 percent to 101 pesos,
the lowest close since Nov. 17, 2010.  San Miguel posted the second-biggest percentage loss in the
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index, which declined 1.5
percent, the sharpest loss since July 9.  The bourse had 25 companies that didn’t meet the
requirement as of  Dec. 7  including San Miguel Brewery, 48.4
percent owned by Kirin Brewery Co., and PAL, owner of Philippine
Airlines Inc., the nation’s biggest carrier. The exchange had 42
non-compliant companies in 2010, Sicat said on Sept. 3.  San Miguel Brewery said today the exchange rejected its
request to extend the deadline. PAL said Dec. 11  it will ask
for an extension. San Miguel Brewery has a 0.6 percent public
float while PAL’s is 2.3 percent, according to exchange data.  Tobacco Tycoon  “There’s strong anticipation that a trading suspension and
eventual de-listing of San Miguel Brewery will translate to
lower valuation for the venture,” Alex Pomento, head of
research at Macquarie Group Ltd.’s  Manila  unit, said. “San
Miguel’s shares are reflecting the eventuality the brewery’s
valuation is no longer market determined.”  LT Group, tobacco tycoon Lucio Tan’s holding company and
one of the 25 non-compliant stocks in the bourse’s Dec. 7 list,
said its majority owner Tangent Holdings Corp. has sold 508.54
million shares, boosting its float to 10.4 percent from 4.7
percent, according to the stock-exchange filing. The stock rose
as much as 2.7 percent before closing unchanged at 12.60 pesos.  The tax bureau will next year charge a capital gains levy
and document stamp tax on sales of shares in companies that
don’t meet the minimum public ownership rule, the exchange said.
The capital gains tax will be equivalent to 5 percent of net
capital gains of as much as 100,000 pesos ($2,435), increasing
to 10 percent on larger transactions. A separate document stamp
tax of 75 centavo (about 2 U.S. cents) per 200 pesos of par
value of shares will also be collected, it said.  ‘Panic Button’  Trading of shares on the exchange is subject to a tax,
equivalent to 0.5 percent of transaction value, the exchange
said.  “Some investors will press the panic button and sell their
shares to avoid getting stuck with non-compliant stocks and
dodge higher transaction costs,” said  James Lago , head of
research at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “Companies that want
to remain listed will have to accelerate their plans to boost
public float.”  Manchester International Holdings Unlimited Corp. (MIH) , which
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  agreed to buy, and  Metro Pacific
Tollways (TOL)  Corp., the nation’s biggest tollroad operator, led
declines among stocks that don’t meet the minimum float.
Manchester’s Class A shares sank 10 percent while Metro Pacific
Tollways, which volunteered to de-list its shares, retreated 8.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  