-- Prudential’s Durning to Run Commercial Mortgage Business
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-17T16:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/prudential-s-durning-to-run-73-billion-commercial-mortgage-unit.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, named David Durning president
of its commercial mortgage business to help lead expansion
outside the U.S.  Durning will take over as president of Prudential Mortgage
Capital Co., with $72.7 billion under management and
administration. He’ll replace David Twardock, who had the post
since 1999, the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer said today in a
statement.  Prudential is targeting commercial real estate as the
insurer seeks to boost investment income. Hal Collett was
promoted last month to oversee commercial mortgage servicing.
The insurer in July hired Alfonso Munk from Morgan Stanley to
oversee more than $3.2 billion in assets for the insurer’s real
estate investment unit in Latin America.  Durning “is uniquely positioned to lead and continue to
grow the mortgage business, particularly as the business expands
internationally,” David Hunt, CEO of Prudential Investment
Management, said in the statement.  The loans Prudential Mortgage Capital Co. owns or services
expanded from $69.5 billion a year earlier. The insurer provided
a $71 million loan this month for Olympia House, a 22-story
mixed-use building in  Manhattan  near the United Nations. The
building has 240 apartments and more than 12,000 square feet of
commercial space.  Twardock is scheduled to retire in April. Durning is
currently a senior managing director and head of originations.
He joined Prudential in 1988 as an investment analyst, and
earlier worked at Chemical Bank and Shearson Lehman, according
to the statement.  Durning earned a bachelor’s degree from Middlebury College
and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  