-- Ramaphosa Mounts Political Comeback in South Africa’s ANC
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-12-17T12:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/ramaphosa-mounts-political-comeback-in-south-africa-s-anc.html
Cyril Ramaphosa agreed to run as
deputy leader of South Africa’s ruling African National Congress
16 years after he quit active politics for business when he
failed to succeed  Nelson Mandela  as the nation’s president.  Ramaphosa, 60, accepted the nomination for the No. 2 post
in the ANC, Thobile Thomas, a founder for the Elexions Agency
that is running the election, told the party’s national
conference in the central city of Bloemfontein today. Human
Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale and ANC Treasurer Mathews Phosa are also seeking the post, he said. The current party
deputy president, Kgalema Motlanthe, withdrew from the race and
will only challenge Zuma as party president, Thomas said.  The vote will be decided by 4,500 party officials, with
results expected later today or tomorrow. Non-binding nomination
ballots from ANC members at provincial meetings last month show
President  Jacob Zuma  winning about 70 percent support for the
top position and Ramaphosa about 58 percent. Motlanthe, 63, is
also running against Zuma for the ANC leadership.  “Cyril has very good experience,” Boitumelo Seakge, a
delegate from the central Free State province, said in an
interview at the conference opening. “We are getting him ready
to take over in five years. He’s superior to Kgalema.”  Ramaphosa’s re-entry into the mainstream political arena
may help support investor confidence in an economy plagued by
strikes and credit-rating cuts. His selection would position him
to succeed Zuma as president in 2019.  Mining Stakes  Ramaphosa is South Africa’s second-richest black
businessman after Patrice Motsepe, according to the
Johannesburg-based Sunday Times. He owns a stake in mines
operated by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-biggest platinum
producer, a coal-mining venture with  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
and has the  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchise in South Africa.  He’s also the chairman of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone company, and  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , and sits on the
board of  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and Standard Bank Group Ltd.  Ramaphosa, who studied law, helped found the National Union
of Mineworkers in 1982 and led the biggest-ever strike in South
Africa’s gold industry five years later. He was the ANC’s top
negotiator with the white-minority government when they reached
agreement to end apartheid and hold South Africa’s first
democratic elections in 1994. He also worked on crafting the
nation’s constitution following the vote.  He entered the corporate world after Thabo Mbeki won the
contest to succeed Mandela, South Africa’s first post-apartheid
president.  Ramaphosa maintained his ties with the ANC, serving on its
80-member national executive committee and heading its
disciplinary appeals panel. He is also deputy head of the
National Planning Commission, a government advisory body headed
by former Finance Minister  Trevor Manuel .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  