-- Real Madrid Targets Wenger to Replace Mourinho: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-17T05:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/real-madrid-targets-wenger-to-replace-mourinho-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Real Target  Real  Madrid  has targeted Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger to
replace Jose Mourinho if he leaves the Gunners at the end of the
season, the  Daily Express reported .  It’s an “open secret” that Mourinho’s tenure as Real
coach will finish at the end of the current campaign, the Mail
said, adding that Wenger may be tempted to take on a new
challenge after reviewing Arsenal’s performance with the club’s
board at the end of the season.  Fellaini Fouls  Everton’s Marouane Fellaini may face a nine-game ban
following three separate clashes with Stoke City’s Ryan
Shawcross in the 1-1 Premier League draw two days ago, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Although the incidents, which included a headbutt on
Shawcross, went unpunished by the referee, the Football
Association has the power to cite the Belgian midfielder
retrospectively for more than one offense, the newspaper added.  Fellaini, who apologized to Shawcross after the game, is
also set to be fined 150,000 pounds ($242,535) by Everton
manager David Moyes, the  Sun reported .  Balotelli Tribunal  Mario Balotelli  will take Manchester City to an appeals
tribunal this week over a 350,000-pound fine imposed for
persistent ill-discipline on the pitch, the  Guardian reported .  The striker was fined two weeks’ wages after a series of
red and yellow cards caused him to miss about one fifth of
City’s games last season, the newspaper added. City rejected his
appeal against the fine and Balotelli will put his case to a
Premier League tribunal in two days, the Guardian said.  Arsenal Dream  Newcastle’s Demba Ba, who has a 7.5 million-pound release
clause in his contract, is open to a move to Arsenal with
Tottenham and Liverpool also interested in the Senegal striker,
the  Daily Mail reported .  “The media know Arsenal need another striker and they know
about my release clause,” the Mail cited Ba as telling Canal+.
“They need to make their own mind up about it. Arsenal are one
of those teams who makes you dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  