-- Treasury Plan Would Cut Rates on Some Mortgages in Bonds
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/treasury-plan-would-cut-rates-on-some-mortgages-in-bonds.html
Some struggling homeowners left out
of current U.S. government mortgage-aid programs because their
home loans have been packaged into private securities could see
their  interest rates  cut through a subsidy being considered by
the Treasury Department.  Under the plan, the government would pay the difference
between the new and original interest rates to the owners of the
loans for five years in an effort to overcome investors’
objections to mortgage modifications, according to a person
familiar with plan who asked not to be identified because the
initiative is not final or public. Details on the cost of the
program and how it would be paid for were not available.  The proposal is among efforts by the Obama administration
to aid homeowners who remain under stress even as the housing
market begins to recover. Borrowers who owe more than their
homes are worth and who have mortgages that have been packaged
into bonds issued by private securitizers have been unable to
take advantage of existing government aid programs.  “It’s certainly beneficial to think about ways to help
underwater borrowers,” said  Tom Deutsch , executive director of
the American Securitization Forum. “I’m just not sure anybody’s
found the right solution yet.”  Deutsch, whose New York-based trade group represents bond
investors, issuers and trustees, said his organization had
discussed the proposal with Treasury officials and had raised
concerns that it might not reduce default rates.  Eligible Borrowers  Borrowers who are current on their mortgage payments and
who owe at least 25 percent more than the value of their
properties would be eligible for the program, which would reset
their loans to the average fixed rate as determined by a weekly
survey by Freddie Mac.  About 930,000 homeowners with loans in so-called private-
label securities are both underwater and current on their
payments, according to data from JP Morgan Securities LLC.  The person familiar with the plan said the Obama
administration would move forward with it only if officials
become convinced that Congress won’t act first to expand aid for
troubled borrowers. The rate-modification proposal is one of a
number of concepts the administration is considering if
legislative solutions aren’t available, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the plans are not final and have
not been made public.  Investor Resistance  Investors may still resist modifications, even if Treasury
offers to pay, analysts at JP Morgan Securities said in a weekly
note to clients. “We have seen resistance from investors to
accept modifications on loans that are not seriously delinquent,
and it’s not clear whether prospectuses would allow servicers to
do this,”  John Sim , Abhishek Mistry and Nabeem Hashem wrote in
the note.  Meanwhile, efforts are continuing in Congress to expand
borrower aid.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a  California  Democrat, has
introduced a bill that would allow borrowers with loans in
private-label securities to refinance into mortgages backed by
the  Federal Housing Administration . Democrat  Jeff Merkley  of
Oregon wrote a measure requiring  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac to
pay closing costs when borrowers refinance into a loan with a
term of 20 years or less, allowing homeowners to rebuild equity
more quickly.  Expanding HARP  Democrats  Barbara Boxer  of California and  Robert Menendez 
of  New Jersey  are co-sponsoring a bill that would expand the
government’s Home Affordable Refinancing Program for borrowers
whose loans are backed by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . The
government-sponsored enterprises have refinanced 1.7 million
loans through HARP since it began in 2009.  Any action on that legislation before the end of the year
would require sponsors to get the language rolled into larger
bills that may be enacted to resolve the nation’s broader fiscal
policy dispute, Menendez said in an interview this month.
Lawmakers could reintroduce the bills next year.  The Boxer-Menendez bill is S. 3522. The Merkley bill is S.
2909. The Feinstein bill is S. 3047.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  