-- Regions Raised Two Grades by Moody’s as Asset Quality Improves
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-12-17T19:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/regions-raised-two-grades-by-moody-s-as-asset-quality-improves.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-
biggest U.S. commercial bank by deposits, was upgraded two
levels by Moody’s Investors Service as the ratings firm cited
the lender’s improved asset quality.  The lender is “in a better position to weather another
real estate cycle” after write-offs and overdue loans have
declined, Moody’s said today in a statement as it raised the
senior debt of Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions to Ba1, one
step below investment grade, from Ba3. The bank bolstered risk
management by reorganizing committees and diversifying assets,
according to the statement.  Real estate construction loans almost doubled from the end
of 2005 through 2007 under then-Chief Executive Officer  Dowd Ritter . The firm, now led by CEO Grayson Hall, posted $262
million in write-offs in the third quarter, an 88 percent drop
from the same period in 2010. The bank is putting more emphasis
on consumer loans, Hall, 55, has said.  “The effectiveness of Regions’s risk management, including
in containing concentrations, will be a key driver of any future
positive rating actions,” Moody’s said in the statement.  Hall, since succeeding Ritter in 2010, has sought a return
to what he calls “sustainable profitability.” The bank has
reported an operating profit every quarter since the end of 2010
after reporting six straight losses.  “Regions still faces earnings pressure in the current
protracted low interest rate environment that could lead the
bank to take on additional risks either in its securities
portfolios or by diversifying into other business segments,”
Moody’s said in the statement.  Regions rose 2.4 percent to $6.86 at 1:49 p.m. in  New York .
The shares have surged about 60 percent this year, the  second-
best  performance in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  