-- Relaxing Yuan, EBA Moral Bonuses, Schapiro: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-17T13:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/relaxing-yuan-eba-moral-bonuses-schapiro-reflects-compliance.html
China may relax or abolish a rule
that requires  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors
to keep most of their funds in bonds, according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, a move that may boost demand for stocks.  The first batch of  yuan  QFII funds, approved in December
2011 with a 20 billion-yuan quota, are required to invest at
least 80 percent of their assets in bonds, with the rest going
into equities or kept as cash.  China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing 
has cut trading fees, pushed companies to increase dividends and
allowed trust companies to buy equities since taking over a year
ago, in an effort to shore up China’s stock market. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is headed for its third
straight year of declines.  China may also expand the RQFII program, which now is open
only to Hong Kong units of Chinese financial companies, to
include institutions based in the city, said  Norman Chan , chief
executive of Hong Kong’s de facto central bank. Guo supports
opening the program to all types of Hong Kong-based financial
institutions, Chan told reporters in Beijing after meeting with
Guo.  Hong Kong’s biggest banks have been lobbying China to relax
restrictions on yuan businesses in the city as competition from
London, Singapore and Taiwan intensifies.  For more, click here.  Separately, China scrapped a ceiling on investments by
overseas sovereign wealth funds and central banks in its capital
markets, part of government efforts to encourage long-term
foreign ownership and shore up slumping equities.  SWFs, central banks and monetary authorities can now exceed
the $1 billion limit that still applies to other qualified
foreign institutional investors, according to revised
regulations posted Dec. 13 on the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange’s website.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad will help
improve market confidence, promote stable growth in capital
markets and provide “robust” investment returns to domestic
investors, the regulator said in May, a month after the
government more than doubled the total quota for QFIIs to $80
billion from $30 billion.  QFIIs can repatriate their principal and investment returns
after a lock-up period ends, though the monthly net remittances
cannot exceed 20 percent of their total onshore assets as of the
previous year, according to the Dec. 13  rules . Open-ended China
funds can remit funds on a weekly basis under the new
regulation, compared with monthly in the previous version
announced in 2009.  Compliance Policy  Bonus Disclosures Risk Backfiring by Boosting Broker Pay Demands  Forcing Wall Street brokers to disclose bonuses they
receive to switch firms is likely to backfire on the industry as
workers use the information to seek higher pay, recruiters and
former brokers said.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s
self-regulator, is seeking public comment on a plan meant to
protect customers by requiring brokers to disclose incentives
when changing employers. Conflicts may arise if payments
encourage brokers to push products to clients that aren’t needed
or suitable. The rules would apply only to bigger brokerages
that can afford to pay up-front bonuses for new recruits.  Approval of the plan may mean leverage for brokers to
demand higher pay, said David Glazer, president of New York-
based ECG Resources Inc., which recruits brokers with clients
who have at least $25 million to invest.  Finra’s board of governors voted to begin the public
comment period, which typically lasts one to two months. The
plan would need approval from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Nancy Condon , a Finra spokeswoman in Washington,
said she couldn’t comment on whether the board of governors
contemplated how the plan might influence compensation
discussions before it sought comment.  “The focus of this proposal is investor protection,”
Condon said in an e-mailed statement. “It is important to make
sure that investors have all relevant information when they are
considering a move to a new firm.”  Liz Pierce, a spokeswoman for the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association , said it’s too early to comment on
the proposal.  For more, click here.  Japan May Keep 5% Cap on Bank Ownership of Companies, Panel Says  Banks may be allowed to hold more than 5 percent stakes in
companies that are facing rehabilitation by local or central
governments, a Financial Services Agency panel said in a
discussion paper.  The document was distributed by the panel on bank
regulations after it met in Tokyo Dec. 13. The panel has been
considering raising the cap.  The panel, under the prime minister’s financial advisory
committee, has been discussing measures to strengthen financial
crisis response preparedness.  Bonuses Paid in Subordinated Debt Should Be Mandatory, EBA Says  Senior bankers should be required to receive some of their
annual bonus in bonds that would suffer losses during a
financial crisis, Europe’s top banking regulator said.  A “mandatory share” of bonuses for top management should
be paid in so-called bail-in bonds, which can be written down
when the lender’s capital dips below a safe level, the  European
Banking Authority  said in an opinion on proposals to separate
banks’ commercial and investment units.  The EBA said such measures may contribute to overall
efforts to “reduce moral hazard.”  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has said that he’s weighing proposals made by an advisory
group led by  European Central Bank  Governing Council member
Erkki Liikanen. The measures, which would force lenders to set
up legally separate trading entities, are a “good basis” for
future EU policy making, Barnier has said.  Compliance Action  ECB Set to Directly Supervise 80% of Euro-Area Banking Assets  The European Central Bank is set to directly supervise
about 150 banks, accounting for about 80 percent of the euro
area’s banking assets, according to tentative estimates given by
a European Union official.  The percentage of banking assets subject to direct ECB
supervision will be highest in nations with highly concentrated
banking industries such as the Netherlands, said the official,
who isn’t authorized to be identified, in line with EU policy.  The ECB will take on bank oversight duties by March 2014,
or whenever the central bank says it is ready, under an accord
reached by finance ministers last week.  Structured Products Facing Mis-Selling Risks Cautions Regulator  Near-zero  interest rates  in Europe are causing investors to
seek higher-yielding assets and could lead to improper sales of
structured products to individual investors, according to a
market regulator.  Paris-based European Securities and Markets Authority will
need to remind European supervisors and banks about proper
selling practices for complex investments such as structured
products, ESMA Chairman Steven Maijoor said in a Dec. 12 speech.
His comments echo remarks from  Richard Ketchum , chief executive
officer of the U.S. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, who
said Sept. 27 regulators may need to increase oversight if banks
don’t clamp down on improper sales practices.  Supervisors are paying particular attention to the quantity
and quality of information provided to investors by product
creators and distributors to enhance transparency in Europe’s
820 billion-euro ($1.1 trillion) market for individual
investors.  European Union-wide regulations for structured products,
which will require banks to provide so-called key information
documents for the products they sell to describe the main
characteristics and risks, could be in place by the end of 2014.  Monte Paschi Rescue Aid Wins Temporary Approval From EU  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  won temporary European
Union approval for a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.1 billion)
recapitalization from the Italian government to help it meet
minimum capital requirements.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, must submit a
restructuring plan within six months before regulators can make
a final decision on the state aid, the European Commission said
in an e-mailed statement today. The EU has to approve large
state payments to banks and can require lenders to shed
businesses to compensate for the harm the aid may cause rivals.  “The commission found that the recapitalization of Monte
Paschi through hybrid capital is necessary to preserve the
stability of the Italian financial system,” the Brussels-based
authority said in the statement.  Monte Paschi is the only Italian bank still lacking minimum
capital requirements set by the European Banking Authority. The
Siena-based bank is borrowing the funds by selling bonds to the
state and giving shares to the Treasury instead of interest on
the debt if it reports an annual loss. The bank must give shares
to the government at market value instead of the higher book
value, the Italian government said last week.  Monte Paschi and the Italian Finance Ministry declined to
comment on the EU announcement.  Courts  Four Charged in U.K. for Bribing Nigerian Officials to Cut Taxes  Four former Swift Technical Energy Solutions Ltd. employees
were charged with conspiring to bribe Nigerian officials to
lower the taxes their workers paid in the country.  Three men and one woman, all British nationals, were
charged this morning at a London criminal court following a two-
year probe of the company, which is a Nigerian subsidiary of the
Swift Group companies, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The defendants -- a former chief financial officer, tax
manager, financial controller and area director for Nigeria --
allegedly paid a total of 180,000 pounds ($292,000) in bribes in
2008 and 2009 to agents of the Rivers State Board of Internal
Revenue and the Lagos State Board of Internal Revenue, according
to prosecutors.  The defendants were released on bail.  Weavering Founder Charged With Fraud Over Hedge Fund’s Collapse  Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd. founding director Magnus
Peterson was charged by British prosecutors with fraud and
fraudulent trading over the collapse of the hedge fund in 2009.  Peterson, 49, was also charged with false accounting and
forgery in the six years leading up to Weavering’s demise, the
Serious Fraud Office said Dec. 14in an e-mailed statement. The
fund had about $640 million under management in late 2008. It
collapsed in March 2009 and was put into administration.  Weavering was an English incorporated firm whose primary
function was to act as investment adviser to the Cayman Islands-
based Weavering Macro Fixed Income Fund Ltd., the SFO said.
Peterson is a Swedish citizen living in Kent, England.  The SFO reopened its probe into Peterson and the collapse
of the hedge fund in July after the agency’s previous director
closed the case last year.  Peterson’s lawyer, Monty Raphael, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  SAC E-Mails Show Cohen Consulted on Dell Trade at Heart of Probe  Two days before  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was set to report second-quarter
2008 earnings, Jon Horvath, a technology analyst at SAC Capital
Advisors LP, e-mailed his boss Michael S. Steinberg and another
portfolio manager to warn that the computer maker would miss
earnings estimates.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath began the Aug. 26 message, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Steinberg, a 15-year veteran of the hedge fund founded by
billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , responded: “Yes normally we would
never divulge data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.”  The e-mails indicate Steinberg, the longest-serving SAC
employee linked to the U.S. insider-trading probe, discussed the
Dell trade with Cohen. While neither has been accused of any
wrongdoing, the messages were admitted as evidence at the New
York insider-trading trial of two hedge-fund managers last week
after a judge ruled they supported prosecutor claims that
Steinberg should be considered an unindicted co-conspirator.  Steinberg, 40, worked at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management
unit and was one of 15 portfolio managers handling technology,
media and telecommunications stocks before he was placed on
leave in September.  SAC, which is based in Stamford, Connecticut, and manages
$14 billion, was told by the Securities and Exchange Commission
that the agency is considering pursuing civil fraud claims
related to alleged insider trading by former SAC portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma, who traded stocks of two drug makers.  Horvath pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud
in September related to the Dell trade and said he had passed
confidential information to his portfolio manager, who, he said,
traded on the tips.  Jonathan Gasthalter said last month that Cohen and SAC are
confident they acted appropriately and will continue to
cooperate with the government’s inquiry. He declined last week
to comment on the Dell e-mails. Steinberg’s lawyer, Barry Berke,
declined to comment on the e-mails or the judge’s ruling.  The e-mail case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  SEC’s Mary Schapiro Looks Back Over Four Years as Chairman  Mary Schapiro , on her last day as chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, said she entered her
position during “a pretty dark time” and doesn’t know what she
“could have done differently” after four years.  She added that she sees broad agreement to increase
penalties, and commented that she would have liked to achieve
self-funding for the agency.  Schapiro talked with Bloomberg’s  Arthur Levitt  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Harvard Professor Scott Says Company Fines Miss the Target  Hal Scott , president and director of  Committee on Capital
Markets Regulation  and a professor at Harvard Law School, said
regulators should target individual wrongdoing and not impose
fines that affect only shareholders.  Scott talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  TARP’s Barofsky Says HSBC Accord Emboldens Banks to Cross Line  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s
agreement to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S. probes of money
laundering in the largest such accord ever.  Barofsky spoke with Stephanie Ruhle and  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Monti Says ECB Will Oversee 15 Italian Banks  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  talked about European
Central Bank oversight of financial institutions and answers
questions on whether he will seek election next year.  He spoke at a news conference in Brussels at the conclusion
of a leaders’ summit.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey 
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 