-- Republican Tim Scott Chosen for DeMint’s U.S. Senate Seat
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-12-17T17:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/republican-tim-scott-chosen-for-demint-s-u-s-senate-seat.html
Freshman U.S. Representative  Tim Scott  was chosen by South Carolina’s governor to replace
Republican Senator  Jim DeMint , who will leave Congress in
January to lead a small-government policy group.  Governor Nikki Haley said Scott, a fellow Republican, will
fill DeMint’s U.S. Senate seat until a special election is held
in 2014 to serve the last two years of the six-year term. DeMint
announced Dec. 6 he will leave the Senate to head the  Heritage
Foundation , a Republican-leaning group in  Washington .  Haley said Scott “earned” the seat through his record in
public service.  “Many people have asked what went into this decision
process, and it was pretty simple: He understands the strength
that we need to have in our business community as we continue to
focus on jobs,” the governor said at a news conference today in
Columbia,  South Carolina . Haley said she had “no doubt” that
Scott will “fly through 2014.”  Scott said he will run to keep the seat in 2014. He said he
is excited about “having an opportunity to get around the
state” to introduce himself to his constituents.  “Our nation finds itself in a situation where we need some
backbone, we need to make very difficult decisions,” Scott
said. “I learned early in my 20s that if you have a problem
with spending, there’s not enough revenue to make up for it.”  ‘Great Choice’  Scott is “a great choice” who is a “fighter for limited
government and pro-growth policies in Washington,”  Chris Chocola , president of the anti-tax group Club for Growth, said
in a statement. The group, which backed Scott in a 2010
Republican primary over the son of the late Senator  Strom Thurmond , has given Scott a 92 percent lifetime rating.  Scott, 47, is first black Republican congressman from the
deep South since the 1890s. He was re-elected last month to his
Charleston-area House seat with 62 percent of the vote.  He would be the first black Republican to serve in the
Senate in 34 years. Massachusetts Senator Edward Brooke, who
served from 1967 to 1979, is the only popularly elected black
Republican ever to serve in the Senate.  Elected in 2010 as part of the Tea party wave that swept
Republicans to power in the House, he serves as a liaison to
leadership, representing the views of Republican freshmen. He
also is a member of the Rules Committee, which sets the terms
for House floor debate.  Scott has been willing to break with leadership to press
for deeper spending cuts and smaller government. In August 2011,
he opposed a deal Speaker  John Boehner  brokered raising the
federal debt ceiling. At the time, Scott said the measure “did
not take enough steps towards ensuring a stable economic
future.”  Scott “knows the value of a dollar, Haley said. “He
understands what every family and small business goes through,
and he has stayed consistent to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  