-- RIM Enlists 120 U.S. Companies to Test BlackBerry 10
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-12-17T21:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/rim-s-blackberry-10-pilot-projects-begin-at-120-u-s-companies.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said the
BlackBerry 10, the new smartphone lineup intended to revive its
fortunes, is about to begin testing at more than 120 U.S.
companies, including 64 members of the Fortune 500.  So-called beta testing of the new BlackBerry 10 touch-
screen model and related enterprise software will start today,
said Richard Piasentin, managing director of RIM’s U.S.
business. RIM is picking up the costs of the trials, which are
focused on the touch-screen model, a design that’s less familiar
to many corporate customers than the traditional Qwerty keyboard
version, he said.  “We’re keenly targeting the launch of our touch-screen
device and we want to bring that experience to our clients,”
Piasentin said in an interview. While the tests stop short of
being actual orders, “these clients have agreed to implement
the full solution into their infrastructure,” which shows their
level of commitment, he said.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is widening its pilot
projects to build enthusiasm for the phones, which debut to the
public Jan. 30 and go on sale in February on multiple
continents. A successful start is critical to regaining some of
the market share the BlackBerry lost in recent years to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton and the  National
Transportation Safety Board  are two of the latest organizations
that are ceasing to use BlackBerrys.  Introductory Event  RIM also sent out invitations today to the Jan. 30 event,
which will be held at Pier 36 in  New York . The company plans to
use the forum to provide details on pricing and global
availability of the phones.  RIM shares  were little changed today in New York trading,
closing at $13.93.  In the run-up to the BlackBerry 10’s release, RIM is trying
to win back defectors. The U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency said last week that it will test the new
software and devices, even after announcing plans in mid-October
to spend $2.1 million on more than 17,000 Apple iPhones.  The trial participants represent industries such as
financial services, insurance, health care and media, Piasentin
said. Though all 120 companies are based in the U.S., many are
global, and so the testing will be done across their
international operations, Piasentin said. He declined to name
any of the businesses until they have agreed to discuss the
trials publicly.  Health Company  One firm that has come forward is Integris Health Inc., an
Oklahoma City-based health-care provider that said it’s looking
forward to testing the BlackBerry 10 and is counting on the
security the software offers.  Relying on its reputation for data security in government
and business circles, RIM is also wooing customers with features
such as BlackBerry Balance, which allows users to operate two
versions of their device for work and personal life that
separately quarantine e-mail, applications and other data.  The wave of testing comes as RIM prepares to report fiscal
 third-quarter results  on Dec. 20. Sales probably fell 48 percent
to $2.67 billion, based on the average estimate of analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey . Excluding some items, its loss is projected to
be 35 cents a share.  That prognosis has done little to crimp a share rally in
the stock as analysts  upgrade the shares  and adjust their price
targets.  Stock Surge  RIM shares have more than doubled since Sept. 24, just
before the company’s last earnings report. Still, the stock
remains 90 percent below its closing peak of $147.55 in June
2008, when RIM commanded closer to half the smartphone market.  Even after the rally, RIM’s outlook remains dim, Phillip Huang, an analyst at UBS AG, said today in a research note. The
stock gains are reminiscent of what happened to Palm Inc., he
said. Shares of that company jumped from $3 to about $18 in
2009, fueled by optimism for its new WebOS software and related
phones. After the platform fizzled, the stock fell back below
$4. Hewlett-Packard Co. ultimately bought Palm and discontinued
the products.  “We can’t recommend shares on a low probability of success
for BB10,” Huang, who has a neutral rating on RIM shares, said
in the report. “The range of outcomes is wide.”  RIM is poised to finish 2012 with a 4.7 percent share of
global smartphone platforms, with Apple and Android accounting
for 68 percent and 19 percent respectively, according to market
research firm IDC.  Piasentin, who  joined RIM  in 2009 from  Nortel Networks
Corp. (NRTLQ) , said the number of companies now testing BlackBerry 10
shows that RIM is still relevant in the U.S., a market where
have sales have fallen more sharply than overseas.  “I don’t think these companies would have agreed to
participate in this program if they didn’t see the value that we
have to bring to their enterprises to be more successful and
effective,” Piasentin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  