-- Romanian President Nominates Ponta for Second Term as Premier
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-17T10:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/romanian-president-nominates-ponta-for-second-term-as-premier.html
Romanian President Traian Basescu
nominated Victor Ponta as prime minister for the second time
this year after the ruling coalition won a Dec. 9 election.  Basescu, who has been embroiled in a power struggle with
Ponta since June, made the announcement in a statement published
on the presidential website today. The 40-year-old Ponta, who
has been premier since May, will have more than two-thirds of
Parliament’s seats and must seek a vote of confidence within 10
days.  “Given the fact that there was only one proposal from the
political parties, President Traian Basescu designated Victor
Ponta as candidate for the position of prime minister,” the
president said in the statement.  The election win strengthened Ponta’s hand in the feud with
Basescu. The premier-designate plans to bolster the ruling
coalition’s 67 percent majority in the legislature to about 75
percent with the help of the ethnic Hungarians’ party in his bid
to change the constitution.  The power struggle between the two politicians earlier this
year pushed the country’s currency, the leu, to a record low of
4.6520 per euro on Aug. 3 and boosted borrowing costs. The leu
appreciated to the strongest in almost four months to 4.4652 by
11 a.m. in Bucharest on bets that Ponta’s nomination will ease
political uncertainty.  Loan Talks  After winning a confidence vote in Parliament, the new
Cabinet must prepare the 2013 budget under the guidance of the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union, which will
probably start a review of the Balkan nation’s loan in early
January, Ponta said on Dec. 10. The country plans to start talks
on a new agreement with the lenders as the current 5 billion-
euro ($6.6 billion) precautionary accord expires at the end of
March.  “A swift solution to the political uncertainty could
support Romanian markets in the short term,” analysts at
Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG wrote in a note today. “We
continue to see the euro at 4.52 lei in June 2013 and 4.5 in
December 2013 and see risks coming from a heavy repayment
calendar to the IMF.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  