-- Romania President Nominates Ponta for Second Term as Premier
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-17T15:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/romania-president-nominates-ponta-for-second-term-as-premier-2-.html
Romanian President Traian Basescu
nominated Victor Ponta as prime minister for the second time
this year after the ruling coalition won a Dec. 9 election.  Basescu, who has been embroiled in a power struggle with
Ponta since June, made the announcement in a statement published
on the presidential website today. The 40-year-old Ponta, who
has been premier since May, will control more than two-thirds of
Parliament’s seats and must seek a vote of confidence within 10
days.  “We have entered a period of normality,” Ponta told
reporters in Bucharest today. “I will have my Cabinet and the
governing program ready by Dec. 20, so that the Parliament can
hold the confidence vote on Dec. 21.”  The election win strengthened Ponta’s hand in his political
feud with Basescu. The premier-designate plans to bolster the
ruling coalition’s 67 percent majority in the legislature to
about 75 percent with the help of the ethnic Hungarians’ party,
in a bid to change the constitution.  The Liberals, part of Ponta’s coalition, opposed a plan to
include the ethnic Hungarians in a new government and prompted
Ponta to announce today that they won’t be part of his future
cabinet, while continuing talks on constitutional changes.  ‘Sigh of Relief’  The power struggle between the Ponta and Basescu, which led
to a 52-day suspension of the president and a failed impeachment
referendum earlier this year, pushed the country’s currency, the
leu, to a record low of 4.6520 per euro on Aug. 3 and boosted
borrowing costs.  The leu appreciated to the strongest in almost four months
to 4.4652 by 11 a.m. in Bucharest and declined 0.05 percent to
4.4716 per euro at 5 p.m. on bets that Ponta’s nomination will
ease political uncertainty.  “There’s a general sigh of relief as Basescu nominates
incumbent Premier Ponta to go to Parliament for a confidence
vote,” Simon Quijano-Evans, ING Groep NV’s London-based head of
emerging-market research for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
said in e-mailed comments. “Ponta should have absolutely no
problem in winning the vote, given the coalition supports him.”  International Guidance  After winning a confidence vote in Parliament, the new
Cabinet must prepare the 2013 budget under the guidance of the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, which will
probably start a review of the Balkan nation’s loan in early
January, Ponta said on Dec. 10.  The country plans to start talks on a new agreement with
the lenders as the current 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
precautionary accord expires at the end of March.  “A swift solution to the political uncertainty could
support Romanian markets in the short term,” analysts at
Vienna-based  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  wrote in a note today. “We
continue to see the euro at 4.52 lei in June 2013 and 4.5 in
December 2013 and see risks coming from a heavy repayment
calendar to the IMF.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 