-- Rosneft Jousting With Gazprom for Bonds in 2013: Russia Credit
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-12-17T15:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/rosneft-jousting-with-gazprom-for-bonds-in-2013-russia-credit.html
OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , negotiating with banks
over $30 billion of loans, will vie with Russian gas producer
OAO Gazprom for bond investors next year as it seeks to fund a
takeover making it the biggest publicly traded oil company.  State-run Rosneft sold $3 billion of bonds last month to
help finance a $55 billion takeover of TNK-BP. The yield on the
debt due in March 2022 dropped 18 basis points since the sale to
4.02 percent on Dec. 14, compared with 4.08 percent for similar-
maturity Gazprom notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields for  Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s fourth-largest oil
producer, were 3.25 percent for equivalent debt.  Russia ’s largest oil company has $7 billion of a bond
program left to sell as it seeks to boost oil output through the
TNK-BP purchase to more than 4 million barrels a day, surpassing
that of Beijing-based PetroChina Co. Investors will be receptive
to the company’s bonds after Rosneft raised less than expected
in its debut sale, according to Union Investment Privatfonds.  “Rosneft will in 2013 outpace  Gazprom (GAZP)  as the key Russian
borrower since the recent Eurobond deal was well managed,”
Sergey Dergachev, a portfolio manager at Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt , said by e-mail on Dec. 13. “They have issued less
than originally planned, conserving some ammunition for 2013.”  Energy Companies  Unlike Rosneft, Gazprom won’t make any “huge” bond deals
and will borrow to refinance bonds maturing in 2013 and 2014,
Dergachev said.  Gazprom sold $3.8 billion in bonds this year, leading
energy companies such as fellow gas producer OAO Novatek to
seize on near-record low borrowing costs. Oil and gas accounts
for about 50 percent of government budget revenue, while
companies in the sector account for about half the weighting of
the Micex stock index.  Rosneft said last month it has commitments for $30 billion
of loans from international banks. It plans to replace some of
the loans with bonds, according to two people with knowledge of
the deal. Dow Jones newswires reported Dec. 13 that the company
is in talks with overseas energy companies to raise as much as
$10 billion in financing for the TNK-BP purchase.  Small Premium  Should Rosneft sell Eurobonds next year, it will probably
seek to raise $1 billion to $2 billion, according to Tatiana Dneprovskaya, a fixed income analyst with UralSib Capital in
Moscow. The company’s ratio of debt to earnings before interest
taxes, depreciation and amortization is approaching 2 and is
unlikely to fall significantly in 2013, while Gazprom’s stands
at about 1, she said by phone Dec. 13.  Rosneft “is able to service its debt, but in fair pricing
it can be reflected in a small premium to Gazprom,”
Dneprovskaya said.  Rosneft and Gazprom are both rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment-grade level and
the same status as the sovereign.  Gazprom’s press service declined to comment on borrowing
before the board approves its investment program later this
week. Rosneft may raise funds by various means, Vladimir Tyulin,
spokesman for Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin , said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Offers are being received from various organizations
now,” Tyulin said. “We will pick the ones that are most
acceptable and beneficial for the company and its
shareholders.”  The ruble weakened 0.7 percent against the dollar, its
biggest decline since Oct. 23, to 30.9400 per dollar by the 7
p.m. close in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble
declining to 31.4072 per dollar in three months.  Yield Gap  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 was
little changed at 2.41 percent. The first decline in seven
sessions for domestically traded OFZ bonds due in June 2017
pushed up the yield four basis points to 6.54 percent. The yield
on Russia’s international ruble bond due in March 2018 added one
basis points to 5.74 percent.  Russia is rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings , the second-lowest
investment-grade ranking. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russian government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell three basis points to 174, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. The difference compares with 159 basis points for
debt of  Mexico  and 142 basis points for  Brazil .  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was steady at 135,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The default swaps cost
nine basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one level
lower at BBB- by Fitch. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Large Volumes  Rosneft’s decision to tap the markets with a relatively
smaller than expected inaugural bond was part of a strategy to
lock in low funding costs and match Gazprom’s curve, Apostolos Bantis, a credit analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by phone on
Dec. 13.  “There is a great chance that Rosneft will revisit the
 capital markets  early next year given the large volumes of loans
it will have to refinance over the course of the next two
years,” he said. “Rosneft is likely to take advantage of any
windows of opportunity that arise in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  