-- Rosneft Delays End of $3 Billion Lawsuit Against BP
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-12-17T14:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/rosneft-delays-end-of-3-billion-lawsuit-against-bp.html
OAO Rosneft asked a Siberian court
to wait before dropping a 100 billion-ruble ($3 billion) lawsuit
brought against  BP Plc (BP/)  by a minority shareholder in OAO TNK-BP
Holding, a unit of the Russian oil venture it’s acquiring.  Rosneft sought a two-month delay on a decision on minority
shareholder Andrey Prokhorov’s request to drop his case until
TNK-BP Holding forms its position on the withdrawal of the case,
according to a petition seen by Bloomberg News.  The next hearing was set for Jan. 24 following Rosneft’s
petition, Konstantin Lukoyanov, a lawyer representing BP, said
by phone yesterday. “BP isn’t against the delay,” he said.
“It’s not a concern.”  Prokhorov’s damages claim, filed in favor of TNK-BP
Holding, centers on an Arctic exploration alliance last year
between BP and Rosneft that failed under a challenge from AAR,
which represents the U.K. explorer’s billionaire partners in the
TNK-BP venture. This year, BP and AAR agreed to sell their
halves of the venture to state-controlled Rosneft for a combined
$55 billion, ending a fractious, almost 10-year partnership.  If Prokhorov’s case stands,  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , or TBH, is set
to receive the 100 billion rubles awarded in July, less than the
409 billion rubles the minority shareholder had sought. “The
court is obliged to ascertain TBH’s opinion on whether its
rights will be violated if the court accepts Prokhorov’s
withdrawal of his suit,” according to Rosneft’s letter.  Confirmed Request  Prokhorov’s side confirmed the request to drop the claims,
and the next hearing is scheduled for Jan. 24, Lukoyanov said.
Dmitry Chepurenko, a partner at the Liniya Prava law firm
representing Prokhorov, the holder of about 0.00001 percent of
TBH, declined to comment on the hearing. TNK-BP’s press service
declined to comment. Rosneft’s press service declined to comment
immediately.  Rosneft, which signed binding agreements in the past four
weeks to buy out BP and AAR, has said TNK-BP wasn’t a potential
partner for its Arctic exploration project. AAR last year
blocked the alliance, saying their shareholder agreement gave
TNK-BP the right to pursue new opportunities in  Russia  for BP.  BP and AAR agreed last month to drop all claims against
each other. AAR has said it’s not involved in Prokhorov’s case.  BP is selling its half of TNK-BP for $17 billion and 12.8
percent of Rosneft, while AAR agreed to sell its stake for $28
billion in cash. TBH is the venture’s traded unit and holds most
of its Russian assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  