-- Rothschild’s Souffle Joins Art Treasures in Paris Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-12-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/rothschild-s-souffle-joins-art-treasures-in-paris-show.html
“Money is the god of our time, and
Rothschild is his prophet,” wrote German poet Heinrich Heine.  While penning this bon mot, the Rothschild he had in mind
was James, head of his family banking empire’s French branch and
the subject of a charming  exhibition  at the old National Library
in Paris.  The youngest son of Frankfurt banker Mayer Amschel Rothschild, the founder of the dynasty, Jakob Rothschild, as he
was originally called, arrived in Paris in 1812. Five years
later, after the family was ennobled by Austrian emperor Franz
I, he renamed the bank “Banque MM. de Rothschild Freres,” (the
’de’ indicated nobility).  In 1818, he moved the bank’s headquarters to the townhouse
of Napoleon’s former chief of police, Joseph Fouche, on Rue
Laffitte, close to the  Paris Bourse. (CAC)   His meteoric rise began after 1830 when the “Citizen
King” Louis Philippe was crowned. His prime minister, Francois
Guizot, preached the gospel: “Enrichissez-vous” (Enrich
yourselves).  Railroad Baron  Nobody embraced this dictum more than Rothschild. He
frequently dined with the king at the Tuileries Palace and
bankrolled some of France’s biggest industrialization projects,
including the Ligne du Nord, the railroad that connected Paris
with Lille and Brussels.  The opening of the monumental Gare du Nord, the gateway to
Paris for British visitors arriving by train, was one of the
proudest moments of Rothschild’s career.  His relationship with Napoleon III, who succeeded Louis
Philippe in 1848 as president and became emperor in 1852, was
less friendly -- much to the delight of Rothschild’s competitors
who froze him out of several national projects.  Yet within a few years Le Grand Baron had become
indispensable, and the emperor’s 1862 visit to Rothschild’s
country house, the Chateau de Ferrieres, sealed his return to
favor.  One of the most impressive items in the exhibition shows
just how indispensable he had become. After the country’s defeat
in the war against Prussia in 1871, he issued a check for one
million Prussian thalers, the first instalment of war
reparations imposed on  France .  A-Listers  The emphasis of the show is on the brilliant social life of
James, who married his niece Betty. In their townhouse adjacent
to the bank, they entertained Le Tout Paris, including composers
Gioacchino Rossini, Hector Berlioz, Frederic Chopin and Franz
Liszt, as well as painters Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres and
Eugene Delacroix.  Rossini was happy to compose a “Hymn to Napoleon III” on
the occasion of the emperor’s visit to Ferrieres. Chopin
dedicated a waltz and a ballad to Rothschild’s daughter
 Charlotte , to whom he gave piano lessons.  Not the least of the reasons why Le Beau Monde flocked to
Rothschild’s dinner parties was his gifted cook Antonin Careme
who had worked at the courts of St. James and  St. Petersburg 
before coming to Rue Laffitte.  There he created the Souffle a la Rothschild, the Saumon a
la Rothschild and the Filet de Boeuf a la Rothschild, slices of
cold beef covered with foie gras and truffles and other
delicacies documented in his “L’Art de la Cuisine Francaise”
included in the exhibition.  Not everyone was in awe of the Le Grand Baron. The
exhibition includes a number of caricatures and reminds us that
he inspired one of Honore de Balzac’s less attractive characters
who appeared in 12 of his novels: Frederic de Nucingen, a
roguish banker who speaks French with a heavy German accent and
who made his fortune from a series of bogus bankruptcies.  Numerous illuminated manuscripts, paintings and sculptures,
some portraying Christian saints, evoke Rothschild the
bibliophile and art collector. Only Ingres’s portrait of Betty,
the gem of his collection, is missing from this comprehensive
exhibition.  “The Rothschilds in France in the 19th Century” runs at
the old National Library, 5 Rue Vivienne, through Feb. 10, 2013.
Information:  http://www.bnf.fr   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Mark Beech on Christmas CDs and
Elin McCoy on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 