-- Russia Plans Postal Reform That May Help EBay Speed Up Shipments
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-12-17T13:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/russia-plans-postal-reform-that-may-help-ebay-speed-up-shipments.html
Russia plans to revamp the postal
system next year to boost the country’s $10 billion Internet
commerce business and help companies including  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and
Ozon.ru to improve deliveries.  The Telecommunications Ministry plans to submit a draft
proposal to the Parliament in the first half of 2013,
spokeswoman Ekaterina Osadchaya said by phone today. The Russian
Post should improve its distribution network for e-commerce,
according to the ministry.  “The main problem with the Russian Post is its
unpredictability,” Vladimir Dolgov, head of EBay for Russia,
said in an interview. “Sometimes it delivers in decent time,
but there have been cases when deliveries from the U.S. took six
to eight weeks.”  Online stores have to spend tens of millions of dollars on
transport infrastructure as they can’t depend on regular service
from the Russian Post, according to Ozon.ru, the country’s
largest Internet retailer. The state-run service has 42,000
branches to deliver goods across the world’s largest country by
territory.  Ozon, whose revenue rose  78 percent  last year, has 2,000
parcel-collection points in Russia and  Kazakhstan  and operates
its own courier service to deliver goods to customers’ doors in
large cities including Moscow and  St. Petersburg .  Expanding E-commerce  The new law would allow Ozon.ru to get a license as a
courier operator, granting the company access to lower tariffs
and preferential treatment from the Russian Post, Mikhail
Gritsenko, head of business development at Ozon, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  EBay is seeking a logistics partner in Russia to speed up
deliveries and the  San Jose , California-based company may pick
among courier operators in the future, according to Dolgov. The
new legislation will also introduce fines for breaching delivery
deadlines, which should induce the Russian Post to work faster,
he said.  The Russian e-commerce market expanded 30 percent last year
to 309 billion rubles ($10 billion), the Moscow-based Higher
Economic School said in a study Oct. 10. That would rise tenfold
by 2015 should the share of e-commerce in  Russia  rise to the
level of the U.S., where it accounts for 10 percent of total
retail sales, Telecommunications Minister Nikolay Nikiforov said
in a statement Dec. 14.  That would require a more efficient postal infrastructure,
according to Nikiforov. The Russian Post is working with customs
service and transportation companies on speeding up deliveries,
Marina Goncharova, director for Postal Services, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  