-- Russian Industry Growth Quickens First Time in Four Months
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-12-17T14:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/russian-industry-growth-quickens-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
Russia ’s  industrial-production 
growth accelerated for the first time in four months in November
as an improvement in foreign sales boosted manufacturing in the
world’s largest energy exporter.  Output rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with
1.8 percent in October, the Federal Statistics Service said
today in an e-mailed statement. That matches the median estimate
of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Industry grew 0.6
percent from the previous month, adjusted for seasonality and
working days.  Manufacturing is fueling industry “as domestic demand
helps overcome weak global sentiment,” Vladimir Miklashevsky,
an economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki, said by e-mail.
“To grow faster, industrial output needs additional drivers --
for example, large and continuous public investments.”  Russia, the largest emerging economy to raise borrowing
costs in 2012, has managed to keep economic output near
potential, helped by business sentiment, lending growth and low
unemployment, the central bank said Dec. 10. Still, the  Economy
Ministry  cut its forecast for 2012 industrial-output growth last
week to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent, citing a worsening
external outlook.  Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  has risen 4.5 percent this
year, while the ruble has gained 3.9 percent against the dollar.  Manufacturing expanded for a 14th month in November,
marking the strongest quarterly improvement since the first
three months of 2011 after new export orders increased, HSBC
Holdings Plc said Dec. 3.  Still,  gross domestic product  advanced 2.9 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace since it
began recovering at the start of 2010, as agricultural output
and construction volumes shrank.  Electricity and gas production fell 2.6 percent from a year
earlier in November, while manufacturing grew 4 percent and
output at mines increased 0.3 percent, today’s data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  