-- SAC E-Mails Show Steve Cohen Consulted on Key Dell Trade
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-12-17T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sac-e-mails-show-steve-conen-consulted-on-key-dell-trade.html
Two days before  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was set to
report second-quarter 2008 earnings, Jon Horvath, a technology
analyst at SAC Capital Advisors LP, e-mailed his boss Michael S. Steinberg and another portfolio manager to warn that the
computer maker would miss earnings estimates.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath began the Aug. 26 message, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Steinberg, a 15-year veteran of the hedge fund founded by
billionaire Steven A. Cohen, responded: “Yes normally we would
never divulge data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.”  The e-mails indicate Steinberg, the longest-serving SAC
employee linked to the U.S. insider-trading probe, discussed the
Dell trade with Cohen. While neither has been accused of any
wrongdoing, the messages were admitted as evidence at the New
York insider-trading trial of two hedge-fund managers last week
after a judge ruled they supported prosecutor claims that
Steinberg should be considered an unindicted co-conspirator.  Last month, Cohen, 56, was directly linked to a trade at
the center of another insider prosecution, which the government
described as the “most lucrative” ever uncovered. SAC, which
is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and manages $14 billion, was
told by the Securities and Exchange Commission that the agency
is considering pursuing civil fraud claims related to alleged
insider trading by former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma,
who traded stocks of two drug makers.  SAC Investigations  The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the SEC are also
probing trades that SAC Capital made in shares of InterMune
Inc., a Brisbane, California-based biopharmaceutical company,
and Weight Watchers International Inc., a person familiar with
the matter said earlier this month.  Steinberg, 40, worked at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management
unit and was one of 15 portfolio managers handling technology,
media and telecommunications stocks before he was placed on
leave in September.  Horvath was scheduled to go on trial with the two fund
managers, who were convicted today in  Manhattan  federal court.
Instead, he pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
September related to the Dell trade and said he had passed
confidential information to his portfolio manager, who, he said,
traded on the tips.  While Horvath didn’t name Steinberg as part of his plea,
prosecutors alleged during the recent trial that Steinberg
received the information and traded on the tips.  Swapped, Funneled  The government said that Horvath was part of a group of
friends who were analysts at hedge funds who swapped nonpublic
information from company insiders funneled to them from Jesse Tortora, an analyst at Diamondback Capital Management LLC.  The messages exchanged among Horvath, Steinberg and another
SAC portfolio manager, Gabe Plotkin, show that Steinberg
consulted with Cohen about the August 2008 Dell trade.  “Guys, I was talking to Steve about Dell earlier today and
he asked me to get the two of you to compare notes before the
print, as we are on opposite sides of this one,” Steinberg
wrote to Horvath and Plotkin.  Plotkin, who hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, is one of
10 portfolio managers at Sigma focusing on consumer stocks. He
joined SAC in 2006 and is among the firm’s top portfolio
managers, overseeing more than $1 billion, according to a person
with knowledge of the firm.  Missed Projections  On Aug. 28, 2008, Dell’s earnings missed analysts’
projections, sending its stock down 14 percent the next day, the
most in almost eight years. Prosecutors said Steinberg shorted
Dell securities based on Horvath’s information, earning the
hedge fund about $1 million.  The e-mails were made public as part of the month-long
trial of Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson
and former Diamondback Capital fund manager Todd Newman. Both
were convicted of reaping more than $70 million on trades based
on illicit tips. They face as long as 20 years in prison at
sentencing.  The e-mails don’t show if Steinberg relayed the insider
information on Dell to Cohen, or that Cohen or Plotkin ever
traded on Horvath’s information or knew it was confidential, a
requirement for any insider trading allegation.  The e-mails are just an example of the vast array of
evidence that the FBI has amassed against hedge funds, including
SAC, in the government’s five-year crackdown on insider trading.
Since the law enforcement initiative began, at least six current
or former SAC employees have been tied to allegations of insider
trading. Three have pleaded guilty to federal charges.  Cohen’s Link  Last month, for the first time, Cohen was connected to
transactions at the center of an insider-trading case, when
Martoma, the ex-SAC portfolio manager, was charged with trading
shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC based on inside information.
Prosecutors said Martoma shared his information with the hedge-
fund owner, Cohen, who then traded on it.  Jonathan Gasthalter said last month that Cohen and SAC are
confident they acted appropriately and will continue to
cooperate with the government’s inquiry. He declined last week
to comment on the Dell e-mails.  Steinberg joined SAC in 1997, at the age of 25 when the
firm was a collection of about 50 employees managing mostly the
founder’s own money. He was part of a group that socialized with
Cohen, taking vacations in places like the Bahamas, going to
basketball games and to parties at Cohen’s mansion, according to
a person with knowledge of the firm.  Wedding Guest  One of Steinberg’s colleagues was Richard Choo-Beng Lee,
who worked at SAC from 1999 to 2004. Lee was among those charged
in November 2009 with insider trading at another firm, the first
time a former SAC employee was tied to the government’s probe.
He pleaded guilty and cooperated with the government’s Galleon
Group LLC hedge fund insider-trading case.  Noah Freeman, another former SAC fund manager who pleaded
guilty and is cooperating, testified last year that he had
committed insider trading while at SAC. He has since provided
information to federal authorities on more than a dozen people
he said he knew were committing securities fraud related to
technology stocks.  Steinberg grew up in Great Neck, Long Island, and graduated
in 1994 from the University of Wisconsin in Madison with a
degree in philosophy and history, the university said. According
to a New York Times announcement, he married Elizabeth Sims in
1999 in New York. Cohen was a guest at the wedding, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  A ‘Mensch’  Friends and former colleagues said Steinberg is amicable
and well-liked. One friend, who asked not to be identified
because he didn’t want to publicly discuss his friendship,
described him as a “mensch,” a Yiddish term for an honorable
and decent person.  Together with three other hedge-fund managers, he started
Natan, a network of young philanthropists who  hold  events to
promote Jewish culture and  Israel , according to its website. He
lives in Manhattan in a Park Avenue apartment, which he bought
for $8 million in 2009, according to Streeteasy.com.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over
Newman and Chiasson’s case, ruled on Dec. 6 that Steinberg was
an uncharged conspirator in Horvath’s insider-trading scheme.
Steinberg’s lawyer, Barry Berke, declined to comment on the e-
mails or the judge’s ruling.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps argued the SAC e-mails
were relevant because they showed Steinberg was aware Horvath
had a source inside Dell who had previously provided “very
good” data on the computer maker.  Final Information  She said the SAC messages show that in the days before
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell’s scheduled earnings release,
Horvath had obtained final information that the company would
miss Wall Street estimates.  The e-mails indicate Horvath obtained insider information
through a friend, described in the messages as “JT.”  Prosecutors said during the insider trading trial of
Chiasson and Newman that JT is a reference toTortora, who
worked as a technology analyst for Newman. Tortora testified
during the trial that he obtained inside information from Dell
through a friend and shared it with Horvath and others. Tortora
has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the U.S.  “This e-mail is sensitive information and then two minutes
later, Mr. Steinberg trades consistent with the information,”
Apps told Sullivan at a hearing on the e-mails. “Steinberg
fully understands that this is from somebody inside the
company.”  Company Insiders  Prosecutors also showed the jury e-mails in which Tortora
passed information from company insiders on to his group, who in
turn shared it with their fund managers, including Steinberg.  Newman’s lawyer, Steve Fishbein, argued Horvath’s statement
“someone at the company” was a reference to Dell investor
relations. He said the stated warning in the e-mail to keep the
matter “down low” was an effort by fund managers to keep
proprietary trading information from leaking out.  “It makes common sense that when traders have legitimate
ideas that they have developed through modeling or through
whatever, totally legitimate, they do not share with other hedge
funds,” Fishbein said. “It’s not that it means something
improper.”  The judge ruled weighing the preponderance of evidence,
which is a legal standard lower than that needed for a
conviction, that Steinberg was conspiring with Horvath.  “It doesn’t look good” for Steinberg, Sullivan said,
after reading the e-mail aloud. “It seems to me that the
logical inference is that Steinberg knows exactly what’s going
on,” the judge said. “Why would you need to keep statements
from IR on the ‘down low’?”  Comparing Notes  Fishbein argued the e-mails showed fund managers were
comparing notes about Dell and consulted Plotkin because they
were unsure.  “Comparing notes is not in furtherance of the
conspiracy,” the judge replied. “But having compared notes and
having divulged the source of the information on gross margin,
and then telling the other person who is on the other side, ‘By
the way, don’t tell anybody about this, be discreet,’ that seems
to me in furtherance of the conspiracy.”  The e-mail case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York
at   kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York
at   skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 