-- Sacks Recalls Acid Trips, Slams Harvard Neurosurgeon
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sacks-recalls-acid-trips-slams-harvard-neurosurgeon.html
When Oliver Sacks got stoned on
Artane as a young doctor, he had an animated conversation with a
philosophical spider who sounded like Bertrand Russell.  A drug cocktail containing LSD gave him a rapturous
experience of indigo -- the color of heaven.  As a neurologist, Sacks was fascinated by these altered
states, and his latest work, “Hallucinations,” takes a closer
look at how the brain manifests something that’s not there.  The author of a dozen books, including “Awakenings” and
“The Man Who Mistook His Wife for A Hat,” Sacks at 79 still sees
some patients, teaches and writes.  We spoke in his Greenwich Village studio, among Bach
scores, personal photographs and scientific specimens.  Lundborg: What is a hallucination?  Sacks: A hallucination is a sudden detailed specific
sensation -- a sight, a sound, a smell or touch -- which is
projected outside and seems absolutely real. The fact is there
is no object there.  It seems so real and out there because the areas of the
brain which are normally employed in perception are being
redeployed for hallucination.  Lundborg: Why do we stigmatize it?  Sacks: Since the 1830s hallucination has had a strong
medical connotation. In the medical and public eye it’s often
seen as synonymous with schizophrenia, perhaps with dementia or
brain damage, but something rather bad.  Hearing Voices  Lundborg: I was surprised by the results of that clever
study “On Being Sane in Insane Places.” Merely saying they had
heard voices was enough to get normal people institutionalized
and medicated.  Sacks: I love the way they were spotted only by the real
patients, who kept asking if they were journalists or
professors.  Lundborg: You tell the story of an athlete who felt he’d
been abducted by aliens traveling in a large craft with bright
lights.  We had an alien craze for a while but it seems to have died
down. Are hallucinations faddish?  Angels Redux  Sacks: Culture and personal life will influence the
hallucinations. Aliens have gone out a bit but maybe angels are
back.  Lundborg: I recall the controversy stirred up by  Harvard
Medical School  professor  John Mack  when he started studying
alien abductions.  Sacks: Actually, I’ve been outraged by another Harvard man
--  Eben Alexander , the neurosurgeon who says he’s traveled to
the afterlife in heaven while in a deep coma.  To argue that the nervous system is not needed in such an
experience, that he’s not mediating it, rather that it’s infused
directly into the spirit by the spirit is anti-scientific and
specious.  I feel there is a disrespect of nature and the nervous
system. For me there can be no experience without the brain.
That is so fundamental.  Lundborg: You say hallucinations have always played a role
in religion and that many beliefs originated in hallucination.  Hallucinated Religions  Sacks: Certainly voices and visions were expected from
religious leaders, from the burning bush to  Joseph Smith .  In fact I’m writing an essay trying to define more clearly
some of my thoughts about religion and hallucination. I’ve
called it for the moment “Seeing God in the Third Millennium.”  Lundborg: What response did you get to the New Yorker piece
describing your mind-altering experiences with drugs?  Sacks: It hasn’t upset people as much as I thought. It has
interested many people. Quite specifically, I had a large number
of letters, to say nothing of books and CDs, about indigo.  Lundborg: Do you have a favorite hallucinogen?  Sacks: I haven’t taken anything for years. I actually
preferred mescaline to LSD because I found it more richly
perceptual and less prone to mess the mind up.  Taking mescaline in a physically lovely place can be
revelatory of the beauty of the world.  Drug War  Lundborg: What do you make of the war on drugs?  Sacks: It was unfortunate not least because this had the
side effect of stopping all genuine research.  I certainly think people should take these things, if they
take them, in a responsible way, which I did not.  On the other hand, let me say strongly that amphetamines
are terribly dangerous and terribly easy to make. These should
somehow be reined in. They’re more dangerous than morphine or
cocaine.  Lundborg: Reading your books makes me feel that it’s
amazing people are as sane as they are -- we’re so delicately
balanced and so much can go wrong.  Sacks: Doris Lessing said that after she read “Awakenings”
-- that it shows what a knife-edge we live on.  It’s true anything can happen at any moment, but we’re on a
fairly broad base and fairly resilient.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Peter Rainer 
on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 