-- Saudi Arabia Enlists Boeing in Push to Create New Jobs
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-18T09:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/saudis-enlist-boeing-in-jobs-push-that-may-raise-business-costs.html
Yazid al-Shammari has ambitions to
land a job at  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  when he finishes a
two-year vocational training course. Asked what he expects as a
starting salary, he names a figure that’s many times what
foreign workers doing similar jobs earn now.  “I want to earn 10,000 riyals ($2,700) a month with my
diploma,” the 21-year-old said, as he attended lessons with a
crowd of fellow students at the  Higher Institute for Plastics
Fabrications  in Riyadh. “The training will help me get a job
where I want.”  Al-Shammari and his friends represent a challenge for  King Abdullah . The 89-year-old monarch unveiled a $130 billion
stimulus plan last year to create jobs for Saudis, and tightened
rules on the expatriate workers most businesses depend on. The
aim is to ensure that the world’s biggest oil exporter, where
about a quarter of citizens aged between 20 and 30 don’t have
jobs, remains unscathed by the political unrest that has swept
other Arab countries with high youth unemployment.  Boeing Co. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are joining a government
plan to train young Saudis. The biggest obstacle is that foreign
workers are cheaper and in abundant supply: there are more than
8 million in the kingdom. The share of Saudi citizens in the
private workforce ranges between 2 and 10 percent, according to
government figures.  Wage Gap  To shift the balance, the government imposed an annual fee
of 2,400 riyals per expat employee on companies whose workforce
is more than half foreign. That should encourage Saudi companies
to end the “culture of importing cheap labor,” Deputy Labor
Minister Moufarrej al-Haqbani said last month.  Still, the gap between Saudi pay expectations and market
wages for foreigners is so large that many employers may prefer
to pay the fee rather than hire locally.  “Most big companies will treat it like a tax,” said James Reeve, an economist at Riyadh-based  Samba Financial Group. (SAMBA) 
“They would just say, this is the price you pay for working in
 Saudi Arabia . In that sense it isn’t really an incentive to
hire.”  Higher salaries available for government work and
unemployment benefits of 2,000 riyals a month are also
disincentives for Saudis to “switch to private sector
employment,” he said.  Local businessmen have  challenged  the fees for foreign
employees, saying it will drive up costs. After its
introduction, the  Saudi stock benchmark  dropped to a 10-month
low. It’s up about 7 percent this year, less than half the gain
on the  main Dubai index .  Dropout Rate  Khaled al-Ghefaili, executive director of the institute
where al-Shammari is studying, says the government expects
salaries for his graduates to be at least 4,000 riyals,
sometimes rising to 6,000 riyals. That’s a problem in an
industry which “unfortunately is based on expatriates,” he
said, citing a typical worker with 15 years of experience
earning 800 riyals a month.  The institute offers English and engineering classes and a
course on work ethics. It counters non-attenders by making them
pay for make-up classes, and monitors the performance of
graduates by visiting their employers after six months. The
drop-out rate “is maybe 45 percent,” falling to 25 percent
among those who complete the first semester, al-Ghefaili said.  Ali al-Ghafis , head of the  Technical and Vocational
Training Corporation , says his program includes special colleges
for women, with 19 already open and a target of 40 in the next
three years. He says popular programs at the women’s institutes
include beauty, fashion design, computer skills and accounting.  Industrial Response  “We will reduce the number of expat workers and substitute
them with Saudis,” he said. “The response from the industrial
field is very high.”  Boeing Co. (BA)  plans to build a 1,000-person aviation training
facility., “We project exponential growth in demand for airline
pilots and maintenance technicians,” Ahmed Jazzar, president of
Boeing Saudi Arabia, said in response to e-mailed questions.
General Motors Co. is participating in a similar program with a
capacity of 200.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., or Aramco, is a sponsor of the 2,500
capacity National Industrial Training Institute in  Al-Ahsa. (AADC) 
 Jabal Omar Development Co. (JOMAR) , a property company whose  shares  are
up more than 50 percent this year, will help train 8,000 Saudis
in hospitality and tourism, according to the training
corporation.  ‘Deeper Weakness’  Fifteen Saudis finished a training program run by  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food supplier, the Vevey, Switzerland-
based company said at a news conference yesterday in  Riyadh . The
program trains Saudis “with the objective to offer career
opportunities,” the company said.  Those numbers compare with a Saudi  population  of 28.4
million that is growing at 2.9 percent a year. About 70 percent
are aged 30 or below. While the $600 billion economy is forecast
to expand 5.1 percent this year, growth based on rising oil
prices doesn’t always translate into jobs for Saudis.  To create more of them, the government will have to address
“a much deeper weakness in the basic skills that underlie
technical education, said Crispin Hawes, an analyst at the New
York-based Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk. He
recalls Saudi pledges to expand the native workforce dating back
to the mid-1980s.  ‘‘They’re essentially trying to rush to catch up to where
they should have been,’’ Hawes said. ‘‘Abdullah has gotten much
more serious about addressing employment problems, but it can’t
be done overnight.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  