-- Sex Offenders Say California Law Infringes Free Speech
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sex-offenders-say-california-law-infringes-free-speech.html
California  sex offenders shouldn’t
have to turn over their Twitter, Facebook or e-mail account
information to police because they have a right to anonymous
online speech, privacy advocates are set to tell a judge.  American Civil Liberties Union lawyers are seeking to keep
a voter-approved law targeting human trafficking and sex
exploitation from taking effect while they proceed with a
lawsuit aimed at overturning portions of it. California law
enforcement officials say tracking Internet communications can
prevent offenders from preying on children.  “Possession of this information may provide enough of a
head start to save a victim’s life,” California Deputy Attorney
General Robert Wilson said in a court filing in federal court in
San Francisco.  “Having Internet identifying information,
however, does not permit access to, or monitoring of, private
communications.”  Proposition 35, approved by more than 80 percent of
California voters last month and backed by former  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
executive Chris Kelly, was set to take effect next year. It was
put on hold by U.S. District Judge Thelton Henderson when the
ACLU sued the day after the measure passed. The ACLU is
scheduled to ask Henderson today to keep an injunction in place
while the case is being decided.  The measure increases prison terms for sex offenders and
increases reporting requirements for them. Registered sex
offenders in California would be required under the law to
report to law enforcement all Internet identifiers and Internet
service providers they use. Registrants also would have to
provide in writing any changes or additions to their Internet
accounts and screen names.  Speech Limits  Anonymous speech on the Internet can be restricted when the
state has an important interest in doing so and the limitations
are narrowly tailored, lawyers for the state said in court
filings.  The ACLU said the new rules let police investigate
offenders even if there’s no crime committed. The law is so
broad that law enforcement officers can snoop into online
communications and require offenders to turn over login
information for bank accounts. The group, and the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, sued on behalf of sex offenders.  Sex offenders are already required to fill out a form after
release from prison or parole reporting where they intend to
live. Offenders must also register with the police department
near their home and update the information every 30 days if they
move. They must also report any name changes.  Fingerprints, Photographs  Prior to Proposition 35, sex offenders also had to supply
the name and address of employers, fingerprints and a current
photograph and license plate number. Starting last year, the
California Justice Department’s registration form included
fields to report e-mail addresses and screen names and social
networks used.  Police are allowed to access the computer system that
stores the information, and Internet identifying information is
currently only available to the Justice Department.  The case is Doe v. Harris, 12-05713, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  