-- Shanghai Teen Barred From School Fights Policy Hurting Millions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/shanghai-teen-barred-from-school-fights-policy-hurting-millions.html
A 15-year-old girl’s wish to go to
school in  Shanghai  has landed her  father in jail  and sparked a
national debate over a national-registration policy that
deprives millions of Chinese of basic rights.  Zhan Haite’s parents left their home in Jiangxi in 1994,
first for Zhuhai in the south, and later headed northeast to
Shanghai, in 2002. Under a system imposed by Chairman  Mao
Zedong , they’re still registered in Jiangxi, and can’t
automatically get benefits such as  social security  and access to
local schools for their three children anywhere else. After
attending primary and junior schools in Shanghai, Zhan was
rejected from high school.  The family is among millions of migrants trying to put down
roots in the cities where they work, and the case is receiving
national media coverage with the photogenic teenager’s outspoken
description of her situation. Zhan said in an interview that “I
have the right to a free education, but now that freedom is
being deprived to me. Naturally, I am going to fight for it.”  Incoming Premier Li Keqiang has championed urbanization as
a “huge engine” for growth, in an economy forecast to expand
the least  since 1999  this year. As he and Communist Party
General Secretary Xi Jinping lay out their vision, they may
consider the strictures of the “hukou” system, which inhibits
poor peasants from moving to cities and limits migrants from
getting healthcare and education.  Growth Bump  “If they don’t tackle these things then they can’t squeeze
out all the productivity gains that would be possible,” said
Yukon Huang, a former country director for  China  at the  World
Bank  and now a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace’s Asia Program in  Washington . Ending the
hukou system “would probably increase growth by half a
percentage point a year,” he said.  After Zhan Haite was told China’s internal passport system
blocked her from attending the school she wanted, she protested
online and in public, triggering a reaction that included the
landlord ordering her family to move.  The Shanghai Education Bureau didn’t respond to a faxed
request for comment last week.  The hukou registration program started in 1958, and was
designed to bind farmers to their land. Large cities such as
Shanghai, Beijing and Chongqing have a strict quota each year on
the number of people who are allowed to become local residents.  Denied Benefits  Attaining a local hukou may depend on a person getting
sponsored by a state-owned company or reaching a certain level
of education. Without the pass, people can be denied everything
from discounted city park tickets to subsidized health care.  As many as 300 million people will move from the
countryside by 2030, to join 600 million already living in
cities, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development estimates. Almost 10 million people live in
Shanghai without a local hukou -- more than 40 percent of the
city’s population -- Huang Hong, chairman of the Shanghai
Municipal Population and Family Planning Commission, said in a
Dec. 11 post on the local government website.  The hukou may also be used to coerce people into doing what
the government wants. In  Henan province , officials seeking to
enforce China’s one-child policy forced women to get
contraceptive implants before they were allowed hukous for their
newborns,  China Central Television reported  this month. Many
rural families are larger, due to exceptions to the rule or
because parents choose to pay a fine for having more children.  Settling Down  Overhauling the system would help expand a consumer class
as migrants to cities settle there, buying homes and household
goods rather than sending money home, said  Kam Wing Chan , a
professor at the University of Washington in  Seattle  who has
consulted for the World Bank on the hukou system. That would
help shift  China’s economy  from one driven by exports to one
based more on consumer demand, he said.  “A lot of them are saving up to build a house back in the
countryside,” Chan said. “They are coming to work, they are
not really spending, and the system prevents them from moving up
because a lot of opportunities are not opening to them.”  Zhan said she decided to go public after officials “kicked
the case to each other like a ball.” Her story has been widely
publicized in state media, a signal that party leaders may be
willing to unwind the hukou system.  At the Communist Party Congress last month, President Hu Jintao said China must “keep making progress in ensuring that
all the people enjoy their rights to education, employment,
medical and old-age care and housing.”  Li’s Push  Two weeks later,  Li Keqiang , now No. 2 on the Communist
Party’s seven-man Politburo Standing Committee unveiled last
month, asked the World Bank to help conduct a study on
urbanization to deal with worker migration.  China Central Television , the state broadcaster, aired a
story earlier this month about Zhan’s protest, sending a signal
to the country’s 1.3 billion people that the government may be
preparing to tackle the hukou issue.  “Certainly this was not an accidental thing,” said Willy
Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of  Hong Kong . “It’s a case of the top leadership
using the media to get support from the general public and also
to put pressure on these provincial leaders who are opposed to
hukou reform.”  Inequality between China’s rural residents and its city-
dwellers has led to a wealth gap that’s now 50 percent higher
than the minimum level that can trigger social unrest, according
to a survey by the Survey and Research Center for China
Household Finance. Xi Jinping pledged to tackle the gap after he
was named Communist Party general secretary in November.  Government Finances  Overhauling the hukou system would require changes to local
government finances, said the  University of Washington ’s Chan.
The central government distributes money to local authorities
based on the number of registered residents they have.  Zhan’s family got into trouble with the authorities once
she took her appeal public and organized a demonstration. On
Dec. 8, Zhan, her father and other families with children facing
the same situation went to People’s Square in Shanghai and
unfurled a banner that read “Love the motherland, love
children.”  Her father, Zhan Quanxi, who installs phones for companies
in the city, was detained for allegedly scratching a police
officer, and her account was suspended on Weibo, China’s
equivalent of Twitter. Her father was released from detention
last week after his charge was downgraded.  Demanding Rights  In an interview at the undecorated, two-bedroom apartment
that her family rents, Zhan said her landlord broke their lease
and is forcing them to move out within two months. Her mother,
Liu Xinhua, looked after Zhan’s younger brother and sister as
she listened to her daughter.  “She knows much more than me,” said Liu, who wrote to
Premier  Wen Jiabao  and President  Hu Jintao  at her daughter’s
request. “Haite did everything herself to demand her rights.”  Zhan said her family will fight to remain in Shanghai. The
English-language  China Daily  published a commentary she wrote in
which she said “all children should have the same right to an
education.” She’s now studying English by reading books such as
President  Barack Obama ’s “Dreams From My Father.”  Zhan said she no longer looks at her  Weibo account , where
she’s been criticized by  Internet users  who say she ought to
return to Jiangxi instead of trying to study in Shanghai. One
user called her “too greedy” and said her family were
“locusts.”  “They don’t understand that I am just doing this to
protect my rights,” Zhan said. “They will understand me when
they realize they’re living shackled in cages, just like me.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  