-- Singapore Concludes EU Free-Trade Talks as Exports Fall
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-12-17T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/singapore-s-exports-unexpectedly-fell-on-slump-in-electronics.html
Singapore  concluded negotiations on
a free-trade agreement with the European Union, boosting efforts
to deepen access to overseas markets as a global economic
slowdown hurts exports from the island nation.  The government said yesterday that talks on the EU trade
accord had concluded after almost three years, with the European
bloc agreeing to eliminate tariffs on all imports from Singapore
over five years. The island will allow duty-free access for all
incoming shipments from the region immediately, the city’s
Ministry of Trade and Industry said in a statement.  European and Asian leaders last month called for unfettered
commerce and warned against protectionism as the sovereign-debt
crisis threatens to undermine trade ties. Singapore’s exports
unexpectedly fell for the third time in four months in November
as electronics shipments slumped and sales to the U.S. and
 Europe  faltered.  “We shouldn’t underestimate the importance of Europe, even
though we’re saying they’re going to have a low-growth
environment,” said Timothy Riddell, the Singapore-based head of
global markets research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  “If Singapore can operate on the back of that large demand
for Asian products, then it’s going to be a positive for
Singapore.”  Exports Drop  Trade in goods between the EU and Singapore was valued at
S$106 billion ($87 billion) in 2011, the Singapore Trade
Ministry said. The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
executive arm in Brussels, puts that  figure  at 46 billion euros
($61 billion) last year.  “We can be very satisfied about the outcome of the
negotiations,” EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht told
reporters today in Brussels. “It’s good news for businesses in
both locations.”  De Gucht said that because Singapore has relatively few
 import duties , one of the EU’s prime goals was to remove non-
tariff barriers in the country.  “There we really have made a breakthrough,” he said. “We
went much further than anybody else before in trade relations
with Singapore.”  The commission also highlighted the planned opening of
services markets, saying in a  statement  that both sides will
undertake “far-reaching liberalization” in this area. The
commission said the EU obtained “valuable new commitments”
from Singapore in the telecommunications, environmental-
services, engineering, postal, maritime-transport and computer-
services industries.  Banking Services  In financial services, the commission said the EU received
commitments that are “at least on a par” with what the U.S.
obtained in its free-trade agreement with Singapore.  In Europe, the EU-Singapore accord still needs the approval
of the bloc’s national governments and the European Parliament.  Foreign direct investment by the EU into  Southeast Asia  was
192 billion euros in 2011, according to the European Chamber of
Commerce in the city state. Trade between the two regions has
increased 27 percent since 2006 to 161.6 billion euros in 2011,
according to the group.  Singapore’s non-oil domestic  exports  fell 2.5 percent from
a year earlier in November, the trade promotion agency said in a
statement today. The median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  was for a 1.7 percent increase. Sales to the U.S. fell
and shipments to Europe grew 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
slowing from an 8.9 percent pace in October.  Forecasts Cut  The Southeast Asian nation lowered its 2012 forecasts for
export growth and economic expansion last month, as the global
slowdown weighs on demand for its goods and services. A report
last week showed U.S. companies are keeping inventories lean
amid concern a recovery could stall if the country fails to
avert a package of government spending cuts and tax increases
set to take effect next year.  “They’re disappointing,” Riddell said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television, referring to the export numbers. “The
demand for electronic goods for the Christmas season and
especially in the U.S. has been dropping away a little bit
faster than we’ve been looking for,” he said, adding that the
strong  Singapore dollar  “may be impeding the export profile for
the country.”  Electronics Exports  Electronics shipments  by companies such as Venture Corp.
fell 16.5 percent in November from a year earlier, after
slipping 0.8 percent the previous month, according to the
report. The Singapore dollar has risen 7 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months, the second-best performance
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We expect electronics exports to underperform in 2013,”
Chester Liaw, a Singapore-based economist at Forecast Pte, said
before the report. “We only expect a 2 percent rise in non-oil
domestic exports over 2013, and that’s coming on the back of a
series of low base effects in electronics.”  The conclusion of a trade deal with Europe may help
Singapore as it puts the island ahead of some counterparts in
 Asia . The EU has seen talks lag with  India  and Southeast Asian
countries since 2007. Negotiations with Singapore began in March
2010.  Singapore’s Trade Ministry forecasts exports will rise 2
percent to 3 percent in 2012 and as much as 4 percent next year.  “Singapore exporters of electronics, pharmaceuticals,
chemicals and processed food products in particular will benefit
from the removal of the EU’s tariffs,” the ministry said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  