-- Singapore November Home Sales Decline to Lowest in 11 Months
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-12-17T05:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/singapore-november-home-sales-decline-to-lowest-in-11-months.html
Singapore home sales fell 44 percent
in November from October, the lowest in 11 months, as developers
slowed project sales ahead of the holiday season.  Home sales last month slid to 1,087 units from 1,948 units
in October, according to data released by the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  today. Singapore  home prices  reached a
record high in the third quarter amid low  interest rates ,
raising concerns of a housing bubble.  “November and December are traditionally slow months
because of the holiday season,” David Neubronner, head of Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc.’s Singapore residential business, said in a
phone interview today. “Developers have slowed sales and we
haven’t seen many launches.”  The  property market  may get “bubbly” even with slow
growth and the government won’t allow prices to outstrip gains
in incomes, Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said Oct. 9.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore told banks on Oct. 5 to
restrict home-loan maturities “to curb continued upward
pressure on residential property prices,” in its latest attempt
to avert a housing bubble.  November home sales declined 36 percent from a year earlier,
according to data from the government agency. Private home sales
next year may drop to 16,000 units from 22,000 units this year,
Neubronner said last month.  More Sites  Singapore is seeking to sell land to add as many as 14,000
new homes in the first half of 2013 as the government moves to
prevent excessive gains in  home prices . The government will sell
12 private residential sites in the first half that could yield
6,900 apartments, and may sell a further 19 sites where
developers could build 7,100 units, the Ministry of National
Development said in a statement on Dec. 14.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  The government in December last year imposed an additional
stamp duty on foreigners and corporations buying property, and
additional levies on permanent residents buying a second home
and citizens purchasing a third residential property.  Home sales reached 17,900 units in the first nine months
this year, according to government data. Neubronner estimates
about 20 percent were so-called shoebox units, or homes smaller
than 50 square meters (538 square feet) in size.  The government in September said it plans to cap the number
of shoebox apartments that can be developed in suburban projects
as it seeks to curb the increasing trend of smaller homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  