-- Slovenia Overhaul Hampered by Referendums: Standard Bank
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-17T12:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/slovenia-overhaul-hampered-by-referendums-standard-bank.html
Slovenia’s efforts to overhaul the
economy are being scuppered by referendums that may result in a
credit rating downgrade as the euro-region nation struggles with
a banking crisis,  Standard Bank  Group Ltd said.  “Successive governments have laid out reform plans but
approval of legislation is complicated by the low hurdle set for
holding referendums which have stalled previous attempts at
pension reform and threaten current planned legislation to
address plans for banking sector reform,” Timothy Ash, an
 emerging markets  economist at  Standard Bank (SBK) , said in a note to
clients today. “The trend deterioration in public sector debt
ratios suggests downward pressure on ratings.”  Slovenian trade unions and opposition leaders have filed
several referendum motions including one on the plan to
stabilize the country’s banking industry which is grappling with
rising bad loans. State-owned banks need fresh capital of as
much as 12 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, Ash
said.  The European Union is anxious that a political stalemate in
the Adriatic nation may block measures by the government of
Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  to overhaul the economy and help
avert an international bailout, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
said in a Dec. 6 interview.  Standard & Poor’s  put Slovenia’s rating on credit watch
negative last month as referendum threats emerged, saying delays
in the economic overhaul may harm investors confidence and could
increase the nation’s financing costs.  Yields   The $2.25 billion notes sold in October and maturing in
2022 rallied today, with the yield dropping 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point to 5.392 percent at 12:51 p.m. in
Ljubljana, the capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield surged to 5.78 percent on Nov. 15 as the vote threat
surfaced.  “Slovenian sovereign Euro-bonds, appear cheap on their
regional peers - trading wide of Spain, Italy, Hungary and
 Croatia , which appears unjustified in our view,” Ash said in
today’s report. “Slovenia has real economic challenges, but we
estimate that these are manageable still with political will and
consensus to enact meaningful reforms.”  The country’s export-driven economy is in its second
recession in three years on a domestic consumption slump and a
weak demand in Europe. GDP will probably only recover in 2014,
according to the European Commission forecast.  Bad Bank  Lawmakers in Ljubljana passed legislation to create a so-
called bad bank that would take out bad loans from banks such as
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka (KBMR)  Maribor d.d.
in exchange for government-guaranteed bonds of as much as 4
billion euros ($5.3 billion) that will probably be eligible for
further financing with the  European Central Bank , Finance
Minister Sustersic has said.  The government has asked the  Constitutional Court  to
prevent the votes with the ruling expected later this month,
according to Sustersic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  