-- Smith & Wesson Declines Amid Speculation Over Gun Control
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-18T00:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/smith-wesson-declines-amid-talks-over-gun-control.html
Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  led a
decline in stocks of firearms makers amid speculation President
 Barack Obama  will renew a ban on assault weapons following last
week’s elementary school shooting that left 20 children dead.  Smith & Wesson  dropped  5.2 percent to $8.66 at the close in
New York, extending its slide to 9.3 percent over two days after
the Dec. 14 massacre.  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR)  has fallen 7.8 percent
during the period, while  Cabela’s Inc. (CAB) , an outdoor-gear retailer
that sells guns and ammunition, slumped 7.3 percent.  The killings by a gunman armed with two pistols and a semi-
automatic rifle reignited a debate over firearms restrictions.
Obama pledged yesterday to use “whatever power” he holds to
prevent such crimes, while Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia
Democrat backed by the National Rifle Association, said it would
be “wrong” to take gun limitations off the table.  “Every time one of these tragic events occurs, there’s
certainly a flurry of discussion over whether or not the
government may tighten gun-control legislation,”  Rommel Dionisio , a Wedbush Inc. analyst, said by telephone. Last week’s
slayings may be viewed differently because of “the use of what
can be considered an assault rifle and certainly the number of
children, and the fact that it was very young children.”  Obama “intends to get the ball rolling,” said Dionisio,
who is based in New York and rates Smith & Wesson stock neutral.  Firearm Focus  Authorities found a Bushmaster .223-caliber semi-automatic
rifle inside the Newtown, Connecticut, school after the
massacre, State Police Lieutenant Paul Vance said yesterday.
Bushmaster is one of the brands of Freedom Group, which is the
largest U.S. maker of civilian arms and is owned by private-
equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Smith & Wesson and Strum Ruger sell similar military-style
weapons, according to their websites.  Firearms accounted for 96 percent of fiscal 2012  revenue  at
Smith & Wesson, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock of the Springfield, Massachusetts-based company has almost
doubled this year, while Southport, Connecticut-based Sturm
Ruger has gained 31.5 percent to $44. Both make handguns as well
as rifles that include semi-automatic models.  Retailer Declines  Cabela’s dropped 6.2 percent to $41.21 today. That pared
the year-to-date gain for the Sidney, Nebraska-based retailer to
62 percent.  Representatives from Smith & Wesson, Sturm Ruger, Cabela’s
and National Shooting Sports Foundation, a firearms-industry
trade group, didn’t immediately return phone messages seeking
comment. Phone and e-mail messages to  Peter Duda , a spokesman
for Cerberus at Weber Shandwick, went unanswered.  The massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School was the
second-biggest fatal mass shooting in the U.S. as the gunman
killed the children, age 6 and 7, as well as six adults.
Manchin, the NRA-backed senator, said the nation needed to
consider gun control measures following the crime.  “Everything should be on the table,” Manchin, who had
just returned from deer hunting with his family, said today in
an interview on  MSNBC . “We need to sit down and have a common-
sense discussion and move in a reasonable way.”  During the Oct. 16 presidential debate, Obama broached the
idea of renewing an assault-weapons ban that lapsed in 2004, 10
years after being championed by President Bill Clinton. Senator
Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who sponsored the
original bill, said yesterday she will introduce legislation
outlawing assault weapons on the first day of the new Congress
in January.  1994 Ban  The 1994 ban included 19 semi-automatic military-style
weapons and also prohibited the manufacture and sale of
magazines that can hold more than 10 rounds.  A similar ban would have a “noticeable impact” on
companies like Smith & Wesson and Sturm Ruger, said Dionisio,
the Wedbush analyst.  “Up until the actual date that the law took effect, people
would be flooding into stores to purchase a certain type of
firearm,” he said. “But then of course, it would be banned.”  A reinstatement of the 1994 measure would also extend to
the Bushmaster rifle that was used in the  Connecticut  slayings.
After shelving a planned public offering last year, Freedom
Group last month projected a surge in sales.  “In many areas, the market is expanding quicker than the
industry can increase production,” Madison, North Carolina-
based Freedom Group said in a Nov. 15 regulatory filing. “The
continued economic uncertainty and the outcome of the 2012
presidential election is likely to continue to spur both
firearms and ammunition sales.”  Freedom Group’s brands include gunmakers Remington Arms Co.
and Marlin Firearms Co. and Barnes Bullets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  