-- Sprint Wins Over Clearwire Board With Sweetened Bid
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-12-17T21:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sprint-raises-bid-for-clearwire-to-2-97-a-share.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s board agreed to a
sweetened, $2.97-a-share takeover bid from its wireless partner
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which is now offering $2.2 billion to
acquire the portion of the company it doesn’t already own.  The new offer was approved by  Japan ’s Softbank Corp., which
agreed in October to buy 70 percent of Sprint for about $20
billion, the companies said today in a statement. The bid also
has the backing of Clearwire’s strategic investors such as
Comcast Corp. and Intel Corp.  Sprint is moving to acquire 100 percent of the company
after their four-year joint venture struggled to build a
nationwide wireless network, leading to billions in losses for
Clearwire. Sprint aims to take over Clearwire’s spectrum -- the
airwaves that let mobile devices operate -- and use it to
bolster its own network. Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse said today that the deal is “critical” to turnaround
efforts at the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  “Strategically this is a good move for Sprint,” said Joe Bonner, an analyst at Argus Research in New York. “Clearwire
was a never-ending source of problems, and Softbank has the deep
pockets to get it done.”  Clearwire fell 14 percent to close at $2.91 in New York.
Shares of the Bellevue, Washington-based company closed at $3.37
at the end of last week, signaling that investors had expected a
higher bid. Sprint rose 0.2 percent to $5.56 today.  Shareholder Opposition  For Sprint, the challenge now is getting the majority of
Clearwire’s other investors to agree to the deal. Sprint said it
has commitments from Comcast, Intel and Bright House Networks
LCC, which own about 13 percent of the voting shares. Two other
investors, Mount Kellett Capital Management LP and Crest
Financial Ltd., have voiced opposition to a Sprint takeover.  “There is a significant block of Clearwire shareholders
that will try to hold out for a higher price,” said Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at New Street Research in New York. At least
half of Clearwire’s non-Sprint investors have to vote in favor
of the deal, and after a week of heavy volume, it’s unclear how
big a block of stock they own, he said.  “If holders that are opposed to a deal at this price
picked up 20 percent to 25 percent of the 190 million shares
that have traded since this deal was announced, they could have
enough shares to block a deal,” Chaplin said.  Spectrum Value  Mount Kellett said last week that the $2.90-a-share offer
“grossly” undervalued the company. Clearwire’s unused spectrum
alone is worth about $6 billion to $9 billion, Mount Kellett
said. The firm said it owns about 3.6 percent of Clearwire’s
outstanding stock, which it considers to be worth $6.30 a share.  Crest Financial, which said it owns 6.6 percent of
Clearwire’s Class A shares, filed suit to block the takeover,
which it called “the capstone in Sprint’s ongoing effort to
interfere with Clearwire’s ability to operate as an independent
company.”  Clearwire CEO Erik Prusch said today that his company
explored a range of options, including a 2010 spectrum sale and
financing alternatives, without success. Google Inc. and  Time
Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc., two other investors, sold their stakes for
$2.26 and $1.37 a share, respectively, Prusch said in an
interview. Craig McCaw’s investment fund Eagle River Holdings
LLC, meanwhile, sold its holdings for $2.97 last week.  “The board was unanimously able to determine this was the
best path forward,” Prusch said.  Restructuring Talk  Without the deal, Clearwire may have to restructure, Prusch
said on a conference call. Blackstone Group LP has been advising
Clearwire on restructuring options.  At Sprint, the move will let the company consolidate its
network expansion, rather than forcing it to rely on a joint
venture. That will help it better compete with market leaders
Verizon Wireless and AT&T Inc., Sprint’s Hesse said.  “We really wanted to be in control of our spectrum assets,
and this was the most efficient way to build one network,”
Hesse said in an interview.  Sprint is working with suppliers to make devices compatible
with the three separate airwave frequencies used by the combined
network, he said. So-called hot-spot broadband access devices
could be available next year, with phones to follow in 2014,
Hesse said.  Sprint, based in Overland Park,  Kansas , is getting an
influx of cash from Softbank, giving it more money to make
deals. Softbank wouldn’t agree to a bid above $2.97 a share,
people familiar with the negotiations said last week.  Billions in Debt  Today’s  agreement  gives Clearwire an enterprise value of
approximately $10 billion, including net debt and spectrum lease
obligations of $5.5 billion, according to the statement.  In connection with the deal, Sprint agreed to provide as
much as $800 million of additional financing in the form of
exchangeable notes.  “When you add the $800 million interim financing
arrangement, you are looking at a bid in the range of $10.5
billion,” Hesse said. “We believe that is a fair offer and a
130 percent premium to the stock price before the
Sprint/Softbank deal became public.”  When Sprint formed the Clearwire venture in 2008, it relied
on $3.2 billion in investments from  Google (GOOG) , Intel and cable
companies. After losses piled up, partners such as Google and
Time Warner Cable sold their stakes for a fraction of their
original value.  Financial Advice  Sprint, Softbank and Clearwire all enlisted financial
advisers and lawyers to handle the deal. Citigroup Inc. advised
Sprint on the finance side, while Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP and King & Spalding LLP acted as legal counsel.
Softbank, based in  Tokyo , used the Raine Group as financial
advisers, with Morrison Foerster LLP was legal counsel.  Clearwire relied on Evercore Partners as its financial
adviser and Kirkland & Ellis LLP as legal counsel.  Centerview
Partners  acted as financial adviser, and Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP and Richards, Layton & Finger acted as counsel to
Clearwire’s special board committee.  The deal’s opponents probably face an “uphill battle” in
blocking the transaction, Chris King, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in a note today. Still, it
could be a close call, he said.  “Given the strong minority opposition that will likely
remain, final approval may come down to a vote-counting
exercise,” King said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  