-- Stockton Should Raise Taxes, Sell City Hall, Judge Told
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-12-17T21:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/stockton-should-raise-taxes-sell-city-hall-judge-told.html
The bankrupt city of Stockton,
California, should raise taxes, cut employee benefits and close
or sell  city hall  to repay bondholders, Assured Guaranty Corp.
said in court papers.  The city could raise $9.6 million in taxes and save $24.4
million through cuts to services and labor costs, Assured said
in a court filing made public today. The bond insurer is among a
group of creditors trying to persuade a federal judge to dismiss
Stockton’s Chapter 9 bankruptcy case and force the city to solve
its financial problems outside of court protection.  Assured accused Stockton of ignoring budget options to
justify filing bankruptcy and forcing bondholders and other
creditors to take less than they are owed.  “A municipality cannot budget itself into insolvency to
gain access to Chapter 9 or use Chapter 9 to harass or target
certain groups of creditors,” Assured said in papers filed Dec.
14 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Sacramento , California.  The city and bondholders will be in court in February for a
trial-like hearing over whether Stockton is legally entitled to
remain in bankruptcy after elected officials sought court
protection in June.  ‘Specific Objections’  “The city looks forward to analyzing the specific
objections and information,” Stockton said in a statement
released Dec. 14. “We are not going to argue this in the
media.”  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , governments,
unlike corporations, must first prove to a judge that they are
eligible to be in bankruptcy before they can use the court
process to try to cut debt through actions such as canceling
contracts.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Klein will hear testimony
about whether the city is insolvent as it claims, whether it
negotiated with creditors in good faith before filing the
bankruptcy petition, and whether the city followed  California 
state law in seeking court protection.  Assured insured about $161 million in pension obligation
bonds that the city says it cannot repay in full.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. also asked Klein to
dismiss Stockton’s bankruptcy case, arguing that the city is
unfairly forcing bondholders and other creditors to take
excessive cuts. In its filing, the company repeated its argument
that the city should force cuts on its biggest creditor,
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System .  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  