-- Stocks Held Hostage as CEOs Plan Spending Cuts
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-12-17T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/stocks-held-hostage-as-ceos-plan-first-spending-cuts-since-2009.html
The U.S. budget debate is holding
stocks hostage, as chief executive officers prepare to cut
 capital spending  for the first time since 2009 should President
 Barack Obama  and Congress fail to reach an accord.  Expenditures by Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies will
fall 1.3 percent in 2013 after three years of growth, according
to more than 10,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Companies from Verizon Communications Inc. to  Rockwell Collins
Inc. (COL)  said they don’t plan to boost investment amid concern
political leaders will fail to agree on a plan that would avert
more than $600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases that
threaten to throw the U.S. into another recession.  Bears say CEO pessimism will sap the rally that boosted the
 S&P 500   12 percent  this year and note that the last time capital
spending declined was at the end of 2008, just before stocks
slumped to a 12-year low. Bulls point out that estimates for
corporate spending show any decline will be limited and say the
improving U.S. economy will lift equity valuations, now 12
percent below the 58-year average, Bloomberg data show.  “In an environment where the economic and political
outlook is highly uncertain, it is hard for executives to make
investment decisions,” Abi Oladimeji, who helps oversee $4.3
billion as head of investment strategy at Thomas Miller
Investment Ltd. in London, said in a telephone interview on Dec.
12. “The danger is that we see policy errors, which could
undermine equity markets and the broader economy.”  Obama, Boehner  Whatever the outcome, investors say the negotiations in
 Washington  are the primary catalyst for investment decisions as
2012 draws to a close. While the S&P 500 has risen 109 percent
from its lows in March 2009, it is poised for the first fourth-
quarter  decline since 2008 . U.S. stocks had the worst
performance among 24 developed equity markets this quarter.  The S&P 500 slid 0.3 percent to 1,413.58 last week and
snapped a six-day gain after House Speaker  John Boehner , a
Republican from Ohio, said again that Obama’s budget proposal is
“anything but” balanced. Obama said the negotiations are “a
work in progress.” It added 1.2 percent to 1,430.36 in  New York 
today.  A Bloomberg National Poll showed a majority of Americans
back Obama’s demand that tax-rate increases for the highest
earners be a precondition for a deal that cuts U.S. entitlement
programs. The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned that if
talks fail, the economy may slip into a recession in 2013.  Reaching Compromise  U.S. leaders will reach a compromise, diminishing the
impact of any corporate spending reductions, according to Joseph Tanious, a global market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, which
oversees $400 billion. While capital spending is projected to
slip, it will remain close to the high reached in 2012 of $72.8
billion, he said.  “These are giant question marks right now and it’s feeding
into these analysts’ estimates,” Tanious said by phone on Dec.
12. “I wouldn’t read into it too negatively. The opportunity
moving forward in stocks is going to be multiple expansion, more
so than earnings growth. The slowdown in capital  expenditures (SPX) ,
while it certainly depresses growth expectations, doesn’t mean
there aren’t opportunities.”  The S&P 500  trades  at 14.4 times profit for the last 12
months, about 12 percent below the average for the past six
decades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Options prices  show
the most bullish outlook for the S&P 500 in the last two years.
Puts with an exercise level 10 percent below the S&P 500 cost
7.52 points more than calls 10 percent above on Dec. 12, the
lowest since November 2010, according to data on three-month
contracts compiled by Bloomberg.  Three Quarters  Analysts following companies in the S&P 500 estimate that
capital spending will decline 1.1 percent from a year ago to
$17.2 billion in the  second quarter , 0.6 percent to $17.5
billion in the third quarter and 7.4 percent to $18.2 billion in
the fourth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure has proved to be an accurate indicator for
changes in corporate earnings and stock market performance. When
CEOs limited expansion in 2009, the S&P 500 tumbled 12 percent
to a low of 676.53 on March 9.  Analysts correctly predicted that companies would increase
investment after the financial crisis and the deepest recession
in seven decades. Spending gained 6.2 percent in 2010, 24
percent in 2011 and 15 percent this year, Bloomberg data show.  Three years of expansion coincided with  10 quarters  of S&P
500 earnings growth. Profits for the biggest American companies
are estimated by the analysts to reach a record $114.76 a share
next year. The U.S. stock rally is poised to reach the average
length of bull markets since World War II in April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Differing Outlooks  Forecasts for capital expansion are inconsistent.
Manufacturers will boost spending 7.6 percent next year,
according to the  Institute for Supply Management ’s semiannual
survey released Dec. 11. The increase is the biggest for any
December survey in at least seven years, according to the Tempe,
Arizona-based ISM.  A cross-industry survey by the Business Roundtable found
more corporate leaders see a slump. About 23 percent of members
surveyed said their company’s spending will fall in the next six
months, compared with 19 percent in the prior quarter, the
Washington-based CEO association said on Dec. 12.  Executives have “slightly lower expectations for sales and
 capital expenditures ,” Jim McNerney, chairman of the group and
CEO of Boeing Co., said in a statement accompanying the survey.
“The continued softness in quarterly sentiment reflects deep
uncertainty about the future overall economic climate, realities
of a slow-growing economy and frustration over Washington’s
inability to resolve looming ‘fiscal cliff’ issues.”  Fed Purchases  Federal Open Market Committee participants on Dec. 12
lowered their forecasts for growth next year. They now see the
economy expanding as little as 2.3 percent, compared with at
least 2.5 percent in September. The average pace of growth for
the decade through 2007 was 3 percent. The economic slowdown is
prompting companies to curtail technology spending and pushing
consumers to favor mobile devices over personal computers,
eroding profitability at  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Chief Financial Officer Stacy J. Smith said in an Oct. 16
call with analysts that the  Santa Clara , California-based
company will reduce investment in the fourth quarter. Analysts
estimate an 11 percent cut next year to $10 billion after a 7.6
percent rise in 2012. The stock has  tumbled  15 percent this
year.  Capital Budgets  “Semiconductors in general are seeing a lower-than-normal
seasonal fourth quarter because we’re already feeling the fiscal
cliff,”  Doug Freedman , a San Francisco-based RBC Capital
Markets analyst, said by phone on Dec. 13. “Capital budgets and
people’s nervousness over the ability for macro growth to
continue have already affected their spending patterns. Up and
down the supply chain, we’re seeing cautionary behavior.”  Clay Jones, the CEO of  Rockwell Collins , said in a phone
interview on Nov. 7 that the aerospace supplier may cut about 6
percent of its workforce, or about 1,250 jobs, in part to
prepare for lower military spending. Defense accounted for about
55 percent of Rockwell Collins’s  revenue  in the fiscal year
ended in September. Shares are up 1.8 percent this year and 20
percent since hitting a low in June. Analysts estimate capital
expenditures will decline 6.1 percent in 2013.  “We have no idea within the realm of 10 percent what the
defense budget of the U.S. is going to be,” Jones said in an
interview from  Cedar Rapids , Iowa, on Nov. 7. “I am planning
for the worst.”  Verizon Spending  Verizon (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone company, said on
Oct. 18 that spending for the first nine months of the year
declined by more than $1 billion from the year-earlier period.
Chief Financial Officer Francis Shammo said last month at a
conference the number probably won’t rise in 2013.  Executives are delaying new contracts and investment
decisions due to “the pending fiscal cliff, potential  tax
reform  and other policy changes that may take place,” Shammo
said in a  call with analysts  on Oct. 18 from New York.  The rate on dividends for high-income taxpayers may rise
next year to 43.4 percent from 15 percent. More than 140
companies in the  Russell 3000 Index (RAY) , which represents about 98
percent of the U.S. equity market, have declared $18.7 billion
worth of special  dividends  since Sept. 1, according to Bloomberg
data. The payouts are more than three times the average market
value of companies in the gauge, data show.  While distributions show corporate leaders are confident
enough to pay out some of their cash, it also signals they’re
not optimistic enough to invest in larger projects, according to
 Malcolm Polley , who manages $1.1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital Advisors LLC in Indiana,
Pennsylvania.  “You have a lot of companies holding off spending,”
Polley said in a Dec. 13 phone interview. “There’s a real risk
that capex across the board declines in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  