-- Airlines Gain on Outlook as Trina Falls: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-17T22:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/stocks-fall-as-growth-outlook-tempered-china-overnight.html
Most  Chinese equities  rose in New
York, led by  China Eastern Airlines Co. (CEA) , on prospects domestic
 air travel  will continue to grow as a recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy gathers pace.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. closed little changed at 95.81, as 29
stocks climbed and 23 declined. China Eastern surged the most
since July, while  China Southern (ZNH)  Airlines Co. jumped to a five-
month high. Sina Corp., owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo
service, gained 7.3 percent. Hotel operator  China Lodging Group
Ltd. (HTHT)  posted its biggest loss since Sept. 28, and  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  fell for the first time in seven days.  Chinese airlines are poised for a cyclical recovery,
according to Jefferies Group Inc., with revenue per passenger
kilometers rising 7 percent year-on-year in November, from 5
percent in October, beating the bank’s forecast.  China Eastern 
has rallied over the past two months, and is poised for an 18
percent jump in December, as data from factory output to retail
sales signals China is emerging from its seven-quarter slowdown
with new Communist Party leaders poised to take the reins.  “China’s economic growth has bottomed out in the third
quarter, so people have started to talk about buying equities to
benefit a cyclical recovery,” Wang Lei, who helps manage the
$27 billion Thornburg International Value Fund in  Santa Fe , New
Mexico. said by phone yesterday. “This helps boost sentiment
toward consumer related stocks such as airlines.”  China ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.3 percent to $39.36,
extending its advance this year to 13 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.2 percent to 1,430.36 as investors
weighed prospects of a deal on the U.S.  federal budget .  American depositary receipts of China Eastern, the nation’s
second-largest airline, surged 6.6 percent to $20.43. Jefferies
named the Shanghai-based company as its top pick, according to
the report dated Dec. 14. China Southern, Asia’s biggest carrier
by passenger numbers, gained 3.2 percent to $25.25, the highest
close since July 27.  Domestic passenger demand will continue to grow in the
first quarter of 2013, Boyong Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Jefferies said in the report.  Shanghai-based Sina advanced 7.3 percent to $48.65, gaining
the most since Nov. 19.  Commodities Boost  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , the fourth-largest coal miner in
China, added 1.9 percent to $16.34, and traded at a 0.5 percent
premium to its stock listed in  Hong Kong .  Investors expect demand for commodities including coal to
rise after a meeting of the Communist Party’s new leaders over
the weekend emphasized the need for China to speed up the pace
of urbanization, said Xue Mingjie, an analyst at Rising
Securities Co. Ltd. in Shanghai.  China Lodging, a budget hotel chain operator, tumbled 8.6
percent to $15.26, the lowest price since Sept. 20. Trading
volume on the company’s shares was more than triple the daily
average over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It was the biggest decliner on the China-US gauge.  CDH Courtyard Ltd. sold 100,000 American depositary shares
in the company Nov. 27 for $1.7 million, according to a
 regulatory filing  published Dec. 13.  The new leaders will seek a greater “quality and
efficiency” of growth next year and target “sustained and
healthy development,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported
Dec. 16, after the annual central economic conference in
Beijing. The China-US measure has slumped 15 percent as the
world’s second-largest  economy  slowed over the past seven
quarters amid faltering export demand from Europe and the U.S.  Property Controls  E-House Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a real estate company based in
Shanghai, slid 3 percent to $4.15.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
biggest property information website in China, declined 0.9
percent to $22.85.  China will maintain property-market controls, Xinhua
reported, citing the economic work conference.  YY Inc. (YY) , the Guangzhou-based social network operator that
completed its initial public offering last month, surged 8.1
percent to $14.75, rallying for a sixth day.  Citigroup Inc., recommended buying the stock in new
coverage yesterday, and set a price target of $22.40. Morgan
Stanley also rated the company the equivalent of buy in an
initial rating on Dec. 16, with a price goal of $17.  Trina Solar , China’s third-largest solar maker based in
Guangzhou, sank 4.6 percent to $3.95, the biggest slump since
Nov. 27.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  slid 1.3 percent to
$2.31, after rising over the previous four days.  NQ Article  NQ Mobile Inc., a mobile security software developer based
in Beijing, advanced for the fifth day, adding 0.3 percent to a
one-week high of $6.  FJE Research published an article Dec. 10 on the Seeking
Alpha website alleging NQ overstated its user numbers. The piece
was removed due to “inaccurate citation,” Paruli Upadhyayaf on
the contributor team at Seeking Alpha said by e-mail yesterday.  NQ “strongly rejects” the allegations, according to a
Dec. 11 statement. The FJE article “contains numerous
inaccuracies and misleading speculations based on flawed
arguments,” NQ said last week.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dipped 0.1 percent
yesterday to 11,294.11, retreating from a nine-month high and
trimming its 14 percent climb in 2012. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.5 percent to 2,160.34, extending its steepest one-
day rally since October 2009 on Dec. 14. The gauge is down 1.8
percent this year, while the China-US measure is up 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  