-- Sun Life Sells U.S. Annuity Unit in $1.35 Billion Deal
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-12-17T21:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sun-life-sells-u-s-annuity-unit-in-1-35-billion-deal.html
Sun Life Financial Inc., the best-
performing financial  stock  in  Canada  this year, agreed to sell a
U.S. annuity business to a firm owned by Guggenheim Partners LLC
shareholders in a $1.35 billion deal to cut risks in equity
markets and interest rates.  Guggenheim will provide investment management for the
acquired businesses, including some life insurance assets, Sun
Life said today in a statement. The business will be renamed
Delaware Life Insurance Co.  “The area was dragging in terms of a return on capital and
putting too much money toward that area and getting poor
returns,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto. Sun Life “felt
it wasn’t strong competitively.”  Asset managers such as Guggenheim,  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  and Harbinger Capital Partners LLC have invested in
annuities operations to get access to funds for investment-
management businesses. Insurers including  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  have scaled back
from annuities because obligations to clients can increase when
stock markets fall. Also, low interest rates make it harder for
providers to generate profit on funds held to back the policies.  Annuities are contracts that offer guaranteed income for
retirees. Asset managers including Apollo and Guggenheim are
betting they can invest the assets at a return higher than
what’s needed to service obligations.  Guggenheim Partners  Guggenheim Partners, run by Chief Executive Officer Mark Walter, has expanded from a family office with a handful of
employees into a $160 billion global asset manager through deals
including the acquisitions of Claymore Group and Rydex ETF owner
Security Benefit Corp. Talks to buy parts of Deutsche Bank AG’s
asset management fell apart earlier this year.  Walter, who shot to prominence as the man behind the $2.15
billion purchase of the Los Angeles Dodgers, has hired investing
veterans including Henry Silverman, the former chief operating
officer of Apollo, to advise on expansion.  The sale represents a “transformational change” for
Toronto-based Sun Life, reducing the company’s risk, Chief
Executive Officer Dean Connor said today in the statement.  Reducing Earnings  The sale will reduce earnings by about 22 cents a share in
2013, the insurer said. Sun Life, Canada’s third-largest
insurer, will continue to operate in the U.S. through its
employee benefits and voluntary benefits businesses, as well as
through money manager MFS.  Sun Life will have about C$1.9 billion in cash at its
holding company following the transaction, of which it needs to
hold C$800 million to C$900 million, Connor said.  “We’ll over time redeploy that cash to fund growth in our
businesses,” Connor said today in a telephone interview.  Sun
Life (SLF)  will look at acquisitions that would be “measured in the
hundreds of millions, not billions” of dollars he said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was the financial adviser to Sun Life.
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP provided legal counsel. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP said it’s representing Guggenheim.  Sun Life fell 3.9 percent to C$26.74 in 4 p.m. trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have climbed 41 percent
this year, the best performer on the 44-company  S&P/TSX
Financials Index. (STFINL)   Shares of Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., an
insurer also seeking to cut liabilities tied to annuities,
climbed 3.6 percent in New York after Sun Life struck its deal
with Guggenheim.  The Guggenheim deal shows “there are potential buyers out
there for these troubled books of business, which could open up
opportunities for Hartford,” said  Randy Binner , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets, in a note to investors today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  