-- Sweden Has Means to Act Should Economic Slump Worsen, OECD Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-12-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/sweden-has-means-to-act-should-economic-slump-worsen-oecd-says.html
The Swedish government and central
bank have room to stimulate growth should the export-dependent
 economy  worsen more than forecast, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  Growth in the $540 billion economy will be 1.9 percent in
2013, picking up from 1.2 percent this year, the OECD said today
in a statement, reiterating a forecast from last month.  “The Riksbank should use the room it has to lower the
interest rate further if weak inflationary pressures and the
slowdown in activity persist longer or are more pronounced than
expected,” the OECD said. “Longstanding fiscal prudence also
gives Sweden room for discretionary stimulus to support the
economy if the outlook turns out to be weaker than expected by
the authorities.”  Riksbank policy makers, who are meeting today, will
tomorrow announce their fourth rate cut over the past year to
support an expansion in the largest Nordic economy, according to
17 of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy is
struggling as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps exports.  The government has said it will spend 0.7 percent of the
economy on infrastructure, research and corporate tax cuts next
year to cushion the slowdown. Sweden will post a deficit of 0.8
percent next year and 0.2 percent in 2014, the OECD estimated.  The Paris-based group said high household debt poses a risk
to the country’s large banking sector and that it welcomed plans
for stricter liquidity rules and higher mortgage risk weights.  Swedish private debt has risen to a record 173 percent of
disposable incomes this year from 90 percent in the mid-1990s as
households have financed rising property prices.  “High  household debt  makes households vulnerable to a fall
in  house prices , an increase in real  interest rates  or rising
unemployment,” OECD said. “Disorderly household deleveraging
would affect the banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  