-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed as U.S. Budget Talks Continue
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-17T16:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/swiss-stocks-little-changed-as-u-s-budget-talks-continue.html
Swiss stocks  closed little changed
as investors waited for progress in U.S. budget talks between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers to avoid
automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year.  UBS (UBSN)  slid after a person familiar with the matter said
Switzerland’s largest bank may pay as much as $1.6 billion to
settle claims of interest-rate manipulation.  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) 
slipped 1.5 percent after saying it will incur a loss this year.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell less than 0.1 percent to
6,897.1 in Zurich. The gauge has still gained 21 percent from
this year’s low on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers
agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of asset purchases. The broader Swiss
Performance Index was also little changed today.  “The lack of agreement on the U.S. budget has created a
negative sentiment feedback loop,” said Didier Duret, who helps
manage 146 billion euros ($192 billion) as chief investment
officer at ABN Amro Private Banking in Geneva. “It’s a
pressure-cooker situation, similar to the one the European Union
was facing earlier this year.”  U.S. politicians haven’t reached a budget deal with two
weeks remaining to prevent the so-called fiscal cliff of more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect in January. The  Congressional Budget
Office  has said a failure to avert those changes may lead to a
recession in the first half of 2013.  Japan Election  Japan ’s  Liberal Democratic Party  reclaimed power in a
landslide. A coalition led by the party won two-thirds majority
in the lower house and a mandate to boost economic stimulus.  UBS slid 0.5 percent to 14.97 Swiss francs. The fine that
the lender will have to pay to settle claims of interest-rate
manipulation may be as high as $1.6 billion, a person familiar
with the investigations said. UBS would pay the fines to the
U.S. Justice Department, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, the person said.  Alpiq slipped 1.5 percent to 130.20 francs as the utility
said it expects losses this year after making adjustments of
1.40 billion francs ($1.53 billion) as part of its
restructuring. Alpiq said it needs to make more “value
adjustments” based on difficult market conditions and changes
in the European energy market.  Valiant Holding AG (VATN)  tumbled 7.9 percent to 88.10 francs, the
biggest drop in more than two years. The company has decided to
discontinue merger talks with Berner Kantonalbank, Valiant said
in a statement late yesterday, saying legal evaluation has shown
it couldn’t be implemented in a timely manner. The company also
said Chairman Kurt Streit will step down on Jan. 1, 2013 and
will be succeeded by Juerg Bucher.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  dropped 0.8 percent to 65.15 francs. The
world’s largest cement-maker said it will take a charge of 410
million francs for write-offs of property, plant and equipment.
The company was the second-worst performer on the Stoxx Europe
600  Construction and Materials Index.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  