-- Switzerland's SIX to Buy Oslo Exchange's Post-Trade Unit
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-12-17T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/switzerland-s-six-to-buy-oslo-exchange-s-post-trade-unit.html
SIX Group will buy Oslo Clearing
from the Norwegian exchange for about 180 million kroner ($32
million) as the operator of the Zurich bourse readies to compete
in the market for derivatives transactions.  SIX, barred from competing for derivatives clearing until
May 2014 under a deal agreed when it sold its stake in Eurex,
will buy the unit from Oslo Boers, owner of  Norway ’s stock
exchange. The Oslo-based clearinghouse is a central counterparty
for equities, derivatives and security-lending products in the
region. The acquisition will close in the second quarter of
2014, Tomas Kindler, head of clearing relations at SIX
Securities Services, said in a phone interview.  “We are buying scale,” Kindler said. “We have a pan-
European footprint but the Nordics are a white spot, so we get
access to the Nordic banks and customers with this deal. We have
started to extend our product range and with this purchase we
are buying an existing derivatives business with exchange and
over-the-counter capability.”  European Union and U.S. regulators are pushing for tighter
oversight of the $639 trillion swaps market. The EU plan would
require more of the products to be traded through central
 clearinghouses , which are intended to lessen the fallout from a
bank default by guaranteeing counterparty payment. SIX was co-
owner of Eurex,  Europe ’s largest futures exchange, with  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  and sold its stake in the business last year.  Eurex Clearing  Eurex operates  Eurex Clearing , which provides central
counterparty services for derivatives, bonds, equities and the
repo market. SIX owns x-clear, a venue that focuses on stocks,
exchange-traded funds, bonds, structured products and warrants.  “We always said we wanted to be an active consolidator and
there is obviously too much capacity” with about 25
clearinghouses in Europe at present, Kindler said. “This is
additional scale in the equities space, with another 25 percent
volumes on top of what we will have already.”  In addition to Eurex, exchanges including Atlanta-based
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  and Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
already offer derivatives clearing.  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE)  has agreed to buy a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd., the world’s largest  interest-rate swaps  clearinghouse, and
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is planning to set up its own unit.  SIX, home to Nestle SA and UBS AG, is the largest of
Europe’s bourse operators to remain closely held. It is owned by
about 150 brokers and banks, including UBS and Credit Suisse
Group AG, that are also users, and was formed in a  three-way
merger  at the start of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  