-- Syria Army Masses at Palestinian Camp as Conflict Flares
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-12-17T13:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/syria-army-masses-at-palestinian-camp-as-conflict-flares.html
Syrian forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad are massing near a Palestinian camp a day after
air attacks on the site killed eight civilians.  Troops are concentrating in areas close to Yarmouk,
according to Al Arabiya television, a camp in the southern part
of Damascus. Hamas, a Palestinian movement that runs the  Gaza
Strip  and that’s designated a terrorist organization by the
U.S.,  Israel  and the European Union, condemned yesterday’s
attacks by Assad’s forces and called those responsible “war
criminals,” according to an e-mailed statement earlier today.  Hamas was formerly allied to the Assad government and many
of its leaders were Damascus-based. The last member of the
organization’s politburo was reported by Israel’s Haaretz
newspaper to have left Syria in February as the Syrian civil
conflict intensified.  There are 525,000 Palestinian refugees in Syria and a
“significant number” have been killed, wounded or forced to
flee during the 21-month conflict, the United Nations Relief and
Works Agency said on its  website . Almost 44,000 people have died
since the anti-Assad uprising began, according to the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  While Hamas supports the Syrian revolution, it won’t
participate directly because it’s focused on the “liberation of
 Palestine ,” it said.  The Yarmouk attacks “raise serious questions about the
stability and protection of the Palestine refugees in Syria,”
UNRWA said in its statement.  Damascus Suburbs  Assad’s troops have lost a series of battles for barracks,
airfields,  power plants , oilfields and roads across the country
against rebels in the second half of this year. Fighters
struggling to topple the government in Damascus have control of
mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the northeastern
outskirts of the capital to the southwest of the city, though it
is unclear if they are capable of holding the territory.  Syria ’s civil war is destined for stalemate, with neither
the rebels nor the military able to prevail in the conflict,
Syrian Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa told Al-Akhbar newspaper.  “The opposition forces combined cannot decide the battle
militarily,” al-Sharaa told the Al-Akhbar newspaper, which
posted the comments to its English-language website yesterday.
“Meanwhile, what the security forces and the army units are
doing will not reach a conclusive end.”  Figures including North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Mikhail Bogdanov and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius have said during the past week that Assad’s days may be
numbered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  