-- U.S. December Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-12-17T13:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/u-s-december-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The December 2012 Empire State Manufacturing Survey
indicates that conditions for  New York  manufacturers continued
to decline at a modest pace. The general business conditions
index was negative for a fifth consecutive month, falling three
points to -8.1. The new orders index dropped to -3.7, while the
shipments index declined six points to 8.8. At 16.1, the prices
paid index indicated that input prices continued to rise at a
moderate pace, while the prices received index fell five points
to 1.1, suggesting that selling prices were flat. Employment
indexes pointed to weaker labor market conditions, with the
indexes for both number of employees and the average workweek
registering values below zero for a second consecutive month.
Indexes for the six-month outlook were generally higher than
last month, although the level of optimism remained at a level
well below that seen earlier this year.  In a series of supplementary questions, firms were asked
about past and expected price changes overall and in a number of
categories. In general, respondents predicted that prices paid
for most budget categories would increase by about the same rate
in calendar 2013 as in 2012. The steepest price increases --
both actual and expected -- were reported for employee benefits,
up 6.4 percent, on average, in 2012 and expected to be up 7.2
percent in 2013. Respondents were also asked how they expected
their selling prices to change over the next year. The average
expected increase in the current survey was 1.0 percent -- down
from 1.8 percent in last year’s survey and 3.2 percent in the
December 2010 survey. Manufacturers were also asked about
superstorm Sandy’s recent and expected effects on revenues:
Downstate establishments estimated that revenues in October and
November were 7 percent and 5 percent lower, respectively, than
they otherwise would have been.  Business Conditions Decline for a Fifth Consecutive Month  Continuing a five-month streak of negative readings, the
general business conditions index fell three points to -8.1 -- a
sign that business activity declined at a modest pace for New
York manufacturers in December. Fifteen percent of respondents
reported that conditions had improved over the month, while 23
percent reported that conditions had worsened. After rising
above zero last month, the new orders index fell seven points to
-3.7, pointing to a small decline in the demand for manufactured
goods. The shipments index gave back some of its gains from last
month, declining six points to 8.8 -- evidence that shipments
rose at a slower pace than in November. The unfilled orders
index climbed five points to -6.5. The delivery time index was
little changed at -2.2. The inventories index was also similar
to last month’s reading and, at -11.8, indicated that inventory
levels were somewhat lower.  Labor Market Conditions Remain Weak  The prices paid index inched up two points to 16.1,
suggesting that input price increases remained moderate in
December. The prices received index fell five points to 1.1,
indicating that selling prices were generally flat over the
month. Employment indexes, negative for a second consecutive
month, pointed to weaker labor market conditions. The index for
number of employees rose five points to -9.7, while the average
workweek index declined three points to -10.8.  Outlook Improves Somewhat  Indexes for the six-month outlook remained somewhat
restrained compared with their levels earlier this year, though
most future indexes were higher than in November. The future
general business conditions index rose six points to 18.7. The
future new orders index increased more significantly, climbing
eleven points to 32.3, and the future shipments index rose four
points to 34.4. The future prices paid index advanced a sharp
twelve points to 51.6, suggesting that the pace of increase in
input prices is expected to pick up in the months ahead. The
future prices received index also climbed, rising ten points to
25.8 -- an indication that selling price increases were expected
to accelerate. Future employment indexes were positive and
higher than last month, suggesting that employment levels and
the average workweek were expected to rise. The capital
expenditures index climbed four points to 12.9, and the
technology spending index inched down to 4.3.  Supplemental Report:
Manufacturers Foresee Steady Price Pressures, Modest Impact from
Sandy  Supplementary questions to the December 2012 Empire State
Manufacturing Survey focused on recent and expected changes in
the prices paid by firms for several major budget categories,
including wages, employee benefits, insurance, energy, and other
commodities. The same set of questions was asked in December
2011 and in earlier years.  In the current survey, firms predicted that prices paid for
most budget categories would increase by about the same rate in
calendar 2013 as in 2012. Prices paid overall were reported to
have risen 3.7 percent on average in 2012, and this rate was
expected to edge up to 4.0 percent in 2013. Among the broad
budget categories, employee benefits showed the steepest price
increase, both actual and expected: respondents reported that
these costs climbed 6.4 percent, on average, in 2012 and were
expected to accelerate to 7.2 percent in 2013. Wages were
expected to climb 3.1 percent on average in 2013, with
anticipated price rises of 2.8 percent for non-energy
commodities and 3.9 percent for insurance (excluding health
benefits). Outside services and energy costs were expected to
rise by less than 3 percent next year -- as was the case in
2012.  Respondents were also asked to gauge the likelihood that
the prices they paid overall would increase or decrease within
certain specified ranges. The overall distribution of responses
closely resembles those in the 2011 and 2010 surveys: the
perceived probability that prices would rise by more than 2
percent averaged out to 59 percent, while respondents reported a
9 percent chance that prices would rise by at least 8 percent.
At the other end of the spectrum, the average perceived
probability that prices would decline by at least 2 percent
overall was just 6 percent--up slightly from 4 percent in last
year’s survey.  In a final question about prices, respondents were asked
how they expected their selling prices to change over the next
year. The average expected increase in the current survey was
1.0 percent -- down from 1.8 percent in last year’s survey and
3.2 percent in the December 2010 survey.  In addition to the price questions, a three-part follow-up
question was asked on the net effects of superstorm Sandy on
firms’ revenues in October and November and the storm’s expected
effects on December revenues. Establishments in downstate New
York (the New York City metro area) reported that revenues were
roughly 7 percent lower than they otherwise would have been in
October and were diminished by about 5 percent in November.
However, revenues were expected to be unaffected, on net, in
December. Respondents in upstate New York saw virtually no net
effect, on average, in any of the three months. However, a few
upstate respondents reported sizable effects on revenues -- both
increases and decreases -- of 10 percent or more. Increases, for
example, accrued to manufacturers of waterremoval equipment and
those taking on extra production from affected facilities in the
New York City area; decreases mainly stemmed from the storm’s
adverse effects on customers and supply chains.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 