-- Uchumi Jumps to 2-Week High on Funding Expansion: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-12-17T12:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/uchumi-jumps-to-2-week-high-on-funding-expansion-nairobi-mover.html
Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd., (UCSP)   Kenya ’s
only publicly traded retailer, rose to its highest level in more
than two weeks after shareholders approved plans to raise
additional capital to fund its expansion.  Uchumi climbed 1 percent to 19.45 shillings by the 3 p.m.
close in Nairobi, the capital, the highest level since Nov. 30.
The number of shares traded was 181 percent of the stock’s
three-month average volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Holders of Kenya’s best performing stock this year approved
a 1.5 billion-shilling ($17 million) rights offer and the cross-
listing of its stock in  Rwanda ,  Uganda  and Tanzania. Uchumi
plans to issue 200 million shares, increasing its capital to 3
billion shillings from 2 billion shillings, Chief Executive
Officer Jonathan Ciano said on Dec. 11.  “There is definitely some position taking ahead of the
rights issue,” Alistair Gould, the Nairobi-based unit head of
trading at Old Mutual Securities Ltd., said by phone today.
“There are a lot of people looking to get some exposure into
the African retail sector and Uchumi is the only one which is
listed.”  Shareholders also approved plans to trade on the Uganda
Securities Exchange, the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange and
Rwanda’s over-the-counter market, Ciano said.  Uchumi opened three outlets in Uganda and one each in
Tanzania and Kenya during the fiscal year to June 30, increasing
its branches to 24, according to the company’s website. The
company is now considering expansion into Rwanda and  Southern
Sudan , Ciano said Dec. 11.  Uchumi’s valuation is lower relative to some of its
regional peers at a price-to-earnings ratio of 18.9, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , a South
African retailer controlled by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., trades at
33.7 times projected earnings and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , a Cape
Town-based supermarket chain, is valued at 32.2 times profit.  The Kenyan company has more than doubled this year,
compared with a 37 percent jump by the  Nairobi Securities
Exchange All-Share Index. (NSEASI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  