-- Lumber Reaches 6-Year High as Housing Rebound Erodes U.S. Supply
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-17T21:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/lumber-reaches-6-year-high-as-housing-rebound-erodes-u-s-supply.html
Lumber futures rose to a six-year
high, extending a 2012 rally that is one of the biggest among
commodities, on mounting signs of tighter supplies as U.S. home
construction rebounds.  Prices have surged 37 percent this year, more than any of
the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index. Lumber has more than doubled since January 2009, when the
recession and a collapse in the U.S. housing market left a glut
of wood. Since then, output plunged in  Russia  while  China 
boosted imports, limiting supplies in  North America  just as
demand rebounds, according to International Wood Markets Group.  Housing starts  that in October reached an annual rate of
894,000, the highest since July 2008, may exceed 1 million a
month by the end of 2013,  Michelle Meyer , a New York-based
senior economist at Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S.
lender by assets, said earlier this month. U.S. building
 permits , a proxy for future construction, reached a four-year
high in September, government data show.  “Housing inventories are coming down, and housing prices
are coming up in major markets in the U.S.,” Hakan Ekstrom, the
president at Wood Resource International LLC in  Seattle ,
 Washington , said in a telephone interview. “That’s an
indication that demand is higher than supply and that’s likely
to continue next year.”  Lumber futures for January delivery gained 0.9 percent to
settle at $358.20 per 1,000 board feet at 1:05 p.m. on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, after touching $360.80, the highest
since April 2006.  Housing Rebound  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  has
climbed 23 percent since the end of June. Sales of previously
owned homes probably rose to a 4.9 million annual pace, a three-
year high, economists forecast that a report from the National
Association of Realtors will show on Dec. 20.  Recovery from  Hurricane Sandy , which killed 37 people when
it struck the East Coast in October, causing $36.9 billion in
damage in  New Jersey  alone, also has helped improve lumber
demand and prices, James Stellakis, the founder at Technical
Alpha Inc., a researcher based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview.  “The combination of Sandy renovations and the reports
about housing ticking up” is helping prices, said Stellakis,
who forecast lumber will reach $400 by May. “People are getting
ready for the spring housing season. They’re getting their
supplies bought to secure what they think they’ll need before
the building season in March or April.”  Lumber Producers  Log exports are now 40 percent below their 2007 peak and
have continued to drop this year, while the mountain pine beetle
epidemic is killing trees in British Columbia, according to
International Wood Markets. U.S. lumber supply will be
“overwhelmed” in the next five years, sending prices to a
record in 2014, the Vancouver-based researcher said in a Dec. 10
 report .  Companies such as Vancouver-based  Canfor Corp. (CFP)  are
benefiting from the lumber rally, Technical Alpha’s Stellakis
said. Canfor shares through Dec. 14 jumped 44 percent this year.
Wayne Guthrie, the company’s senior vice-president of sales and
marketing, said in September that Canfor, the second-largest
North American softwood producer, was “excited” about the
increase in “high-value” shipments of lumber to China.  As the economy in the U.S. improves, consumers will pay
more for houses, Wood Resource’s Ekstrom said. That will help
offset the increased cost of lumber for homebuilders and board
sellers, he said. The S&P/Case-Shiller Composite Index of  home
prices  in 20 cities is up 7 percent this year.  “If people believe there will be higher prices in housing
in 2014, they think, ‘maybe I should look at buying in 2013
instead,’” said Ekstrom, who correctly forecast prices would
rise this year. “ Interest rates  might not go much lower than
where we are, so the earlier they can buy a house the better,
because it’s not going to get much better from a buyer’s
perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  