-- Hungary Eyes Fifth Monthly Rate Cut as Forint Plunges
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-12-18T09:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/hungary-eyes-fifth-rate-cut-since-july-as-inflation-slows.html
Hungary ’s central bank, roiled by
divisions among policy makers, will cut the European Union’s
highest  benchmark rate  for a fifth month even as the forint
dropped to a five-month low, according to a poll of economists.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will lower the two-week deposit
rate to 5.75 percent from 6 percent, the fifth quarter-point cut
in as many months, according to all 19 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m., followed by a
briefing with MNB President Andras Simor at 3 p.m.  Simor, who on Dec. 7 urged the bank to act “much more
firmly” against inflation, which slowed to 5.2 percent in
November, has been outvoted along with his two deputies in each
of the past four rate meetings by non-executive members who want
to spur an economy mired in its second recession in four years.
The forint’s two-day plunge against the euro to the weakest
since July 25 may test policy makers’ resolve to continue
monetary easing, Nomura International Plc said.  A cut would “mean the external MPC members are much more
risk-loving than we first thought,” Peter Attard Montalto, a
London-based economist at Nomura, said in a report today. A cut
is still likely “even if we assign less probability to the
move” than earlier, he said.  Forint Plunges  The forint dropped 1.6 percent in the past two days and
traded at 288.44 per euro by 10:14 a.m. in Budapest, with
traders and strategists citing reports of government plans to
apply greater pressure for monetary easing among the reasons for
the drop. The weakening pared the forint’s gain this year to 9.2
percent, the second-biggest rise after the Polish zloty.  The four non-executive policy makers, appointed by Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party in 2011, have pointed to
the resilience of the currency and falling risk premium for
supporting monetary easing. They have also argued that the
inflation rate may drop to the bank’s target in 2014 as cost
shocks from energy and food prices fade.  Hungary on Dec. 13 sold 2028 bonds at an average yield of
6.31 percent, the lowest in seven years. Credit-default swaps,
measuring the cost of insuring Hungarian debt against non-
payment for five years, traded at 289 basis points yesterday,
compared with 321 basis points a month ago.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
rates in three months traded at 5.39 percent today. That’s 61
basis points below the three-month Budapest Interbank Offered
Rate, indicating a benchmark rate of 5.25 percent to 5.5 percent
in March.  Regional Easing  Hungary’s rate cuts follow those of central banks in
eastern  Europe , where price growth is slower. The Czech central
bank reduced the main two-week repurchase rate to a record-low
0.05 percent on Nov. 1, almost three-quarters of a point less
than the euro-area benchmark. Czech inflation in November was
2.7 percent from a year earlier.  Central bankers in  Poland , where the inflation rate was
within the bank’s tolerance range last month at 2.8 percent, may
cut its benchmark  interest rate  for a third month in January
from 4.25 percent, policy maker  Jerzy Hausner  said Dec. 12.
Romania kept borrowing costs steady at 5.25 percent in November
with price growth at 4.56 percent.  Hungary needs a main rate of 6.75 percent to slow inflation
to its target by the second half of 2014, the MNB said in its
September forecast. The MNB will publish new inflation and gross
domestic product forecasts today at 3 p.m.  Depreciation Risk  Rate cuts in countries like Hungary, which are indebted in
foreign currencies, may fail to stimulate growth by risking
 currency depreciation  and fueling inflation, European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in Budapest Dec. 7.  Fiscal or monetary stimulus won’t solve Hungary’s growth
problem, Simor, whose six-year mandate expires in March, said
the same day. He said the government needed to create a
predictable policy environment and agree with banks to ease
their tax burden to stop a decline in lending.  A government policy turnaround, which the  International
Monetary Fund  has also asked for to boost growth and unlock aid
talks more than a year after Hungary asked for a financial
safety net, is unlikely to happen after lawmakers last week
approved a 2013 budget that relies on keeping extraordinary
company taxes businesses blamed for a lack of investment.  That puts Orban, facing elections in 2014, focused on
pressuring the central bank for monetary stimulus after Simor
leaves his job, according to  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . The Cabinet wants a
“new strategic alliance” with the central bank with the change
of leadership, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , mentioned in
media reports as a possible successor to Simor, told state radio
MR1 on Dec. 15.  “Orban will make sure the central bank will be fully
aligned with the government’s policy in 2013, and the reshuffle
in the NBH board will be a decisive step toward that goal,”
Costa said. “This government is poised to ’force’ rates lower
further down in the first quarter” as it looks for a “a lot of
‘help’ from the central bank on the monetary policy side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  