-- U.K.’s Hunting Falls Most in 14 Months on ‘Cautious’ Outlook
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-12-17T17:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/hunting-falls-most-in-16-months-in-london-on-cautious-outlook.html
Hunting Plc (HTG) , a U.K. oil-services
provider, fell the most in 14 months in London trading after
saying it’s “cautious” about the short-term outlook.  The company dropped 6 percent, the biggest decline since
Oct. 4, 2011, to 757.5 pence by the close in the city. “The
short term outlook is increasingly cautious due to the economic
climate seen in a number of our operating regions,” Chief
Executive Officer Dennis Proctor said today.  Hunting is seeing a switch away from natural gas and toward
liquid fuel drilling, the company said today in a statement.  Schlumberger Ltd., the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, said last week it expected earnings per share to drop
in the fourth quarter because of contractual delays and lower-
than-expected activity in North America.  The number of U.S. oil and gas rigs declined to the lowest
level since April 2011 as price drops prompted energy producers
to curb drilling, according to data posted on Baker Hughes
Inc.’s website. Oil rigs slid last quarter for the first time
since 2009 as more efficient drilling operations and a drop in
crude prices curbed companies’ demand for equipment.  Hunting is seeking to boost its presence in the North Sea
as activity recovers from historic lows, the London-based
company said. It also resolved a tax dispute in  Canada  on the
sale of Gibson Energy in 2008, bringing in 25 million pounds in
cash. Net debt was about 205 million pounds at end-November.  The short-term caution for North America “will lift as we
exit the winter period,” Investec Plc said today in a note,
retaining its recommendation that investors buy the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  