-- Turkey Sells Rights to Operate Roads in Biggest Sale Since 2005
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-12-17T15:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/turkey-sells-rights-to-operate-roads-in-biggest-sale-since-2005.html
Turkey  sold 25-year operating rights
for about 2,000 kilometers of toll roads, two beltways and two
bridges over the Bosporus Strait for $5.7 billion, the second-
biggest state asset sale in Turkish history.  A consortium made up of  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest
group of companies, Istanbul-based  Gozde Girisim Sermayesi
Yatirim Ortakligi AS (GOZDE)  and Malaysia’s UEM Group Bhd won the rights
to operate the bridges and roadways in an auction in Ankara
today.  Koc Holding rose 4.4 percent to 9.12 liras at the close in
Istanbul trading, the highest since at least 1995. Gozde, the
venture capital unit of Yildiz Holding, owner of the Godiva
chocolate brand, surged 11 percent to 4.48 liras, the highest
since October last year.  “The winners looked happy - it seems the price was less
than they expected,” Hasan Bayhan, an analyst at Istanbul-based
Global Securities, said by phone after the sale.  The transaction trails the $6.55 billion sale of a 55
percent stake in land-line phone operator  Turk Telekomunikasyon
AS (TTKOM)  in 2005 as Turkey’s biggest. The sale of oil refiner  Tupras
Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS)  the same year, also to Koc
Holding, earned $4.14 billion for the government.  Koc and UEM each have a 40 percent stake in today’s winning
consortium, while Gozde’s stake is 20 percent.  The sale will require separate approvals from Turkey’s
Privatization Administration, Competition Board and the Council
of State.  “I don’t think the Council of State will reach a negative
opinion,” Osman Ilter, deputy chief of the asset sales agency,
told Bloomberg after the auction.  The transaction may be completed within “five to six
months at the latest,” Tamer Hasimoglu, Koc Holding’s retail,
food and tourism group chairman, told reporters in Ankara.  The consortium beat two others, with Autostrade Per
I’Italia, Dogus Holding, Makyol Insaat and Akfen withdrawing
first. Nurol Holding, Alsim Alarko, Kalyon Insaat and Fernas
Insaat withdrew in a later round.  Financing shouldn’t be a problem for the winning group,
according to Cenk Ercan, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Istanbul.  “We’re talking about a tender that was postponed four
times, so the group is well-prepared regarding financing,”
Orcan said by telephone today. “This is a very foreseeable and
long-term asset. Financing will be easy.”  Turkey raised $2.5 billion last month with the sale of a 24
percent state in state-run lender  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  in a
secondary public offering.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Turkey on Nov.
5, giving the country its first investment-grade rating since
1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  