-- USG Accused in Lawsuit of Fixing Drywall Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-17T21:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/usg-accused-in-lawsuit-of-fixing-drywall-prices.html
USG Corp. and seven other makers of
drywall used in residential and commercial construction were
sued for allegedly conspiring to fix prices for the gypsum board
product since September 2011.  Sierra Drywall Systems Inc. , a drywall installation
company, claims the defendants violated federal antitrust laws
and is seeking unspecified money damages for all people or
entities that bought drywall from the defendants in the U.S.
this year, according to a complaint filed Dec. 13 in federal
court in  Chicago .  USG, whose largest  shareholder  is  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said the suit is “without merit,” in
a filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “USG denies that it participated in any alleged conspiracy
or has engaged in unlawful conduct, and believes that its
pricing decisions were, and continue to be, made and implemented
in full compliance with the law,” the Chicago-based company
said in the filing.  USG is the leading supplier of drywall in the U.S.,
accounting for 25 percent of gypsum board sales in 2011,
according to the complaint.  More Targets  Other companies targeted in the suit include  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  National Gypsum , Reston, Virginia-based
LaFarge North America Inc. and Atlanta-based Georgia-Pacific
LLC.  Nancy Spurlock, a spokeswoman for National Gypsum, said the
company hasn’t been served with the suit.  “We would certainly deny any wrongdoing,” she said in a
phone interview today. She said the company would fight the
claims.  Representatives of Georgia Pacific and LaFarge didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the lawsuit.  According to the complaint, the companies began telling
customers in September 2011 that they would raise prices on
drywall products by as much as 35 percent. Around the same time,
the companies also halted a longstanding practice of letting
customers lock in prices for the duration of a construction
project, Sierra Drywall said.  The changes came when the companies were expecting no
increase in demand for gypsum board, according to the complaint.  “Faced with a weak market with no immediate prospect of
rebound, the defendants nevertheless announced a large spike in
the price of gypsum board,” Sierra Drywall said. “This
increase was not supported by competitive conditions and thus
could not have been sustained absent the defendants’ agreement
to raise prices.”  The case is Sierra Drywall Systems Inc. v.  USG Corp. (USG) , 12-
cv-09949, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  