-- Why Almost Everyone Is Wrong About Tax Reform
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-12-17T23:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/why-almost-everyone-is-lying-about-tax-reform.html
Almost everyone thinks we should
broaden the tax base; that is, reduce the number and size of  tax
deductions , exclusions and credits.  The Bowles-Simpson  fiscal-reform plan  went after tax breaks
so aggressively it was able to slash the deficit and still cut
tax rates. Most conservative reformers follow that model. Even
economists who aren’t conservatives generally say the government
should raise revenue by getting rid of tax breaks before it
raises rates. That is the position Republican leaders in the
House and Senate have taken, too.  As pleasing as it is to find a consensus in this polarized
era, this one is mistaken. It would be either undesirable or
politically impossible to reduce the largest loopholes in the
 code .  At the top of the  Congressional Budget Office ’s list of the
 biggest tax breaks  is the exclusion of employer-provided health
insurance from the income and payroll taxes. You pay taxes on
your wages, but not on your benefits, encouraging employers to
provide more of your compensation in the latter form. The policy
is something of a historical accident: It arose after employers
used benefits to evade World War II-era wage controls. If we
were designing a code from scratch, we would certainly tax these
benefits.  We have had this break for an awfully long time, though. It
would be disruptive, as well as unpopular, to get rid of it. The
exclusion should be modified so that it doesn’t reward people
for choosing more expensive policies, and so that people who
have no access to employer plans can buy insurance for
themselves. What we won’t do is get big savings from shrinking
this tax break, and we shouldn’t try.  Investments, Mortgages  Several other large breaks benefit savings and investment,
the most famous being the low  tax rate  on  capital gains  and
dividend income, compared with labor income. In a way, though,
these aren’t tax breaks at all: They are a partial corrective to
the code’s  bias against saving and investment . A better code
would just tax consumption, which would mean a smaller tax base.  Economists generally dislike the mortgage-interest
deduction, another big one. They argue that it has reduced
national wealth without doing much to increase homeownership.
With housing finally showing signs of a recovery, though, it
seems like an inopportune time to fight against this deduction.
Anyway, Realtors in every congressional district in the country,
all of whom know a lot of people in their communities, would
surely jam the phone lines on  Capitol Hill  if anyone tried it.
It’s not happening.  Like the tax breaks for saving, the tax credit for children
can be justified as a partial corrective to other federal
policies. By raising kids, most parents  make a contribution  to
the future of  Social Security  and Medicare beyond what they pay
in payroll taxes. Fully recognizing that double contribution
would require expanding the credit, not shrinking it.  The deduction for charitable contributions is another
sacrosanct tax break -- and that’s fine. How many people really
think the  tax code  has wreaked damage on American society by
encouraging more charitable giving than would otherwise take
place?  Rounding out the list of the top breaks is the
deductibility of state and local taxes. It’s hard to see the
justification for making people in low-tax areas pay more to
subsidize states that choose to have larger governments --
especially when many of the high-tax states have higher incomes
than the low-tax ones, and when the biggest beneficiaries of the
break are high earners.  Even this break won’t be curtailed easily, though.
Politicians in high-tax jurisdictions tend to be strong
supporters of this deduction, and you can’t blame them: Their
voters would get hit hard if this deduction were scaled back,
and it might force changes to their budgets as those voters grew
more sensitive to state and local taxes. The Ronald Reagan
administration tried to eliminate this deduction in the 1986  tax
reform  but failed because of opposition from high-tax areas.  Political Trouble  The more closely you look at the tax code, the less
promising the idea of broadening the base becomes. That may be
why  Mitt Romney ’s campaign proposed imposing a cap on the total
value of all deductions anyone can take (and why so many
congressmen are now talking about the idea). It is more or less
an admission that paring back the number and size of specific
tax breaks is more political trouble than it is worth in
revenue.  The Bowles-Simpson model of tax reform -- broadening the
base and lowering rates -- is the wrong one. Some tax breaks
should be scaled back, to be sure. But the idea that the federal
government can painlessly raise a lot of money from a base-
broadening tax reform is a myth.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  