-- Will the Newtown Massacre Change Anything?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-12-17T23:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/will-the-newtown-massacre-change-anything-.html
Is fatalism the proper response to
the grotesque massacre of children in Newtown,  Connecticut , last
week? It is important to resist such temptations on most policy
issues -- I still believe there’s a small chance for peace in
the  Middle East , after all -- but on the matter of controlling
guns, the path isn’t immediately apparent and resignation
sometimes feels in order.  There are, of course, gun-control measures that make sense.
For one, the so-called gun-show loophole should be closed. This
is the rule that allows firearms to be sold at arena-sized
shows, and even on the Internet, without federal background
checks. About 40 percent of all guns sold legally in the U.S.
pass through this loophole.  I was with Dan Gross, the president of the Brady Campaign
to Prevent Gun Violence, shortly after the shooting, and we were
both searching for a better term than “loophole” -- “gaping
chasm,” though inelegant, came to mind. If President  Barack Obama  doesn’t fix this particular problem, he’s not fixing
anything. Even so, the gun-show loophole seems to have had
nothing to do with the Newtown massacre.  Similarly, it is difficult for me to understand why a
hunter, or someone defending his family from a home invasion,
would need a magazine with a 30-round capacity. If your home is
being invaded by 20 or 30 burglars at once, you have an
unmanageable problem. These high-capacity magazines should be
banned; it is more important, in fact, to ban the magazines than
the rifles they feed. Even so, the most lethal mass shooting in
U.S. history, at  Virginia Tech  in 2007, was carried out with
handguns, not rifles.  Mental Health  Another important step is to make more demands of mental-health workers, who should be our country’s actual first
responders. Privacy and trust issues loom large, but there must
be better ways for psychiatrists and therapists and school
counselors to flag people whom they judge too dangerous, to
themselves and others, to possess weapons. And we must, as a
country, make the funding of mental health care a priority, so
that disturbed young men don’t slip through life unnoticed until
they are gripped by homicidal rage. Even so, the best mental-health system in the world couldn’t possibly identify and stop
every one of these men before they spin out of control.  The inescapable fact remains that the U.S. is a country
 saturated with guns  -- as many as 300 million of them, the
majority owned legally, but many not. As many as 47 percent of
adult Americans keep a firearm in their home or on their
property; many own more than one. It isn’t especially difficult
for even the dimmest of criminals, or for the dangerously
mentally ill, to find a gun in a country flooded with them.  It is for these reasons that I believe in the right of law-abiding, trained and government-vetted citizens to possess
firearms, because one way to defend yourself against a gun is
with a gun (which would-be victims often do, according to the
 Justice Department ’s  National Crime Victimization Survey ).  I am less moved by the argument of libertarian Second
Amendment absolutists, that guns protect citizens from the
imposition of tyrannical rule, because I haven’t seen a reason
to fear domestic tyranny, and, really -- the government has
drones and Apache helicopters and nuclear weapons. Handguns and
semi-automatic rifles will not be of great help.  The reason I support armed self-defense is practical: I
doubt I would feel the same way if there were many fewer weapons
in circulation, but I don’t see a constitutional way to
substantially reduce the country’s civilian arsenal any time
soon.  48,000 Dead  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said Dec. 16 on “ Meet the
Press ” that if Obama “does nothing during his second term,
something like 48,000 Americans will be killed with illegal
guns.” The mayor (who is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP) is partly right: Although
the prevention of murder should be a central public-policy
priority, there actually isn’t a great deal the president can
do. He can’t radically upend American gun culture, he can’t do
much to reverse the number of guns now in civilian hands and he
can’t alter the Constitution.  I sometimes think a straightforward debate on the Second
Amendment would at least be clarifying (and quite possibly
sobering for Northeast liberals). But Dan Gross told me he
considers the debate closed. “We have to respect the fact that a
lot of decent, law-abiding people believe in gun ownership.”
Demonization of gun owners, Gross argues, drives them toward the
kind of irrational militancy the  National Rifle Association  has
become known for.  That’s why NRA members -- many of whom don’t share the
organization’s extremist opposition to even mild  gun-control 
initiatives -- may actually be the key to real change. NRA
members believe, as a rule, that guns should be available for
hunting and sport, and that they have a legitimate role to play
in self-defense.  The president could reiterate to these gun owners that he
endorses their right to own weapons for such purposes, and that
he doesn’t want to take their guns away. In exchange, he should
ask them to acknowledge that gun regulation is not gun
eradication. He just might, at this horrible moment, split the
pro-gun movement. Politically moderate gun owners, aghast at the
devastation in Newtown, might see that something in their
culture has gone awry, and they might distance themselves from
the NRA’s imprudent maximalism.  One small cause for hope: The NRA wasn’t always absolutist
on these issues. Until hardliners took power in 1977, the group
had a  long history  of endorsing, even drafting, common sense
gun-control measures. Of course, many conservatives in the
1960s, including  Ronald Reagan , supported gun control as a means
of keeping weapons out of the hands of black militants, but the
NRA’s interest in gun regulation dates back to the 1920s. The
NRA’s president at the time, Karl T. Frederick, helped draft
legislation that required permits for carrying concealed weapons
and forced gun dealers to report their sales to the government.  It is hard to imagine the NRA moving back in this sensible
direction. And it is hard to imagine real progress on this issue
without the support, or acquiescence, of the tens of millions of
Americans who legally own guns.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 