-- Twitter Joins With Nielsen to Measure TV Discussions
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-17T19:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/twitter-joins-with-nielsen-to-measure-tv-discussions.html
Twitter Inc. and television-ratings
provider  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  are forming a partnership to
measure the amount of online discussion being generated by TV
programs, the two companies said.  A new measurement, called the “Nielsen Twitter TV
Rating,” will be available in the second half of 2013, New
York-based Nielsen said in an e-mailed statement. Terms of the
 partnership , which lasts multiple years, were not disclosed.  Twitter is building relationships in television and
publishing as it courts advertisers and boosts sales to a
projected $1 billion in 2014. By tracking TV audiences, the
company could provide networks and their advertisers valuable
data about which shows are most discussed on the Web, according
to Todd Juenger, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “If a show had a big audience and, on top of that, a lot
of people were tweeting about it, it shows that the audience was
not only watching, but they were engaging and paying
attention,” Juenger, who based in  New York , said. “That is a
piece of evidence the networks would like to have to show
advertisers.”  In June, one-third of active Twitter users posted on the
site about something they watched on TV, up from 26 percent of
Twitter users at the beginning of the year, Nielsen said in a
 report  on social media this year. Adults between 25 and 44 years
old are the most likely to discuss TV shows on social sites, the
report found.  Show Buzz  Television programmers have been asking Nielsen to measure
how many people were discussing their shows online, according to
Steve Hasker, president of global media products at Nielsen.  “There’s a real interest in social television and what it
might mean,” Hasker said in an interview.  Twitter bolstered its entertainment ties last month by
naming  Peter Chernin , a former News Corp. president, to its
board. The appointment was intended to help the company navigate
the  media industry , Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo 
said at the time.  Nielsen currently has no plans to partner with other social
media sites to track TV audiences, Hasker said.  “Twitter is the most relevant social media platform for
television,” he said, pointing out that unlike Facebook Inc.,
postings to Twitter are largely viewable to all, making online
conversations more widespread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  