-- Euro at 7-Month High Versus Dollar; Krona Up on Rate View
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-18T22:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/yen-trades-near-20-month-low-as-abe-win-boosts-boj-easing-bets.html
The euro rose to the strongest in
more than seven months against the dollar on speculation U.S.
lawmakers will reach a budget pact to avert pushing the economy
over the so-called fiscal cliff and into recession.  The euro gained against major counterparts as  Standard &
Poor’s  lifted Greece’s credit rating from selective default. The
yen fell for a sixth day against the euro before the  Bank of
Japan  starts a two-day meeting, with newly elected Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pressing policy makers to increase stimulus.
Sweden’s krona jumped after the central bank signaled it
probably won’t cut  interest rates  next year, even as it lowered
its benchmark today.  “All the movements today are tied to the cliff,” said
 Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. in  New York . “The markets are acting as if something
is going to get done and maybe this week.”  The euro added 0.5 percent to $1.3229 at 5 p.m. New York
time, reaching the highest level since May 2. The shared
currency was up 0.9 percent to 111.40 yen.  Japan ’s currency fell
0.4 percent to 84.21 per dollar, after falling yesterday to the
lowest since April 12, 2011.  The  implied volatility  of Group of Seven currencies fell to
the lowest level in five years, according to a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index. The measure slid to 7.06 percent, the least since
August 2007.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to 79.329 after
dropping to the lowest since Oct. 18. There was reduced demand
for the safety of Treasuries amid speculation U.S. lawmakers
will agree on a way to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff.  House Speaker  John Boehner  will continue to negotiate with
President  Barack Obama  today, and push a “Plan B” to the
president’s proposed budget offer that would raise taxes by $1.2
trillion and boost tax rates for households earning more than
$400,000 a year, a Republican aide said.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Boehner’s plan isn’t
balanced and can’t pass the Democratic-controlled Senate. “The
president is hopeful that both sides can work out remaining
differences and reach a solution,” Carney said in a statement.  The krona strengthened 0.3 percent to 8.7347 per euro, and
climbed 0.8 percent to 6.6028 per dollar after the Stockholm-
based Riksbank suggested it doesn’t expect to cut borrowing
costs next year.  Riksbank Stance  The central bank reduced its benchmark rate by a quarter of
a percentage point to 1 percent. The decision was predicted by
all except one of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Riksbank said it expects the rate to be at 1.1 percent in a
year, versus an October forecast of 1.3 percent.  The euro climbed versus most of its 16 major counterparts
after S&P lifted  Greece ’s long-term rating to B-, citing the
completion of the nation’s distressed debt buyback and the
determination of euro zone member states to preserve Greece’s
membership in the currency bloc.  Gains in the shared currency may be limited as the 14-day
relative strength index versus the dollar rose to 71.3. A
reading of 70 indicates an asset’s value may have risen too far,
too quickly and is due for a correction.  Annual View  The yen has lost 12.5 percent this year, the worst
performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar weakened 3.3
percent and the euro has dropped 1.1 percent.  The Japanese currency may decline to a 31-month low against
the dollar, according to UBS AG. Breaking 84.20 per dollar could
see the currency fall to 94.13 yen, the 38 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the yen’s appreciation from June 2007 to October
2011.  Japan’s new leader told reporters he requested  BOJ
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to agree on an accord with the 2
percent inflation target, instead of the current 1 percent goal,
when the two met today.  The central bank will discuss setting a price target when
policy makes meet, the Nikkei newspaper reported, without saying
where it got the information. A final decision is expected to be
made in January, according to the report.  “Fears that the new Abe government is going to announce
something quite drastic are diverting flows into other
currencies,” said  Peter Frank , global head of currency strategy
at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  