-- Yoga, AstraZeneca, Intel, UN: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-17T13:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/yoga-astrazeneca-intel-un-intellectual-property.html
A sequence of yoga poses cannot be
copyrighted, a federal judge in  Los Angeles  ruled.  The Dec. 14 ruling resolves a dispute over whether  Bikram’s
Yoga College of India  -- the chain of studios owned by Bikram
Choudhury that offers yoga in a hot setting -- can receive U.S.
copyright protection for yoga exercises. Bikram sued several
yoga studios and their owners last year alleging that their use
of his choice and order of poses violated his copyright.  The  U.S. Copyright Office  in June said that a sequence
couldn’t be protected under copyright laws. “A compilation of
exercises or the selection and arrangement of yoga poses will be
refused registration,” the agency said in a release published
in the Federal Register.  In the Dec. 14 ruling, U.S. District JudgeOtis Wright
noted that while books or photographs depicting a compilation
can be copyrighted, federal protection doesn’t cover the
selection, coordination or arrangement of exercise. Wright held
that “even if the manner in which Choudhury arranged the
sequence is unique, the sequence would not be copyrightable
subject matter because individual yoga poses are not
copyrightable subject matter.”  The ruling won’t end the litigation because the suit also
claims trademark infringement, copyright of the dialogue that
accompanies the sequence and a violation of the teacher-
certification agreements. A trial is still scheduled for Jan. 29
on those remaining claims, said Eric Maier, a partner at Maier
Shoch LLP who represents  Evolation Yoga .  Yoga to the People , a New York studio that employed the
sequence of poses in a hot studio and was also sued by Choudhury
last year, settled its lawsuit on Dec. 3. According to a joint
statement, Yoga to the People will stop offering the same
sequence of 26 poses by Feb. 15. Jordan Susman, who represents
Yoga to the People, didn’t respond to an e-mail yesterday
seeking comment on Wright’s ruling.  Robert Gilchrest, a lawyer at Silverman Sclar Shin & Byrne
PLLC in Los Angeles who represents Bikram Yoga and Choudhury,
also didn’t respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment.  Maier said his client had discussed settling with Bikram
Yoga before talks stalled. “They insisted that we had to agree
that they had a copyright over the sequence,” Maier said. “We
refused because we believed there was no such copyright.”  The case is Bikram’s Yoga College of India LP v. Evolation
Yoga LLC, 11-cv-05506, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles). The case that settled Dec. 3 is
Bikram’s Yoga College of India LP v. Yoga to the People Inc.,
11-cv-07998, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles). A third case still pending is Bikram’s Yoga
College of India LP v. Raiz, 11-cv-7377, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Patents  AstraZeneca Can Block Generic Version of Crestor until 2016  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, won
an appeals court ruling that will block generic versions of its
top-selling cholesterol medicine Crestor in the U.S. until July
2016.  The patent on the medicine is valid and enforceable, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington said
in an  opinion  posted on its website Dec. 14. The court rejected
challenges made by generic-drug makers including  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  and
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)   The ruling ensures AstraZeneca won’t lose sales of a
product that brought in $2.3 billion in U.S. revenue in the
first nine months of the year. Total sales of Crestor, whose
chemical name is rosuvastatin, account for 22 percent of London-
based AstraZeneca’s revenue.  The generic-drug companies, except Apotex Inc., conceded
that they infringed the patent for the compound rosuvastatin and
focused their challenge on claims the patent covered an obvious
variation of earlier compounds.  They also claimed AstraZeneca and patent partner  Shionogi &
Co. (4507) , based in Osaka, Japan, didn’t disclose important
information to the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office . Failure to
report information that could bear on the originality of a
product could lead to a patent being thrown out.  The appeals court panel in a 2-1 decision upheld a lower
court ruling that rejected those arguments, and that Apotex’s
copy would infringe the patent. The challengers also included
 Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (ARBP) , Par Pharmaceutical Cos. and  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)   The Federal Circuit in February upheld the dismissal of
Crestor suits over patents that expire in 2018 and 2021 that
cover the methods of using the active ingredient for certain
types of patients.  The case is In Re Rosuvastatin Calcium Patent Litigation,
2010-1460, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  The lower court combined case is In re Rosuvastatin Calcium
Patent Litigation, 08-1949, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent: RE37,314.  Intel Wins First Round in Patent Fight That Threatens Chips  Intel Corp. (INTC)  won the first round of a patent-infringement
case that some lawmakers said may threaten jobs at the company’s
U.S. manufacturing plants.  The world’s largest semiconductor maker didn’t infringe the
patents of closely held  X2Y Attenuators LLC , U.S. International
Trade Commission Judge  David Shaw  said in a  notice  posted on the
agency’s website on Dec. 14. The next step is a possible review
of the judge’s findings by the full commission, which has the
power to block imports of products if they infringe U.S.
patents.  Lawmakers from both U.S. political parties have taken
interest in the outcome, saying a loss for Intel could harm U.S.
jobs. That’s drawn the case into a broader dispute over whether
patent owners that don’t make products should be able to use the
ITC’s import-ban power in fights over licensing fees.  After workers in the U.S. do initial manufacturing work,
Intel uses plants in other countries for final assembly, leaving
its chips and the products that use them vulnerable to an ITC
import ban.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which use Intel
chips, are also named in the ITC complaint.  The X2Y patents cover ways to overcome electromagnetic
interference that can damage electronics. The company, which
develops methods for improving the performance of circuits,
licenses its inventions to Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
biggest maker of computer-memory chips.  “X2Y remains confident that the Commission will protect
true innovation regardless of the size of the innovator and will
continue to vigorously enforce its  intellectual property  against
these infringers,” X2Y said in an e-mailed statement
distributed by a spokeswoman, Anne Standley.  Civil suits that X2Y filed in federal court in its hometown
of Erie, Pennsylvania, are on hold pending the outcome of the
ITC case. The commission has set a target date of April 15 to
complete the investigation.  “We are gratified with this result and will continue to
defend ourselves in the case pending in U.S. district court,”
 Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based
Intel, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is In the Matter of Microprocessors, Components
Thereof, and Products Containing Same, 337-781, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Copyright Royalty Board Rules for Sirius, Stock Jumps  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the U.S. satellite-radio broadcaster,
rose the most in four months after a favorable ruling by the
 Copyright Royalty Board  on how much the company has to pay in
music royalties through 2017.  The judges that make up the board determined that the rates
for Sirius to pay SoundExchange, an organization that collects
royalties for musicians, will increase to 9 percent of gross
revenue in 2013 from 8 percent this year. The fees will then
increase by half a percentage point every year until 2017.  The costs of the fees are passed on as charges to Sirius
customers, said Bryan Kraft, an analyst at  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  in New York. The “manageable” royalty increase means the
New York-based company won’t see a defection of customers
because of higher rates, he said.  “If the rate increase were larger, you’d have to wonder if
Sirius can pass that through,” Kraft said. “Because the step-
ups are small, they can be passed through quite easily. It
removes an uncertainty.”  Sirius shares  gained 7 percent to $2.91 at the close in New
York on Dec. 14, the biggest one-day gain since Aug. 8. The
stock has advanced 60 percent this year.  For more copyright news, click here.  Internet  Google Said to End FTC Probe With Letter Promising Changes  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is poised to offer voluntary concessions that
will end a 20-month U.S. antitrust probe of its business
practices without any enforcement action being taken, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Google, which has been under investigation by the Federal
Trade Commission, is preparing a letter promising not to copy
content from rival websites without permission and to allow
advertisers to compare data from ad campaigns with their
performance on other Internet search engines, one of the people
said yesterday. That will bring the antitrust investigation to a
close without a lawsuit or settlement, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  An end to the probe without enforcement action would be a
blow to competitors including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , and
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  An alliance of such e-commerce and Web-search
companies have pressed the agency to act, claiming Google’s
dominance of Internet search combined with favoring its own
services in answers to queries violates antitrust laws.  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, declined to comment on
whether Google is preparing to announce concessions in the case
or whether the FTC is preparing to close the matter without
taking action. Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman for the FTC, also
declined to comment.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” Kovacevich said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  UN Telecom Treaty Approved Amid U.S. Web-Censorship Concerns  An agreement to update 24-year-old United Nations
telecommunications rules was approved against the opposition of
countries including the U.S. and the U.K., whose officials
walked out on the talks on concerns about Internet regulation
and censorship.  The new pact includes measures that would give countries a
right to access international telecommunications services and
the ability to block spam. The delegations that declined to sign
the amended text, including Canada, Denmark, Australia, Norway
and Greece, argued those measures would pave the way for
government censorship.  The countries that won’t sign the new treaty will continue
to be bound by the 1988 version, said Sarah Parkes, a
spokeswoman for the International Telecommunication Union.  “What is clear from the ITU meeting in Dubai is that many
governments want to increase regulation and censorship of the
Internet,” Google Inc., the world’s biggest search engine, said
in a statement. “We stand with the countries who refuse to sign
this treaty and also with the millions of voices who have joined
us to support a free and open web.”  Talks at the World Conference on International
Telecommunications in Dubai this week were marked by
disagreements between anti-regulation countries, including the
U.S. and many European states, and a group that argued for some
Internet measures to protect and advance networks, including
Russia, China and several Middle Eastern nations.  For more, click here.  McAlpine Sues U.K. Speaker’s Wife Bercow Over Twitter Post  Alastair McAlpine, the former U.K. politician wrongly
identified as a pedophile after a false report by the British
Broadcasting Corp., sued a lawmaker’s wife over her post about
him on Twitter Inc.’s social-media service.  The libel lawsuit against Sally Bercow, the spouse of House
of Commons Speaker John Bercow, was filed Dec. 7 in London,
court records released Dec. 13 show. McAlpine, 70, had
threatened legal action against as many as 10,000 people who
posted or re-posted about him after the  BBC  implied last month
he sexually abused a boy in the 1970s.  “I am still hopeful that we will be able to reach a
sensible agreement to settle this matter” without “the need to
proceed to a trial,” McAlpine’s lawyer, Andrew Reid, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The BBC, the world’s biggest broadcaster, agreed to pay
McAlpine 185,000 pounds ($298,000) after the Nov. 2 error on its
“Newsnight” report, which gave hints about the ex-politician’s
identity without naming him. Before the mistake was uncovered,
Twitter postings accusing McAlpine were already spreading,
setting the stage for the biggest libel case of its kind in
Britain, media lawyers including Ruth Collard of Carter-Ruck in
London have said.  The speaker’s office declined to comment on the court
filing.  McAlpine, who was deputy chairman of the U.K. Conservative
Party under  Margaret Thatcher , wants Twitter users with fewer
than 500 followers to apologize and donate to the BBC Children
in Need charity, he said last month. Bercow and other Twitter
users who have more followers were threatened with tougher legal
action.  Industrial Espionage  HP Boardroom Investigator Sentenced to Three Months Prison  Bryan Wagner, a private investigator who helped steal
telephone records for an internal investigation into media leaks
by Hewlett-Packard Co. board members, was sentenced to three
months in prison.  Wagner was sentenced Dec. 13, according to a statement from
U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco on Dec. 14. Wagner
pleaded guilty in 2007 to conspiracy and aggravated identity
theft. He admitted to using the Social Security number of an
unidentified journalist to obtain the reporter’s telephone
records to pursue the source of the leak, a practice called
pretexting.  Hewlett-Packard Chairman Patricia Dunn was fired in 2006
for approving the boardroom spying, which spurred a national
debate over identity theft. Hewlett-Packard contracted with
Action Research Group in Florida. Action Research hired Wagner
of Littleton, Colorado, who posed as the targets of the
investigation to obtain their phone records.  The probe of Hewlett-Packard and its investigators moved
Congress and the California Legislature to pass laws prohibiting
the release of phone records without consent. Hewlett-Packard,
based in Palo Alto, California, in 2008 settled with reporters
over claims their privacy was invaded by the company’s
investigation.  Cynthia Chin Young Lie, a federal public defender who
represented Wagner, didn’t immediately return a call to her
office for comment on the sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Wagner, 07-00016, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  Interviews  Entertainment Lawyer Stresses Touring in Music Business Don Passman, an entertainment lawyer with Gang, Tyre, Ramer & Brown
in Beverly Hills, California, discussed his book “All You Need
To Know About The Music Business” with  Bloomberg Radio  on Dec.
14. To hear the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  