-- Yuengling Beer Billionaire Beats Sam Adams in Craft Craze
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-12-17T23:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/yuengling-beer-billionaire-beats-sam-adams-in-craft-craze.html
(Corrects location of Pottsville in the third paragraph.)  As a teenager stacking barrels after
school at his family’s brewery in Pottsville,  Pennsylvania ,
Richard L. “Dick” Yuengling, Jr. was encouraged by plant
workers to avoid a career in the family business. America’s
taste for national brands such as Budweiser, Coors and Miller,
they said, was going to put them all out of a job.  Undeterred, Yuengling bought D.G Yuengling & Son Inc. from
his father in 1985, and built it into the maker of the country’s
best-selling craft beer brand. As the company’s value soared in
the past decade amid a surge in demand for craft brews,
Yuengling became a billionaire.  “We stay nuts and bolts -- we make beer,” Yuengling, 69,
said in an interview last month on the floor of his brewery in
Pottsville, an old coal town 75 miles northwest of Philadelphia.
“People pick up our products today because they are tasteful
and they have character.”  D.G Yuengling & Son sold more than 2.5 million barrels of
beer last year, a 15 percent increase from 2010, according to
the company. Its flagship offering, Yuengling Traditional Lager,
a medium-body brew, was the best-selling super-premium beer and
the fifteenth most-popular beer total in the U.S. in 2011,
according to Norwalk, Connecticut-based industry researcher
Beverage Information Group. The lager and five other beer
varietals helped Yuengling pass  Boston Beer Co. (SAM) , the maker of
the Sam Adams brands, as the largest U.S.-owned beer maker by
volume sold in 2011.  “Dick is an American original,” said Jim Koch, CEO of
Boston Beer, in a phone interview. “For years, people thought
they were smarter than Dick and told him to do things
differently. He never did, and for 27 years he has proved them
wrong.”  Small Footprint  Yuengling said the company has little debt and keeps its
marketing and distribution costs lower than most of its peers by
having a smaller geographic footprint -- its beers are only
available in 14 U.S. states -- and selling more draft beer,
which has bigger profit margins and constitutes 30 percent of
its business, three times the industry average, according to
Yuengling.  Based on the company’s stated 2012 production of 2.9
million barrels and the enterprise value-to-earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization multiple of
Boston Beer, closely held Yuengling is valued at $1.8 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Enterprise value is
defined as market capitalization plus total debt minus cash.  Yuengling declined to comment on the company’s value or
profitability. He has never appeared on an international wealth
ranking.  ‘Doing Well’  “I know we’re doing well,” Yuengling said, smoking a
Marlboro Light while sitting in his brewery’s tasting room.
“We’re okay financially. We can go to wherever we want to go to
open new states, there’s a lot of distributors who want our
brand. It’s a good addition to anyone’s portfolio because it’s
profitable to them.”  Together, Belgium-based  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , which
sells more than 200 brands, and MillerCoors LLC, a 70-brand
joint venture of London-based  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and Denver-based
Miller Coors Brewing Co., control almost 80 percent of the U.S.
beer market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Imported
beer accounts for about another 14 percent of the business.
Yuengling and other craft breweries make up the rest.  “The industry isn’t growing so much, so the gains that the
Sam Adams and Yuengling brands are making are coming out of
someone else’s pocket,” said Kenneth Shea, a beverage industry
analyst with Bloomberg Industries in Princeton,  New Jersey .  Beer Consumption  While U.S. beer consumption fell 1.3 percent in 2011 to
2.78 billion cases, the super-premium, craft beer and malt
beverage segment grew almost eight percent, according to
Beverage Information Group. Wine grew 3.1 percent and spirits
grew 3.4 percent in the same period.  To counter the rise of brands such as Sam Adams and
Yuengling, beer makers are buying or creating their own craft
beers. In 1995, MillerCoors released Blue Moon, a medium-bodied
fruity beer often served with an orange slice. Sales of Blue
Moon increased 21 percent in 2011 to narrow Yuengling’s sales
lead to about 935,000 barrels.  Yuengling’s roots in the U.S. date to 1829, when his German
immigrant great-great-grandfather, David G. Yuengling, built a
brewery in Pottsville to serve the region’s expanding German
beer-drinking population. His first year of production yielded
600 barrels.  In 1831, the facility burned down and a new one was built
closer to a spring that now lies in the center of town. That
brewery still stands, producing as much as 600,000 barrels
annually and giving Yuengling the enviable marketing claim as
America’s oldest brewery.  Alcohol Abolition  The company expanded with the rise in beer-drinking
immigrants in the northeastern U.S. Wagons full of beer from
local breweries, including Yuengling, would park outside
Pennsylvania coal mines to serve the workers before, during and
after work.  Prohibition, a period from 1920 to 1933 when the U.S.
outlawed the production and sale of alcoholic beverages, pushed
the business to the edge of being shuttered, according to
“Yuengling: A History of America’s Oldest Brewery,” by Mark A.
Noon.  The company weathered the period by opening a creamery,
producing legal near-beer with 0.5 percent alcohol, an alcohol-
free children’s version and a 2 percent alcohol elixir available
only at pharmacies.  Grain Rationing  Dick Yuengling grew up in Pottsville watching  Brooklyn
Dodgers  and  New York  Yankees baseball games on the first cable
television system, installed in the area in 1948. By the time he
was 10, he said knew he wanted to take over the family business.  He began working part time at the brewery with his father
and grandfather five years later. At the time, Yuengling and
other regional breweries were coming under increasing pressure
from national brands, which were expanding amid a barrage of TV
ads and shifting consumer tastes for lighter-tasting brews.  During World War II, brands such as Budweiser and Coors
began using less grain in their beers as the U.S. government
rationed commodities for the war effort. Following the conflict,
they didn’t restore their recipes because their customers liked
the lighter beers. Yuengling, which didn’t alter its  recipe  much
during or after the war, was getting bypassed in the market.  “We were out of business and too dumb to know it,”
Yuengling said. “All the breweries in the ‘60s and early ‘70s
were going under.’’  Pottsville Pricing  Yuengling pushed his father to cut costs by automating
their bottling operations, one of many initiatives that the two
butted heads over. Tired of the fighting, Yuengling left the
business in 1973 to start a beer and wine distributorship. He
returned to the family business 11 years later as his father
developed  Alzheimer’s disease .  In 1985, he sold the distribution company and purchased the
company from his father for an undisclosed sum. Annual
production was 137,000 barrels that year.  At Maroons, a Pottsville bar named for the local National
Football League franchise  locals contend  won the national title
in 1925, Yuengling paraphernalia lines the walls along with
sports memorabilia. Five Yuengling offerings are on tap.  As with other watering holes in the city of 14,000, a
Yuengling draft costs $2.50, based on a company policy to keep
prices low for its beer in Pottsville. The practice, Yuengling
said, is to thank local customers who have remained loyal to the
brand and its unchanging flavor as Budweiser, Miller and other
brands grew through ubiquitous marketing campaigns.  Tampa Brewery  Outside Pottsville, where the company employs 175 people,
Yuengling’s strategy is to sell their products within 75 cents
of the cost of a Budweiser and Miller in bars, and close to them
in retail stores. Shadowing national brands on price contrasts
with other craft brewers, who aim to sell their products at a
premium, according to Boston Beer’s Koch.  That strategy has allowed Yuengling to increase sales
volume more than 2,000 percent since he bought the company. In
his first decade of ownership, word of mouth was enough to
double the business.  By 1999, he was having trouble meeting demand. Yuengling
decided to pull his product out of  New England  and other markets
to focus on the Pennsylvania while building a second, $50
million brewery in Pottsville.  That year another chance to expand presented itself when
the family owners of Stroh Brewery Co., a Detroit-based brewer
founded in 1850, decided to shutter most of its business.
Yuengling bought Stroh’s 1.6 million barrel capacity plant in
Tampa,  Florida . Within six months, it allowed him to fill every
order.  ‘Drinking Better’  Two years later, the second Pottsville brewery opened and
Yuengling began broad selling in the south. The added capacity
dovetailed with momentum in the craft beer movement --encouraged
by consumers who demanded more flavors -- that has enabled
brands such as Yuengling and Sam Adams to grow in a tepid
market.  ‘‘It’s simple: people are drinking less and drinking
better,” said Koch. “There’s not much more to it than that.
We’ve seen the same trend before in wine and in hard liquor.”  Yuengling, who expanded into  Ohio  in 2011, says he has no
immediate plans to further expand capacity or enter new markets.  “Run your brewery at capacity or close to it, that’s how
you are successful financially,” he said.  His market share is about 10 to 15 percent in the states he
sells in, good enough for a national market share of about 1.2
percent, according to Bloomberg Industry’s Shea.  Jeans, Sneakers  Yuengling doesn’t exhibit the kind of wealth his business
affords him, preferring to wear blue jeans, sneakers and
Yuengling-logoed shirts around the office. He lives 20 blocks
from the brewery, and is known to get up before sunrise to plow
snow.  In the evening, he drinks a couple of beers. If Yuengling
isn’t for sale, he’ll drink Sam Adams or Sierra Nevada.
Associates who order wine or cocktails are viewed with
suspicion.  “We’re in the beer business, so that’s what I support,”
he said. “I find it kind of strange that beer wholesale owners,
I see them with a glass of wine sometimes. What the hell are you
doing here? You’re promoting a competitor!”  ‘American-Owned’  Yuengling says he has no plans to sell the company in a
public offering or to a potential buyer. He hears out investment
banker pitches and then sets them aside. The dominant beer
makers have stopped asking if he’s interested in selling. Two of
Yuengling’s four daughters, Jennifer and Wendy, hold management
positions at the company. He hopes a third, who clashed with him
much like he butted heads with his father, will want to return
to the business too.  “We put ‘American-owned, family operated’ right on the
case. And you know what? It means something to some consumers,”
he said, a smile emerging as he pulled a drag from his
cigarette. “It doesn’t mean something to everybody. But they
are anti-corporate America, the younger people today, and maybe
rightfully so.”  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  