-- Zon Multimedia, Sonaecom Rise on Unit Merger Plan: Lisbon Mover
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-12-17T17:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/zon-multimedia-sonaecom-rise-on-unit-merger-plan-lisbon-mover.html
Zon Multimedia SGPS SA (ZON)  and Sonaecom
SGPS SA advanced in Lisbon trading after an agreement was
reached on a plan to merge Sonaecom’s Optimus unit with Zon,
 Portugal ’s biggest cable-television provider.  Lisbon-based Zon climbed 6.2 percent to 2.99 euros, the
 highest  close since July 2011. Sonaecom added 0.9 percent to
1.55 euros after earlier rising as much as 17 percent, the
biggest intraday jump since October 2008. Sonaecom parent
company  Sonae (SON)  SGPS SA advanced 3.9 percent.  “We have defended a merger of the two companies for a long
time,” Alexandra Delgado, a Lisbon-based analyst at Banco
Comercial Portugues SA, said in a note to clients. “This
agreement, as a first step to a possible merger, is therefore
positive,” she said. Delgado has buy ratings on Sonaecom and
Zon.  Sonaecom said Dec. 14 that it agreed with Angolan investor
Isabel dos Santos to recommend a merger of  Optimus (MLOPT) , Portugal’s
smallest mobile-phone operator, and Zon. Dos Santos is the
biggest  shareholder  in Zon, with a 28.8 percent stake held
through Kento Holding Ltd. and Jadeium BV.  Sonae SGPS formed a partnership last year with a company
controlled by dos Santos to open a chain of Angolan
hypermarkets. Zon was spun off from  Portugal Telecom (PTC)  SGPS SA
following Sonaecom’s failed bid for the former phone monopoly in
2007. Sonaecom competes with Portugal Telecom’s TMN mobile unit
and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  for mobile customers in Portugal, while
Zon competes against Portugal Telecom’s Meo cable unit.  Portugal Telecom shares fell 1 percent to 3.79 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  