-- Zurich Insurance Sees $700 Million of Hurricane Sandy Claims
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-12-17T08:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-17/zurich-insurance-sees-700-million-of-hurricane-sandy-claims.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest insurer, said claims from Superstorm Sandy
are estimated at about $700 million.  That includes $40 million related to Farmers Re in
connection with the reinsurance provided to the Farmers
Exchanges, the Zurich-based company said today in a statement.
The claims will be booked in the insurer’s fourth-quarter
results, which will be released on Feb. 14.  “The total Sandy loss burden is somewhat higher than we
expected,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with
Vontobel Holding AG who has a hold rating on the stock, said in
a note to investors. That won’t prevent Zurich Insurance from
paying a dividend of 17 Swiss francs ($18.53) per share from
full-year earnings, he said.  Total market losses from the  Hurricane Sandy , which made
landfall in the U.S. on Oct. 29, could be as much as $25
billion, Zurich-based  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  said last month. Before
hitting the densely populated Northeast coast of the U.S., where
a  storm surge  resulted in extensive flooding and damage to
property, Sandy affected the Caribbean and the Bahamas.  Zurich Insurance fell 0.1 percent to 239.40 francs as of
9:22 a.m. in Swiss trading, paring this year’s gain to 13
percent and valuing the company a 35.5 billion francs.  Natural Forces  Zurich Insurance Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said
on Nov. 29 that he was confident that the company’s cash flows
and capital position will allow an “attractive and sustainable
dividend.”  “This storm has shown us once again how powerful natural
forces can be and what risks they pose,” Senn said today.
“Zurich’s strong balance sheet, healthy cash flows and risk
expertise enable us to be there for our customers when they need
us and to deliver on our promise.”  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, estimated
its claims burden at about $900 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  