-- 
Australia Unemployment to Drop to 4.5% on Hiring Incentives, Swan Predicts

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-05-01T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/australian-treasurer-swan-says-jobless-rate-will-decline-to-4-5-percent.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
next week’s budget will forecast the creation within two years
of 500,000 new jobs that will reduce the nation’s unemployment
rate to 4.5 percent.  The government will include incentives in its May 10 budget
encouraging companies to employ people from outside the main
workforce, including older Australians, Swan told Channel 10
television’s “Meet The Press” program yesterday. The jobs are
likely to be created by May 2013, he said in a separate
statement after the interview.  “We need to harness the talents of more Australians,”
Swan said in the statement. That would “ensure they have the
training and skills they need, recognizing employment has always
been the path to a better life.”  Australia ’s jobless rate in March fell to 4.9 percent from
5 percent, matching a two-year low set in December, as the
number of people employed rose by 37,800. Mining and energy
companies in the world’s biggest coal and iron ore exporter are
boosting workforces on increased demand from  Asia  for resources.  The benefits of the mining boom haven’t reached all
Australians, resulting in the emergence of a “patchwork”
economy over the past 15 years, according to Swan’s statement.
The budget aimed to “spread the benefits of a stronger economy
so the opportunities are shared by all Australians,” he said.  Swan cited a A$6.5 billion ($7.1 billion) reduction in
revenue in the year ending June 30, partly because of natural
disasters. Queensland, Australia’s northeastern state, was
struck by Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February resulting in sugar-
and banana-producing areas being destroyed. The storm followed
two months of flooding that killed 36 people in the state, shut
mines and wiped out crops.  Financial Crisis  “We have had to write down revenues for this year already
by A$30 billion directly related to the global financial
crisis,” Swan said in the television interview, reaffirming his
aim to return to surplus. “Softness in revenue which now flows
from the natural disasters and continuing uncertainty and
accumulated losses is A$6.5 billion this year.”  Swan in November forecast a A$41.5 billion deficit in the
current fiscal year, followed by a A$12.3 billion shortfall the
next year. The government projects a A$3.1 billion surplus in
2012-13.  The “rapid expansion” of many of Australia’s Asian
trading partners was fueling their investment in the country’s
resources, Swan said. ‘  ‘As this investment hits top gear, we don’t want the
government and private sector chasing the same resources -- that
would just push prices up,” he said.  Natural Disasters  Disruptions from the natural disasters cut mining shipments
and unexpectedly sent Australia’s trade balance into deficit in
February for the first time in almost a year, a government
report showed last month. The trade shortfall was A$205 million,
the first time imports exceeded exports since March 2010.  The May 10 budget will address the challenges of lower  tax
revenue  due to the disasters and longer-term price pressures
from the mining boom, Swan said in the statement. Australia will
have to restrain budget spending and build surpluses as its
economy strengthened, he said.  “We need to make tough decisions now to avoid much tougher
decisions in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  