-- 
Bank of the Ozarks, Premier American Acquire More Failed Lenders

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-30T00:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/bank-of-the-ozarks-premier-american-acquire-more-failed-lenders.html
Bank of the Ozarks Inc. (OZRK)  and Premier
American Bank, U.S. lenders that have been growing through
acquisitions, agreed to purchase two distressed banks each as
financial firms  fail  after the real estate collapse.  Regulators shut five banks today, two each in  Florida  and
 Georgia , and one in  Michigan , according to statements on the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  website . The failures drained
$643.2 million from the FIDC deposit-insurance fund.  Premier American, a firm backed by private-equity investors,
 agreed to acquire   First National Bank  of Central Florida and
Cortez Community Bank in Brooksville, Florida, the FDIC said.
Bank of the Ozarks, based in  Little Rock , Arkansas, will pick up
a total of 19 branches by acquiring First Choice Community Bank
in  Dallas , Georgia, and Park Avenue Bank of Valdosta, Georgia.  “We are considered one of the strongest and best
capitalized community banks in the country,” Bank of the Ozarks
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George Gleason said today
in a statement. “We have a long-term commitment to growing our
customer base in our Georgia and Florida communities.”  Bank of the Ozarks declined 7 cents to $44.53 in regular
trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. It has gained 13
percent in the past year.  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell as much as 45 percent
from the October 2007 peak through last August, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. The FDIC said 361 lenders have been
shut down since the start of 2008, including 39 this year.  Making Acquisitions  Bank of the Ozarks acquires about $975 million in deposits
with its transactions. The bank has purchased seven lenders
through the FDIC since March 2010, and now has 114 branches.  Premier American, run by Daniel M. Healy, now has 37
branches and about $3 billion in assets after adding more than
$420 million in this week’s acquisitions. Healy runs Bond Street
Holdings LLC, which raised about $440 million and purchased
Premier American in January 2010.  Community Central Bank of Mount Clemens, Michigan, was shut
today by a state regulator. Talmer Bank & Trust of Troy paid a
premium of 0.25 percent to acquire about $385 million of
Community Central’s deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 