-- 
Benin Begins Parliament Vote as Ruler’s Party Seeks to Establish Majority

-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-04-30T17:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/beninese-voters-cast-ballots-in-election-as-ruler-s-party-seeks-majority.html
Beninese voted in a parliamentary
election that supporters of President Thomas  Boni Yayi  will seek
to win with a majority, a month after he secured a second term
as the West African state’s leader.  “I will win the majority that helps my government to build
a country that is economically prosperous,” Boni Yayi said after
casting his ballot in Cotonou, the commercial capital, today.  The opposition currently occupies most of the seats in the
National Assembly, holding 49 compared with 34 for the Forces
Couris pour un Benin Emergent, which backs Boni Yayi.  The incumbent on March 13 won 53 percent of the
presidential vote. Opposition leader  Adrien Houngbedji , who came
second, alleged widespread voter fraud and rejected Boni Yayi’s
victory, with his supporters protesting against the result in
Porto Novo.  For the parliamentary vote, the opposition “won’t accept
the masquerade that helped re-elect President Boni Yayi,”
Houngbedji said in remarks broadcast on Cotonou-based Office de
Radiodiffusion et Television on April 28.  Benin, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s sixth-biggest cotton grower,
was hit by heavy rains in September and October. The resulting
floods cut the outlook for growth this year to 3.4 percent from
4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda told the
 International Monetary Fund  in February.  Nineteen political parties fielded 3,154 candidates in
today’s election, Joseph Gnonlonfoun, head of the Independent
National Electoral Commission, said in a phone interview from
the capital, Porto Novo. Voting was officially scheduled to end
at 4 p.m., with results expected in about 10 days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 