-- 
Berkshire’s Rose ‘Very Bullish’ on Recovery, Led by Worldwide, China Trade

-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-30T13:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/berkshire-s-rose-very-bullish-on-recovery-led-by-worldwide-china-trade.html
Matt Rose , chief executive officer
of the railroad business at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , said he is confident about economic expansion led by trade
with  Asia .  “I’m very, very bullish about the recovery,” Rose said
today in an interview in Omaha, Nebraska, before Berkshire’s
annual meeting. “It’s really driven by worldwide demand,
specifically China.”  The  U.S. economy  has expanded for seven straight quarters,
with gross domestic product increasing at a 1.8 percent annual
rate in the three months ended March 31. Exports to China rose
to $91.9 billion last year from  $69.5 billion  in 2009, according
to data from the U.S. Census Bureau.  Commerce is expanding on the “big draw of commodities, as
well as finished products going to  China ,” said Rose, who sold
his Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad to Berkshire last year
for $26.5 billion. The economic recovery is “better than what
people report.”  Berkshire bought Burlington Northern in February 2010 in
Buffett’s largest acquisition, a deal he called an “all-in
wager” on the U.S. economy. Burlington Northern, the second-
biggest U.S. railroad by sales, said revenue advanced 20 percent
to  $16.9 billion  in 2010 from the year before. Larger rival
Union Pacific Corp.’s annual revenue also climbed 20 percent
last year.  ‘Excess Cash’  Buffett has been withdrawing funds from the railroad after
taking on $8 billion of debt to help finance the stock-and-cash
acquisition. Berkshire took $2.25 billion in dividends from  Fort
Worth , Texas-based Burlington Northern through February, almost
triple the railroad’s payout rate prior to the takeover. The sum
includes a $1 billion payment in February.  “It was excess cash,” Rose said. Asked whether dividends
will continue at the same pace as in the first 13 months of
Berkshire’s ownership, Rose said “We hope so, we’ll see.”  Buffett is adding to a cash position at Berkshire that
ended December at $38.2 billion, its highest since year-end
2007. Berkshire, which doesn’t pay a dividend to shareholders or
buy back stock, is seeking acquisitions and facing payments on
debt it issued last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Betty Liu in Omaha at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  