-- 
Berkshire Net Tumbles More Than 50% to $1.51 Billion on Catastrophe Costs

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-30T15:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/berkshire-net-tumbles-more-than-half-to-1-51-billion-on-catastrophe-costs.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  said first-quarter profit fell 58 percent as catastrophes
led by  Japan ’s earthquake last month caused an underwriting loss
at the company’s insurance units.  Net income dropped to $1.51 billion from $3.63 billion the
same period last year, Berkshire said today in a statement.
Natural-disaster losses exceeded $1.6 billion. Operating
earnings declined 28 percent to $1.59 billion from $2.22
billion. Buffett, 80, is Berkshire’s chairman, chief executive
officer and largest shareholder.  Earthquakes in Japan and  New Zealand  and Cyclone Yasi in
 Australia  lifted claims at reinsurers including  Munich Re , the
world’s largest. Berkshire is third-biggest by policy sales
among reinsurers, companies that provide backup coverage to
primary carriers.  “We had some major catastrophes in the Pacific Asian
areas, and that hit the reinsurance industry particularly
hard,” Buffett said today at Berkshire’s annual meeting in
Omaha,  Nebraska .  Berkshire’s Class A shares have risen 3.6 percent this year
in New York Stock Exchange trading. They declined $55 to
$124,750 yesterday.  The insurance segment posted an underwriting loss of $821
million, compared with a profit of $226 million a year earlier.
The Japan earthquake cost the firm $1.06 billion, a tremblor in
Christchurch, New Zealand $412 million, and the Australian
catastrophes $195 million, according to the statement.  ‘Most Loss-Afflicted’  It was “one of the most loss-afflicted first quarters in
the history of reinsurance in terms of natural catastrophes,”
Munich Re Chief Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard said
April 20 when he told investors his company was unprofitable in
the period.  Berkshire had a loss of $82 million on derivatives and
investments compared with $1.41 billion gain on the holdings a
year earlier. Liabilities on the company’s so-called equity-
index puts widen when four stock indexes fall further from the
levels they were at when Buffett made the deals near the
market’s peak in 2006 and 2007.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, one of four benchmarks
covered by Buffett’s bets, dropped 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, led by declines after the earthquake in that country.
The stock-price declines in Japan are a “buying opportunity”
for equity investors, Buffett said at a news conference in
Bangalore in March. The other three benchmarks, including the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, advanced in the period.  ‘Very, Very Bullish’  Profit from regulated businesses, such as the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe railroad and utility unit MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co., surged to $908 million from $505 million a year
earlier.  Matt Rose , the CEO of Burlington Northern, said he is
confident about economic expansion led by trade with  Asia .  “I’m very, very bullish about the recovery,” Rose said
today in an interview in Omaha. “It’s really driven by
worldwide demand, specifically  China .”  Manufacturing, service and retailing jumped to $558 million
in the first quarter from $477 million in the same period in
2010. That group includes Marmon Holdings Inc., a maker of
construction materials; carpet manufacturer Shaw Industries; and
Fruit of the Loom, which produces underwear and other clothing,
according to the company’s annual report. Berkshire didn’t break
down results by unit.  “Pretty much all of our businesses with the exception of
those that are related to residential housing are getting
better,” Buffett said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Omaha at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  