-- 
Chelsea Beats Tottenham to Stay in Premier League Title Chase

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-30T19:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/blackburn-beat-bolton-1-0-to-boost-hopes-of-premier-league-survival.html
Chelsea rallied to beat Tottenham
2-1 and stay in the title race in English soccer’s Premier
League, while Blackburn defeated Bolton 1-0.  Salomon Kalou’s 89th minute goal gave defending champion
Chelsea the win that moved it within three points of leader
 Manchester United , which plays at Arsenal tomorrow and hosts
the Blues next weekend.  “We’ll never give up,” Chelsea captain  John Terry  told
Sky Sports. “You’ll see the character and the fight until the
end.”  Martin Olsson scored the goal as Blackburn improved its
chances of staying in the top flight. Fulham beat Sunderland 3-0,
West Bromwich defeated Aston Villa 2-1, Wigan tied Everton 1-1,
while Blackpool and Stoke finished goalless.  Two controversial goals at Stamford Bridge in west London
helped Chelsea win for the eighth time in nine games to remain
in the title hunt. Sandro gave Tottenham took the lead in the
19th minute before Chelsea pulled even just before halftime.  Frank Lampard’s long shot was fumbled by  Heurelho Gomes  and
although television replays appeared to show the ball did not
completely cross the line before the goalkeeper pulled it back,
the goal was given. Kalou then won the game in the final minute,
though he appeared to be in an offside position when he scored.  The loss leaves Tottenham four points behind  Manchester
City  in the battle for fourth place and the final qualifying
spot in  Europe ’s Champions League.  First Win  Olsson scored in the 20th minute at Ewood Park as Blackburn
won for the first time since January to move up one place in the
20-team league to 15th, with three matches remaining. The win
lifts Rovers three points clear of the three teams at the bottom
of the standings that will be relegated after the season.  Simon Davies  scored twice goals as Fulham routed Sunderland
for just its second win in 18 away matches this season.  Peter
Odemwingie  and Youssouf Mulumbu netted as West Brom beat Aston
Villa 2-1 to go eight points above the relegation zone.  Leighton Baines scored with a penalty kick to give Everton
a 1-1 tie with Wigan, which remains in relegation on goal
difference behind Blackpool. Wigan goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi
stopped Mikel Arteta’s first-half penalty, but was beaten by
Baines’s spot-kick with 13 minutes remaining.  Blackpool remained above Wigan, with both teams on 35
points, after its home draw with Stoke. The Seasiders are now
winless in eight matches, the longest run in the league.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  