-- 
Brazil to ‘Play Tough’ on Rising Inflation Rate, Rousseff Says in Speech

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-30T16:43:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/brazil-to-play-tough-on-rising-inflation-rate-rousseff-says-in-speech.html
Brazil ’s government will “play
tough” on inflation to defend the value of workers’ salaries,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said in a  television and radio
broadcast  last night.  “Guaranteeing purchasing power means playing tough on
inflation. This is one of the fundamentals of our political
economy, and one we’ll never let up on,” Rousseff said in a
speech to commemorate Workers’ Day on May 1.  Inflation accelerated to 6.44 percent for the year through
mid-April, its fastest pace in more than two years and close to
the upper limit of the government’s target range. Rousseff’s
economic team is relying on a mix of spending cuts, higher
borrowing costs and measures to curb credit growth to bring
inflation back to 4.5 percent in 2012.  Economists expect consumer prices to rise 6.34 percent this
year and 5 percent in 2012, according to a central bank weekly
survey published April 25. The central bank aims to keep
inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Latin America ’s largest economy can boost its growth rate
by training more skilled workers, tackling bottlenecks in
infrastructure and removing distortions in the tax system,
Rousseff said.  The government will fund at least 75,000 scholarships for
students to study in foreign universities over the next four
years, Rousseff said. Brazilian firms will be offered low-
interest loans to finance training courses for their employees,
she said.  Brazil will continue its policy of increasing the value of
the  minimum wage , Rousseff said in her speech. The government
this year raised the monthly minimum wage 6.9 percent to 545
reais ($346). The wage is used to adjust pensions and welfare
benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 