-- 
Buffett Says U.S. Banks Are Less Attractive as Profits Fall

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-01T00:57:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/buffett-calls-u-s-banks-less-attractive-as-profits-are-poised-to-decline.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett , whose
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the largest shareholder in  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and has a stake in U.S. Bancorp, said the country’s
lenders are less attractive investments than they once were.  “U.S. banking profitability will be considerably less in
my view in the period ahead than it was in the early part of
this century,” Buffett said today at an annual meeting of
Berkshire shareholders in Omaha,  Nebraska . “A very important
reason is that the leverage will be reduced. That’s probably a
good thing for society. That may be a bad thing for banks who
can use leverage intelligently.”  Revenue at six of the largest U.S. banks declined by the
biggest percentage in three years in the first quarter, as
lending dropped and fees were reduced. With unemployment stuck
above 8 percent, housing prices falling again and restrictions
on charges, the banks are underperforming the broader market.  “We still think that Wells Fargo and  U.S. Bank  are very
good operations, very decent businesses,” Buffett said. “Loan
losses have been trending downward” for the industry.  Berkshire held 358.9 million shares of Wells Fargo at the
end of first quarter, Buffett said today during his presentation
to investors. That’s 4.8 percent more than the 342.6 million
shares Berkshire owned as of Dec. 31.  Buffett maintained the firm’s investment of about 3.6
percent of U.S. Bancorp, making Berkshire the lender’s third-
largest shareholder, while selling a stake in  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)   Net revenue at Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Wells Fargo,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  fell 13.3 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  KBW Bank
Index (BKX)  of the 24 largest U.S. lenders has fallen 1.3 percent this
year as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 8.4 percent.  “Banks periodically go crazy,” said Buffett. “It’s
always on the asset side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  