-- 
Top Pick for Berkshire CEO Described by Buffett as ‘Straight as an Arrow’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-30T17:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/buffett-says-top-ceo-choice-still-unidentified-is-straight-as-an-arrow-.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chief
Executive Officer  Warren Buffett , whose list of potential
successors shrank in March with the resignation of  David Sokol ,
said the top choice has the integrity the job requires.  “The leading candidate right now, I would lay a lot of
money on him being straight as an arrow,” Buffett, 80, told
shareholders today at Berkshire’s annual meeting.  Buffett is sizing up executives at Berkshire’s more than 70
subsidiaries in search of a successor. Sokol, 54, was considered
by Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick as the top candidate
before stepping down amid disclosures about his stock dealings.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in February that it had
four candidates, without identifying them.  “Investors are very worried about succession and
justifiably so, and the situation gets more urgent with every
year,” said Jill Fisch, a professor at the University of
Pennsylvania Law School who has written about corporate
governance. “In terms of future uncertainty, that’s the biggest
risk for Berkshire Hathaway.”  Buffett’s eventual replacements will take charge of a $200
billion company whose composition and culture are largely the
expression of just one person. The CEOs of each operating unit,
from Fruit of the Loom to  Dairy Queen  to Geico, were vetted by
Buffett before acquisitions and promotions.  Buffett, who is also chairman, relied on Sokol for more
than a decade as a dealmaker and manager, broadening the
executive’s responsibilities to stretch across Berkshire’s
energy, construction and luxury travel businesses. Buffett
announced the manager’s resignation on March 30 and disclosed
that Sokol had helped Berkshire negotiate a takeover of Lubrizol
Corp. this year while buying stock in the company.  ‘Succession Risk’  “CEO succession risk is elevated in our view in light of
David Sokol’s recent departure,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst with
Barclays Plc, said in an April 20 research note.  Both the “quality of the person” as well as “managerial
skills” are part of Buffett’s criteria for the next Berkshire
CEO, he said today at the annual shareholder’s meeting.  “It’s vital that you have someone at Berkshire that is
running the place who cares more about Berkshire than he cares
about himself,” he said. “We have multiple candidates that
fulfill that, and the idea of an independent chairman is part of
the belt and suspenders.”  Buffett refers to the CEOs of Berkshire’s units as  “the
All-Stars”  and singles out a handful each year for public
praise. Reinsurance head  Ajit Jain , railroad CEO Matthew Rose,
energy executive Gregory Abel and Sokol were lauded in Buffett’s
annual  letter  to investors in February.  Ajit Jain  Buffett said March 22 that Jain, 59, is qualified to be
CEO. Jain, who was born in  India , joined Berkshire more than two
decades ago. He runs a reinsurance business that specializes in
large risks and collects the premiums that have provided funding
for Buffett’s investments.  “He loves what he does, he’s not looking to take my job,”
Buffett said at a news conference in Bangalore. “If he was, the
board of directors would probably put him in there in a
minute.”  Berkshire’s board includes  Bill Gates , co-founder of
Microsoft Corp., Susan Decker, former Yahoo! Inc. president, and
Comcast Corp. Executive Vice President Stephen Burke.  “I’ve got a commitment to stay involved with Berkshire as
a lifelong thing,” Gates said in a 2009 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “We always have to think about what might
happen and make sure Berkshire is not just great now, but
forever.” Buffett has pledged most of his Berkshire shares to
Gates’s charitable foundation.  Rose, Abel  Buffett acquires managerial talent by takeover. He targets
well-run companies and entices CEOs into selling their firms by
promising to leave management in place. Rose, 52, joined Omaha-
based Berkshire last year in the $26.5 billion acquisition of
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe . Sokol and Abel, 48, arrived in
2000 when they sold MidAmerican Energy Holdings to Berkshire.  Buffett’s responsibilities will be split, upon his death or
retirement, among at least three people. A CEO will oversee the
operating units and one or more investment managers will take
charge of the portfolio. Buffett affirmed today that his son
Howard will probably assume the position of non-executive
chairman and has “no designs” on taking over.  Todd Combs  Berkshire’s next CEO will be handed oversight of a firm
with more than $100 billion in invested assets and operating
 subsidiaries  in industries that include energy and railroads as
well as insurance and consumer goods. Todd Combs, a former hedge
fund manager, was hired last year and given responsibility for
$1 billion to $3 billion.  Sokol purchased stock in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  after initiating
takeover talks on behalf of Berkshire for the engine-additives
maker. The stock purchases in January may have given Sokol a
profit of about $3 million, according to disclosures by Buffett
and data compiled by Bloomberg. The trades violated the
company’s insider-trading policies, Buffett said today.  Sokol “would not, and did not, trade improperly, nor did
he violate any fair reading of the Berkshire Hathaway
policies,” according to a statement from William Levine, a
lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in  Washington .  Berkshire managers praised by Buffett also include Geico
CEO Tony Nicely, Grady Rosier, who heads the McLane food-
distribution business, and Vic Mancinelli, who leads CTB Inc., a
farm-products business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Omaha at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  