-- 
Burkina Faso Cotton Growers to Negotiate on Prices, Fertilizers

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-04-30T08:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/burkina-faso-cotton-growers-to-negotiate-on-prices-fertilizers.html
Cotton growers in western Burkina
Faso,  Africa ’s biggest producer of the fiber, agreed to talks
with the government to end a dispute over fixed prices and the
cost of fertilizer, an industry labor union said.  Farmers in western Burkina Faso threatened to boycott the
crop season this year unless the government more than doubles
the minimum price it pays growers to 500  CFA francs  ($1.12). The
West African state raised the fee by 35 percent to 245 francs on
April 25.  “Our members asked us to negotiate with the government to
obtain a subsidy for fertilizers, which are the most expensive
in western Africa, or an increase in the cost price” of cotton,
Karim Traore, president of the National Cotton Producers Union
of  Burkina Faso , told reporters yesterday in Ouagadougou, the
capital.  Cotton prices in  New York  have almost doubled in the past
year because of a global shortage of the fiber. The price jumped
by the exchange limit on ICE Futures U.S. yesterday, advancing 6
cents, or 4 percent to $1.5802 a pound.  Traore’s statement came after growers protested in Bobo-
Dioulasso, Burkina Faso’s second-biggest city in the southwest
of the country, where they demand the resignation of the
management of Sofitex, the state-controlled cotton company.  The union leader yesterday held talks with Agriculture
Minister Laurent Sedogo about the issue.  “The minister promised to send our demands to his superiors
for discussion and we are confident that they will find a
solution,” Traore said.  Burkina Faso produced 226,000 metric tons of cotton in
2008, the latest data available on the Food and Agricultural
Organization’s  website . The country is the world’s 11th biggest
grower of the fiber, according to the United Nations agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 