-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls Against Most Major Peers for a Fourth Straight Week

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-30T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/canadian-dollar-falls-against-most-major-peers-for-a-fourth-straight-week.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for a fourth
straight week against most of its major peers as gross domestic
product unexpectedly contracted in February and the economy of
its largest trading partner grew slower than forecast.  The Canadian currency climbed against its U.S. counterpart
for a second week, reaching a more-than-three-year high, amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will trail the  Bank of Canada  in
raising interest rates. It weakened against the Australian
dollar, another currency linked to commodities, based on the
Canadian dollar’s ties to the U.S. economy. Canada’s economy may
have added 20,000 jobs in April, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before the May 6 report.  “The Canadian dollar continues to lag the other major
currencies,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange
in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “The main driver was just
overall  U.S. dollar  weakness across the board.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 1 percent to
94.51 cents versus the greenback from 95.45 cents on April 22.
It touched 94.46 cents yesterday, the strongest level since Nov.
12, 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0581.  Market Measures  Canada’s currency weakened against 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week. It fell 0.5 percent this week and 1.6
percent in April, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, a measure of the 10 developed-nation
currencies. The U.S. currency has lost 1.5 percent and 4.9
percent, respectively.  The Australian dollar gained 1.2 percent against the loonie
to 1.0368 from 1.0247 on April 22.  “The Aussie dollar, for instance, has drastically
outperformed the Canadian because it’s tied more to  China  whose
growth continues at a rapid pace,” Jespersen said in a
telephone interview. “We’re tied to a slower economy and
therefore our currency is lagging.”  China’s manufacturing sustained its expansion this month
even as the government raised interest rates and let the yuan
strengthen at a faster pace, a purchasing managers’ index
showed.  Output in Canada’s economy fell 0.2 percent to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of C$1.26 trillion ($1.32 trillion) in
February, Statistics Canada said. The result was weaker than
estimates of all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, which
had a median forecast of no change.  Economy Slows  The economy grew 2.9 percent in February from the same
month a year earlier, the slowest annual pace of expansion in a
year, according to  Statistics Canada .  The BOC has held its target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent since September, when the
rate increased for a third time last year. The central bank will
keep its benchmark at that level during the second quarter and
boost it to 1.50 percent during the third quarter, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on June 2011 bankers’ acceptances, a barometer of
short-term rate expectations, fell to 1.34 percent yesterday
from 1.36 percent April 28, indicating investors may have
tempered their anticipation for higher Canadian policy rates.  Canadian  government bonds  advanced, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security down eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.20 percent from 3.29 percent April 22.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020
increased 66 cents to C$102.33.  Benchmark Rates  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  left its benchmark interest
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent on April 27, where it’s
been since December 2008, and retained a pledge in place since
March 2009 to keep it “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period.” The likelihood policy makers will raise the target
rate at their March 2012 meeting decreased to 44 percent, from
61 percent a month ago, Fed funds futures showed.  “The dollar continues to be a sell into the Fed, past the
Fed, and much of that is driven by Bernanke’s dovish comments,”
said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada  in Toronto.  The Fed is holding down interest rates to spur the economy
because unemployment “is doing serious damage to the long-term
productive capacity of our economy,” said Aaron Gurwitz, chief
investor officer in  New York  at Barclays Plc’s Barclays Wealth,
which oversees $264 billion.  Inflation Threat  “That’s an immediate threat that is happening as opposed
to inflation, which is a potential threat,” Gurwitz said in a
telephone interview.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent rate in the first
quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter, as
consumer purchases cooled,  home construction  fell and  government
spending  declined. Initial claims for U.S. unemployment
insurance unexpectedly rose last week, adding to concern the
economic recovery is slowing.  Crude oil futures rose 1.5 percent this week to $113.93 a
barrel in New York.  Raw materials , including oil, account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  “It’s clear that there are two things driving the loonie
higher, which are commodity prices and weakness in the U.S.
dollar,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “Oil appears to
be ending quite firmly this week.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  