-- 
NFL Draft Ends as Texans Choose Rice’s Cheta Ozougwu as ‘Mr. Irrelevant’

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/carolina-panthers-pick-cornerback-to-open-last-day-of-nfl-draft.html
The National Football League draft
came to an end yesterday in  New York , with Rice University
defensive end  Cheta Ozougwu  being taken by Houston with the
254th and final pick.  When the Texans selected the 6-foot-1, 247-pound Ozougwu,
he became the 36th “Mr. Irrelevant,” a title created in 1976
by former NFL wide receiver Paul Salata. While he might never
make it to the NFL, Ozougwu will be celebrated with a party, a
roast and a regatta during a weeklong  celebration  in  Newport
Beach , California.  Several hours before Ozougwu’s name was called at New
York’s Radio City Music Hall in New York, the  Carolina Panthers 
selected West Virginia University cornerback Brandon Hogan with
the first pick on the final day of the draft, which was held
amid a labor struggle between the league and its players.  Earlier this week, a federal judge ordered an end to the
league’s month-old lockout. A federal appeals court granted the
NFL a temporary stay to that order on March 29, which will keep
the lockout in place as the league appeals the decision.  After Carolina took Auburn University quarterback Cam Newton with the first overall pick on March 28, the second and
third rounds were completed two days ago. The fourth through
seventh rounds were held yesterday.  Cecil Shorts, a wide receiver from Mount Union, became the
first Division III player taken in the draft when the
 Jacksonville Jaguars  selected him with the 17th pick in the
fourth round.  Quarterback  Ricky Stanzi of the University of Iowa was the first
quarterback taken yesterday, going to the  Kansas City Chiefs 
with the fourth pick of the fifth round. Houston chose North
Carolina’s Taylor Yates and Nathan Enderle of Idaho went to the
 Chicago Bears  later in the round.  The Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers chose New Mexico
State defensive back Davon House with their fourth-round pick
and Arkansas tight end D.J. Williams in the fifth round.  The New York Giants took offensive lineman James Brewer
from Indiana with their first pick of the day, then added
linebackers Greg Jones from Michigan State and Jacquin Williams
from South Florida, safety Tyler Sash from  Iowa , and Maryland
running back Da’Rel Scott.  The New York Jets selected Louisville running back Bilal
Powell in the fourth round and added wide receiver Jeremy Kerley
from Texas Christian University, Alabama Quarterback Greg
McElroy and Colorado wide receiver Scotty McKnight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 