-- 
China Internet Firms Turn to Placements for Funds, Banker Says

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-30T09:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/china-internet-firms-turn-to-placements-for-funds-banker-says.html
More Internet companies in  China 
are turning to private share placements for funding that they
could previously raise only from initial public offerings in
overseas stock markets, Bao Fan, chief executive officer of
China Renaissance Partners, said.  “We generally believe that the private market is already
an alternative to the IPO market,” Bao said in an April 28
interview in Beijing, where China Renaissance is based. “These
days there is a lot of liquidity in the private market.”  Bao, a former banker at Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse
Group AG, helped manage the $1.5 billion private placement this
year by Chinese online retailer 360Buy.com, the biggest such
transaction in the world’s largest Internet market by users. In
the U.S., Facebook Inc. in January raised $1.5 billion from a
private financing round as the world’s most-popular social-
networking site expands its operations.  “Companies that have great potential should not rush to
the IPO market - they can raise the same amount of capital in
the private market at or close to the IPO valuations,” Bao
said. “The 360Buy deal is a good example of that. It shows the
depth and the efficiency of the private market.”  China Renaissance was involved in nine mergers and
acquisitions transactions last year, the second-most among
Chinese investment banks, according to research company
 ChinaVenture Group .  360Buy.com said on April 1 it raised $1.5 billion from six
funds including  Russia ’s Digital Sky Technologies and Tiger
Fund, as well as some individual investors.  Last year, China Renaissance won work in transactions
including the set-up of the online video venture between Baidu
Inc. and  Providence Equity Partners , and the U.S. IPO of E-
Commerce China Dangdang Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  