-- 
Congo Electoral Commission Says Presidential Elections to Be Held Nov. 28

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-04-30T13:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/congo-electoral-commission-says-presidential-elections-to-be-held-nov-28.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo will
hold presidential and parliamentary elections on Nov. 28, said
Pastor Daniel Ngoy Mulunda, head of the Central African
country’s  electoral commission .  Campaigning for Congo’s second presidential vote after
nearly a decade of war ended in 2003 will begin on Oct. 28,
Mulunda told reporters today in Kinshasa, the capital.
Provisional results will be announced on Dec. 6, he said.  President Joseph Kabila will seek re-election after winning
a runoff vote in 2006 against former rebel leader Jean-Pierre Bemba, who is now on trial at the  International Criminal Court 
in  The Hague  for  war crimes  allegedly committed in neighboring
Central African Republic in 2002 and 2003.  With Bemba sidelined, Kabila’s main opposition will
probably be Etienne Tshisekedi, head of the Union for Democracy
and Social Progress party. Vital Kamerhe, the architect of
Kabila’s first campaign and former president of the National
Assembly, may also run.  The elections will take place in one round after the
government changed the constitution in January, allowing a
candidate to win with a simple majority.  Between the first and second round of the 2006 elections,
more than 20 people were killed when supporters of Bemba and
Kabila clashed in the streets of Kinshasa. Hundreds more died in
the city after the vote when fighting between the two sides
resumed in 2007.  Continuing Conflict  Armed conflicts and extreme poverty continue to plague the
mineral-rich country, which is struggling to overcome four
decades of dictatorship and war.  “The security conditions in 2005 and 2006 were worse than
the security issues we are facing now,” said Roger Meece, head
of the  United Nations peacekeeping mission in Congo .  The UN is running programs to bolster Congo’s police force
before the elections, Meece said in an interview in Kinshasa. UN
peacekeepers, who number more than 19,100, will not have a
formal security role related to the elections, he said.  “I’ve reassured the president of the electoral commission
of the willingness and commitment of the  United Nations  to
fulfil our role providing logistical support and technical
assistance,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 