-- 
Dollar Index Has Its Biggest Monthly Drop Since September; Franc Rallies

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/dollar-drops-in-biggest-loss-since-september-franc-aussie-gain.html
The dollar fell the most in seven
months versus the currencies of major U.S. trading partners as
economic growth slowed and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he was unsure when monetary stimulus will end.  The franc rallied in April against most of its major
counterparts and rose to a record versus the greenback as Swiss
National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand said expansionist
monetary policy risks stoking inflation. The Australian dollar
and Norwegian krone surged as commodities gained. The dollar
fell to a 16-month low versus the euro before next week’s
payrolls report, forecast to show job growth slowed.  “The statements by Bernanke suggest that there won’t be
any near-term change to U.S. policy, and it must be the case
that the continuation of easy monetary policy in the short term
is giving a boost to commodity currencies,” said Ken Dickson,
foreign-exchange investment director in Edinburgh at Standard
Life Investments, which oversees $250 billion. “The FOMC
statement, the changes in the economic forecast and Bernanke’s
press conference were all taken pretty dovishly by the market.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc,
Canadian dollar and Swedish krona, fell 3.9 percent to 72.026 on
yesterday, from 75.857 on March 31. It was the biggest monthly
drop since a decrease of 5.4 percent in September. The gauge
slid yesterday to 72.834, the lowest level since July 2008.  BOJ Lending  The yen dropped for a fourth month versus the euro, sliding
2 percent to 120.18 as  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
signaled in an interview with NHK Television that the central
bank may expand a lending program aimed at bolstering growth
industries after the record earthquake on March 11.  “The fact that the Bank of  Japan  communicated that they
will add more easing leaves Japan as the only one to still be
practicing ultra accommodative monetary policy, and that will be
yen-negative,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
the online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  Norway’s krone rose yesterday to its strongest level versus
the dollar in more than two years as crude oil rallied for an
unprecedented eighth straight month, rising above $113 a barrel.  The krone appreciated 5.8 percent to 5.2373 against the
dollar and advanced yesterday to 5.2304, the strongest level
since August 2008. The Scandinavian nation is the world’s
seventh-biggest exporter of crude oil.  Rally in Aussie  Australia ’s dollar rose 6.2 percent to $1.0949 and touched
$1.0978 yesterday, the highest level since the currency was
freely floated in 1983.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
yesterday that the currency’s strength reflects the improving
economy and higher commodity prices.  South Africa ’s rand appreciated 3.3 percent to 6.5587
versus the dollar as gold rallied to a record $1,569.32 an
ounce. Gold and platinum account for a fifth of South Africa’s
exports.  The dollar dropped in April against all of its major
counterparts as Bernanke signaled on April 27 in his first press
conference following a policy decision that the central bank
will likely continue reinvesting maturing debt after its $600
billion program of bond buying expires in June as planned.  Fed policies will lead to a “strong and stable” dollar,
according to Bernanke, who said the U.S. currency still has
“high standing” in the world. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York
this week that “we will never embrace a strategy of trying to
weaken our currency to try to gain economic advantage.”  Record Low  The Fed’s trade-weighted Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback versus the currencies of U.S. trading partners such as
Japan and the U.K., fell to a record low 69.0337 on April 21,
figures released this week showed.  U.S. economic growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual rate
last quarter from 3.1 percent in the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported.  Employers added 190,000 jobs in April after an increase of
216,000 positions in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of 56 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Labor
Department’s report on May 6 may show that the  unemployment rate 
stayed at 8.8 percent.  The euro surged 4.7 percent to $1.4829, from $1.4158, after
touching $1.4882 on April 28, the highest level since December
2009. The dollar dropped 2.5 percent to 81.08 yen.  The 17-nation currency rallied as the  European Central Bank 
increased its target lending rate on April 7 by a quarter-
percentage point to 1.25 percent to contain inflation even as
nations such as Greece and Ireland struggle with debt.  Record Greece Yields  Greek two-year yields rose this week above 25 percent for
the first time. The nation isn’t considering restructuring,
according to an e-mail message on April 27 from a Finance
Ministry press officer, who cited government policy in asking
not to be identified.  The Swiss franc appreciated 6.3 percent to 86.43 centimes
versus the  U.S. dollar  after touching 86.27, the strongest level
since at least 1971, when Bloomberg records begin. The currency
has benefited from the nation’s role as a stable, neutral
financial center and got a boost as  Switzerland ’s leading
economic indicator unexpectedly increased in April.  “Risk on, Swiss is bid; risk off, Swiss is more bid,”
said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 New York . “It always seems to be bid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  