-- 
Tepco Says Fukushima Worker’s Radiation Nears Limit Allowed

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-30T05:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/tepco-says-fukushima-worker-s-radiation-nears-limit-allowed-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said at
least one worker at its damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
has been exposed to radiation levels near the maximum level
allowed by the government.  The man, hospitalized for radiation burns last month, was
exposed to 240.8 millisieverts of radiation, company spokesman
Takashi Kurita said at a press conference in Tokyo today. The
cumulative maximum level for nuclear workers, set by the
government, is 250 millisieverts.  Tokyo Electric is struggling to contain the worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986. Four reactors have been
damaged by hydrogen blasts after the 9-magnitude earthquake and
ensuing tsunami March 11 knocked out backup power and cooling
systems, and radiation leaks have forced the evacuation of tens
of thousands of people.  An adviser to Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he
will resign in protest against the government’s handling of the
nuclear crisis,  Kyodo News  reported. Toshiso Kosako told the
prime minister’s office yesterday that he will step down, the
 news agency  said, citing the adviser.  Kosako did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment. A
spokesman at the prime minister’s office was not available for
comment when contacted by telephone.  Tokyo Electric said it will resume the transfer of
radioactive water from trenches near the No. 2 reactor today, as
it halted the operation yesterday to check for leaks at the
waste treatment building.  Government Fund  The government is considering setting up a fund to help pay
for damages caused by the crippled  plant, the Yomiuri newspaper
said, citing an interview with Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda .  It may ask power utilities that own nuclear plants to sell
their assets to help Tokyo Electric pay compensation, the report
said. Kaieda wants other utilities to contribute to the fund
with restructuring and not by just raising electricity fees,
according to the report.  A total of 21 workers were exposed to radiation exceeding
100 millisieverts in the period from March 11 to March 31,
Kurita said. On April 23, the company said 30 workers had been
exposed to that level. Exposure totaling 100 millisieverts over
a year is the lowest at which any increase in cancer is evident,
according to the  World Nuclear Association  in  London .  Radiation amounted to 226.6 millisieverts for another man
who was hospitalized last month, Kurita said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  