-- 
Generali First-Quarter Premiums Drop 8.3% on Contraction in Life Business

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-30T16:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/generali-first-quarter-premiums-drop-8-3-on-contraction-in-life-business.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Italy ’s
largest insurer, said first-quarter gross premiums fell 8.3
percent, affected by a contraction of single premiums at its
life-insurance business.  Total premiums decreased to 19.1 billion euros ($28.3
billion) in the first three months of 2011, from 20.8 billion
euros a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Perissinotto told a  shareholders’ meeting  today in Trieste,
where the company is based. Non-life premiums rose 2.1 percent
to 6.8 billion euros in the period.  Generali’s first-quarter net income and operating income
were higher than a year earlier, Perissinotto said, without
giving figures. “We also expect 2011 earnings better than last
year after the good set of results seen in the first quarter,”
he said.  The company, scheduled to release results on May 13, is
expanding in emerging markets, including  China  and the Middle
East, to boost profit following the global financial crisis.
Today’s meeting was overseen by Gabriele Galateri, who replaced
Cesare Geronzi as chairman on April 8 following clashes with
investors over governance.  Geronzi and the board reached an agreement on his severance
payment of about 16.7 million euros, Perissinotto told
shareholders. The settlement amount is in line with what Geronzi
should have received for his three-year mandate, Perissinotto
said, adding that the Italian market regulator has asked for
explanations about the amount paid.  PPF Joint Venture  “A revision of Generali’s joint venture with PPF is not on
the agenda,” Perissinotto told reporters following the meeting.
Generali, which hired Mediobanca as adviser to examine the
agreement, considers the venture strategic. “According to the
preliminary conclusion of our adviser, the venture shouldn’t be
modified,” he said.  Generali and PPF, an Amsterdam-based private-equity firm,
formed a joint venture in 2007 to combine their insurance assets
in eastern  Europe  to create a company with 9 million customers
in 12 countries. The Italian insurer, which makes about 6
percent of its sales in central and eastern Europe, aims to grow
in the region, expanding in  Russia  to boost profitability, the
CEO said.  The company, which owns a 4.7 percent stake in Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, hasn’t decided yet if it will adhere to the 5
billion-euro rights offer announced by Italy’s second-biggest
bank. “The holding isn’t a strategic investment and a decision
will be taken considering the added value from a financial point
of view” Perissinotto said. Generali didn’t enter Commerzbank’s
share sale, he said.  Generali, which aims to cut costs this year, doesn’t plan a
capital increase, according to the CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  