-- 
Greek, Irish, Portuguese Bonds Slump on Debt Restructuring Bets

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-04-30T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/greek-irish-portuguese-bonds-slump-on-debt-restructuring-bets.html
Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds
slumped, driving yields on the securities to the highest levels
since before the introduction of the euro amid mounting
speculation  Greece  won’t be able to avoid debt restructuring.  Greek bonds fell for a sixth consecutive week. The cost to
insure Greek, Portuguese and Irish debt against default also
rose to records. Lars Feld, a member of German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel ’s council of economic advisers, said April 26 that Greece
cannot avoid restructuring. German bonds were little changed.  “There are still concerns over the possibility of a Greek
default or restructuring,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-
rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “That’s hammering
the periphery, and we see that in spread-widening over the past
two weeks or so.”  Greece’s two-year yields rose 236 basis points in the week
to 25.37 percent as of 4:11 p.m. yesterday in  London  after
reaching a euro-era record 26.27 percent on April 28. The
nation’s 10-year bond yield climbed 76 basis points to 15.66
percent. It reached a record 16.34 percent on April 27.  Portuguese 10-year government bond yields rose to a euro-
era record of 9.76 percent. The yield on the nation’s two-year
note climbed as much as 58 basis points to a record 12.05
percent. Irish two-year yields rose more than 75 basis points to
an all-time high of 12.11 percent, while 10-year yields touched
10.70 percent.  Credit-Default Swaps  “I don’t think that Greece will succeed in this
consolidation strategy without any restructuring in the
future,” Feld told Bloomberg Television in  Frankfurt . “I think
that Greece should restructure sooner than later.”  The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt jumped to a
record 1,356 basis points on April 26, according to CMA prices
for credit default swaps, even as Greek officials said they have
no plans for a debt restructuring. Portuguese swaps rose to 682
the same day, also a record.  “The talk about restructuring or rescheduling of Greek
debt is not going away,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “As long as
no one can offer the market reassurance that there isn’t going
to be a rescheduling or a restructuring, then the market will
keep on pricing in more and more.”  German two-year note yields climbed one basis point in the
week to 1.77 percent. Ten-year bund yields  fell two basis
points to 3.24 percent.  ECB Meeting  Gains in bunds may be limited before the  European Central
Bank ’s policy meeting on May 5. The Frankfurt-based central bank
raised its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent at
their April 7 meeting to contain inflation. Policy makers are
expected to leave the main rate unchanged this month, according
to all 44 economists polled in a Bloomberg News survey.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.7
percent this year through April 28, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. U.S. Treasuries have returned a profit
of 1 percent. Greek debt lost 12 percent, with Portuguese
securities losing 15 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  