-- 
Infosys Promotes Shibulal to Chief Executive as Outsourcing Revival Sought

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-02T11:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/infosys-technologies-names-shibulal-chief-executive-as-competition-mounts.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s
second-largest software exporter, promoted S.D. Shibulal to the
post of chief executive officer, picking the company veteran to
boost earnings amid rising competition for outsourcing deals.  The board also named current Chief Executive Officer S. Gopalakrishnan co-chairman, and former ICICI Bank Ltd. head K.V.
Kamath as chairman, the Bangalore-based company said in an April
30 statement. Current chairman and billionaire founder N.R. Narayana Murthy will become chairman emeritus.  As CEO, Shibulal, 56, has the task of winning more
outsourcing deals as bigger rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
widens its lead. The management changes come after Infosys’s
earnings missed estimates for a third time in four quarters and
the company, dealing with its worst annual rate of employee
turnover in at least 13 years, forecast the lowest profit margin
since at least 2003.  “The new management will need to be more aggressive in
terms of pursuing new clients,” said Sampath Reddy, who manages
280 billion rupees ($6.3 billion) as chief investment officer at
Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. “The second thing is, it needs
to look at whether acquisitions need to be done.”  The appointments are effective Aug. 21, the company said.  Infosys shares rose 0.6 percent to 2,922.55 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The shares have slumped 15
percent this year while  India ’s benchmark Sensex Index lost 7.3
percent.  ‘Fallen Angel’  “For many years, Infosys was a huge overperformer in the
Indian market,” said Walter Rossini, who manages a 250 million-
euro ($370 million) India equity fund at Aletti Gestielle SGR
SpA in Milan. “Now the situation is different. TCS is favored
and Infosys is the fallen angel.”  Since Gopalakrishnan became CEO on June 22, 2007, Infosys
shares gained 49 percent, according Bloomberg data. Tata
Consultancy, also known as TCS, more than doubled in the same
period, while the benchmark Sensex index gained 32 percent.  Tata Consultancy’s lead in sales widened to 98 billion
rupees in the year ended March from 59 billion rupees in 2008.  “We’re very happy,” Murthy said about rising competition
and overseas rivals expanding into India. “That’s a validation
of our model. That’s a validation of what we said in the late
80s and the early 90s. It’s good for the country.”  On April 30, the directors also approved changing the name
of the company to Infosys Ltd. Shareholders’ consent will be
sought at the annual general meeting on June 11.  The management reorganization has “lingered on for quite
some time and has been quite distracting for senior employees,”
Nimish Joshi, an analyst at CLSA Ltd., wrote in a note to
clients on April 17.  Pai’s Resignation  T.V. Mohandas Pai announced his resignation as director and
head of human resources development after 17 years in the
company on April 15. He was expected to take over the role of
chief operating officer, the Economic Times reported on April 8.
K. Dinesh, a co-founder, said last month he will retire.  Shibulal, who helped found Infosys in 1981, is currently
the chief operating officer. He took a five-year sabbatical,
working with Sun Microsystems between 1991 and 1996. He returned
to Infosys and  established  its Internet consultancy practice and
later was the head of worldwide sales.  Shibulal has master’s degrees in physics and computer
science from the University of Kerala and  Boston University .  ‘Infosys 3.0’  “Every organization needs to transform itself periodically
to remain relevant,” he said at a press conference on April 30.
“With the advent of cloud, perhaps the most disruptive of
changes in recent times, we are looking at global delivery model
on cloud as a key driver for Infosys 3.0.”  Murthy, 64, convinced six fellow software engineers to help
him set up Infosys in 1981. They started with $250, borrowed
mostly from their wives, and became the first Indian company to
list on the Nasdaq stock market.  “Shibu has been a remarkable COO these past few years,”
said Jeffrey S. Lehman, chairman of the nominations committee.
“Shibu understands this company as well as anybody alive, and
he has in many ways been preparing for this role for three
decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  