-- 
Jets and Giants Select Defensive Tackles on Second Day of 2011 NFL Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-30T04:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/jets-and-giants-select-defensive-tackles-on-second-day-of-2011-nfl-draft.html
The  New York Jets  and  New York
Giants  added defensive tackles on the second day of the 2011
National Football League draft, after also focusing on defense
in the first round.  The Giants selected the University of  North Carolina ’s
Marvin Austin with the 52nd pick last night and the Jets grabbed
Kenrick Ellis of Hampton University at No. 94. The Giants also
selected Troy University wide receiver Jerrel Jernigan with the
83rd pick on the draft’s second day, which lasted four hours, 15
minutes.  On the draft’s opening day, the Giants selected  Nebraska 
cornerback Prince Amukamara with the No. 19 pick and the Jets
chose Temple defensive tackle Muhammad Wilkerson at No. 30.  “We got three completely different players, versatile
players,” Giants director of college scouting Marc Ross said of
the team’s performance through two days at Radio City Music Hall
in  New York . “I think we got better.”  The draft comes amid a labor struggle between the league
and its players. Earlier this week, a federal judge ordered an
end to the league’s month-old lockout. Yesterday, a federal
appeals court granted the NFL a temporary stay to that order,
which will keep the lockout in place as the NFL appeals the
decision. Commissioner Roger Goodell, loudly booed by fans two
nights ago, was jeered again as he took the stage last night.  High Ratings  The 6-foot-2, 312-pound Austin will join a Giants’
defensive line that recorded 46 sacks last year, the second most
in the  National Football Conference , and surrendered 101.3 yards
rushing per game.  Austin, 22, was suspended indefinitely by the Tar Heels
before his senior season for violating team rules amid a
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  investigation into
academic misconduct. Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said
that despite Austin’s lack of game action in the last year, the
team rated the defensive tackle very highly.  “This guy is going to come in here with a chip on his
shoulder, with something to prove,” Reese told reporters in a
news conference on the team’s website. “Obviously, when he gets
here we’ll keep a close eye on him like some other players we’ve
had in the past.”  Adding Youth, Athleticism  The 21-year-old Jernigan, a 5-foot-9, 181-pound receiver,
set a Troy single-season record with 84 catches for 822 yards
last season. The Giants’ receiving corps caught 31 touchdowns
last season and averaged an NFC East division-worst 250.1 yards
receiving per game last season.  Ellis, a 6-foot-5, 346-pound lineman nicknamed “Big Ken,”
had 184 tackles and seven sacks in three seasons at Hampton. The
Jets, who lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC title game
last season, had the third-best run defense in the league,
surrendering 90.9 yards rushing per game.  “He’s a good athlete,” Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said of Ellis in a news conference on the team’s
website. “With him and Muhammad, we’ve added youth and
athleticism up front to a group that we already thought was
good.”  Ellis, 21, is facing felony charges and a trial in July
stemming from a physical altercation on Hampton’s campus last
year, the Daily Press in  Newport News ,  Virginia , reported. If
convicted, Ellis could face up to 20 years in prison, according
to the paper. Tannenbaum said the team did a thorough evaluation
of Ellis and was comfortable with the pick.  Still Good Choice  “Based on all the information we have we feel good about
the player,” he said. “We feel it was appropriate to take him
where we took him.”  There were four quarterbacks taken in the first 12 picks of
the first round -- Cam Newton, Jake Locker, Blaine Gabbert and
Christian Ponder. The streak continued early last night, with
two more signal callers selected in the second round’s first
four spots.  The  Cincinnati Bengals  took Texas Christian University
quarterback Andy Dalton with the No. 35 pick, followed by the
 San Francisco  49ers moving up 10 spots to select  Nevada ’s Colin
Kaepernick. Denver Broncos quarterback  Tim Tebow , No. 1 overall
pickNewton and Kaepernick are the only players in college
football history to throw for 20 touchdowns and rush for 20
touchdowns in the same season.  Clemson defensive end Da’Quan Bowers, projected by many
analysts to be an early first-round selection, was taken by the
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers  with the No. 51 pick, one spot before the
Giants drafted Austin.  Kentucky receiver Randall Cobb was the last player
remaining in the backstage “green room” when he was selected
No. 64 overall by the defending-champion  Green Bay Packers .
Boston College linebacker Mark Herzlich, the last undrafted
player of the 25 players that the NFL invited to the draft, was
not in attendance.  ‘Worth the Wait’  “I waited a long time, but it is well worth the wait,”
Cobb said in a televised interview. “I can’t wait to get up
there and do a Lambeau Leap.”  Ryan Mallett, the seventh quarterback taken so far this
year, was selected out of  Arkansas  by the  New England Patriots 
at No. 74. Villanova offensive lineman Ben Ijalana was the first
non-Bowl Subdivision player picked, taken at No. 49 by the
 Indianapolis Colts .  The draft concludes today, with the final four rounds
starting at noon New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 