-- 
Nigeria’s Ruling Party Retains Majority in Elections Praised for Fairness

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-30T16:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/nigeria-s-ruling-party-retains-majority-in-elections-praised-for-fairness.html
Nigeria’s ruling party retained a
majority in national legislative and state-governor elections
that were called the cleanest in a decade in  Africa ’s top oil
producer, according to partial results released by authorities.  The  People’s Democratic Party  took 45 of the 72 Senate
seats declared to date and 123 of 234 seats in the lower
chamber, more than twice the seats in both houses than any other
party in the April 9 elections, the  Independent National
Electoral Commission  said. The opposition Action Congress of
Nigeria took 13 Senate and 47 House of Representatives seats.
Others won 16 Senate and 64 House seats.  While the elections were marred by violence, and there were
cases of irregularities including ballot snatching, “the
election represents a significant improvement over previous
exercises since 1999,” the Nigerian Election Situation, a
coalition of 22 civic groups monitoring the vote, said today in
an e-mailed statement.  The ruling party also won 18 of the 26 governorships
declared in the April 26 vote including Bauchi and Kaduna
states, where voting was delayed two days by security concerns,
the commission also known as INEC said.  The Action Congress of  Nigeria  captured Lagos, which
includes the commercial capital, as well as Ogun and Oyo in the
southwest, the party’s stronghold, while the All Nigeria
People’s Party won in the northeastern Borno and Yobe states and
in Zamfara state, in the northwest.  Military Rule  The Congress for Progressive Change won one state. The
state vote is the last stage in an election process that local
and international observers said was the fairest since military
rule ended in Nigeria in 1999.  Re-run elections will be held on May 6 in parts of the
southeastern Imo state after the initial vote was declared
“inconclusive” because the collation of results was marred by
irregularities, the electoral agency said.  The remaining 10 states will hold their elections when the
tenures of the current governors run out.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
The Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of
Irving, Texas;  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon , California;  Total SA (FP) 
of France; and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more
than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  PDP Lock  The PDP, which has won all the presidential elections since
1999 when the country returned to civil rule, won the April 16
presidential election with incumbent President  Goodluck Jonathan 
defeating his closest rival, former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , a northern Muslim, by a 57 percent to 31 percent margin,
the electoral commission said.  Jonathan’s victory triggered riots across the mainly Muslim
north that killed more than 600 people and led to the burning of
churches, mosques and homes, the Kaduna-based  Civil Rights
Congress  said April 25.  At least 75,000 people were forced to flee their homes as a
result of the violence, the National Emergency Management Agency
said on April 28. About 55,000 of them are in camps for the
displaced, while the remaining 20,000 have been taken in by
family members or friends, according to the agency.  Nigeria, with about 150 million people, is roughly split
between a mainly Christian south and a north dominated by
Muslims. While Buhari won all 12 northern states, Jonathan, a
Christian, took 23 of 24 central and southern states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 