-- 
Nuclear Adviser to Japan’s Prime Minister Quits Over Crisis

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-30T09:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/nuclear-adviser-to-japan-s-prime-minister-quits-over-crisis.html
A nuclear adviser to Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  resigned because of a misunderstanding with
the government over setting radiation limits in schools.  The government accepted the resignation of Toshiso Kosako,
a professor at the  University of Tokyo , Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said at a press conference in the capital today. The
adviser disagreed with the maximum annual  radiation exposure 
allowed in elementary schools, Edano said, adding there was a
“misunderstanding.”  Japan  is struggling to contain the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl in 1986. Four reactors at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant were damaged by hydrogen
blasts after a 9-magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami March
11 knocked out backup power and cooling systems, and radiation
leaks have forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people.
At least one worker at the plant has been exposed to radiation
levels near the maximum allowed by the government,  Tokyo 
Electric said today.  Kosako resigned in protest against the government’s
“impromptu” handling of the crisis and delays in bringing the
situation under control,  Kyodo News  reported, citing comments
made by the adviser at a press conference yesterday. Kosako
disagreed with the maximum annual radiation exposure of 20
millisieverts allowed by the government in elementary schools,
according to Edano.  “We’re not saying it’s OK for children to get exposed up
to 20 millisieverts,” he said. “We’re trying to reduce
children’s radiation exposure as much as possible. Our plan
would be much lower than 20 millisieverts a year.”  Kosako did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment. A
spokesman at the prime minister’s office was not available for
comment when contacted by telephone.  Worker Exposed  One  Tokyo Electric  worker, hospitalized for radiation burns
last month, has been exposed to 240.8 millisieverts of
radiation, company spokesman Takashi Kurita said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. The cumulative maximum level for
nuclear workers, set by the government, is 250 millisieverts.
Radiation amounted to 226.6 millisieverts for another man who
was hospitalized last month, Kurita said.  Radiation levels of 1,120 millisieverts per hour were found
in the No. 1 reactor building of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, Tokyo Electric April 27.  A total of 21 workers were exposed to radiation exceeding
100 millisieverts in the period from March 11 to March 31,
Kurita said. On April 23, the company said 30 workers had been
exposed to that level. Exposure totaling 100 millisieverts over
a year is the lowest at which any increase in cancer is evident,
according to the  World Nuclear Association  in  London .  Water Transfer  Tokyo Electric said it will resume the transfer of
radioactive water from trenches near the No. 2 reactor today,
after it halted the operation yesterday to check for leaks at
the waste treatment building.  Japan’s trade minister Banri Kaieda has told Tokyo Electric
to carry out safety assessments, including tests of the
earthquake resistance of the reactor building and containment
vessels, before starting to fill up the No. 1 reactor vessel
with water, the ministry said today.  The government is considering setting up a fund to help pay
for damages caused by the crippled plant, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported, citing an interview with Kaieda.  It may ask power utilities that own nuclear plants to sell
their assets to help Tokyo Electric pay compensation, the report
said. Kaieda wants other utilities to contribute to the fund
with restructuring and not by just raising electricity fees,
according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  