-- 
Obama Tells Graduates He’ll Press to Overhaul Immigration Laws

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-30T00:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/obama-tells-graduates-he-ll-press-to-overhaul-immigration-laws.html
President  Barack Obama  told
graduating seniors at a Miami college that immigrants helped to
build the U.S. into an economic powerhouse and promised to keep
working to change the nation’s immigration laws.  “I strongly believe we should fix our broken immigration
system,” the president said in his commencement address to
about 4,000 graduates at  Miami Dade College  in downtown Miami.
“We didn’t raise the Statue of Liberty with its back to the
world, we raised it with its light to the world,” he said.  Obama’s theme for the address was the nation’s resilience
and its capacity for change. At a school that has a significant
proportion of minority students, including many from other
countries, Obama called the U.S. “the land where all things are
possible.”  Part of that, he said, was providing opportunities for all,
including immigrants. An attempt by Obama’s predecessor in the
White House,  George W. Bush , to overhaul U.S. immigration laws
to create a guest worker program and a path to citizenship for
some of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants never
got action by Congress for lack of support. Opposition hasn’t
abated since Obama took office in 2009.  Obama said the strength of the U.S. is rooted in its
ability to stitch together different cultures and backgrounds.  ‘One People’  “Whether your ancestors came here on the Mayflower or a
slave ship, whether they signed in at  Ellis Island  or they
crossed the  Rio Grande , we are one people,” he said. “Our
patriotism is not rooted in ethnicity.”  The president also said the nation’s future depends on
making sure all its citizens have access to education and a
chance to succeed.  “America will only be as strong in this new century as the
opportunities that we provide you,” Obama said.  Miami Dade College is one of the nation’s largest
institutions of higher education, with more than 170,000
students on eight campuses, according to the school’s website.
Originally set up as a  community college  awarding two-year
degrees, the college began offering four-year courses of study
in 2003.  The president is putting an emphasis on community colleges
as part of his broader education strategy, which also calls for
the U.S. to have the world’s highest percentage of adults with
college degrees by 2020. In promoting his education agenda,
Obama argues that higher standards and increasing access to
colleges and universities is crucial for future U.S. economic
growth.  Budget Concerns  With the U.S. projected to run deficits of more than $1
trillion this year and next, Obama has been seeking to protect
his education initiatives from calls by Republicans and some
Democrats to cut federal spending.  Obama has proposed to cut $4 trillion in cumulative
deficits within 12 years through a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases, setting the stage for a fight with
congressional Republicans over the nation’s priorities.  In the budget plan he released Feb. 14, Obama proposed cuts
that would reduce support for higher education by $89 billion
over 10 years, trimming a provision that allowed some college
students to get two  Pell grants  in a year as well as a program
that reduces  interest rates  on loans for graduate students.  Earlier today the president visited  Alabama , where he
toured damage from a string of tornadoes that hit the South this
week, claiming the lives of more than 300 people. He also went
with his wife, Michelle, and their daughters, Malia and Sasha,
to the  Kennedy Space Center  in Cape Canaveral,  Florida , to tour
a facility where the nation’s space shuttle fleet has been
maintained. He was to watch the launch of the shuttle Endeavour,
which  NASA  postponed until May 2 at the earliest because of a
fault in an auxiliary power unit.  Florida Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, whom Obama
has picked to lead the  Democratic National Committee , traveled
with him from  Cape Canaveral  to Miami for the commencement
address.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Miami, Florida at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  