-- 
Obama Says $4 Billion in Tax Breaks for Oil Companies Should Be Scrapped

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-30T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/obama-says-4-billion-in-tax-breaks-for-oil-companies-should-be-scrapped.html
President Barack Obama today
reiterated his call to end billions of dollars in tax breaks for
 oil companies  and instead invest in alternative energy sources.  In his weekly radio and Internet  address , the president
said the U.S. shouldn’t be granting $4 billion in tax breaks to
oil companies at a time when they are reaping tens of billions
of dollars in profit and gasoline prices have risen above $4 per
gallon in much of the nation.  “While rising gas prices mean real pain for our families
at the pump, they also mean bigger profits for oil companies,”
he said. ‘When oil companies are making huge profits and you’re
struggling at the pump, and we’re scouring the federal budget
for spending we can afford to do without, these tax giveaways
aren’t right.’’  With the U.S. projected to run deficits of more than $1
trillion this year and next, Obama has been seeking to protect
his initiatives on energy research from calls by Republicans and
some Democrats in Congress to cut federal spending.  Obama said the government should be spending money on
developing new energy sources, such as solar- and wind-power,
and encouraging the development of energy-efficient
technologies.  “I refuse to cut things like clean energy that will help
America win the future by growing our economy and creating good-
paying jobs,” Obama said.  Budget Proposal  Obama’s fiscal 2012 budget  plan , unveiled Feb. 14, proposes
eliminating oil and gas tax breaks estimated at $46.2 billion
over 10 years. They include $11.2 billion from the so-called
percentage depletion deduction for oil and natural gas wells,
which benefits small producers. He made a similar proposal the
year before that wasn’t acted on by Congress.  In the Republican  address , Representative James Lankford of
 Oklahoma  countered that suspending the tax breaks is the same as
raising taxes on energy producers and instead the federal
government should focus on encouraging domestic oil production.  “Americans are looking for leadership to tackle the rising
gas prices, but President Obama has only offered a tax increase
on energy and the prospect of reduced supply,” Lankford said.  He said Obama’s plan would hurt consumers by forcing the
price of gasoline higher.  Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives, where
they hold the majority, plan to move ahead on a package of
legislation intended to open more areas of  Alaska  to oil and gas
production and spur production on the U.S. outer continental
shelf, including the  Gulf of Mexico .  “This legislation is part of our American Energy
Initiative, an ongoing effort to lower costs and allow the
private sector to create more American jobs,” Lankford said.  Political Impact  Energy prices, particularly for gasoline, are emerging as a
political issue as Obama and Republicans prepare for the 2012
campaign.  The average retail price for a gallon of gasoline rose to
$3.909 last week, according to the AAA’s daily survey, compared
with $2.877 one year ago.  Crude for June delivery rose $1.07, or 1 percent, to
$113.93 a barrel, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008,
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures gained 6.8 percent
in April and have advanced each month since August, the longest
streak of increases since trading began in 1983.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  