-- 
Thousands Rally in Burkina Faso Against President Compaore, Cost of Living

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o
-- 
2011-04-30T16:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/thousands-rally-in-burkina-faso-against-president-sankara-cost-of-living.html
About 3,000 people demonstrated in
 Burkina Faso ’s capital, Ouagadougou, against the rising cost of
living and to call for President Blaise Compaore to resign, said
opposition leader Benewende Stanislas Sankara.  “We want to show the aspirations of our people for
change,” Sankara said in a phone interview today from the city.
“We need reforms to enable the people to benefit from the
country’s riches.”  Mobile text-messaging services were disabled in the city
today to maintain stability, Security Minister Jerome Bougouma
told reporters today. He didn’t say how many people took part in
the demonstration.  "Several people have used SMS to spread alarmist messages
which cause panic among the population’’, Bougouma said.  Burkina Faso,  Africa ’s biggest cotton producer, has been in
turmoil since February, when five people were killed during
demonstrations against the police following the death of a
student in their custody. Ten people were injured after soldiers
in Ouagadougou protested a court decision sentencing officers to
prison.  A mutiny by the presidential guard on April 14 pushed
Compaore to dismiss his government. On April 27, riot police
became the latest group to protest, firing their guns into the
air at their barracks in the east of the capital.  Six people died in the army and police mutinies, Health
Minister Adama Traore told reporters today in Ouagadougou. Among
the dead was an 11-year-old student who was shot while attending
school, Traore said.  Prices rose in the West African nation after the four-
month political crisis in neighboring  Ivory Coast  interrupted
the flow of imports. Burkina Faso doesn’t report a monthly
inflation rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 