-- 
Pound Drops Versus Euro as Rate Bets Fall on Deteriorating Data

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-30T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/pound-drops-versus-euro-as-rate-bets-fall-on-deteriorating-data.html
The pound declined to the weakest
level in six months against the euro as U.K. consumer confidence
and factory orders deteriorated, indicating the British economic
recovery is struggling.  The pound slipped against the 17-member common currency for
the first week in three after a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed
consumer sentiment slumped to its weakest level since the depth
of the recession in February 2009. Short-sterling futures rose
for a fourth week as traders speculated the Bank of England will
keep its benchmark rate at a record low to support the economy.  “If you are a buyer of sterling, there’s no rush to do it,
but we are reaching the kind of levels where it is starting to
look like decent value,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency
strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in  London .  The pound declined 0.6 percent in the week to 88.74 pence
per euro as of 5:05 p.m. in London yesterday. It earlier slipped
to 89.37 per euro, the weakest level since Oct. 25. Against the
dollar, sterling gained 1.2 percent to $1.6701 as the greenback
slumped against the majority of its peers.  The Confederation of British Industry’s orders gauge
slumped to minus 11 in April from plus five a month before,
compared with the median estimate for a decline to plus two. The
GfK index of consumer sentiment fell to minus 31 in April from
minus 28 last month, while a separate report showed gross
domestic product grew 0.5 percent after shrinking the same
amount in the fourth quarter.  BOE Rate Expectations  Short-sterling futures rose in a week that saw just three
days of trading due to national holidays, as traders pared bets
the  Bank of England  will boost borrowing costs. The implied
yield on the contract expiring in December has slipped 33 basis
points this month. The pound has lost 1.3 percent against the
euro since the  European Central Bank  raised its key rate for the
first time in almost three years on April 7.  U.K. government bonds gained in the week, pushing the yield
on the 10-year gilt five basis points lower to 3.48 percent as
of the close of trading on April 28. The two-year note yield
dropped two basis points to 1.10 percent. Gilts trading was
closed yesterday for a national holiday to celebrate the
marriage of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton .  Gilts have earned investors 2 percent this month, compared
with a 1.2 percent return on  U.S. Treasuries  and 0.7 percent on
German bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 