-- 
Queens Park Rangers Earn Promotion to Premier League, Still Faces Probe

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-30T17:02:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/queens-park-rangers-earn-promotion-to-premier-league-still-faces-probe.html
Queens Park Rangers won 2-0 at
Watford to secure enough points to win English soccer’s
Championship, although the club’s promotion to the Premier
League could be derailed by disciplinary action over a player
trade.  Adel Taarabt and Tommy Smith scored in the final 13 minutes
today at Vicarage Road to give QPR, owned by Formula One chief
 Bernie Ecclestone , the title with one game remaining in its
season.  QPR leads the standings by eight points over second-place
Norwich and is nine ahead of third-place Cardiff, with both of
those teams having two games left. The top two are promoted
automatically, with a playoff determining a third team to go up.  Promotion to the top league is worth about 90 million
pounds ($149 million) in television rights and other revenue,
accountant Deloitte LLP estimates. The cloud on QPR’s horizon is
a disciplinary hearing next week when it faces seven rule-breach
charges linked to the signing of Argentine midfielder Alejandro
Faurlin in 2009. Possible sanctions include a points deduction
with a decision due by May 6, the day before the last league
game at home against Leeds.  West London-based QPR last played in the Premier League in
1996, since when it’s undergone numerous coaching and ownership
changes, financial crises, and a spell in the third tier.  Neil Warnock’s arrival as manager in March last year laid
the basis for this season’s success. Inspired by maverick
Moroccan forward Taarabt and strengthened by experienced players
such as Shaun Derry, Clint Hill and Paddy Kenny, the “Hoops”
have lost just five of 45 games this season.  Ecclestone has been in talks about a possible sale of his
62 percent stake. Metals billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ’s family
owns the bulk of the remaining shares.  Faurlin joined from Argentine club Instituto de Cordoba.
QPR denies charges connected with an alleged agreement with a
third party over his economic rights. Faurlin, 24, has been a
regular in the team and was voted player of the year last season
by both fans and teammates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  