-- 
Ralcorp Said to Draw Interest From Apollo on Possible Investment

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/ralcorp-said-to-draw-interest-from-apollo-on-possible-investment.html
Apollo Global Management LLC is
seeking an investment in  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  and plans to meet
with the cereal maker’s management to discuss options, said one
person familiar with the discussions.  Apollo has already made an initial approach to Ralcorp
management, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. Discussions may not result in a
deal, said the person.  Ralcorp was forged in a spinoff from Ralston Purina Co.
almost 20 years ago. The company currently makes a wide variety
of store-brand items such as peanut butter, cookies and cereals.
Ralcorp, based in  St. Louis , also added to its private-label
pasta business with the $1.2 billion purchase of the American
Italian Pasta Co. last year.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , based in Omaha,  Nebraska , made an
unsolicited bid for Ralcorp, CNBC reported today. There are no
current talks between the two companies, the broadcaster said,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Teresa Paulsen, a ConAgra spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Matt Pudlowski, a representative for Ralcorp, did not
immediately respond to a voicemail seeking comment. An outside
spokeswoman for Apollo declined to comment.  This year New York-based Apollo, led by  Leon Black , bid for
Sara Lee Corp., before being rebuffed by the  Downers Grove ,
Illinois-based maker of Ball Park hot dogs. Apollo has been
working with former consumer executive C. Dean Metropoulos to
find investment opportunities in the industry.  Increasing Costs  Like other food companies, Ralcorp is facing increasing
prices for ingredients such as milk and wheat, forcing it to
pass those costs onto consumers.  Ralcorp, which also makes Post brand cereal, rose $6.38, or
8.9 percent, to $77.80 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Investors are now buying Ralcorp’s shares at a 4 percent
premium over the  S&P 500 . Three years ago the premium was 52
percent. The company had a market value of about $3.9 billion as
of yesterday.  There have been almost 1,800 food-company takeovers in the
past five years through 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest of these was the $22.6 billion purchase
of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. by Mars Inc. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  