-- 
Treasuries Gain the Most in a Month Since August as Economic Growth Cools

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-30T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/treasuries-generate-biggest-return-since-august-on-slowing-economic-growth.html
Treasuries rose for a third week,
generating the biggest monthly return since August, as cooling
economic growth and the  Federal Reserve ’s commitment to maintain
stimulus encouraged demand for the safety of government debt.  Two-year note yields dropped the most in a month since
January 2010 as policy makers said after a meeting that a $600
billion debt-purchase program will continue through June. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he was unsure when monetary
stimulus will unwind. Employers added fewer jobs in April than
in March, a report next week is forecast to show.  “The lack of growth is supporting the Treasury market,”
said Siddharth Joshi, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Citigroup Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with
the U.S. central bank. “The Fed expressed very cautious
sentiment toward growth and made it clear they aren’t going to
do anything until sustainable growth has picked up.”  Two-year note yields fell five basis points this week, or
0.05 percentage point, to 0.60 percent in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the lowest since March 21.
The yields dropped 22 basis points in April, the most since
sliding 32 basis points in January 2010.  Ten-year note yields declined 10 basis points to 3.29
percent yesterday, from 3.39 percent on April 22, and fell 18
basis points in April in the first monthly decrease since
tumbling 44 basis points in August. They reached 3.28 percent,
the least since March 23.  Monthly Return  Treasuries returned 1.1 percent this month, the first
monthly gain since January and the biggest since August,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Treasury Master
index. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks advanced 2.9
percent in April.  Bonds climbed on April 28 as Commerce Department data
showed U.S. gross domestic product slowed to a 1.8 percent
annual pace in the first quarter, from a 3.1 percent pace in the
fourth. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
yesterday its business barometer declined to 67.6 this month,
more than economists forecast, from 70.6 in March.  Initial claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly increased
last week, Labor Department data showed on April 28.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls added 190,000 workers in April after
a gain of 216,000 the prior month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department reports the data on May 6.  ‘Not Bouncing Back’  “Growth is not bouncing back as much as economists
thought,” said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at a
Deutsche Bank AG Private Wealth Management group in New York
that oversees $12 billion. “Fiscal tightening, curtailing of
industrial production, subdued inflationary pressures and a Fed
that is on hold for a long time have left investors comfortable
to go out on the curve and buy bonds.”  A bond market measure of inflation expectations the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy was at 2.96 percentage
points, compared with a three-month high of 3.13 percent on
April 15 and a 2011 low of 2.77 percentage points on Feb. 16.  The five-year forward break-even rate projects what the
pace of consumer price increases may be beginning in 2016. It
averaged 2.78 percentage points over the past five years.  “The market is battling the notion that there are
inflationary risks in the system with the reality that growth
has been slower than even the Fed thought it would be,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It doesn’t mean inflation risks
are off the table, but slower growth is an offset.”  No Prediction  Bernanke indicated during a press conference after a Fed
meeting ended on April 27 the central bank will maintain record
monetary stimulus once U.S. debt purchases end in June,
reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings,
while the need to cap inflation means further easing is
unlikely. He wouldn’t predict when stimulus would end.  The central bank said in November it would buy Treasuries
through the middle of 2011 to spur economic growth. It purchased
$22.6 billion of them this week as part of the program.  “The broader economy is in a moderate recovery,” Bernanke
said yesterday in a speech in Arlington, Virginia. “But our
economy is far from where we would like it to be, and many
people and neighborhoods are in danger of being left behind.”  The likelihood policy makers will raise the target rate for
overnight lending between banks at their March 2012 meeting
decreased to 44 percent yesterday, from 61 percent a month ago,
Fed funds futures showed.  The central bank has kept the benchmark rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 to support the economy.  Bill Rates  Six-month bill rates slid to a record-low 0.0895 percent on
April 28. Bill rates have fallen as the Treasury cut issuance on
behalf of a Fed program as the federal debt ceiling approaches.  President  Barack Obama  has offered the outlines of a
program to reduce the nation’s debt by $4 trillion over 12 years
through a combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  “Our deficits are too high,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said April 28 in  Detroit . “They will not be solved
by future economic growth, and left unaddressed they will hurt
future economic growth.”  The Treasury auctioned $99 billion in two-, five- and
seven-year notes this week.  It sold $29 billion in seven-year
debt on April 28 at a yield of 2.712 percent, $35 billion of
five-year securities April 27 at a 2.124 percent yield and $35
billion of two-year notes April 26 at a yield of 0.673 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  