-- 
Republicans Pan Obama on Economy as 2012 Primary Field Forms

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/republicans-pan-obama-s-economic-policies-as-field-forms-for-2012-primary.html
Five Republicans considering 2012
presidential bids leveled criticism of President  Barack Obama  on
the economy, offering a contrast on a central election issue
during a forum in the home of the nation’s first primary.  At what was billed as a “presidential summit” on the
economy sponsored by the Tea Party-affiliated group  Americans
for Prosperity , the Republican prospects yesterday sketched a
small-government vision of lower taxes, less spending and
lighter regulation, laying the nation’s current fiscal woes
squarely at Obama’s feet.  The president “says he just inherited the downturn.”
former  Massachusetts  Governor Mitt Romney told an audience at a
banquet hall in Manchester, New Hampshire. “Yeah, that’s right,
but he made it worse, and he made it deeper, and longer.”  He said Republicans would “have to hang the Obama misery
index around his neck,” referring to the measure of
 unemployment rate  plus inflation that was a centerpiece of
 Ronald Reagan ’s successful campaign against then-incumbent
President  Jimmy Carter  in 1980.  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  also went after
Obama, opening his remarks by playing on discontent about high
fuel prices and joblessness.  “You had enough of $4-a-gallon gas?” Pawlenty asked.
“You had enough of unbearable levels of unemployment? You had
enough of a federal government that’s out of control? You had
enough of Barack Obama?”  Few Details Offered  In the first multicandidate forum of the still-unformed
Republican primary, Romney, Pawlenty and the other possible
contenders for the nomination -- none of whom has formally
declared his or her candidacy -- offered scant details of their
own economic ideas while taking turns critiquing the man whose
office they may seek. They never shared the stage, making brief
remarks and then taking two questions each from the group’s
president, Tim Phillips.  Republicans believe that the shaky economy will be a key
element of their offensive against Obama. The  U.S. economy 
slowed more than forecast in the first quarter of this year as
 government spending  declined by the greatest amount since 1983
and household purchases cooled. Gross domestic product rose at a
1.8 percent annual rate from January through March, down from a
3.1 percent pace in the final three months of 2010.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell last week for the
first time in a month, and measures of personal finances and
buying climate dropped, suggesting households may limit
purchases as fuel costs rise.  Massachusetts Health-Care Law  Romney offered a partial defense of the 2006 health-care
measure he shepherded into law in Massachusetts that -- like the
federal legislation Obama signed last year -- requires people to
purchase health insurance.  “I had to work to try and solve the problem, and it may
not be perfect -- it is not perfect. Some parts of that
experiment worked, some parts didn’t. Some things I’d change,”
Romney said, responding to a question. “One thing I’d never do,
by the way, would be to impose a one-size-fits-all plan like
Obamacare on the nation. That’s simply wrong and
unconstitutional, and it won’t work.”  Pawlenty had a different approach when asked about his
initial support for a  Minnesota  measure to limit  carbon
emissions , similar to the so-called cap-and-trade approach Obama
favors.  “It was a mistake, it was stupid, and I’m sorry,” he said.
“I don’t try to defend it. Everybody’s got a couple of clunkers
in their record.”  Rolling Back Agenda  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota said repealing
the health-care law would be a key element of her economic
prescription, along with immediately balancing the budget,
slashing corporate tax rates to 9 percent, and scrapping the  tax
code  for one that imposed a  consumption tax . She also called for
enacting “the mother of all repeal bills” to roll back Obama’s
entire agenda.  Former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania called Obama’s
vision of the country “chilling,” citing a recent speech in
which the president said the nation would not be great without
its commitments to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.  “America was founded great. It wasn’t great because some
politicians gave us stuff,” Santorum said. He said he was
motivated by “freedom and trust in the American people,” and
would instead undo the health-care law, lower taxes and pursue
more domestic energy exploration.  The most enthusiastic reception was given to fast-food
magnate Herman Cain, the onetime chairman of Godfather’s Pizza,
whose preacher-like delivery of his five-point plan of lowering
taxes and reining in spending drew frequent laughs and applause.
“Take it to zero!” he said of the taxes on  capital gains  and
on corporate profits earned overseas and brought back to the U.S.  He closed with a unique take on American exceptionalism,
saying, “We are the big potatoes and we can take back our
country. Be a big potato!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester,  New Hampshire  at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  