-- 
RIM Longtime Bulls Turn Bearish Saying Stock Slide Could Hit 38%

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/rim-longtime-bulls-turn-bearish-saying-stock-slide-could-hit-38-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s cut to
its profit forecast has prompted some longtime bulls to lower
their ratings on the shares and slash their price targets to as
much as 38 percent below the stock’s close before the warning.  At least five analysts dropped their ratings for the stock
after RIM said earnings would be lower than what it had forecast
a month before.  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets 
in Toronto, who has had an “outperform” or “top pick” on RIM
since January 2009, cut his rating to “sector perform” and his
price target to $55 from $90.  “We were wrong,” Abramsky said in a research note
yesterday. Coming four weeks after providing guidance, “this
warning raises questions about RIM’s visibility into its own
business.”  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies & Co., cut his rating
on the stock to “underperform” after recommending investors
“buy” or “hold” the shares since at least 2005. RIM’s
reduced forecast suggests the company may have delays in getting
phones it introduces at an annual trade show next week into
stores, which will only turn off carriers and consumers, he
said.  “RIM’s falling mindshare and its continued execution-
related delays is souring its relationships with carriers,”
Misek, who is based in  New York , wrote in a note. He cut his
price target from $80 to $35, or 38 percent lower than the
stock’s closing price on April 28.  RIM fell $7.94, or 14 percent, to $48.65 yesterday in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, for the biggest drop since
September 2009. The stock has lost 16 percent this year.  Apple and Google  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company is struggling to
compete against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the smartphone
market. RIM’s share of global smartphone sales fell to 14
percent in the fourth quarter from 20 percent a year earlier,
according to the British research firm Canalys. The share for
devices that run Google’s Android operating system more than
tripled to 33 percent, and Apple was unchanged at 16 percent.  RIM, which will hold an investor day alongside the
BlackBerry World event in  Orlando ,  Florida , next week, must
convince investors it has come up with products that can compete
with Apple’s iPhone and Android devices, said  Paul Taylor , chief
investment officer at BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto.  “Management needs to deliver on the product side,” said
Taylor, who manages about $14.5 billion, including RIM and Apple
shares. “That includes competitive next-generation smartphones
and building out the app library.”  ‘Aging’ BlackBerrys  Apple offers more than 350,000 software applications, or
apps, and Google’s Android Market has more than 150,000,
compared with more than 25,000 in BlackBerry App World.  Co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Balsillie told analysts on a
conference call on April 28 that he wished the new products
would come sooner to replace current BlackBerry devices.  “The issue is an aging that happens in your higher-end
products and it affects margin,” Balsillie said. “All things
being equal we would love to have these products earlier and not
be having this call. Because it’s such a big upgrade, it takes
longer.”  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company said April 28 that
profit will be $1.30 to $1.37 a share this quarter, instead of
$1.47 to $1.55. RIM said BlackBerry shipments will be at the
lower end of the range of 13.5 million to 14.5 million it
projected last month, and the mix of devices will shift toward
cheaper models.  The company said full-year earnings will be about $7.50 a
share, after projecting earnings in excess of $7.50 last month.  ‘Lost Confidence’  “The investment community was already skeptical about the
full-year guidance of $7.50 and this gives them reason to be
more skeptical,” said Michael Walkley, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Ltd., who has a “hold” rating on the stock.  Cormark Securities Inc.’s Richard Tse, who has had an
“outperform” or “sector perform” rating since at least
October 2008, cut his recommendation to “reduce.” Gleacher &
Co. Securities’ Stephen Patel and National Bank Financial’s Kris Thompson also reduced their ratings on RIM.  “We’ve lost confidence in RIM and don’t see this as a one-
time miss,” said Thompson.  Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities Inc. in
Toronto, suggested the company should consider adopting Android
for its consumer devices to stay competitive. He also said RIM
should scrap its two-CEO structure.  “It is apparent that this dual structure is not working at
RIM,” he wrote in a note. “We contend that a change in
management structure is required and believe the vote is clearly
in favor of Mr. Mihalis ‘Mike’ Lazaridis, who is the technical
brains behind the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  