-- 
Ron Burkle Said to Drop Out of Warner Music Auction, Leaving Two Bidders

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-30T04:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/ron-burkle-s-yucaipa-said-to-drop-out-of-warner-music-auction.html
Billionaire investor  Ron Burkle  has
dropped out of the Warner Music Group auction, leaving two final
bidders, said two people with knowledge of the decision.  Yucaipa Cos., Burkle’s investment company in Los Angeles,
won’t submit a final offer when bids are due May 2, said the
people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Burkle is leaving the auction to Len Blavatnik and private-
equity billionaires Tom and Alec Gores. A final decision may be
made within two weeks, one of the people said. Warner Music, the
New York-based record company run by Edgar Bronfman Jr., put
itself up for sale in January.  Blavatnik’s New York-based Access Industries Holdings may
drop out of the bidding if the sale process drags on, said one
person.  The developments were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Warner Music , home to artists including Cee Lo Green and
The Black Keys, gained 9 cents to $7.47 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has climbed 33
percent this year.  The three final suitors each offered $3 billion or more for
Warner Music’s recorded music and publishing assets, a person
with knowledge of the situation said on April 16. The company,
which has long-term debt of $2.27 billion, may let more bidders
in later, people said then.  Eight of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares. Bronfman, who holds about 7 percent, is
chairman and chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  