-- 
Royal Wedding Party Lasts Into Night as Honeymoon Kept Secret

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-30T09:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/royal-wedding-party-lasts-into-night-as-location-of-honeymoon-still-secret.html
Prince William  and his new wife,
Kate, celebrated their marriage with close family and friends at
a reception in  Buckingham Palace  that lasted into the early
hours of today.  Some of the 300 guests celebrated until about 3 a.m.,
according to images broadcast by Sky News television. William
and Kate, who wore a white evening gown by Alexander McQueen
designer Sarah Burton, stayed at the palace after the reception,
according to the British Broadcasting Corp. The newlyweds are
expected to leave for their honeymoon at a secret location
today, the  BBC  said.  The couple, who are now officially known as the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge, married in London’s Westminster Abbey
yesterday as 1 million people lined the streets and an estimated
2 billion around the world watched on television. Kate is the
first woman from outside royalty or the aristocracy to marry so
close to the throne for 350 years. When William becomes
Britain’s monarch, she will be queen.  It was the 16th royal wedding at the 1,000-year-old abbey,
and the service was conducted by the Dean of Westminster,  John
Hall , and the Bishop of London, Richard Chartres. The wedding
ceremony was led by the senior cleric in the Church of  England ,
the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams.  William’s father, Prince Charles, hosted last night’s party
at Buckingham Palace to celebrate the marriage, during which his
brother, Prince Harry, paid tribute to the couple.  Best Man’s Speech  Harry made a light-hearted best man’s speech, laced with
jokes at his brother’s expense and even some of his more elderly
relatives, the Telegraph  reported  today.  Prince William and Prince Charles had earlier used parts of
their speeches at the Queen’s afternoon champagne reception at
the palace to mock each other, with the  Prince of Wales  drawing
attention to his son’s baldness while William highlighted his
father’s waistline, according to the newspaper.  The celebrations were the U.K.’s biggest royal event since
the funeral in 1997 of William’s mother, Diana, who died in a
car crash in Paris. Diana’s marriage to Prince Charles, the heir
to the throne, ended in divorce, as did the first marriages of
his brother Andrew and sister Anne.  Among the wedding service guests were more than 40 foreign
royals such as Queen Margrethe of  Denmark . Also in the abbey
were members of both families, and friends and acquaintances of
the couple, including soccer player David Beckham and his wife
Victoria and Elton John, who sang at Diana’s funeral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Torday at  