-- 
Royal Newlyweds Put Honeymoon on Hold as William Returns to Work

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/royal-newlyweds-put-honeymoon-on-hold-as-william-returns-to-work.html
Britain’s Royal newlyweds are starting
married life at a secret location in the U.K. after deciding to
postpone their honeymoon plans.  Prince William  and his wife, Kate, are spending today
privately before he resumes his duties as an Royal Air Force
search and rescue helicopter pilot later this week, St James’s
Palace said in a  statement  yesterday.  The couple, now officially known as the Duke and Duchess of
Cambridge, married in London’s Westminster Abbey on April 29 as
1 million people lined the streets and an estimated 2 billion
around the world watched on television. Kate was the first woman
from outside royalty or the aristocracy to marry so close to the
throne for 350 years. If William, second in line to the throne
after his father, Prince Charles, becomes Britain’s monarch, she
will be queen.  “The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have chosen not to
depart for a honeymoon immediately,” the palace statement said.
“Instead, after spending the weekend privately in the
 United Kingdom , the Duke will return to work as a search and
rescue pilot. The locations of both their private weekend before
the Duke returns to work and their future honeymoon, which will
be overseas, will not be disclosed in advance.”  William, who flies a Sea King Mk3 helicopter as part of his
duties, is based on the island of Anglesey in Wales. He and his
bride may be staying at his family’s Balmoral Estate in
 Scotland , the Telegraph  reported , citing no one.  The couple, who spent their wedding night in  Buckingham
Palace  following a night of celebrations for 300 close family
and friends hosted by Prince Charles, the groom’s father,
yesterday released three official wedding  photographs  of their
wedding day.  Service  The images, which were reproduced by British newspapers
today, showed the couple in poses with their immediate families
as well as the young bridesmaids and page boys in the palace’s
Throne Room.  The wedding was the 16th such royal events at the 1,000-
year-old abbey. The service was conducted by the Dean of
Westminster,  John Hall , and the Bishop of London, Richard Chartres. The wedding ceremony was led by the senior cleric in
the Church of  England , the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams.  Many of the guests invited to the evening wedding party
celebrated into the early hours of yesterday. During the event
William’s brother, Prince Harry, paid tribute to the couple
during a light-hearted best man’s speech laced with jokes at the
groom’s expense and even some of his more elderly relatives, the
Telegraph  reported  yesterday.  Prince William and Prince Charles had earlier used parts of
their speeches at the Queen’s afternoon champagne reception at
the palace to mock each other, with the Prince of  Wales  drawing
attention to his son’s baldness while William highlighted his
father’s waistline, according to the newspaper.  The wedding was the U.K.’s biggest royal event since the
funeral in 1997 of William’s mother,  Princess Diana , who died in
a car crash in Paris. Her marriage to Prince Charles ended in
divorce.  Among the wedding service guests were more than 40 foreign
royals such as Queen Margrethe of  Denmark . Also in the abbey
were members of both families, and friends and acquaintances of
the couple, including soccer player David Beckham and his wife
Victoria, and  Elton John , who sang at Diana’s funeral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Torday at 
 ptorday@bloomberg.net  