-- 
Saint-Maker Pope John Paul II Beatified in Rome, Nearing Sainthood Himself

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-01T09:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/saint-maker-john-paul-ii-to-gain-beatification-in-record-time.html
Pope  John Paul II , the Roman Catholic
Church’s biggest saint-maker, was elevated within a step of
sainthood himself in a beatification ceremony today led by his
successor, Benedict XVI.  City authorities say more than 1 million pilgrims, tourists
and Italians packed St. Peter’s Square and piazzas in central
Rome to watch Benedict pronounce his Polish-born mentor worthy
of veneration by the world’s billion Catholics by declaring him
“blessed,” the penultimate step to sainthood.  “The expected day has arrived, it has arrived soon. Pope
John Paul II is blessed,” Benedict said, interrupted by the
applause of the pilgrims.  John Paul, history’s most traveled pontiff, is headed to
become the fastest-made saint since popes took over the process
around the year 1200. During his funeral in April 2005, mourners
in  Rome  chanted “Santo Subito,” or “Sainthood Now,” for the
pope who canonized 482 saints, more than all the other Roman
pontiffs combined.  The Vatican heeded that call, waiving the traditional five-
year waiting period before initiating the beatification process,
the first time it was sped up since the Church began the
procedure for Mother Teresa of Calcutta upon her death in 1997.  Flood of Visitors  About 1.1 million visitors were expected in Rome, a city of
2.8 million, as pilgrims add to the usual flow of tourists and
music-lovers attending the annual May Day concert, according to
the city’s website. The cost of security, transportation, clean-
up, health care and other services was estimated at 3.5 million
euros ($5 million), the city said.  “He was a holy man and he was always good with the whole
world,” said Maria Clavero, a 15-year-old student in  Madrid ,
 Spain , who came by bus with 55 students from the school. The
trip took more than 24 hours. “It was worth it,” she said.  Rome has dedicated three days to the proceedings, which
started with a vigil last night at Circus Maximus, an ancient
Roman amphitheatre. About 200,000 persons attented the ceremony,
according to city authorities. Thousands of faithful today will
stream into St. Peter’s Basilica to view a relic of the pope’s
blood, taken shortly before his death.  The Holy See announced the beatification of John Paul in
January, saying it confirmed that he cured a French nun from
 Parkinson’s disease , from which he also suffered in his last 12
years. The Vatican’s Congregation for the Causes of Saints must
now certify a second miracle for him to be eligible for
sainthood.  Abuse Cases  Benedict called John Paul an example for the faithful at a
time when the church’s moral authority has been eroded by the
priestly sex-abuse crisis. “Despite all our shame and mistakes,
we shouldn’t forget that even today there exist illustrious
examples of faith -- that even today, there are people who
through their faith and love give hope to the world,” Benedict,
referring to John Paul, said on April 20 at the Vatican.  Critics such as  Barbara Blaine , founder and president of
the Chicago-based Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests,
say the sex-abuse crisis erupted on John Paul’s watch and he did
little to tackle it. “He repeatedly and effectively brought his
unparalleled global influence to bear on other crucial issues,
but ignored or promoted stunningly complicit church officials,”
she said in response to e-mailed questions. The church “can
avoid rubbing more salt into these wounds by slowing down their
hasty drive to confer sainthood” on John Paul, she added.  Human Rights  Born Karol Wojtyla in 1920, John Paul became the first pope
from Poland and first non-Italian pontiff in almost 500 years
when he was elected in 1978. He denounced totalitarianism in his
native land while promoting human rights. He also suffered an
attempted assassination on May 13, 1981, when a Turkish man,
Mehmet Ali Agca, shot him in St. Peter’s Square. The pope later
forgave Agca, whose motives were never clear.  John Paul made his second of a record 104 papal trips
abroad to  Poland , calling for “victory of the moral order in
this difficult epoch of our history” in a  homily  in Krakow on
June 10, 1979. Lech Walesa, Poland’s first president after the
fall of communism, and current President Bronislaw Komorowski
are due to attend the beatification.  “He gave hope and strength to Poles at their darkest
hour,” Andrea Riccardi, an Italian historian and biographer of
John Paul, said in an April 15 video interview posted on the
website of newspaper Repubblica. “He resuscitated the peoples
of eastern  Europe .”  About 35,000 Poles registered to attend the ceremony in
Rome, with as many as 600 buses chartered from Poland, according
to Father Piotr Studnicki, a priest who’s coordinating support
for Polish pilgrims in the Italian capital. Many more may come
without registering, he said, and thousands will mark the event
in celebrations across Poland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 