-- 
Buffett Faults Sokol, Takes Blame for Not Pressing Him on Trades

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-30T17:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/sokol-s-purchase-of-lubrizol-shares-broke-berkshire-s-rules-buffett-says.html
David Sokol  broke  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s ethics rules by investing in a company as he
pushed for its takeover, according to Chairman  Warren Buffett ,
who said he regrets not pressing Sokol earlier for details.  “He violated our insider-trading rules and he violated the
principles I lay out every two years to our managers,” the 80-
year-old chief executive officer said today at Berkshire’s
annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Buffett’s remarks today contrast with his comments March 30
when he announced that Sokol, 54, was leaving and praised him
for “extraordinary” contributions to Berkshire. The company’s
 audit committee  said April 26 that Sokol misled Buffett and
violated the firm’s rules through his trades in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) ,
which Buffett agreed on March 14 to buy for about $9 billion.  Sokol bought about $10 million of Lubrizol Corp. shares in
January while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying
the lubricant maker. Buffett said previously that Sokol had made
a “passing remark” about a personal investment in the company,
and the committee said in a report that the billionaire chairman
was unaware of the timing of Sokol’s trades or that he was
working with Citigroup Inc. bankers to deal with Lubrizol.  “I made a big mistake by not saying, ‘well, when did you
buy it?’” Buffett told shareholders today.  “At best, the report makes Buffett look naive,” said
Elizabeth Nowicki, a professor at  Tulane University Law School 
and former attorney with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, in an interview before the meeting. “At worst it
looks like he didn’t immediately follow up the moment he knew
that things were smelling bad.”  Share Surge  Lubrizol jumped 28 percent on the New York Stock Exchange
on March 14 when Buffett announced a deal to buy the company.
The committee said Berkshire should weigh suing Sokol to recover
his trading profits.  Buffett is revisiting a topic he’d previously said would be
off limits. Buffett said in a March 30 statement that he’d held
back nothing from his comments that day and would refer future
inquiries to his written remarks. Berkshire will post a
transcript “as soon as possible” of Buffett’s Sokol-related
comments from today’s meeting, the company said April 27 when it
released the committee’s report.  “The tone has changed almost 180 degrees from that very
vague press release that Buffett issued a little while ago that
I believe raised more questions than answers,” said David Rolfe, chief investment officer at Wedgewood Partners, a
Berkshire shareholder, in an interview before the meeting.
“Some of Buffett’s harshest critics are defanged now.”  ‘In the Open’  Sokol “would not, and did not, trade improperly, nor did
he violate any fair reading of the Berkshire Hathaway
policies,” according to a statement from William Levine, a
lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in  Washington .  Buffett said Sokol didn’t attempt to disguise his trades.
“He essentially did it right out in the open,” Buffett said.
Buffett said in the March 30 statement that he didn’t believe
his trades were unlawful.  Sokol had run an energy utility for Berkshire, and was
previously considered a potential CEO candidate as Buffett
expanded his duties to include scouting for acquisitions and
overseeing luxury-travel and roofing units. Sokol had no chance
of being CEO after the trades, and if he were dismissed from the
firm, it would have been for cause, Buffett said today.  Buffett oversees the heads of Berkshire’s more than 70
subsidiaries with the help of Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87,
and a staff of about 20 at the company’s headquarters. Berkshire
employs more than 250,000 people across industries spanning
insurance, energy and consumer goods, and Buffett entrusts
operational authority to the CEOs of the individual units.  ‘Trusts You Completely’  “His management style is wonderful because he trusts you
completely, and 99 percent of the time it works,” William
Child, chairman of Berkshire’s R.C. Willey Home Furnishings
retailer, said April 29 on the sidelines of the Value Investor
Conference in Omaha. “The secret is picking the right people.”  Berkshire is facing “governance challenges” that may hurt
the company’s credit quality, Moody’s Investors Service said
April 1, citing Sokol’s stock trades and resignation.  “It seems to me that the corporate governance did its
job,” said  Roy Smith , finance professor at the Stern School of
Business at  New York University  and former banker at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. “They found the problem, they took care of it
and issued a report. I say give him a break.”  The audit committee said it authorized the release of the
Sokol report to reinforce the company’s  ethics rules .  The public release of the document shows that Berkshire
“takes its policies very seriously, and that its instruction to
all its representatives to play in the middle of the court is
company policy, not public relations,” the panel said. “We
expect this report to send a loud message that those policies
are designed to be read broadly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Omaha at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  