-- 
Spectrum Wins U.S. Approval to Market Drug for Colon Cancer

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-30T01:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/spectrum-wins-u-s-approval-to-market-fusilev-for-colon-cancer.html
Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SPPI)  won
U.S. clearance to expand marketing of its Fusilev shots for use
in patients with advanced  colon cancer , providing options while
an existing therapy is in short supply.  The Food and Drug Administration approved wider use of the
drug, the company said today in a statement. Fusilev was cleared
in 2008 to protect healthy cells from methotrexate chemotherapy
in patients with a bone tumor called osteosarcoma.  Spectrum, based in Irvine,  California , failed in 2009 to
win expanded approval of the treatment for advanced metastatic
colorectal cancer. The company last year submitted additional
data requested by the agency to show the medicine worked as well
in those patients as standard therapy, a generic drug called
leucovorin.  “We believe that the FDA approval of Fusilev in the
treatment of colorectal cancer could represent a significant
growth catalyst for Spectrum,” Rajesh Shrotriya, the company’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  FDA approval was likely because the agency already has
taken steps to make Fusilev “widely available” to colon cancer
patients amid a shortage of leucovorin,  Jason Kantor , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , said April 27 in a note
to clients.  Fusilev, known chemically as levoleucovorin, contains only
the “pharmacologically active isomer of leucovorin” and can be
injected at half the dose, according to Spectrum’s  Fusilev
website .  Temporary Approval  The FDA said in March that it had  temporarily authorized 
Spectrum to import a European version of Fusilev, made in Italy
by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , to help meet the demand caused by the leucovorin
shortage.  Spectrum declined $1.36, or 13 percent, to $9 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading before the approval
announcement. The company’s shares increased 75 percent in the
past 12 months.  Sales of Fusilev “primarily for colorectal cancer”
surpassed $29 million in the second half of 2010 “without an
FDA approval for this indication and with no marketing effort,”
Kantor said. The previously approved use of the drug in bone-
cancer patients is “not a significant market opportunity”
because osteosarcoma is rare, he said.  “An approval in colorectal cancer would permit Spectrum to
actively market the drug, which has gained significant brand
awareness and physician experience throughout the recent
leucovorin shortage,” Kantor said.  About 142,000 new cases of colorectal cancer were diagnosed
in the U.S. in 2010, according to the  National Cancer Institute .
About 51,370 patients died of the disease, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  