-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise a Second Week on Higher-Than-Estimated Profit, Fed Rates

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/u-s-stocks-rise-for-second-week-on-earnings-fed-s-low-rates.html
U.S. stocks rallied this week,
sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level
since June 2008, as earnings grew more than forecast and the
 Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to stimulate the economy.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , Merck & Co. and  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  helped lead the week’s advance, rising more than 5.4
percent, as they posted quarterly profit that beat analysts’
forecasts.  Boeing Co. (BA)  gained 5.8 percent after its share-price
estimate was raised at Citigroup Inc. Exelon Corp. offered to
buy  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , driving the power producer
up 10 percent.  The S&P 500 advanced 2 percent to 1,363.61 this week,
rising four straight days in the longest winning streak since
Feb. 8. The index rallied 2.9 percent in April. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose 304.55 points, or 2.4 percent, to
12,810.54 in the biggest weekly gain in a month for both gauges.  “Earnings have definitely been good, that is something
tangible you can put your fingers on and say that it has been a
positive for the market,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage
$950 million at Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood,  South
Carolina . The weekly advance is a result of “both earnings and
the Fed. Bernanke gave a green light for the risk trade to
continue.”  The Dow Jones Transportation Average, considered a proxy
for the economy, rose 4.2 percent to a record high of 5,514.87.
The S&P 500 extended its year-to-date increase to 8.4 percent
after 229 of 298, or 77 percent, of index companies reporting
since April 11 beat the average analyst profit estimate.
Equities also advanced after the Fed said a recent acceleration
in inflation is likely temporary, signaling the central bank
doesn’t feel an urgent need to raise borrowing costs.  Materials, Financials  Earnings-per-share are exceeding projections by 8.3 percent
so far this season. Raw-material producers and financial
companies are posting the best results, surpassing estimates by
more than 13 percent. Eastman Chemical Co., the largest U.S.
maker of plastics for water bottles, and Allstate Corp., the
nation’s largest publicly traded auto and home insurer, gained
after beating analyst estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Health-care stocks climbed the most in the  S&P 500  this
week among 10 groups, helped by Merck, which added 5.6 percent
to $35.95. The second-largest U.S. drugmaker had first-quarter
profit that topped analyst estimates, boosted by cost reductions
and higher sales of its Januvia diabetes pill. All 10 industry
groups climbed at least 1 percent this week.  Rate Target  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent and held its pledge since March 2009 to keep it
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” While the U.S.
recession ended in June 2009, unemployment is still at 8.8
percent. The central bank has been aiming to stimulate economic
growth with a second bond-buying plan that ends in June.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has signaled he’ll maintain record
stimulus until job growth accelerates and the recovery is robust
enough to withstand tighter credit.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said this week in
its statement.  The S&P 500 is up 30 percent since Bernanke suggested on
Aug. 27 that he may pursue the second round of asset purchases.
Bernanke said April 27 that the end of the program is “unlikely
to have a significant effect on financial markets or the
economy.”  Durable Goods  A Commerce Department report this week also showed orders
for durable goods rose in March for a third consecutive month,
signaling businesses intend to keep spending to update
equipment. Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three
years climbed 2.5 percent after a 0.7 percent gain the prior
month that was revised from a previously reported drop.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, climbed 5.5 percent to $115.41. The Peoria, Illinois-
based company lifted its forecast for 2011 and beat first-
quarter profit estimates. Goodyear also beat estimates and the
largest U.S. tiremaker climbed 14 percent this week, the most in
the S&P 500.  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of products including Scotch tape and
 Post-it Notes , boosted its full-year earnings forecast after
first-quarter earnings and sales exceeded estimates, fueled by
demand at the unit that makes film for solar panels. The shares
climbed 3.5 percent to $97.21.  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  climbed 7.4 percent to $106.50 this week,
the highest price since it split from Loews Corp. in 2008, after
advancing eight straight days in its longest streak since
October 2009. The maker of the top-selling menthol cigarette
brand Newport beat the average analyst projection for both
earnings and revenue by more than 7.5 percent.  Boeing, Constellation  Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, rose 5.8
percent to $79.78 after first-quarter profit topped projections.
The Chicago-based company also had its share-price estimate
raised at Citigroup, which cited positive “momentum” over the
next several years.  Constellation Energy climbed 10 percent to $36.42. Exelon,
the largest operator of U.S. nuclear power plants, agreed to buy
the power producer for about $7.9 billion in stock, adding
stakes in five reactors and becoming the largest U.S.
electricity marketer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  