-- 
U.S. Army Corps May Proceed With Missouri Dam Breach, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/u-s-army-corps-can-breach-missouri-levee-to-prevent-floods-court-rules.html
The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers
received court permission to proceed with plans to burst a
Mississippi River levee and flood  Missouri  farmland to avert
flooding in towns upstream.  Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster on April 29 asked
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  St. Louis  for an emergency stay
after the Army Corps said it was preparing to detonate
floodgates near Cape Girardeau, Missouri, to lower the flood
stage on the river after a week of heavy rain.  The U.S. estimates that breaching the Missouri levee will
cause an estimated $314 million in damage within the floodway,
compared with more than $1.7 billion in damage across swaths of
Missouri, Illinois and  Kentucky  that may result if levees
elsewhere on the system are overtopped or burst in uncontrolled
flooding.  “The damage caused by not breaching the levee would
substantially outweigh the damage caused by breaching the
levee,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney General Ignacia Moreno,
citing evidence the agency presented at a lower court hearing.  The U.S.,  Illinois  and Kentucky opposed Missouri’s request,
which the appellate court denied yesterday in a one-sentence
order.  “Missouri’s focus on only the area within the floodway
completely ignores the broader public interest,” Moreno said
last night in an appeals court filing supporting the breach
plan.  Barges Positioned  A spokeswoman for Missouri’s Koster, Chris Roark, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment yesterday.  “I’m pleased that the court quickly rejected Missouri’s
request,” Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The Army Corps must have the ability to take any action
necessary to protect lives and homes in Cairo and the
surrounding communities,” Madigan said.  Cairo, Illinois, a city of 3,000 near the confluence of the
Mississippi and Ohio rivers, may be inundated by as much as 20
feet of floodwater if its levees burst, Madigan said on April
29.  Earlier in the week, the Army Corps began moving barges
into position to burst levees at Birds Point-New  Madrid . The
agency said on April 26 that it hadn’t made a final decision to
blow the levee, a process that, according to court filings, can
take 30 hours to complete.  Koster’s appellate filing said the agency could act over
the weekend.  Highest Since 1937  Persistent rain has threatened to push flood levels to the
highest since 1937, according to an April 26 statement from the
Army Corps.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh Jr. in Cape Girardeau
on April 29 refused Missouri’s request to block the Army Corps’
breach plan. Illinois and Kentucky were allowed to intervene in
Missouri’s lawsuit against the Army Corps on the agency’s side.  Limbaugh said that Missouri property owners had been warned
for more than a decade that the agency could breach the levee in
an emergency. The resulting flood could inundate 130,000 acres
of Missouri farmland and about 100 homes.  Limbaugh’s ruling said 80,892 acres of the Missouri
farmland that may be intentionally flooded are subject to
federal “flowage easements, most of which were acquired many
years ago,” under which property owners agreed to hold the U.S.
harmless in a manmade flood.  “The only lands where easements were not acquired were
lands subject to natural flooding from the  Mississippi River ,”
Major General Michael Walsh, the Corps official in charge of the
flood-control project, said in a sworn statement Limbaugh cited
in his ruling.  The case is State of Missouri v. U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 11-01937, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  