-- 
Ugandan President Museveni Says Opposition Must Inform Police of Protests

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-04-30T13:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/ugandan-president-museveni-says-opposition-must-inform-police-of-protests.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
said opposition leader  Kizza Besigye , who has been hospitalized
after being injured during his arrest this week, should inform
the police about planned protests to avoid riots in the country.  “There is no problem for Besigye to walk, either to walk to
work or to walk as an exercise,” Museveni said today in Nairobi,
the capital of neighboring  Kenya . “He needs to inform police if
he is going to walk to work with many people for security
reasons, because some people are likely to riot.”  At least two people died and 71 were injured yesterday in
Kampala, the Ugandan capital, when protests erupted over the
police’s arrest of Besigye a day earlier. Video footage
broadcast by  NTV Kenya , a closely held broadcaster, showed
plainclothes policemen breaking the window of his car with a
hammer, spraying pepper spray at Besigye while he was in his
vehicle and then bundling him into the back of a pickup truck.  Museveni said police used pepper spray on Besigye in self
defense after a policeman was sprayed with the chemical.  Besigye has led a so-called walk-to-work campaign this
month to protest at surging prices for foods and gasoline.
Inflation accelerated to 14.1 percent in April, from 11.1
percent in March, as food costs jumped 31 percent, the  Uganda 
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.  Arrests  The 55-year-old opposition leader has been detained by
police at least four times during the protests. On a fifth
occasion, he was briefly detained by police before being allowed
to go to the hospital for treatment on an injury to his arm,
according to Sarah Eperu, a spokeswoman for Besigye’s Forum for
Democratic Change.  Besigye is currently in the hospital in Nairobi, the
capital of neighboring Kenya, for treatment on injuries he
suffered two days ago, Eperu said by phone today from Kampala.  “I wish him a quick recovery,” Museveni said. Besigye was
previously the president’s physician. The two fell out in 1999
following a dispute over policy differences.  In yesterday’s protests, police fired bullets and tear gas
in Kampala to quell protests that included opposition supporters
setting fire to tires in the middle of roads across the city.  The crisis in the country “cannot escalate,” Museveni said.
“We are going to defeat it.”  Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million, is
 Africa ’s largest producer of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  