-- 
Venezuela’s Alcasa to Get $403 Million Investment From Government, China

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-04-30T18:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/venezuela-s-alcasa-to-get-403-million-investment-from-government-china.html
A joint development fund between
 China  and  Venezuela  will invest $403 million in CVG Alumino del
Caroni SA after the state-run aluminum producer declared an
operational and financial emergency, Venezuela Basic Industries
and Mining Minister Jose Khan said.  Beijing-based Aluminum Corporation of China Limited will
provide operational advice to the metal maker known as  Alcasa ,
Khan said in comments carried on state television.  “This is going to give Alcasa an increase in production
and an increase in its income,” Khan said.  Venezuela is increasingly looking to China for credit to
fund development projects as self-described socialist President
 Hugo Chavez  looks to distance the oil-producing country from its
traditional trade partner, the U.S., amid the charges of
“imperialism” he often repeats.  The $403 million is from a development fund previously
established between the two countries. Venezuela Commerce
Minister Edmee Betancourt on March 23 said that $6 billion from
the fund would be available this month. The $6 billion is at
least the third installment of a fund that was set up in 2007
and has received at least $18 billion in contributions.  Venezuela also secured a separate $20 billion loan from the
 China Development Bank  last year that is being paid off with
shipments of oil totaling 100,000 barrels per day.  Alcasa produces 22.5 kilogram ingots (49.5 pounds), rolled
aluminum in coils, plates and bands and other products for the
construction, electrical, transport, packing and refrigeration
industries, according to the company’s website.  The company only has resources to operate at 40 percent of
its installed capacity of 420,000 metric tons (462,971 tons) per
year, El Nacional reported yesterday, citing Alcasa President
Elio Sayago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  