-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Backs Away From Plan to Resign; Syria Vows Political Changes

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-01T03:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/yemen-s-saleh-backs-away-from-resignation-plan-nato-rejects-libya-truce.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
backed away from an agreement to step down,  Al Jazeera 
television reported as Syria’s newly appointed Prime Minister
Adel Safar promised political and economic changes.  Saleh refused to sign an accord brokered by the Gulf
Cooperation Council that includes the United Arab Emirates,
 Bahrain ,  Saudi Arabia , Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait . Abdel Latif al- Zayyani, the council’s secretary general, returned to Saudi
Arabia from Sana’a, the Yemeni capital, Al Jazeera said.  In Libya, the government said  Muammar Qaddafi ’s youngest
son and three of his grandchildren were killed in a NATO
airstrike on his home in Tripoli. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization said yesterday it wouldn’t consider a cease-fire
until Qaddafi’s forces stop attacking civilians.  Uprisings have spread across the Middle East since January,
unseating rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  and sparking violent
repression in Libya, which has Africa’s biggest proven crude oil
reserves, and in Syria. Oil has advanced 25 percent in  New York 
this year.  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.07, or 1 percent, to
$113.93 a barrel, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008,
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures rose 6.8 percent in
April, in an unprecedented eighth consecutive month of gains.
Prices are up 34 percent from a year ago.  ‘Desired Reforms’  Yemen’s opposition said their delegations wouldn’t go to
Saudi Arabia for a signing ceremony if Saleh didn’t sign the
accord and accompany them to  Riyadh , according to Mohammed al-
Qahtan, a member of the opposition and spokesman for the Joint
Meeting Parties that represents six opposition groups.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government aims to set
up three committees to develop in the coming weeks a
“comprehensive plan for desired reforms” focusing on political,
security, judiciary, economic, and social policies, Prime
Minister Safar said yesterday in a Cabinet meeting, according to
the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency.  Protesters have defied government warnings against
demonstrations. Clashes with security forces during the past
week, mostly in the southern province of Daraa, pushed the
number of deaths nationwide to more than 550 since the revolt
began in mid-March, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, and Amma Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s
National Organization for Human Rights.  Daraa Clash  Syrian army units and security forces killed six members of
a “terrorist group” in Daraa, captured 149 fugitives and
seized arms and ammunition, SANA reported yesterday. One soldier
was killed in the operation and seven members of the army and
security forces were wounded, it said.  NATO’s rejection of Qaddafi’s truce offer came after the
Libyan leader said he’ll stay in the North African nation, where
his people want “martyrdom or victory” in the face of a rebel
insurgency that began in mid-February. He spoke on Libyan state
television that was broadcast by Al Arabiya.  “Just hours before Colonel Qaddafi spoke of a truce, his
forces indiscriminately shelled Misrata, killing many people,
including children,” Carmen Romero, NATO deputy spokesperson,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “All this has to stop,
and it has to stop now.”  NATO foreign ministers meeting in April made it clear that
the alliance will continue operations “until all of Qaddafi’s
forces, including his snipers, mercenaries and paramilitary
forces, have returned to their bases,” Romero said.  “The regime has announced cease-fires several times before
and continued attacking cities and civilians,” Romero said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  