-- 
Yemeni Political Parties May Sign Agreement Calling for President to Quit

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-04-30T14:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-30/yemeni-parties-may-sign-agreement-calling-for-president-to-quit.html
Yemen’s ruling and opposition
parties may sign an accord tomorrow calling for President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down within 30 days, said Mohammed al-
Qahtan, a member of the opposition.  Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-
Zayyani was in the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, today to invite the
parties to the signing ceremony in  Saudi Arabia , al-Qahtan said
in a phone interview from the city. The agreement was brokered
by ministers from the GCC, which includes the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Bahrain , Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and  Kuwait .  The accord stipulates that Saleh also signs, said al-
Qahtan, spokesman for the Joint Meeting Parties that represents
six opposition groups said. If Saleh does not do so today or if
he does not plan to accompany the Yemeni delegations to  Riyadh ,
the opposition will not go to Riyadh, said al-Qahtan.  Ahmed al-Soufi, a senior member of Yemen’s ruling General
People’s Congress, said Saleh is “not a party” to the conflict,
when asked by phone today whether the president will sign.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  A weak central government in Yemen also risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there
hasn’t been a functioning central administration since 1991.
Somalia has become a breeding ground for pirates who attack
shipping lanes.  Protesters Killed  At least 100 people have died in Yemen as security forces
repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on Feb. 11,
according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in
Sana’a. There were more casualties today when Yemeni security
forces in tanks and armored vehicles opened fire on protesters
in the port city of Aden, killing one person and wounding scores
of others, Yemeni journalist Anis Mansour told Al-Jazeera
Television from the scene.  The protesters have rejected the accord. Hundreds of
thousands took to the streets across the country yesterday to
express their opposition to the mediation plan and demand
Saleh’s immediate resignation. Al-Qahtan said the JMP was aware
of the protesters’ rejection of the accord.  “But we are confident that once Saleh steps down, there
will be a different mood in the street and we will be able to
build bridges with the protesters,” he said.  Saleh would be the third leader forced from office since
popular unrest spread through the Middle East, resulting in the
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt  and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
 Tunisia . In March, Saleh, 69, agreed to an opposition proposal
to hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 