-- Madagascar’s Biggest Phone Company Telma Said to Seek Buyer
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-02-19T15:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/madagascar-s-biggest-phone-company-telma-said-to-seek-buyer.html
Telma Group, the biggest telephone
company in the island nation of Madagascar, is seeking buyers,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The closely held company, which is based in the Malagasy
capital of Antananarivo, is working with adviser  Lazard Ltd . on
the transaction, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. Telma management may retain a
stake in the company, which is valued at about $500 million, one
of the people said.  African telecommunications markets are one of the few
remaining opportunities for growth for international firms as
the continent’s consumers increasingly use smartphones to access
the Internet and services like banking.  Qatar Telecom  QSC and
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. are among companies weighing
bids to take control of  Maroc Telecom , a Moroccan operator owned
by France’s  Vivendi SA . Groups including  France Telecom SA  have
expanded their African footprint through deals in recent years.  Telma, which is led by Chief Executive Officer Patrick
Pisal-Hamida, may achieve earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $80 million next year, helped
by growth in mobile sales, according to one of the people. The
company competes with  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  of India and France
Telecom’s Orange brand.  A spokeswoman for Telma could not immediately comment.  Political Crisis  Telma, which has experienced a turnaround since it was
privatized in 2004, has more than 1.8 million mobile clients, or
30 percent of the market, according to the 2011 corporate review
on its  website . The company had annual sales of $134 million in
2011, the latest data available, and has invested $230 million
since 2004 to build infrastructure such as 8,100 miles of fiber
optic cables.  With a population of 22 million, Madagascar’s gross
domestic product grew by about 1.9 percent last year according
to the Central Intelligence Agency.  Growth has been held back by a political crisis that began
almost four years ago. In 2009, President  Andry Rajoelina  ousted
elected leader  Marc Ravalomanana  after a series of protests.
Last year, Ravalomanana announced he would abstain from running
in the next elections, and he has been living in exile in South
Africa as the Tanzanian government mediates talks to resolve the
dispute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  