-- Ladbrokes Gains as Investec Sees Advances Online: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-02-19T13:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/ladbrokes-gains-as-investec-sees-advances-online-london-mover.html
Ladbrokes Plc , a U.K. operator of
more than 2,000 betting shops, rose the most in six months after
Investec Securities recommended buying the shares on growth
prospects with its new online sportsbook.  The shares rose as much as 4.1 percent, or 9.1 pence, to
230 pence, their biggest intraday gain since August. The stock
traded at 228.1 pence at 1 p.m, giving the company a market
value of 2.1 billion pounds ($3.25 billion). About 2.8 million
shares traded, 40 percent more than the three month-daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ladbrokes should be putting the delay in its sportsbook
relaunch behind it,” Investec analyst  James Hollins  wrote in a
note today. “On balance we project that the digital platform
driven by superior technology, a strong U.K. brand and margin
enhancement can drive strong divisional earnings growth.”  Ladbrokes, scheduled to report full-year earnings on Feb.
21, has suffered technology delays to its online development.
The company’s U.K. retail earnings before interest and taxes
will increase by 17 percent as it benefits from new gambling
machines and better yield management, Dublin-based brokerage
Goodbody said.  Digital Weakness  “The weakness in digital has been well flaged,” Goodbody
wrote in a note to clients today. “Expectations for online
earnings before interest and tax are pitched very low at
present. We would not be surprised if there was upgrades to this
post Thursday’s numbers.”  Ladbrokes will probably report a full year pretax profit of
173 million pounds, according to the median estimate of 19
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company had a pretax profit
of 134.6 million pounds a year earlier.  “Compounded by positive retail trends and increased shop
estate roll out, the group earnings outlook and excellent cash
generation now look undervalued,” wrote Hollins, who raised his
recommendation to buy from hold and increased the share price
target to 250 pence from 165 pence.  The shares have risen 15 percent so far this year while
rival William Hill Plc is up 17 percent. Of 26 analysts who
share data with Bloomberg News, eight recommend buying the
stock, six advise selling it and 12 say hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  