-- Aerohive Networks Talking to Banks for 2013 IPO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/aerohive-networks-talking-to-banks-for-2013-ipo.html
Aerohive Networks Inc., a provider
of wireless networking systems, is in talks to hold an initial
public offering as early as this year, Chief Executive Officer
 David Flynn  said.  The Sunnyvale, California-based seller of Wi-Fi equipment
and software is in discussions with Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. about going public,
Flynn said in an interview yesterday. Aerohive will use proceeds
for acquisitions to broaden its product offerings, he said.  In January, Aerohive added  Gordon Brooks  as chief financial
officer  from  Web-security vendor Blue Coat Systems Inc.  Paul Milbury , who guided Starent Networks Corp. through an IPO
process and an eventual acquisition by  Cisco Systems Inc. ,
joined Aerohive’s board.  “We certainly do have an IPO on the road map,” Flynn
said. “I spend a lot of time talking to bankers. We are going
to do it when it’s right for us. But I am driving the company to
make sure we are ready to go this year.”  Aerohive continues to grow faster than the competition,
Flynn said. Last year, shipments more than doubled, with the
company’s annual revenue run rate reaching $100 million, he
said.  Ruckus Wireless Inc. , which went public last November,
could serve as a model for Aerohive’s IPO, Flynn said.  Aerohive has raised $94.5 million in funding from  investors 
including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Lightspeed Venture
Partners, Northern Light Venture Capital, New Enterprise
Associates, Institutional Venture Partners and Four Rivers
Group.  Mary Claire Delaney , a spokeswoman at Morgan Stanley,  Tasha Pelio , a spokeswoman at JPMorgan, and  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to comment yesterday on
Aerohive’s IPO plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  