-- AIB Eases 2,000 Mortgages a Month as Investor Wooing Starts
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-19T09:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/aib-eases-2-000-mortgages-a-month-as-investor-courtship-begins.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc , the state-
owned recipient of a 21 billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout, is
easing terms on 2,000 mortgages a month, aiming to clean up its
troubled loan book in time to woo new investors by 2014.  Ireland’s second-largest lender by  assets  is tackling
arrears mostly by splitting mortgages, or hiving off a portion
of a loan that has repayments put on hold until a borrower’s
circumstances improve, Chief Executive Officer  David Duffy  said
in an interview in his Dublin office. He said the bank stepped
up mortgage restructuring from an original target of 1,500 a
month, and is also beginning to write off irrecoverable debts.  “All the arrears book will have long-term restructuring in
place by the end of the year, bar a small percentage,”
according to Duffy, 51, who said he’s worked to change the
bank’s “entitlement” culture and “sedentary nature” in his
14 months as CEO. “2013 is a massive execution year.”  Duffy said Allied Irish doesn’t see a need to raise extra
capital and has started talks with potential equity investors,
and will “engage materially” with them next year. He has sped
up resolution of distressed mortgages as regulators and the
government criticize Ireland’s banks for being too slow to clean
up their balance sheets in the wake of the nation’s economic
crisis, which has seen  home prices collapse  and unemployment
triple since 2007.  Credibility Challenge  Allied Irish was taken over by the state in December 2010,
weeks after the government sought a  67.5 billion-euro 
international bailout as the cost of shoring up its banks became
too much to handle.  “Given that mortgages make up half AIB’s book and the fact
that it is more concentrated on the Irish market than its main
rival,  Bank of Ireland , the impetus really is on Duffy to work
through the troubled loan book to give the bank greater
credibility around its capital base,” said  Stephen Lyons , an
analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “AIB also has a
challenge building up a credible investment case for new
investors.”  Ireland’s housing crash has differed from the U.S. subprime
bust as banks have been reluctant to foreclose on properties, a
cultural taboo dating to memories of 19th century evictions by
British landlords. Duffy said that will change, and Allied Irish
and its rivals will turn more to repossessions.  “If you start with our principle, which is to protect the
home,” the emphasis will be on seizing buy-to-let properties
first, he said. “Every case isn’t solvable.”  ‘Crazy Outcome’  Anthony Murphy , a senior economist at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas, called the lack of repossessions in Ireland so
far “a crazy outcome” at a presentation in Dublin last week.
While 11.3 percent of loans on Irish private homes were at least
three months in arrears in the third quarter of 2012,
repossessions were 0.1 percent of all mortgages, he said.  That compared with 3 percent of U.S. home loans in arrears
while banks’ inventory of repossessed homes was equivalent to
4.2 percent of their loan book during the same time period, he
said. Murphy said he was speaking in a personal capacity and not
on behalf of the Dallas Fed.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said last week
that he is “ramping up our engagement with the banks,” saying
they’re “behind the curve” in addressing mortgage arrears.
Lenders have so far relied on temporary measures, such as
switching borrowers to interest-only payments and lengthening
the term of loans to avoid recognizing losses.  ‘Very Demotivating’  Public criticism of the banks has been “very
demotivating” for the 2,000 workers in a division Allied Irish
set up last year to deal specifically with problem loans, Duffy
said. “I’d much rather if people would ease off on the
rhetoric.”  The share of Irish private home loans in arrears for more
than 90 days rose to 11.3 percent of borrowers at the end of the
third quarter, up from 10.6 percent at the end of June, the
Dublin-based central bank said on Dec. 13. For buy-to-let
mortgages, 17.9 percent of loans were more than three months in
arrears, up from 16.6 percent.  Standard & Poor’s said on Jan. 16 that Irish banks may need
more capital to meet international requirements under Basel III
rules that began taking effect this year. Still, Duffy said that
may not be necessary for Allied Irish.  Basel III  To comply with Basel III, he said the bank has a five-year
plan to cut its pension deficit and use past losses to lower its
tax bill and return to profit in 2014. At the end of June, the
lender had 3.85 billion euros of deferred tax assets from
previous losses that can be used to reduce future liabilities,
according to its  interim report . Its pension deficit stood at
1.46 billion euros at the time.  “We still envisage the bank making a 300 million-euro loss
next year before returning to profit in 2015,”  Eamonn Hughes ,
an analyst at Dublin-based Goodbody Stockbrokers, said in a note
today. “We welcome the developments on tackling mortgage
arrears, where we expect” loan-loss provisions to “continue to
sequentially improve this year.”  Duffy said he doesn’t see “another call on capital” after
regulators perform a fresh round of stress tests later this
year, adding that he advocates delaying the tests until 2014 so
banks can concentrate on resolving bad loans.  The CEO said he sees the Irish government remaining a long-
term minority shareholder, seeking to benefit from a higher
share price after it decides to sell most of its 99.8 percent
stake in the company.  ‘Crystal Clear’  While the bank “would not really look at venture
capitalist or short-term” investors, it would entertain
sovereign-wealth funds, “though we’d have to be thoughtful
about which ones,” he said.  The Irish government is campaigning to sell stakes in
nationalized banks to the European Stability Mechanism bailout
fund. Duffy said a hybrid of ESM and private investment may work
for a period, once investors were “crystal clear” on the
bailout fund’s strategy, he said.  Before the government sells its stake, Allied Irish must
become an “investible proposition,” Duffy said. In addition to
cleaning up bad loans, he said it must become more profitable by
rebuilding its net interest margin, the difference between the
rate at which Allied Irish borrows and lends to customers.  Net interest margins had contracted over the past decade,
reaching 0.9 percent in the first half of last year before
expanding near the end of 2012, Duffy said. He doesn’t expect
the measure to reach last year’s lows again.  The nation’s banks have been lowering the interest rates
they pay on customer deposits over the past year as competition
for cash eases and they shrink their balance sheets. The lenders
have also increased rates on variable-rate home loans.  Allied Irish may raise rates again this year, “but it’s
not going to be a whole series of raises,” Duffy said. AIB is
on track to reach its goal of shedding 2,500 jobs by March,
though the final figure will probably be “marginally ahead of
the target” by the year’s end, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  