-- Airbus Sees Larger-Plane Order Growth in Efficiency Drive
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-02-19T12:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/airbus-sees-larger-plane-order-growth-in-efficiency-drive.html
Airbus SAS , the world’s second-
biggest maker of commercial planes, expects larger aircraft to
gain in popularity among carriers seeking more capacity on
existing routes while striving for reduced spending per seat.  “Generally there’s been an upscaling in the aircraft
people are buying,” Andrew Gordon, director for strategic
marketing and analysis, said in an interview in Helsinki today.
“It’s driven by existing routes getting bigger as well as
airlines lowering their seat costs. Certainly it’s a trend and
something we factor in our forecasts as well.”  The manufacturer expects new passenger-aircraft deliveries
in the Nordic countries to amount to 536 planes with a market
value of $56.8 billion by 2031, Gordon said today in a
presentation in the Finnish capital. Traffic to and from the
country will increase by 3.7 percent annually.  Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, delivered a record 588
planes in 2012. Chicago-based competitor  Boeing Co.  handed over
601 airliners to customers, taking the delivery title from its
European competitor for the first time since 2003.  Norwegian Air
Shuttle AS , the Nordic region’s biggest carrier by market value,
ordered 222 Boeing and Airbus airliners in January 2012,
including the U.S. company’s twin-aisle 787 Dreamliner, which is
currently grounded amid a probe of its electrical systems.  Finnair Oyj , the Finnish carrier which last year posted its
first profit since 2007, considers its investment in 11 extra-
wide Airbus A350 XWB planes “vital” for a competitive future
in long-haul traffic, Chief Executive Officer  Mika Vehvilaeinen 
said on Feb. 8. Finnair is building up Helsinki as a hub for
travel from Europe to China, Japan and South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  