-- Takeda Faces First Trial Over Actos Diabetes Drug in L.A.
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/takeda-faces-first-trial-over-actos-diabetes-drug-in-l-a-.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , Asia’s
biggest drugmaker, is facing its first trial of lawsuits
alleging that its Actos diabetes drug caused cancer in some
patients.  Jack Cooper, a former cable splicer for  Pacific Bell  who
took Actos for more than two years, contends officials of
Takeda’s U.S. unit didn’t properly warn consumers that Actos
could cause bladder cancer. Jury selection in Cooper’s case is
slated to begin to today in state court in Los Angeles.  Cooper, 69, was diagnosed with bladder cancer in November
2011 and “is gravely ill,”  Judge Kenneth Freeman  said in an
October ruling ordering an expedited trial of his claims.  The trial comes a month after Osaka, Japan-based Takeda won
U.S. regulatory approval for  Nesina , a new diabetes drug to
replace Actos, which lost patent protection last year. Actos was
once the world’s biggest-selling diabetes drug.  Sales of Actos peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5
billion for Takeda and accounted for 27 percent of the company’s
revenue at the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Takeda is facing more than 3,000 suits alleging Actos
caused bladder cancer or other ailments among patients,
according to court records. Cooper’s suit is among the cases
that have been gathered before Freeman in California. There are
other cases in state court in Illinois, according to court
dockets.  Case Consolidation  More than 1,200 suits have been consolidated before a
federal  judge  in Louisiana for pretrial information exchanges.
The first federal case is set for trial in November 2014,
according to court filings.  Takeda officials defended the company’s handling of Actos
by noting the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  found it to be a
safe and effective drug and arguing there’s no proof that it
causes bladder cancer.  “We empathize with the plaintiffs but believe that Takeda
acted responsibly with regard to Actos,”  D’Lesli Davis , one of
Takeda’s lawyers, said in an e-mailed statement. “Studies do
not establish a causal link between Actos and bladder cancer.”  FDA officials found in 2011 that an analysis of a company-
sponsored study showed some Actos users faced an increased risk
of developing bladder cancer or heart problems. The company
pulled the drug off the market in Germany and France that same
year at the request of those countries’ regulators.  Takeda officials said in an e-mailed statement that the
study FDA officials reviewed about Actos’s risk is continuing
and results are scheduled to be available next year. They said
other information generated by the study showed that over time,
patients’ risks of developing bladder cancer from the medicine
decreased.  Whistleblower Claims  Lawyers for former Actos users contend in court filings
that Takeda researchers ignored or downplayed concerns about the
drug’s cancer-causing potential before it went on the U.S.
market in 1999 and misled U.S. regulators about the medicine’s
risks.  Helen Ge, a former Takeda medical reviewer, accused the
company in a whistleblower lawsuit of failing to forward reports
of congestive heart-failure cases associated with Actos to the
FDA. She said Takeda’s actions led to the filing of false
reimbursement claims for the drug.  The company failed to classify “non-hospitalized or non-
fatal” congestive heart failure cases as serious from late 2007
to January 2010, Ge said in the complaint, filed in federal
court in Boston. Takeda, like other drugmakers, is required to
update the FDA on side-effect reports.  “These events were not properly identified or reported in
the FDA’s safety database,” Ge said in the suit. “Takeda’s
motivation to fraudulently report and under-report the serious
adverse events was driven by an economic desire to falsely
enhance Actos’s safety profile and to increase sales.”  U.S. District Judge  F. Dennis Saylor  in Massachusetts
dismissed Ge’s whistleblower suit in November, finding she
couldn’t meet the requirements for a valid false-claims suit
based on her evidence that Takeda failed to hand over side-
effect reports to regulators.  ‘Greater Risks’  Cooper contends that Takeda researchers knew about Actos’s
links to bladder cancer before the company won approval for its
use in the U.S. in 1999.  To protect the drug’s profits, Takeda executives resisted
the FDA’s requests that the drugmaker add bladder-cancer
warnings to Actos’s label for years, the Cooper claims in court
filings.  “Takeda clearly knew of greater risks than were included
in the product labeling for Actos, but chose not to warn
physicians, including Jack Cooper’s prescribing physicians,”
according to the Jan. 25 filing.  Takeda countered that their communications with the FDA
about Actos’s warning label were handled properly and the
plaintiffs can’t prove the drug caused cancer.  The plaintiffs have “no admissible evidence that Actos was
the cause of Cooper’s bladder cancer,” the company’s lawyers
said in a Jan. 18 filing seeking to have the case thrown out.
The judge hadn’t ruled on that request as of Feb. 14.  Common Cancer  The company may argue that Cooper developed bladder cancer
as a result of factors other taking Actos. The disease is the
fourth most-common cancer among men after prostate lung and
colon cancer, according to the Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers said thousands of ex-Actos users joined
Cooper in suing Takeda over the drug given its rise in
popularity after  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s Avandia diabetes drug was
found to pose an increased heart-attack risk.  Glaxo officials pulled Avandia from European markets and
curtailed sales in the U.S. in 2007 after studies found the drug
posed greater risk of heart attacks and strokes than Actos.  The London-based drugmaker has paid more than $8 billion in
settlements and legal costs tied to Avandia and other medicines.
In the wake of Avandia’s problems, Actos’s sales rose to almost
$5 billion in 2010 from about $3 billion in 2006.  The case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America Inc.,
CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  