-- Malaysia Champions New Focus of Stock Exchange
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-02-20T10:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/malaysia-champions-new-focus-of-stock-exchange-southeast-asia.html
Bursa Malaysia Bhd.  Chief Executive
 Tajuddin Atan  said the exchange will focus on turning domestic
companies into regional champions after spending the past five
years boosting corporate governance and investor protection.  The Southeast Asian nation will promote companies in
industries such as palm oil, Islamic finance and oil and gas,
after putting in place governance rules that match standards in
Singapore and Thailand, Tajuddin said. He declined to specify
what steps the exchange would take.  “We have to start moving outside our borders,” he said in
an interview at the bourse’s headquarters in Kuala Lumpur
yesterday. “Now the challenge for us is to liberalize the
market and start profiling what we have.”  Bursa Malaysia, which operates Southeast Asia’s third
largest stock market, is seeking to lure investors to a nation
that was the world’s fifth-largest destination for initial
public offerings last year. Malayan Banking Bhd. is the
country’s sole entry in the world’s 500 biggest companies by
value with a market capitalization of $24 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two of Asia’s four biggest first-time share sales in 2012
came from Malaysia, as the nation surpassed financial hubs
including London and Singapore with 21.2 billion ringgit ($6.9
billion) raised, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd. , a Kuala Lumpur-based palm oil producer,
lured $3.3 billion, making it the world’s third-biggest IPO last
year, the data show.  Expanded Reach  Gross domestic product  rose 6.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years,
the Statistics Department said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur
today. The economy grew 5.6 percent last year, beating the
finance ministry’s forecast of as much as 5 percent in a
September report.  Malaysia boasts the biggest Islamic debt market and the
most liquid crude palm-oil futures contract in the world. There
is scope for more of the nation’s companies to become regional
champions, Tajuddin said.  Malayan Banking  and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., the nation’s
top two lenders by assets, have expanded their reach in Asia in
the past two years. Malayan Banking bought Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd., a Singapore-based securities and investment-banking group,
in 2011, while CIMB acquired Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
Asian assets last year. Malaysia is also home to  Sime Darby
Bhd. , the world’s largest listed palm oil producer by acreage,
which has a market value of $17.9 billion.  “Bursa has the platform to tie up with all the Southeast
Asian exchanges so they can use that to promote the smaller
names within the region first,”  Lye Thim Loong , who helps
manage the equivalent of $500 million at Libra Invest Bhd., said
by phone in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “They can organize and
actually bring these companies to the community there. But those
companies also have to be proactive and must spend money to do
investor relations.”  IPO Pipeline  Malaysia’s stock market was valued at $439 billion, making
it Asia’s 10th biggest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. 
Bursa Malaysia , with a market capitalization of $1.1 billion, is
the second-biggest publicly traded bourse in Southeast Asia
after Singapore, the data show.  The value of capital raised on the Malaysian exchange may
be “slightly less than last year,” Tajuddin said.  A total of 28.8 billion ringgit was raised from IPOs and
secondary sales in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Initial sales have raised 386 million ringgit this year
through Feb. 19, the data show. Malakoff Corp., a power
producer, AirAsia X Bhd., a long-haul budget airline, and port
operator Westports Malaysia Sdn. are among companies planning to
list in Kuala Lumpur this year.  The market “needs to grow in size,” Tajuddin said. “I am
hoping that some of our hidden gems will be looked at in the
same breath as some of the bigger or more renowned names.”  Trading Link  Bursa Malaysia, Singapore Exchange Ltd. and the Stock
Exchange of Thailand have led the formation of the Asean Trading
Link, a platform offering cross-border stock transactions in
Southeast Asia. Singapore and Malaysia were the first to connect
on Sept. 18, with Thailand joining the link on Oct. 15.  Indonesia will connect to the Asean link by 2015, Ito
Warsito, the president of the nation’s stock exchange, said on
Oct. 15. Hanoi Stock Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Tran Van Dung  said the same day he expects Vietnam’s two exchanges to
join within two years. The Philippine bourse may join in two-to-
three years, CEO  Hans Sicat  said on Dec. 6.  The trading link is a “combined collaborative group” that
seeks to promote an Asean asset class, with trading  volumes 
expected to improve in one-to-two years, Tajuddin said. He
didn’t provide current trading volume figures.  “I would expect a little bit more flow, especially from
the top 30 companies to be traded more rapidly,” he said.
“With the commitment from all the exchange heads in this
region, most probably we could have a certain substantial amount
of trade flow coming from that.”  Palm Oil  Malaysia’s crude palm-oil futures contract is used as the
Southeast Asian benchmark for prices. Daily open interest for
all products, including palm oil, reached a record on Dec. 31,
according to a Jan. 16  statement  on Bursa Malaysia’s website.
Total derivatives volume grew 14 percent in 2012, according to
the statement.  Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Bhd., formerly known as Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange Bhd., is 75 percent owned by Bursa
Malaysia. The remainder is owned by the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange.  The exchange operator is considering a partnership with
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  in improving its trading engine. “We hope
we can actually work in that partnership in the same breath as
CME to start moving, regionalizing or internationalizing Bursa
Malaysia,” Tajuddin said, without giving details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
 Gan Yen Kuan  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  