-- Alger ‘Duke’ Chapman, Who Sold Shearson to Weill, Dies at 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/alger-duke-chapman-who-sold-shearson-to-weill-dies-at-81.html
Alger “Duke” Chapman Jr., who led
Shearson Hammill & Co. through its merger into  Sanford Weill ’s
Hayden Stone Inc. in 1974, a milestone in the growth of finance
industry mega-companies, has died. He was 81.  He died on Feb. 18 at St. Vincent Medical Center in Little
Rock, Arkansas, where he had retired, said his son, Sam. The
cause was congestive heart failure.  In a career that included posts at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange,  Chapman  spent 20 years as an executive
at the Wall Street brokerage firm that was Shearson Hammill &
Co. when he arrived and part of American Express Co. by the time
he left. In the interim, according to his son, he tended to the
human toll of the mergers and acquisitions that made Weill a
legend in the field.  “He was always the nice end of what Sandy was up to,” Sam
Chapman said yesterday in an interview. “Whenever they merged
and they had to lay off people, my dad was the one who got
handed the gun and he stayed up all night finding people new
jobs.”  Weill, in an interview yesterday, called Chapman “a
wonderful person” who had earned his trust as a business
partner.  “I think Duke was really a terrific person that cared
about his company, that cared about the people who worked for
him,” Weill said. “I think that he did the best job that could
have been done for his company in doing the merger with us.”  Sending ‘Feelers’  First, as Shearson’s president and chief executive officer,
Chapman negotiated as an equal with Weill, who was chairman of
Hayden Stone.  As Weill recalled in his  memoir , “The Real Deal: My Life
in Business and Philanthropy” (2006), he “put out feelers” to
Chapman about a sale in 1973 and Chapman finally replied in
April 1974.  “Meeting in a remote restaurant in Little Italy -- a place
reputed to attract Mafia bosses -- Duke and I felt each other
out,” Weill wrote in the memoir, co-written by  Judah S. Kraushaar . “Shearson’s franchise remained solid in most
respects but its shortage of capital had begun to squeeze the
company.”  “I’m sure Duke and his partners would have preferred to
remain independent,” Weill recalled. “Once again, though, one
of the industry’s major firms had found itself in a corner with
all too few options.”  ‘More Trouble’  In an  oral-history interview  with the SEC in 2011, Chapman
said Shearson’s capital reserve had dwindled to a level that
troubled leaders of the NYSE. Merging with Weill’s firm “cost a
lot of bodies” and “more of them came from my firm than came
from his,” Chapman said. “We were in more trouble.”  Weill emerged as chairman and CEO of the combined firm,
Shearson Hayden Stone Inc., while Alger became co-chairman and
chief operating officer. The firm became Shearson Loeb Rhoades
as a result of further mergers, and in 1981, Weill sold it to
 American Express  for about $930 million.  Alger stayed on, developing a private banking network as
vice chairman of American Express International Bank. He left
for Chicago in 1986 to be chairman and chief executive of the
CBOE. Weill, after quitting American Express in 1985, completed
a series of takeovers to create Travelers Group Inc., which
merged with Citibank in 1998 to form Citigroup.  Alger Baldwin Chapman Jr. was born on Sept. 28, 1931, in
Portland, Maine. His father, Alger Baldwin Chapman, was an
adviser to New York Governor Thomas Dewey and served as chairman
and CEO of Beech-Nut Life Savers Inc. His mother was the former
Elizabeth Libby Ives.  Law School  He graduated from Williams College in Williamstown,
Massachusetts, and from  Columbia University Law School .  In 1961, after working for the SEC, he became vice
president for legal, governmental and civic affairs at the New
York Stock Exchange, according to a biography prepared by his
son. He joined Shearson Hammill in 1966.  During his tenure at the CBOE, from 1986 to 1997, Chapman
oversaw the expansion of listed equity options to 850 from 173
and of stock index option products to 35 from two, according to
a news release from the exchange when he stepped down.  In 1998 he became vice chairman of investment banking and
capital markets in Chicago for Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Group
NV. He was CEO of ABN Amro Financial Services, responsible for
the U.S. retail brokerage business serving, until his retirement
in 2004.  His son, Sam, is CEO of Chicago-based  Empower Public
Relations  and is married to the sex therapist  Laura Berman , who
has a show on the Oprah Winfrey Network. Additional survivors
include his wife, Beatrice Bishop Chapman; two sisters, Carol
Whitehouse and Hilda Dugan; three other sons, Alger, Andrew and
Henry Chapman; and five grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  