-- Allergan’s Botox Put Boy on Respirator, Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J a n i c e   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-19T22:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/allergan-s-botox-put-boy-on-respirator-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Allergan Inc.  pushed Botox for use
by children without regulatory approval, said a lawyer for a
6-year-old Oklahoma boy who wound up on a ventilator after he
was injected with the drug.  The mother of Jackson Wells claims the injection, given to
treat spasticity in his legs, caused the boy to develop acute
botulism, leaving him unable to breathe on his own. While he was
able to get off the respirator, he was left with a seizure
disorder, vision problems and a permanent diminished ability to
speak, breathe and eat, Ray Chester, his lawyer, said in an
opening statement at trial today in federal court in Oklahoma
City.  Allergan didn’t provide dosage levels because it was
promoting the drug for use with children with spasticity despite
a lack of approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
Chester said. This led to an overdose and Jackson’s current
condition, he said.  Botox, Allergan’s best-selling product, generated more than
$1.7 billion in sales last year, about equally divided between
uses for medical purposes and wrinkle treatment, according to
the company’s earnings statement this month. The company is
projecting as much as $2 billion in 2013 sales.  Medical Condition  “They were only worried about sales,” Chester said today.
“They were not worried about kids being injected at levels
where the monkeys died,” he told the jury, referring to company
tests.  “He was given over two times the maximum dose of Botox and
developed botulism as a result of it,” Chester said.  A lawyer for Irvine, California-based Allergan agreed that
Wells got botulism from the Botox injection from his doctor,
Edward Wright, while denying liability for the child’s medical
condition or any failure to warn of risks.  “The warnings were adequate, clear, complete and Dr.
Wright was well-informed,”  Vaughn Crawford , Allergan’s attorney
told the jury today.  “Dr. Wright will testify that the use of Botox to treat
spasticity, though off-label, is recognized as the standard of
care,” Crawford said.  The boy has a “degenerative and progressive brain
disease” called leukodystrophy, Crawford said in his opening
statement. “Jackson Wells’ condition today is the result of the
natural progression of his leukodystrophy,” he said.  Multiple Uses  Botox, used as a wrinkle smoother, is a purified form of
the poison botulinum and is given as an injection. It has also
been approved for multiple other uses, including for chronic
migraine headaches, for “muscle stiffness” in the fingers and
arms and “upper limb” spasticity.  Allergan officials in September 2010 agreed to plead guilty
to a charge of misbranding Botox by promoting it for unapproved
uses and to pay a total of $600 million in fines and damages.
The drugmaker agreed to pay $375 million in criminal fines and
$225 million to resolve civil claims filed by the U.S. Justice
Department over Botox’s marketing campaign.  U.S. District Judge  Robin J. Cauthron  today reversed a
decision to allow the Wells family’s attorneys to cite
Allergan’s guilty plea in the trial.  Reversed Decision  “The misbranding charge at issue involved allegations of
off-label promotion to treat pediatric spasticity, the condition
J.W. suffered from and for which he received Botox injections,”
the judge wrote on Feb. 7, in deciding it was relevant for the
trial. “Allergan illegally promoted Botox to Dr. Wright, J.W.’s
injector during the time period covered by the plea.”  Allergan had asked Cauthron to reconsider the decision.  “There is no basis for the court to permit plaintiffs to
call Allergan a criminal from the outset of this trial,” the
company’s lawyers said in a Feb. 15 filing.  Cauthron agreed today and withdrew the order.  “I made a finding I should not have made,” Cauthron said
before the jury was brought in for opening statements.
“Allergan raised some points in argument that swayed me to the
other side.”  Cauthron said she might reconsider her decision later in
the trial.  The lawsuit is Wells v. Allergan Inc., CIV-12-973-C, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Oklahoma (Oklahoma City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Smith at the federal courthouse in Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma, at  jfrancissmith@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  