-- Allied Irish CEO Duffy Sees State as Long-Term Shareholder
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-19T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/allied-irish-ceo-duffy-sees-state-as-long-term-shareholder.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc’s  Chief
Executive Officer  David Duffy  comments on plans to win new
investors in 2014, four years after the company was seized by
the state, restructuring soured mortgages and rebuilding
margins.  He made the remarks in an interview in Dublin on Feb. 14.  On how AIB may return to private ownership:  “The first principle is that we would not really look at
venture capitalist or short-term” investors. “If we had to
wait even longer, we’d wait to have long-term stable
investors.”  “I think the government should and would always be
involved in the bank at some percentage, and there’s certainly a
long-term equity upside in that equation. Long-term investors
would want to have a majority, but I think the government
could” see “participation that could lead to further potential
equity upside in future.  ‘‘We will make ourselves as attractive as possible from a
commercial perspective, with the most attractive dividend or
yield in future and then the government will take its decision
at the right time.’’  On state’s aim to sell bank stakes to the European Stability
Mechanism:  The ESM taking a stake is ‘‘about the government recovering
some of the absolute burden of the debt’’ linked to bank
bailouts ‘‘and I think that’s an appropriate principle given
what happened. I think the long-term answer is that you want
private investors in. So even if you do a transaction with the
ESM, then having private investors come in and eventually taking
the ESM out would be appropriate.  ‘‘We’ve deliberately chosen a strategy to make us an
investible proposition’’ in 2014. ‘‘If the government is the
body that makes the decision, it will judge with its ESM
dialogue’’ on ‘‘where the best mix is.’’  ‘‘If it turns out that it’s straight back to market, great.
That’s a function of getting the money back. If it turned out
that if it was through the ESM which reduces the burden,
followed by a migration to private ownership, or a hybrid of ESM
and private for a while, we’re very relaxed.”  On restructuring soured mortgage loans:  “I’m comfortable saying that all of the mortgage arrears
book will have long-term restructuring in place by the end of
the year, bar a small percentage or whatever percentage want to
go the litigation or the PIA,” or Personal Insolvency
Agreements, “route. We would say in principle we’d be looking
to offer a more attractive solution than PIA.”  Allied Irish has built “an engine of almost 2,000 people”
to work on problem loans.  While the bank late last year targeted 1,500 mortgage
restructurings a month “we’re exceeding that in the first few
months of its operation” to 2,000 a month.  “It doesn’t mean you’ve finished the restructuring. It
means you’ve done the full assessment and in the great majority
the offer’s been made and you’re going through the process of
delivering against that.”  On repossessions:  “The right principle is to protect the consumer from
harassment from a bank. That’s your first instinct and nobody
would dispute that, but it’s quite a cumbersome process” as the
industry  Code of Conduct on Mortgage  arrears limits banks’
unsolicited calls to borrowers to three times a month.  “Then you have the Justice Dunne” ruling in 2011 that
makes repossessions “difficult to execute.”  “Then you have the general system, legal system, which
takes a lot longer than a number of our counterparts in Europe
or the States. If you aggregate them, there’s quite a treacly
process to get through.”  In addition, “until the banks had built our capability and
start to demonstrate real resolution capability in volume, the
pressure wasn’t there. So, you may be perhaps dealing with more
immediate cases that were falling over. But now that there’s a
volume-based process for all the banks” to restructure troubled
mortgages, “I think there’ll be more visibility around the
topic of repossessions over the next six to 12 months.”  There will be a “natural bias” to focus on repossessions
in the buy-to-let sector.  On rising residential mortgage rates:  “Throughout 2013 there could be another raise, but it’s
not a whole series of raises.”  On rebuilding net interest margins:  “In the latter part of last year, we’ve seen the trend on
NIM turning to the positive. The primary objective of the bank
is to focus on NIM from a long-term sustainability perspective.
I think in the history in any global crisis, volume replaces NIM
as a priority and you can always show compounding profitability
with escalating growth of volumes of business done.  ‘‘Over 10 years, the trend was largely downwards in NIM but
the volume was rising so high.  Last year ‘‘I think will be pretty much the bottom of the
NIM trend.’’  On restructuring small- to medium-sized enterprise loans:  Resolving problem SME loans ‘‘is probably an 18- to 24-
month cycle because the nature of those are more complex.’’  On whether Allied Irish, having cost 21 billion euros to bail
out, should have been shut down like former Anglo Irish Bank
Corp.:  ‘‘AIB was so large in terms of its participation of the
economy’’ that in closing it down ‘‘the damage that would have
been done in purely financial terms and in terms of the fabric
of everything would have been enormous.’’  ‘‘Today, we’re sitting in a place where, well, a lot of
money went into it, but if we can follow the path we’re on
successfully, money will be coming back. What amount finally
gets paid back, who knows?’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  