-- Hamilton Says Ex-Rider Infused His Blood on Tour de France
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-19T17:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/hamilton-says-ex-rider-infused-his-blood-on-2002-tour-de-france.html
Former cyclist Tyler Hamilton
testified that an ex-mountain-bike rider performed a blood
transfusion on him during the 2002 Tour de France.  The American, giving evidence in a trial of three doctors
and two team managers in Madrid, said former Spanish cyclist
Alberto Leon infused the blood in a hotel room. Cyclists have
been known to collect and later transfuse their own blood to
increase their body’s volume of oxygen-carrying red blood cells
to boost stamina.  Hamilton, who wrote about doping on the U.S. Postal team as
a teammate of  Lance Armstrong  in a book last year, is among
cyclists called as witnesses at the so-called “Operacion
Puerto” trial in Spain. He gave evidence via a video link from
the Spanish embassy in Washington.  Prosecutors are seeking a two-year prison sentence for each
of the defendants, who are accused of a “crime against public
health.” Leon, who died in January 2011, had been named by a
judge as a suspect in the case.  The five defendants are standing trial after police in 2006
found more than 200 blood bags and hospital-use drugs and notes
in raids on apartments in Madrid.  Hamilton, wearing a light gray suit and striped tie, said
one of the doctors charged, Eufemiano Fuentes, extracted or
transfused his blood about 15 times between 2002 and 2004 when
he rode for the CSC and Phonak teams.  “It was a working relationship,” Hamilton testified,
adding he paid Fuentes 50,000 euros ($67,000) for the
transfusion in 2004 and about 30,000 euros the previous two
years.  Reporters Waiting  Hamilton said the Phonak team doctor, a German whose name
he couldn’t remember, also transfused some of his blood bag
during the 2004 Tour “as a favor.” Hamilton said he didn’t
want Fuentes to come to the team hotel that time because there
were reporters waiting outside.  After that infusion, Hamilton said he got a fever and his
urine was black. It appeared “the blood was not stored
properly,” he said.  Last month, Fuentes testified he helped athletes from
cycling, soccer and other sports “guarantee their health was
not harmed by the rigors of competition,” the Associated Press
reported, citing the doctor’s testimony.  The trial is scheduled to end March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  