-- Marco Rubio’s Moment and Ted Cruz’s Test
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-02-19T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/marco-rubio-s-moment-and-ted-cruz-s-test.html
Maybe, in a rare exception, being on
 the cover of Time  won’t be a jinx.  Just before giving his party’s  official response  to the
State of the Union address -- equal to the cover of Time as a
jinxed opportunity -- Senator  Marco Rubio  of Florida was hailed
in the magazine as “The Republican Savior.” Any profile  that
begins  with an interview with Mom can’t help but be more fawning
than laudatory. Note that the cover line doesn’t end with a
question mark.  There’s no question the party needs saving. Former savior
and current Governor  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana  says  it has gone
“stupid,” while superstrategist  Karl Rove ’s  new mission  is to
keep “stupid” candidates from running. But it’s Rubio who best
surfs the demographic wave that threatens to engulf the party as
its most reliable voters (old white men) grow ever older. He’s
Hispanic, young and has his own Spotify  playlist .  The hype would put anyone under a lot of pressure. It
finally got to Rubio precisely 11 minutes into his State of the
Union response last week, when he found himself with a dry mouth
and a bottle of water tantalizingly out of frame. Keeping his
eyes glued to the camera, he went for it. You’d think he’d
poured it over his head like Gatorade at the Super Bowl.
Anything he said was lost as the video of Rubio’s reach went
viral.  Virtuous Virality  Rather than let it pull him down, Rubio -- like  Bill Clinton  in 1988, who went on  Johnny Carson ’s show to  poke fun at 
his own rambling speech at that year’s Democratic National
Convention -- found a way to make the moment work for him. He
took his sip-up on the road, taking a swig on the morning talk
shows after posting a picture of his bottle of water on Twitter.
He even used his Sip Seen Around the World to  raise money  for
his political-action committee.  Rubio’s competition is thin. Currently the unsmiling face
of Senator  John McCain  of Arizona and the pursed lips of his
sidekick, Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, dominate the
airwaves. Rather than counter the bad taste left by failed
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, McCain is doubling down. He
has had his “Get off my lawn” sign out front since President
 Barack Obama  beat him in 2008, and he planted it even deeper
after Obama’s re-election.  Using the tragic death of four Americans in Benghazi to
justify their choler, McCain and Graham helped scuttle United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice ’s potential nomination to be
secretary of state. McCain then transferred his bile to former
friend and Senator  Chuck Hagel , the president’s nominee for
secretary of defense. In a burst of unintended honesty, McCain
admitted why he was so vehemently against Hagel, noting how
“mercilessly” Hagel attacked President George W. Bush over the
war in Iraq. “He was anti- his own party and people -- people
don’t forget that,”  McCain said . “You can disagree but if you’re
disagreeable, then people don’t forget that.” He could have been
talking about himself.  Despite their camera time, McCain and to a lesser extent
Graham represent the safe Republican district known as
Yesterday. Rubio represents Tomorrow -- but he isn’t the only
Republican vying to be the party’s savior.  Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas is sweaty with ambition, devoid
of charm, and utterly certain he’s the smartest man in the room.
In homage to McCain in his maiden appearance on NBC’s “Meet the
Press”  last month , Cruz talked over everyone, as he  reportedly
does  in party caucus meetings.  Denying climate change and questioning Hagel’s loyalty,
Cruz panders to the most know-nothing wing of his party, despite
his degrees from Princeton and Harvard. Although he himself has
never served in the military, Cruz was reportedly worried about
Purple-Heart winner  John Kerry ’s commitment to it, voting
against his nomination for secretary of state. Not even the
foul-tempered McCain did that.  Smooth Sensitivity  Rubio’s smooth rise from city council to statehouse to
Senate to presidential contender got a boost over the weekend
when USA Today  published details  of the White House’s back-up
plan for immigration. Rubio has a thin line to walk: As his
immigrant mother’s son, he has to show understanding of hard-
working and ill-treated immigrants. But he can’t be so
understanding as to lose the right wing of his party.  So what did he say about the president’s modest plan? “Dead
on arrival,” Rubio  declared . He should have added, “Thank you,
Mr. President.” On immigration, there may not be much difference
between Rubio and Obama. But Rubio will now make it look like
there is. As a consequence, things are looking up for a
comprehensive reform bill from the Senate -- and for Rubio’s
ability to keep  Rush Limbaugh  and  Sean Hannity  neutralized.  Rubio made one mistake in the past week. Of his water
blooper, he said, “God has a funny way of reminding us we’re
human.” This suggests he may have taken that Time cover a bit
seriously. If there’s anything worse than believing your own
headlines, it’s bringing the Almighty into it. Politically
speaking, Rubio was able to turn water into wine. He does not,
however, walk on water.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 