-- ARM Turns Up Pressure on Intel as Even Cutlery Gets Smart
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-02-19T10:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/arm-turns-up-pressure-on-intel-as-even-cutlery-gets-smart.html
ARM Holdings Plc , which has sprinted
ahead of  Intel Corp.  in the market for mobile chips, poses a
threat to its rival in another burgeoning business:
semiconductors for machines ranging from cars to cutlery.  So-called embedded processing is ARM’s fastest-growing
market, surging  25 percent  in 2012. ARM got more than half of
its sales from products other than mobile phones for the first
time in the third quarter, and last month ARM Chief Executive
Officer  Warren East  said the percentage will continue to rise.  Companies are snapping up chips that make dashboard
stereos, utility meters and other everyday appliances more
computer-like, and revenue from embedded processors will climb
23 percent to $47.3 billion in 2016 from 2012, according to
researcher IDC. That’s fueling demand for ARM’s technology, used
by chipmakers such as Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. and Texas
Instruments Inc., helping the U.K.-based designer gain an edge
over Intel.  “Intel is trying to get into the market, but ARM is
already there,” said  Mali Venkatesan , an analyst at IDC, a
Framingham, Massachusetts-based market researcher.  Intel remains the leader in chips for personal computers,
with more than 80 percent of the world’s PCs running on its
processors. With the PC market shrinking for the first time in a
decade in 2012 and poised for another drop in 2013, the world’s
largest chipmaker is in need of new businesses to fuel growth.  Intel’s Challenge  ARM’s advantages in faster-growing markets like mobile and
intelligent systems are reflected in its shares, which trade at
49 times projected earnings, compared with a price-to-earnings
ratio of about 10 for Intel. ARM stock has jumped 59 percent in
the past year, while shares of its larger rival have dropped 21
percent. Even with ARM’s high valuation, 40 percent of analysts
who follow the company  recommend  buying the stock, compared with
36 percent for Intel.  ARM shares climbed 0.3 percent to 925.50 pence at 10:39
a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 12.8
billion pounds ($20 billion).  Getting products adopted in fresh markets has been a
challenge for Santa Clara, California-based Intel. Last year,
Intel commanded less than 1 percent of the mobile-phone
processor market and 2 percent of shipments for embedded
processors, which IDC estimates will increase to 3.65 billion
processors in 2016, from 2.54 billion last year.  ARM’s embedded market share will reach 68 percent in 2016,
up from 60 percent in 2012, according to IDC research on what it
calls intelligent systems -- common devices that are becoming
more interactive through technology. Intel’s slice will go to 5
percent, IDC predicts.  Revenue Share  Still, while Intel’s shipments are a fraction of ARM’s, its
embedded chips are more expensive and capable of more complex
computing, giving the company a disproportionate stake of the
market’s revenue, according to IDC. Intel technology accounted
for 20 percent of embedded processor revenues last year,
compared with 30 percent for  ARM-based  designs. The other 50
percent was distributed among other chipmakers.  Embedded processing is the building of computing
capabilities and connectivity into devices and machinery that
previously stood alone. Companies are rushing to turn vehicles
into networks of sensors and minicomputers that can make sure
drivers have access to their iTunes libraries or stop the
vehicle if the brakes aren’t hit early enough.  Everyday equipment like thermostats and electricity meters
are being linked up to the Internet, requiring processors to
analyze data and transmit or receive instructions. Even some
forks now analyze how fast you eat, so you can slow down to lose
weight or ease digestion.  ‘Ubiquitous’ ARM  Device makers and their chip suppliers are turning to ARM
designs because its dominance in smartphones has drawn a flood
of software developers and engineers to the technology, making
it easier and cheaper to standardize.  “It has become ubiquitous and everyone wants to design off
of it,” said  Hans Mosesmann , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. “It’s a monumental task to offset the tsunami
that’s happening. We’re big fans of the non-smartphone part of
their business.”  Cambridge, England-based ARM doesn’t make semiconductors
itself -- it sells processor designs and licenses fundamental
chip technology to companies including Texas Instruments,
 Samsung Electronics Co.  and Qualcomm Inc. ARM’s annual  sales ,
which reached $914.4 million in 2012, are a fraction of Intel’s
more than $50 billion in revenue.  Automotive, Retail  Intel, meantime, is focusing on the automotive, retail and
industrial-control markets, trying to bring a greater ability to
analyze data locally and keep it secure, said  Ton Steenman , who
heads Intel’s Intelligent Systems group.  Intel’s chips and software are now in phone systems,
PepsiCo Inc.’s smart vending machines that can vary sales
pitches, entertainment systems in cars made by Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and  Kia Motors Corp. , and in industrial tools
such as automated farm machinery that can run at night, he said.  “We are not building solutions today that control a little
valve and doesn’t do much more than that,” said Steenman. “We
are investing in the type of application where the richness of
the data processing is a key attribute. That is where there is a
lot more differentiated and sustainable value that can be
created.”  While East said it took longer than he expected for non-
phone-related sales to become the majority of ARM’s revenue, he
expects that percentage to keep rising as the surge in
smartphone demand lures more software developers and hardware
engineers to his company’s technology.  Awaiting ‘Bang’  Consumers have become used to the convenience and capacity
of smartphones, and are starting to expect similar functionality
and ease of use from televisions and other electronic devices,
East said in an interview last month. That will happen when
software begins to take more advantage of the capabilities of
small, power-efficient chips commonly seen in phones, he said.  “That’s the way the technology market works: It’s these
things that anyone in their right mind can see is going to
happen, but there’s always inertia,” East said in the
interview. “The technology solution is in place, but it seems
to take forever and ever to happen. Then when it happens, bang,
it happens quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  