-- Marriott Fourth-Quarter Earnings Increase on U.S. Demand
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/marriott-fourth-quarter-earnings-increase-on-u-s-demand.html
Marriott International Inc. , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said earnings gained
28 percent on rising travel demand across the country.  Net income climbed to $181 million, or 56 cents a share, in
the fourth quarter from $141 million, or 41 cents, a year
earlier, the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said yesterday in
a statement. The hotelier was expected to have earnings of 55
cents, the average estimate of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Marriott in October forecast earnings of 52 cents to 56
cents a share.  Marriott’s results were helped by increased bookings by
business travelers and vacationers at hotels in U.S.
metropolitan areas, which allowed the company to raise room
prices 4 percent, it said in the statement.  “Stronger demand in U.S. cities from individual business
and leisure travelers was driving a lot of the rate increases,”
 Patrick Scholes , an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc.
in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday after
Marriott announced its results. “That helped offset lackluster
group and convention business.”  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, climbed 5.9 percent at the company’s
hotels in North America. Outside North America, revpar rose 3.2
percent, and worldwide the measure increased 5.2 percent in the
fourth quarter.  The hotelier lowered its outlook for revpar growth this
year, saying travel may be hampered by government budget cuts.
Marriott said it expects North American and worldwide revpar to
climb 4 percent to 7 percent this year. That compares with an
October forecast of a 5 percent to 7 percent increase in North
American revpar.  ‘More Conservative’  “While this year is off to a strong start, we are
providing a somewhat broader and more conservative range for
2013 revpar growth due to the potential effect on the travel
industry of the impending federal budget sequestration,” Chief
Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson  said in yesterday’s statement.  The company also said it expects revenue from owned and
leased hotels and corporate housing to fall 12 percent to 18
percent, to $135 million to $145 million, this year because of
“tougher year-over-year comparisons” with the London Olympics
last year and renovations planned for some international leased
hotels in 2013.  “Combine that with their low guidance for their owned
hotels, and that may not sit so well with investors,” Scholes
said.  Revenue Rises  Marriott said it expects  earnings  to climb 10 percent to 19
percent this year, to $1.90 to $2.05 a share. Investment
spending, including acquisitions and financing, probably will
total $600 million to $800 million, the hotelier said.  Total revenue climbed to $3.76 billion in the fourth
quarter from an adjusted $3.4 billion. The year-earlier figure
excluded results from a timeshare business that was spun off.  Marriott, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, released its
results after the close of regular U.S. trading yesterday. The
company’s shares fell 1 percent to $40.83 in New York yesterday.
They have gained 17 percent in the past year.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, on Feb. 7 said quarterly earnings
declined as revenue growth slowed in Europe and costs rose.
Hyatt Hotels Corp., the chain controlled by the Pritzker family,
said fourth-quarter profit fell 69 percent as margins decreased
at some of its properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  