-- Martin Zweig, Who Predicted 1987 Market Crash, Dies at 70
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-02-19T16:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/martin-zweig-stock-author-who-predicted-87-market-crash-dies.html
Martin E. Zweig , who predicted the
1987 stock market crash and whose newsletters influenced U.S.
investors for a quarter century, has died. He was 70.  He died yesterday, according to Zweig-DiMenna Associates
LLC, his New York-based firm. No cause of death was given.  Zweig wrote “Martin Zweig’s Winning on Wall Street,” his
book first published in 1986, and stock-picking newsletters such
as the Zweig Forecast for 26 years, helping start his career in
hedge funds and philanthropy. He co-founded Zweig-DiMenna
Partners in 1984 and, according to the New York Times, bought a
16-room apartment at Manhattan’s  Pierre  hotel in 1999 for $21.5
million. He also had a residence in Fisher Island, Florida.  “I was on the road show with Marty for the Zweig Fund in
1986 and he was like a rock star,” Gene Glaser, a business
partner with Zweig from 1989 to 1999, said today in an
interview. “People would wait around to get his autograph and
ask him questions about the market.”  Zweig began his career in the 1970s writing investment
newsletters, which became the Zweig Forecast, published from
1971 to 1997, the company said in a statement through Business
Wire. In 1984, Zweig and  Joe DiMenna  founded Zweig-DiMenna
Partners, their first long-short hedge fund, followed by the
Zweig Fund in 1986 and the Zweig Total Return Fund in 1988.  Predicting Crash  A regular guest on the  PBS television show  “Wall Street
Week With  Louis Rukeyser ,” Zweig is credited with developing
the technical analysis tool known as the put-call ratio,
according to his firm. The indicator plots bearish versus
bullish options as a way of determining investor sentiment.  Zweig’s best-known call came during Rukeyser’s program on
Oct. 16, 1987, when he predicted stocks were poised for a
“vicious” decline reminiscent of the crash of 1929. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  plunged 508 points, or a record 23
percent, in the next session, now known as Black Monday.  “I haven’t been looking for a bear market per se, really,
in my own mind I’m looking for a crash,” Zweig said in the PBS
interview. “I only look for a brief decline, but a vicious
one.” The Dow declined 23 percent in October 1987 and climbed
2.3 percent that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zweig bought bearish options and advised readers of the
Zweig Forecast to do the same prior to the 1987 crash. The
strategy generated an 8.7 percent profit for the month and
helped push his picks up 50 percent in 2007, according to a
 profile  published on the website of his alma mater, the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  Dow Theory  “He was a pioneer in technical analysis,” said  Richard Russell , editor of the Dow Theory Letters newsletter, in a
telephone interview. Zweig was a “terrible worrier,” said
Russell, who took over Zweig’s investment advisory service.  Dow Theory, which stems from observations made by Wall
Street Journal founder Charles Dow during the late 1800s, holds
that moves by the transportation average must be “confirmed”
by the industrial measure, and vice versa, to be sustained.  A patron of The Wharton School, who helped fund its Locust
Walk lobby, Zweig played poker and collected pop-culture items,
according to the 2007 profile. He owned the sequined dress
Marilyn Monroe wore when she sang “Happy Birthday” to
President John F. Kennedy and a baseball jersey worn by Brooklyn
Dodger star Jackie Robinson in 1947, it said.  Cleveland Native  Martin Edward Zweig was born on July 2, 1942, in Cleveland.
His father died when he was 9, and the family moved to Florida a
year later following his mother’s remarriage, Zweig wrote in
“Martin Zweig’s Winning on Wall Street.” His interest in the
stock market began at 13, when he received a gift of six shares
of General Motors Co. from an uncle.  Zweig graduated from Wharton in 1964 with a B.A. in
economics. He later received an MBA from the University of Miami
and a Ph.D. in finance from Michigan State University in East
Lansing, Michigan.  “Marty became a mentor and close friend shortly after he
hired me in 1977 while I was still in college,” DiMenna said in
the statement. “He was a wonderful, kind and generous person
and I will always be grateful for the opportunity to have been
his friend and partner. Marty was one of a kind.”  He is survived by his wife Barbara and sons Zack and Alex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 