-- Walter Energy Investor Audley Plans 5 Nominations for Board
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-02-19T22:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/audley-capital-plans-five-nominations-for-walter-energy-s-board.html
Walter Energy Inc.  investor Audley
Capital Advisors LLP plans to nominate five candidates for the
board of the metallurgical-coal producer, which it says lacks
“consistent” leadership and hasn’t done enough to curb costs.  Walter has had four chief executive officers in the last
five years and has a “stale and out-of-depth” board, London-
based Audley said today in a statement. The mining company’s
production growth and cost-reduction efforts have been
disappointing, Audley said. Walter should have used more equity
to fund its 2011 takeover of Western Coal Corp., Audley said.  “What we see as poor financial and strategic judgment by
the current board has weighed heavily on the company and
prevented it from creating value for its shareholders,” Audley
co-founder and Managing Partner  Julian Treger  said in the
statement.  Audley previously called for change at Walter in July 2011,
when it said the Birmingham, Alabama-based company should
explore a sale because it lacked the leadership to take
advantage of an “unprecedented market opportunity” after coal
prices jumped.  Walter had completed its acquisition of Western Coal in
April 2011 for C$5.3 billion ($5.2 billion) including debt.
 Keith Calder  resigned as CEO two months later after telling the
board he had differing opinions concerning “management
philosophy.” Current CEO  Walter J. Scheller III  was appointed
September 2011, replacing interim CEO Joseph B. Leonard.  No Discussions  Walter rose 5.4 percent to $39.96 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped 39 percent in the past 12 months, while
the  Stowe Global Coal Index  declined 29 percent.  Audley hasn’t discussed its proposed slate of directors
with Walter, the coal company said today in a statement. Walter
said it’s “fully committed to creating value for all
shareholders through the successful execution of the company’s
strategy.”  Walter also said in a separate statement that it appointed
 Mary R. Henderson , managing partner at consulting company
Henderson Advisory, as an independent director.  Audley’s latest suggestions are more specific and
actionable than what it said in July 2011, said  Lucas Pipes , a
New York-based analyst at Brean Capital LLC, said today by
telephone. Pipes has a hold rating on the stock.  Audley’s proposed nominees include Treger;  Eddie Scholtz , a
former executive at BHP Billiton Ltd. and CIC Energy Corp.;  Mark Lochtenberg , chairman of Australia’s Cockatoo Coal Ltd. and a
former co-head of Glencore International Plc’s coal business;
 Robert Stan , the former CEO of Canada’s Grande Cache Coal Corp.;
and  Lawrence Clark Jr. , CEO of closely held U.S. coal company JW
Resources Inc.  The price of metallurgical coal has declined after a
slowdown in demand from Chinese steelmakers. Asian buyers are
paying $165 a ton for the raw material in the current quarter,
30 percent lower than a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  