-- N.Z. Dollar Drops on China Milk Powder Reports; Aussie Up
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-19T05:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/aussie-maintains-gains-against-counterparts-before-rba-minutes.html
The New Zealand dollar fell against
its 16 major peers after reports that China has destroyed some
milk powder imported from the South Pacific nation.  The so-called kiwi dropped versus the U.S. dollar and yen
after Beijing News reported China’s quarantine administration
destroyed milk powder for three different brands, citing the
government agency. The currency pared losses after Auckland-
based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said none of its products
were destroyed. Australia’s dollar gained after the country’s
central bank said an improved global outlook have spurred prices
for commodities.  “This is not a case of China singling New Zealand out but
the headlines are having a negative impact on the kiwi,” said
 Khoon Goh , a senior strategist in Singapore at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “This is temporary and once some
clarity around this news story emerges, I expect kiwi to regain
those losses.”  New Zealand’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 84.40 U.S. cents
as of 4:23 p.m. in Sydney and declined 0.5 percent to 79.06 yen.
Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0325 and fetched 96.71
yen, little changed from yesterday.  Milk powder from brands including Vimila and Cnetirum was
destroyed, Beijing News reported. Some milk powder imported from
the Netherlands and Spain was also found to be unqualified, the
report said.  The kiwi dollar pared losses of as much as 0.6 percent
after Zhao Min, an official for Vimila’s China joint venture in
Shanghai, said the report refers to the destruction of imported
milk powder because of substandard labeling last year and that
the milk powder itself wasn’t a problem.  Largest Market  China replaced Australia as New Zealand’s biggest export
market in December for the first time in data going back to
1981, based on the smallest nation’s statistics office. New
Zealand’s shipments to China surged last year, led by milk
powder, butter and cheese.  Australia’s dollar rose against 14 of 16 major currencies
after the RBA said prices of many metals, coal and crude oil
have benefited from the better global outlook, according to
minutes of the Feb. 5 meeting released today. Prices of iron
ore, Australia’s largest export, have increased but have “run
well ahead of Chinese steel prices” and may not be sustained at
high levels, central bank board members said.  Policy makers reiterated that tame prices provide scope to
ease further if needed. The bank has lowered its benchmark rate
by 1.75 percentage points to 3 percent since November 2011 and
this month cut forecasts for inflation and growth.  “The RBA did acknowledge the better run of international
data received between the two meetings and the effect that has
had on commodity prices,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Sydney. The Aussie “has caught a bid” after finding support
near the $1.0250 level, he said.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year  bond yields  rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.58 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  