-- Australian Dollar Rises on Central-Bank Minutes Before Wage Data
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-19T22:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/australian-dollar-rises-on-central-bank-minutes-before-wage-data.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
versus all but one of its 16 most-traded peers after the central
bank in the minutes of its last meeting lowered expectations for
an interest-rate cut.  The Aussie gained for a second day against the U.S. dollar
before data forecast today to show Australian  wages  rose,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. The New Zealand dollar had
the biggest intraday drop versus the yen in a week as a Japanese
official said its government doesn’t intend to buy foreign bonds
to end deflation by weakening the currency.  “The Reserve Bank of Australia stated the weakened
domestic outlook for the Australian economy had already been
answered by 175-basis-points worth of rate cuts by the central
bank to date,”  Ravi Bharadwaj , a market analyst at Western
Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., wrote in
a note to clients. “The minutes implied the RBA would assume a
wait-and-see approach to monetary policy in the near term,
disappointing investors who wished for a more aggressive, dovish
message.”  The Aussie strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.0356 yesterday in
New York. It gained 0.1 percent to 96.91 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.2
percent to 84.68 U.S. cents and dropped 0.2 percent to 79.25 yen
after falling as much as 0.8 percent, the most since Feb. 12.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials decreased
0.1 percent.  RBA Minutes  The Aussie gained versus the U.S. dollar after minutes of
the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Feb. 5 meeting published
yesterday said prices of many metals, coal and crude oil have
benefited from the better global outlook.  Governor Glenn Stevens and his board, who kept the
benchmark rate unchanged at 3 percent this month, said the local
currency’s strength doesn’t reflect the significant decline in
the nation’s terms of trade.  Australian wages rose 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months, according to a Bloomberg survey
of 21 analysts. That is 0.1 percentage point higher than the
most recent Australian Bureau of Statistics report in September.  Japanese officials have toned down calls for a weaker yen
to help exporters after trade partners complained the nation
risked setting off a currency war.  The Australian dollar has gained 0.2 percent and the kiwi
has climbed 3.1 this year among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S.
dollar has added 0.7 percent and the yen, the biggest decliner,
has lost 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  