-- Australia’s Olympic Swim Team Had ‘Toxic’ Culture
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-19T06:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/australia-s-olympic-swim-team-had-toxic-culture-review-says.html
Australia’s London Olympics swimming
team was beset by “culturally toxic incidents” including
misuse of prescription drugs and bullying that highlighted a
failure of culture and leadership, a report said.  The so-called Bluestone Review, commissioned by Swimming
Australia after the nation’s worst performance in the Olympic
pool in two decades,  found  that a culture existed within the
team which “did not appear to assist or support high-level
performance for most people.”  “There were enough culturally toxic incidents across
enough team members that breached agreements (such as getting
drunk, misuse of prescription drugs, breaching curfews, deceit,
bullying) to warrant a strong, collective leadership response
that included coaches, staff and the swimmers,” the report
said. “No such collective action was taken.”  Swimmers described the London games as the “Lonely
Olympics” and the “Individual Olympics” and morale was
allowed to slump as performances failed to match public and
media expectation, the review said. Australians won one gold
medal, six silver and three bronze at the swimming meet in
London -- their lowest tally since 1992 in Barcelona.  The Australian Olympic Committee said any swimmers found to
have misused prescription insomnia treatments in London may face
sanctions. In the leadup to the games, the AOC banned athletes
from using sedatives such as Stilnox during the event.  “If the claims are substantiated and the individuals
involved are identified, the AOC will consider their conduct in
the context of their Olympic team membership agreement and
consider sanctions,” AOC president John Coates said.  Two Reviews  The Bluestone Review recommended creating an ethical
framework of what Swimming Australia and the team stand for,
updating internal codes of conduct and implementing better
processes for managing issues around standards and expectations.  A  separate independent review  of Australian swimming
conducted on behalf of the sport’s governing body and the
Australian Sports Commission also published its findings today,
making 35 recommendations to improve the sport.  “It has been a time of reflection and review and a time to
be honest and open about how we can make the right steps towards
future success,” Swimming Australia President Barclay
Nettlefold said in a statement. “Before we look at winning gold
medals, we want to win back the admiration of the nation.”  Sole Gold  Australia, home to former Olympic champions  Dawn Fraser  and
 Ian Thorpe , failed to secure an individual swimming title in
London for the first time since the 1976 Montreal games. The
400-meter women’s freestyle relay team took the sole gold.  Disciplinary issues affected the team’s unity in London and
some swimmers were pursuing their own goals rather than those of
the squad,  the Australian newspaper reported Sept. 12 , citing
people close to the team it didn’t identify. Men’s 400-meter
relay swimmer Tommaso D’Orsogna said in a Sept. 13 interview
with Australia’s  Ten Network  that some swimmers behaved more
like schoolboys than Olympians at a pre-games camp.  “Poor behavior and disrespect within the team were not
regulated or resisted strongly by other team members, and it was
left unchecked or without consequence by staff and coaches on a
number of occasions,” the Bluestone Review said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  