-- Australia’s Greens Distance Party From Gillard as Election Nears
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-02-19T04:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/australia-s-greens-distance-party-from-gillard-as-election-nears.html
Australia’s Greens party, which
helped Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  form a minority government,
sought to distance itself from the ruling Labor party whose
popularity is slumping ahead of elections due Sept. 14.  Greens leader  Christine Milne  said Labor had breached its
agreement with the party through its support for the mining
industry. While the Greens won’t side with the opposition and
seek to end the government’s current term, she said the alliance
was over.  “By choosing the big miners, the Labor government is no
longer honoring our agreement to work together to promote
transparent and accountable government and the public interest
or to address climate change,” Milne told reporters in Canberra
today. “Labor has effectively ended its agreement with the
Greens. Well, so be it.”  Relations between Labor and the Greens, which hold the
balance of power in the upper house of parliament, have become
increasingly strained in recent months amid a disagreement over
how to stem the number of asylum seekers arriving in Australia,
and the government refusing Milne’s demand to strengthen its tax
on iron ore and coal profits. Labor has slipped further behind
the Liberal-National opposition coalition, according to an
opinion poll published yesterday, as Gillard faces speculation
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  may make another challenge for
the leadership.  Cut Ties  “Milne sees which way the wind is blowing and it doesn’t
look good for Labor, so she’s trying to cut those ties and
redefine the Greens as a separate entity,” said  Zareh Ghazarian , a politics lecturer at Monash University in
Melbourne. “She’s reminding voters that even though the party’s
role in the current minority government will probably end, it
will probably remain important after the next election because
it should keep the balance of power in the Senate.”  Milne said the Greens would continue to vote against any
no-confidence motions in the government and ensure passage of
legislation necessary for the day-to-day running of the country.  “We will see this parliament through to its full term,”
she said. “We are moving beyond the agreement as the key
debates and outcomes left in this 43rd parliament fall outside
it.”  Mining Tax  The government’s economic credibility was dented by the
announcement Feb. 8 that its iron ore and coal profits tax
raised A$126 million ($130 million) in its first six months,
less than 10 percent of the A$2 billion the Treasury forecast
for the year to June 30.  Opposition leader Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
led Labor 56 percent to 44 percent on a two-party preferred
basis, versus 52 to 48 in the opposition’s favor in the previous
survey, according to the Australian Financial Review/Nielsen
poll published yesterday.  The same poll, conducted Feb. 14-16, showed that 11 percent
of those surveyed intended to vote for the Greens, up from 10
percent on Dec. 13-15.  Gillard turned to the Greens to help form a government in
2010 after the closest election in seven decades. To secure
their support, Gillard introduced a price on carbon emissions,
which came into force on July 1 at the same time as the levy on
mining profits.  Milne, who became leader of Australia’s third-biggest party
in April, is trying to broaden support for the Greens to ensure
it maintains its hold on the balance of power in the Senate,
where it has nine of the 76 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  