-- Azeri Court May Seize Opposition Leader’s TV, Carpet
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-02-20T06:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/azeri-court-may-seize-opposition-leader-s-tv-carpet-over-fine.html
(Corrects name of son in third paragraph in story
published Feb. 19.)  Azeri bailiffs presented  Isa Qambar ,
leader of the country’s main opposition party, with a list of
belongings they’ll seek to confiscate after his son refused to
pay fines for attending demonstrations last month.  The officers plan to seize two used TV sets, an air
conditioner, an old carpet, a chandelier and a stereo that
doesn’t work to cover the claims, Qambar said by e-mail after
they visited his apartment today in the capital of Baku.  “I told them it was a violation of law and the
constitution,” said Qambar, who plans to run in presidential
elections slated for October. All the items belong to the leader
of the Musavat, or Equality, party, and not his son, Turqut, who
was fined 3,100 manat ($3,950) for participating in unauthorized
rallies in Baku on Jan. 12 and Jan. 26.  Police detained dozens of protesters as opposition youth
groups rallied in central Baku last month in support of
demonstrations in the northwestern town of Ismayilli and to
protest non-combat deaths in the army.  Ismayilli was hit by two days of riots, and dozens were
arrested after residents set fire to former district Governor
Nizami Alakbarov’s house and a hotel and luxury cars owned by
his nephew, who allegedly beat a taxi driver and insulted
locals. Alakbarov, whom President Ilham Aliyev dismissed this
month, denied the accusations against his nephew, who’s also a
son of Labor and Social Protection Minister Fizuli Alakbarov.  The bailiffs will submit the list to court, which will
decide whether to confiscate the property, Qambar said.  Abulfaz Qurbanli, leader of the youth wing of the
opposition People’s Front of Azerbaijan Party, said on his
Facebook account that bailiffs confiscated a carpet from his
family’s home after he refused to pay a fine.  Aydin Agazada, a spokesman for the Justice Ministry, didn’t
immediately comment about the visit to Qambar’s home when called
on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  