-- Bancolombia Falls After $2.1 Billion HSBC Panama Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-19T18:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bancolombia-falls-after-2-1-billion-hsbc-panama-deal.html
Bancolombia SA , Colombia’s largest
bank, fell for a second day in Bogota trading after agreeing to
pay $2.1 billon for HSBC Holdings Plc’s Panama unit in its
biggest-ever acquisition.  The company’s  preferred shares , which are more actively
traded than the common stock, fell 2.5 percent to 29,920 pesos
at 12:23 p.m. It was the second-biggest loser today on the
country’s benchmark Colcap Index, which fell 0.8 percent.  The  acquisition  is the second Bancolombia has announced in
Central America in two months. The shares have  fallen  5.1
percent from this year’s high of 31,460 as analysts including
Banco Santander SA’s  Boris Molina  and  Luis Guzman  speculated
that the company may have to sell equity to pay for acquisitions
and meet regulatory capital minimums.  “The stock is responding to the expectation that they’ll
have to sell shares, even if they’re not running to do it,”
 Katherine Ortiz , an analyst at Corredores Asociados SA, said in
a telephone interview from Bogota.  The stock plunged 3.2 percent on Feb. 11 after the bank
said it would propose a sale of preferred stock at an annual
meeting in March.  Bancolombia Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Yepes  told
reporters on a videoconference today that the acquisition will
create the biggest financial group in Central America. In
December Bancolombia agreed to pay $216 million for a stake in a
Guatemalan bank through Agromercantil Holding.  The bank doesn’t need to sell shares to raise cash for the
acquisition, Yepes said.  “We have the capital and we have the liquidity,” Yepes
said from Medellin, where the bank is based. Reporters in Bogota
watched from a Bancolombia office in the city.  The share proposal would give the bank standing approval to
“keep on issuing” capital at any time this year or next, Yepes
said.  The cash price for Panama’s second-biggest bank is three
times the unit’s net asset value of $700 million, HSBC said
today in a statement.  “The multiples are a little bit above what we’re used to
seeing for deals in the region,” Ortiz said. “But it’s one of
Panama’s leading banks and its delivered good results, and that
could all justify paying a higher price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  