-- Bank of Israel Posts Draft Guidelines on Housing Credit
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-19T15:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bank-of-israel-posts-draft-guidelines-on-housing-credit.html
The Bank of Israel told lenders to
set aside more money against losses from home loans, as it seeks
to shield the financial system after house prices and credit
surged.  The central bank increased the amount of capital that banks
are required to hold against most types of home loans, and also
told the lenders to set aside more provisions for credits that
aren’t repaid. The new guidelines, effective from Jan. 1 this
year, were announced in an e-mailed statement today from
Jerusalem.  “The Bank of Israel is trying to reduce the transmission
between the interest rate and the real-estate market, and give
itself greater freedom for an additional rate cut against the
background of the slowing economy and strengthening shekel,”
said  Rafi Gozlan , chief economist at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage and
Investments Ltd. “The likelihood of a rate cut in one of the
next two decisions has increased.”  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  has been trying to
contain a real-estate boom fueled in part by expansionary
monetary policy aimed at boosting growth.  House prices climbed about 50 percent in the past decade,
according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. Housing credit in
Israel has jumped about 76 percent in the last five years, the
central bank said in today’s statement.  The central bank in May 2010 increased provisions for home
loans where buyers put up little equity. A year later it capped
variable-rate mortgages at one-third the value of the total
loan, and in October last year it set maximum loan-to-value
limits for the first time.  The latest measures are “intended to express better the
risk inherent in housing loans on banks’ portfolios” after a
surge in mortgages and an increase in house prices, Banking
Supervisor  David Zaken  said in today’s statement from Jerusalem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  