-- Baupost Sees Financial Risk When Monetary Support Ends
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-19T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/baupost-sees-financial-risk-when-monetary-support-ends.html
Seth Klarman , the hedge-fund manager
who runs Boston-based Baupost Group LLC, said risks to financial
markets today are in some ways greater than they were before the
2008 crisis once governments around the world halt their
aggressive stimulus.  “The real downside scenario -- which concerns us greatly -
- involves the end of the ‘free lunch’ of large deficits, zero
interest rates, and relentless quantitative easing,” Klarman
wrote in a 19-page year-end letter to Baupost investors obtained
by Bloomberg News. “This story line would take the form of a
currency, sovereign, or economic crisis inciting panic
throughout the financial markets.”  Klarman, a bargain hunter and author of the 1991 book “The
Margin of Safety,” is at odds with investors such as   Ray Dalio, founder of hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP,  whose
firm is betting that stock markets will rise this year as people
start to spend and invest again. David Tepper, who runs the $15
billion hedge fund Appaloosa Management LP, and Carlyle Group LP
co-founder David Rubenstein have said they’re positive on the
U.S. economy.  Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for Baupost, declined to comment
on the letter.  ‘Substantial’ Declines  Global stocks  have rallied 10 percent in the past six
months as investors have grown confident about the U.S. housing
market recovery, European leaders’ steps to contain their debt
crisis, and reports in China suggesting economic growth is
accelerating. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled Jan. 31 he
isn’t close to easing up on $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases to spur the economy and bring down unemployment, which
climbed last month to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent in November
and December.  Once central banks around the world end stimulative
policies, investors who “bore excessive risk will encounter
substantial market value declines,” Klarman wrote. “The
underpinnings of our economy and financial system are so
precarious that the unabating risks of collapse dwarf all other
factors.”  The European sovereign debt crisis remains a threat to the
global economy, Klarman wrote, in contrast to Bridgewater’s co-
chief investment officer Bob Prince, who said on a client
conference call on Jan. 23 that risk in the region “dropped
substantially” following European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi’s comments in July that the ECB was committed to
preserving the euro.  Eurozone Imbalances  Bridgewater expects cash to move to riskier holdings, which
would support an increase in the value of assets and improve
balance sheets, credit and economic growth until the Federal
Reserve moves toward tighter policy.  “The sovereign debt crisis and Eurozone fiscal imbalances
remain grievous threats to the global economy,” Klarman wrote.
Draghi’s actions “are keeping market forces temporarily at bay,
but when they re-emerge another day of reckoning will be at
hand.”  Klarman said investing may be harder than any time in the
last 30 years and called 2012 “profitable but frustrating” as
low interest rates pressured investors to pile into risky
assets, which made finding bargain investments difficult.
Baupost’s year-end return was “not scintillating,” he said,
without specifying. The firm held about 30 percent cash
throughout the year, he said.  ‘Dressed Up’  “For much of the year, it felt as if we were all dressed
up with no place to go,” Klarman wrote in the letter.
“Investing today may well be harder than it has been at any
time in our three decades of existence.”  Klarman expects 2013 to be a reprise of 2012, as low
interest rates will push yield-starved investors into the
market, and opportunities for bargain-seekers will shrink.  Low levels of volatility, or the swings in asset prices, in
combination with the Fed’s three rounds of unprecedented asset
purchases and interest rates near zero have made it difficult to
identify attractive investments, Klarman said. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, the gauge of S&P 500 options
prices known as the VIX, fell to 12.46 on Feb. 15, near a 5 1/2-
year low.  “Dampened volatility, accompanied by higher securities
prices, is a challenge for Baupost,” Klarman said. “The
Federal Reserve’s relentless interventions and manipulations
(the ‘Bernanke put’) have truncated market declines, leaving
relatively little worth acquiring -- at least for now.”  Dollar, Gold  An eventual market or economic collapse may cause a decline
in the U.S. dollar and increase in the price of gold, Klarman
said.  “An unknowable tipping point looms over the horizon,” he
wrote. “When we reach it, outsiders and U.S. citizens alike
will become suspicious of our creditworthiness, causing interest
rates to rise and the dollar to plummet. Holders of greenbacks
will rush to spend their money while it still has some value,
causing the prices of goods and stores of value (like gold) to
surge.”  Klarman wrote the preface to the sixth edition of
“Security Analysis,” a 1934 book by Benjamin Graham and David
Dodd that is considered the bible of value investing. Baupost,
which opened in 1983, employs an investment team of 43 analysts
and six traders, Klarman said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  