-- Bayern Munich Leaves Arsenal Seeking Champions League Turnaround
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-20T01:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bayern-munich-beats-arsenal-in-champions-league-as-porto-wins.html
Arsenal must breach one of European
soccer’s best defenses at least three times to advance to the
Champions League quarterfinals.  The Gunners lost 3-1 to Bayern Munich last night in London
in their round of 16 opener, leaving them needing to turn around
a two-goal deficit in the March 13 return match in Germany. Only
twice in competition history has a team advanced after losing
the opening game at home in the knockout phase.  “It will be extremely difficult against a team of that
quality,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said at a news
conference. “We played against a team that has a lot of class.
That’s not our case at the moment.”  Porto beat Malaga 1-0 in last night’s other match to take
an advantage into the return game in Spain in three weeks. The
round of 16 continues tonight as seven-time champion AC Milan
hosts a Barcelona team seeking its fourth European Cup title in
eight years and Schalke visits Galatasaray in Istanbul.  Arsenal’s loss follows a defeat to lower-division Blackburn
in the F.A. Cup and puts more pressure on Wenger and his squad.
It’s only the third time Arsenal has lost back-to-back matches
at the Emirates Stadium since moving there in 2006, according to
Opta Sports.  Arsenal trailed 2-0 after 21 minutes following goals from
 Toni Kroos  and  Thomas Muller . Former Bayern forward  Lukas Podolski  scored early in the second half to reduce the deficit
before Mario Mandzukic sealed the win with 13 minutes remaining.  Four-time European champion Bayern extended its unbeaten
run to 19 games in all competitions. The German league leader
has allowed 15 goals in 32 total matches this season and has
allowed more than one goal only twice.  ‘Big Success’  “We are currently in astonishing form,” Bayern coach  Jupp Heynckes  said after his team’s first win in five visits to
London. “It’s always been difficult for Bayern to play in
England. This was a big success for my team.”  Success is proving elusive for Arsenal as an eighth season
without a trophy moves closer to reality. The Gunners were
knocked out of both English cup competitions by lower-level
teams and are currently fifth in the Premier League, 21 points
behind leader Manchester United.  Restless fans at the Emirates have voiced their
displeasure, jeering the team after the loss to Blackburn on the
weekend and again at halftime last night. Supporters’ groups
also have called for Wenger’s 16-year tenure to end.  Arsenal midfielder  Jack Wilshere  said the blame starts and
ends with the players.  ‘Man Enough’  “I don’t think it’s anything to do with the manager,” he
told ITV. “The players will take responsibility, we’re man
enough to take it. The boss has been here for 16 years and he’s
been doing a great job, so you can’t question him.”  Bayern took the lead after seven minutes as Muller’s cross
found its way to Kroos, who fired a shot past Wojciech Szczesny
from the edge of the penalty area. Muller made it 2-0 when he
poked in the rebound after Szczesny stopped  Daniel Van Buyten ’s
header from a corner kick.  Podolski reduced the deficit in the 55th minute before
Mandzukic restored Bayern’s two-goal advantage by scoring off a
cross from  Philipp Lahm  in the 77th minute.  “The third goal really changed the tie,” Arsenal striker
Olivier Giroud told reporters. “Nothing is done yet, but we
will have to score three there. When you know how strong they
are in defense, it won’t be easy.”  Porto dominated Malaga in Portugal with 61 percent of the
possession and a 17-1 advantage in total attempts. Moutinho got
the only goal in the 56th minute off a cross from Alex Sandro.  “I’m not completely satisfied in that we couldn’t get a
goal to make it 2-0,” Porto coach Vitor Periera said on the
website of tournament organizer UEFA. “That would have been a
fairer reflection of what happened on the pitch. We never
allowed Malaga into the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 