-- Betty Buckley Bids to Save ‘Dear World’ on London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-02-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/betty-buckley-bids-to-save-dear-world-on-london-stage.html
“Musical theater” and “whimsy” are
words which should never be seen together. It’s enough to strike
terror into theater-goers everywhere.  “Dear World” radiates whimsy like a nuclear warhead. It’s
one reason why the Jerry Herman show (he of “Hello Dolly” fame)
flopped on Broadway in 1969. Four decades on, the belated U.K.
premiere tries to resuscitate the corpse.  Set in Paris, it tells the story of Countess Aurelia (Betty
Buckley), an eccentric who lives under a cafe. When businessmen
try to blow up her cafe to drill for oil, she takes action.  Oil? Paris? Eh? The whimsical McGuffin that motors the plot
-- or rather doesn’t -- is the least of the show’s problems.  The centerpiece of Act 2 is a mock trial, in which the
Countess pretends to charge the businessmen with their
capitalist crimes. One of her jolly oddball friends called The
Sewerman (Paul Nicholas) represents the villains in their
absence.  A trial without the defendants? If there’s a better way to
make an hour stretch into an eternity, I haven’t come across it.  It’s a shame for Broadway hoofing legend Betty Buckley. She
commands the stage, and finds a tiny bit of grit in the lead
role to counterbalance the feyness.  There isn’t much grit in Gillian Lynne’s cute production.
It’s like being run over by a candy floss truck. Repeatedly.
Rating: **.  A second-rate piece of work doesn’t unfailingly have to
mean a second-rate production. Carl Zuckmayer’s heavy-handed
satire “The Captain of Kopenick” (1931) gets a lavish and
enjoyable staging at the National Theatre.  It’s 1910. Wilhelm Voigt (Anthony Sher) is an ex-convict
who finds a second-hand Prussian uniform, and then gets mistaken
for a military captain. He takes his new troops to storm the
town hall, and get some papers to prove that he exists.  Director Adrian Noble takes what’s best in the piece and
turns it into a spectacular comic carnival. The enormous
multilevel set spins merrily up and down on its hydraulic lift.
It’s the kind of staging that only the National has the
resources to do, and it looks thrillingly expensive.  Anthony Sher is on top form in the title role. At first
he’s an archetypal put-upon little guy, just trying to get by.  The uniform unleashes his inner Doberman. He barks orders,
shouts commands, and stomps about like one possessed. It’s a
fantastic comic turn. Rating: ****.  Mezzo Joyce DiDonato’s latest tour, with the catchy title
“Drama Queens,” brought her to the Barbican last week. If you’re
lucky enough to be in Spain or  France  over the next month or so,
you can catch future dates. It’s a hot tip.  The repertoire, all composed for royal operatic characters,
mixes familiar and unfamiliar baroque arias. She shows off her
glistening voice and impossibly fleet coloratura in arias by
Handel and Orlandini.  The violinist/director of Il complesso barocco brings
things down a notch with an overdone performance of a Vivaldi
concerto between arias.  Still, it has the effect of showing up DiDonato’s subtle
artistry all the more. Rating: ****.  “Dear World” is at the Charing Cross Theatre.
 http://www.charingcrosstheatre.co.uk  +44-844-493-0650  “The Captain of Kopenick” is at the National Theatre.
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000  For information about Joyce DiDonato’s tour:
 http://www.joycedidonato.com   Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera,
 Martin Gayford  on art and  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 