-- Billionaire Galitskiy Bonds Fuel Magnit Expansion: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-19T15:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/billionaire-galitskiy-bonds-fuel-magnit-expansion-russia-credit.html
OAO Magnit (MGNT)  is selling its first
bonds in five months to help billionaire Sergey Galitskiy’s food
retailer add to the record 1,575 stores opened in  Russia  last
year.  Magnit is offering 5 billion rubles ($166 million) of
three-year securities at a yield of 8.78 percent to 8.99
percent, sale organizer Sberbank CIB said on Feb. 15. The yield
on Magnit ruble notes due in September 2015 has fallen 19 basis
points this year to 8.64 percent, compared with a 13 basis-point
increase for higher-rated French retailer  Carrefour SA (CA)  on 600
million euros ($775 million) of notes in September that year.  Russia’s largest retailer by market value is spending as
much as $1.8 billion this year to compete against  X5 Retail
Group NV (FIVE)  and OAO Dixy Group. While retail sales in the euro area
contracted in December, they jumped 5 percent in Russia,
exceeding analysts’ expectations.  “Magnit is seen as a high-quality issuer by the Russian
investors despite its non-investment grade,” Ilya Mozgovoy, who
helps oversee about $1 billion of debt at Allianz Investments in
Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “We’ll consider participating
in the issuance. We’re very pleased with Magnit’s management and
rapid growth.”  The company, based in the southern Russian city of
Krasnodar, is  rated BB- , three steps below investment-grade
status and the highest in Russia’s retail industry, by  Standard
& Poor’s . X5 Retail Group NV, billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s
grocery chain and Russia’s biggest by revenue, is ranked one
step lower at B+.  Expansion Plans  Magnit said last month that it plans to open at least 1,410
stores, as well as four distribution centers. Revenue increased
34 percent last year compared with an 8.3 percent advance for
X5.  Magnit  may overtake X5  by revenue this year to become
Russia’s biggest retailer, according to Nadezhda Bozhenko, an
analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow. Proceeds from the bond
sale will probably go toward  capital spending , she said.  “This is the only Russian retailer that is growing at a
fast pace without endangering its healthy debt load,” she said
yesterday by phone. A “large circle of investors” would want
to buy the bonds, she said.  Timothy Post, head of  investor relations  at Magnit,
declined to comment by phone.  Ruble Rate  The ruble was steady at 30.11 versus the dollar by 7:08
p.m. in Moscow.  The country’s dollar bonds due in April 2042 were
unchanged, with the yield at 4.605 percent today. The rate on
domestically traded government ruble bonds due in June 2017 fell
three basis points to 6.17 percent. The yield on Russia’s ruble
Eurobond due in 2018 rose four basis points to 5.907 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries lost one basis points to 179,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The difference
compares with 166 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 156 for
 Brazil .  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose two basis points to
144 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
swaps, whose prices increase when investor sentiment worsens,
cost nine basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  O’Key Group SA (OKEY) , whose stock is traded in  London  and is
ranked B+ at Fitch, was the last Russian retailer to sell ruble
bonds, issuing 3 billion rubles of securities in December. Lenta
LLC, a hypermarket operator that is now part-owned by TPG
Capital and VTB Capital after a shareholder feud, plans to offer
4 billion rubles of debut notes between Feb. 25 and March 1.  With its store openings last year and increased revenue,
Magnit produced “impressive” financial results, according to
OAO Nomos Bank in Moscow. The new  bond issue  will be interesting
at the lower end of guidance, the bank said in a research note
yesterday.  “Investors are likely to show heightened demand for
Magnit’s bonds,” Nomos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  