-- BofA Wins Record Growth to 401(k)s From Commercial Bank
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bofa-wins-record-growth-to-401-k-s-from-commercial-bank.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, attracted record new assets last year to
its unit servicing retirement and other employee-benefit plans
as it cross-sold products through the commercial bank.  The company saw $24.3 billion in new assets, a 28 percent
increase from a year earlier, said  Kevin Crain , head of
institutional retirement and benefit services at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Assets from clients who had an existing
relationship with the global commercial bank more than doubled
to $10.6 billion from $5 billion in 2011.  The nation’s largest banks, including Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase
& Co ., have been trying to win more of the  $3.5 trillion  that
Americans held in 401(k) retirement plans as of September.
They’re competing with traditional account managers such as
mutual-fund firms Fidelity Investments and Vanguard Group Inc.  “It is critically important for the bank overall to have a
robust retirement business,” Crain said in an interview. “It’s
the starting place for many employees and individuals toward
their long-term financial security.”  Bank of America’s new-asset figures include 401(k)s it
administers as well as defined benefit, deferred compensation
and stock-award plans. The firm sold 5,998 plans of which about
96 percent, or 5,773, were 401(k)s.  “The highest-selling product in terms of extending the
relationship has been the 401(k),” said  Bob Arth , regional
executive for the global commercial bank.  ‘Post-Crisis’ Strategy  Bank of America has been trying to expand its retirement
business since its 2009 acquisition of Merrill Lynch by selling
to clients of the commercial bank, which usually serves
companies with annual revenue of $50 million to $2 billion.  Cross-selling has been a strategy for banks since the
2008-2009 financial crisis, said  Sophie Schmitt , a senior
analyst at the financial research firm Aite Group based in
Boston.  “It’s been the strategy, laser-like focus, post-crisis
when banks really have been scrambling to try and find new
sources of revenue,” Schmitt said.  The bank offers a proprietary product for record-keeping
plans with $10 million or more and partners with other
administrators to service and receive revenue from smaller
firms, Crain said. Last year it also started providing
investment consulting to plans. It doesn’t manage investments
within 401(k) plans.  The largest provider of 401(k)-type plans is Boston-based
Fidelity, which administered $949 billion in assets as of 2011,
according to the latest data from Cerulli Associates. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch ranked 12th, with $96.8 billion in record-
keeping assets, Cerulli data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  