-- BofA Says BRICs Are Back as It Recommends Emerging Bonds
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-02-20T08:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bofa-says-brics-are-back-as-it-recommends-emerging-market-bonds.html
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
investors should buy emerging market bonds and equities as the
so-called BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China post
the biggest improvement in growth this year.  “What we’re saying about emerging markets is that the
BRICs are back,”  David Hauner , head of fixed-income strategy
for emerging Europe, the Middle East and Africa, told reporters
in Abu Dhabi yesterday. “Last year a lot of people were saying
that the BRICs are finished and of course we had disappointing
growth in all of them. Now this year we see a recovery.”  Emerging markets are expected to record economic growth of
5.2 percent this year compared with 4.9 percent last year. The
best growth will come from the BRICs as concern over China’s
political transition, Indian currency weakness, and currency
appreciation in Brazil wane, Hauner said. The best fixed-income
opportunities this year will be in Asia because of its superior
growth and links to the U.S. dollar, he said.  “People are getting out of bonds and buying more emerging
markets, more high yield but they are selling some Treasuries,
we think this makes a lot of sense,” Hauner said. “Our own
global asset allocation suggests that you should be overweight
equities, overweight emerging market bonds, should be overweight
high yield.”  BRIC Growth  The BRIC countries grew at an average annual pace of 6.6
percent from 2001 to 2010, almost twice as fast as the global
economy, according to the International Monetary Fund. China is
now the world’s second-largest economy in dollar terms, while
Brazil is No. 7, Russia is No. 9 and India is No. 10, IMF
estimates for 2012 showed in October.  “When you look at our global growth forecast, the biggest
jump of improvement really comes from the BRIC economies,”
Hauner said. “China is picking up, Brazil is picking up, a lot
actually, India and some of the other emerging markets.”  The  MSCI BRIC stock index  has gained 2.2 percent in 2013,
compared with a 1.7 percent increase in the broader MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index
has declined 6 percent this year while Russia’s  Micex Index  has
gained 2.8 percent. Yields on Brazilian speculative-grade
securities have climbed 0.37 percentage point since falling to a
two-year low of 6.44 percent on Jan. 22, four times the average
increase for junk-rated U.S. corporate debt.  Bond Yields  Emerging market  bond yields fell to 7.3 percent from 9.3
percent a year ago even as net debt rose to a record 3.02 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Average emerging-market
corporate yields have climbed 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, from a more than seven-year low of 7.04
percent on Jan. 23. Yields for American junk bonds rose 12 basis
points to 6.56 percent.  “You have to become much more discriminating about the
individual stories that you look at in individual markets
whether it’s equities or in fixed income,” Hauner said,
referring to overvalued currencies in Latin America or bonds
issued by some of the Middle Eastern countries like Qatar.  Jim O’Neill , the man who coined the BRIC moniker, said last
month that investors seem to have lost interest in the
countries. O’Neill, who is stepping down as chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management this year, introduced the BRIC concept in
a 2001 research report predicting that the nations’ share of the
global economy would grow.  The term BRICs appeared in the fewest news stories in
January since November 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BRIC searches on Google Inc.’s engine also fell to a
seven-year low in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  