-- Bordeaux Bargains Start at $10 as Price Cut: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-02-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bordeaux-bargains-start-at-10-as-price-cut-john-mariani.html
The most illustrious names in
Bordeaux -- the First Growths like Lafite, Mouton, Margaux, and
others -- show no signs of drop-off in sales, despite prices
that rise into the hundreds of dollars per bottle.  Not far below the First Growths, even among the Third,
Fourth, and Fifth Growths, wineries in Bordeaux have had a tough
time selling their product. The global market is flooded with
cheaper quality wines from so many other countries.  What’s worse, even the French have cut back drinking their
own wine. According to a demographic report by AgriMer released
last November at the  Vinitech  wine and spirits trade show in
Bordeaux, the annual per capita wine consumption in France has
dropped to 46.6 liters as of 2010 from 160 liters in 1965.  The percentage of French who drink wine “almost every
day” fell to 17 percent in 2010 from 51 percent in 1980. Today,
24 percent said they drink wine with dinner -- less than half
the percentage 32 years ago.  For years, Bordeaux regional estate-bottled wines, cru
bourgeois and bordeaux superieur were selling at prices that
drinkers worldwide balked at for wines with no reputation. For
the last decade it was easy -- and onerous -- enough to pay $50
and more for Bordeaux wines of no particular distinction.  In the last year or two, the Bordelais have smartened up
and begun selling and shipping wines that show their terroir
well and are  priced  to move. These are, of course, the wines the
French themselves drink on an everyday basis, with First, Second
and Third Growths saved for special occasions or collecting.  Terroir Emphasis  “The range of Bordeaux emphasizing their terroir is
definitely becoming far more approachable price wise,” says
Lelanea Fulton, wine director of one of New York’s hottest new
restaurants, Bill’s, where she carries about 350 international
labels.  “I’m finding that the winemakers for some of the most
prestigious chateaux have branched off to make their own small
estate wines,” Fulton said, “like Chateau Cherubin, which is
owned by Bertrand Bourdil, and his daughters Carole and Marie-
Line. He used to be the winemaker at Mouton-Rothschild.”  I found an exceptional array of Bordeaux for much less than
$30, some less than $20. These were not bland red commune wines
or generic Bordeaux like Mouton Cadet, the mass market wine made
by Chateau Mouton.  These are distinctive blends and have the true taste of
Bordeaux, restrained fruit when young, solid tannins, and plenty
of minerals that provide layers of flavor and texture. And, even
though they may improve with a little age, they are ready to
drink right now. Here are some that enchanted me.  Chateau Lavagnac 2010 ($10): This one was an amazement at
this price. A blend of 75 percent merlot, 20 percent cabernet
sauvignon and 5 percent cabernet franc, it is velvety smooth and
lush on the palate, a perfect wine for French appetizers like
terrines and pates. While its appellation is merely
“Bordeaux,” it shows its terroir, north of St. Emilion, with
dignity.  Chateau Penin Grande Selection Merlot 2009 ($13): A
Bordeaux Superieur from Graves, this 100 percent merlot has the
gravelly taste characteristic of the region’s terroir as well as
a remarkable fruit component that makes it very good with
grilled meats.  Chateau Haut-Mondain Grande Reserve 2010 ($15): If you’ve
never tasted Bordeaux and wish to know its character, this
happily priced example, which won a silver medal at the 2011 Los
Angeles Wine & Spirits Competition, will provide all you need to
know how soil rich with clay, gravel, and limestone minerality
can impart flavor and spice. The blend has equal parts
smoothness and tannic grip, with 69 percent merlot, 30 percent
cabernet sauvignon and 10 percent cabernet franc.  Chateau Lamothe-Vincent  Intense 2011: This simple, good
wine lives up to its name, with bold fruit and powerful but
supple tannins that make even this young vintage impressive. I’d
keep it around for another year or two. Priced as low as $11,
it’s worth buying a case and sampling it every six months or so.  Chateau Bellevue  Bordeaux Superieur 2010 ($15): I was
surprised that this young bottle had some sediment. Still, this
is a big Bordeaux, made by the family of Vicomte Bruno de Ponton
d’Amecourt from vineyards that date back to the Hundred Years’
War. There’s some malbec in with the dominant merlot and
cabernet sauvignon, with plenty of structure and depth. It would
be just as good with firm cheeses like cheddar as it would with
prime rib.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 