-- Bovespa Posts Longest Losing Streak in Four Months as Itau Drops
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-19T21:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-as-global-growth-concern-eases.html
The  Bovespa index  posted its longest
losing streak since October as financial stocks fell amid
speculation that delayed increases in benchmark borrowing costs
will keep them from raising their own rates to improve profits.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  and  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s
largest lenders, fell the most among banks. Oil producer OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA contributed most to the
benchmark’s decline.  Braskem SA , Latin America’s largest
petrochemicals producer, was the best performer on the gauge
after Credit Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation to the
equivalent of buy.  The Bovespa fell for a fifth day, dropping 0.5 percent to
57,314.40 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-three
stocks declined on the measure while 24 rose. The real
strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.9557 per dollar. The  Bloomberg
Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index  lost 0.9 percent.  “Banks rose quite a bit last week on signs that policy
makers could raise interest rates still in the first half of the
year, but now those bets faded and shares gave back some of the
gains,”  Fausto Gouveia , who helps manage 380 million reais at
Legan Administracao de Recursos, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  While rising rates often hurt banks by crimping growth and
triggering defaults, investors had been bidding up their stocks
as a bet that increases would help a financial industry that has
been pressured by the government to cut borrowing costs and
shrink profit margins. Central bank rate increases would make it
easier for banks to begin lifting their own rates and recover
margins, according to Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Bradesco, Itau  Retail sales dropped 0.5 percent in December from November,
the national statistics agency said today. The median  forecast 
of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.8
percent.  Bradesco lost 2.1 percent to 36.16 reais. Itau fell 1.9
percent to 34.86 reais. The MSCI Brazil/Financials index was the
worst performer among 10 industry groups, dropping 1 percent.  Suzano Papel & Celulose SA , Latin America’s second-largest
pulp maker, sank 4 percent to 6.43 reais, following commodities
lower.  Braskem rallied 7.1 percent to 14.88 reais, the steepest
gain in six months.  The  Bovespa  has dropped 9.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern that accelerating inflation may curb
Brazil’s economic recovery and that the government’s
interventionist policies will hurt profits in industries
including utilities and energy. The  MSCI BRIC  Index of shares in
Brazil, Russia, India and China has declined 2 percent in the
same period.  Relative Value  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure  trades  at 10.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.4 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.95 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.45 billion reais this year
through Feb. 15, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  