-- BP, Reliance to Invest $5 Billion in India’s Biggest Gas Field
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-02-19T18:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bp-reliance-to-invest-5-billion-in-india-s-biggest-gas-field.html
BP Plc  and  Reliance Industries Ltd. ,
partners in India’s biggest natural gas deposit, plan to spend
more than $5 billion developing the area off the nation’s east
coast to restore flagging output.  The investment will be made over the next three to five
years to exploit the 4 trillion cubic feet of discovered
reserves, the explorers said in a joint statement yesterday.
Reliance Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  and BP Chief Executive Officer
 Bob Dudley  met India’s Oil Minister  Veerappa Moil y in New Delhi
to share the plan, according to the statement.  Production from the KG-D6 block in the Bay of Bengal has
been falling for more than two years, leading to declining
profit at Mumbai-based Reliance in four of the last five
quarters. London-based BP is seeking to raise gas output and
supplies to factories and homes in India after spending more
than  $7.2 billion  in 2011 to buy stakes in Reliance’s fields.  “Gas from these projects will deliver energy to millions
of Indians and would significantly help India in reducing import
dependence,” Moily said in the statement. “We will do the
needful to fast-track these projects and help them attain
economic viability.”  Dudley is part of the delegation accompanying U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  on his visit to India that started in
Mumbai on Feb. 18.  Fading Gas  Gas from KG-D6 fell 37 percent to 275 billion cubic feet in
the nine months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier because of
reservoir complexity and a natural decline in output, Reliance
said Jan. 18. The company in December began drilling its first
well in the KG-D6 block in more than a year. The newer fields,
called R-Series and Satellites, are located within the KG-D6
block and will add to production from 2017, according to the
statement.  The BP-Reliance partnership is “focused on finding more
hydrocarbons and addressing the complexities of the geology
along the east coast of India,” Ambani said in the statement.  Reliance’s plans to raise production may get a boost if the
government accepts the recommendations of a panel led by
 Chakravarthy Rangarajan , chief of the prime minister’s Economic
Advisory Council. The panel wants gas rates in India to be
benchmarked to global rates, which will raise prices to about $8
per million British thermal units.  Reliance currently sells the fuel from the KG-D6 block for
$4.2 per million Btu, a price which comes up for revision in
April 2014.  The explorer, which also operates the world’s biggest oil
refining complex in western India, sold stakes in KG-D6 and 20
other blocks to BP as Ambani sought BP’s technology to drill and
produce gas from the deepwater area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  