-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop as Retail Sales Decline; Real Advances
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-19T19:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/brazil-swap-rates-drop-as-retail-sales-decline-real-advances.html
Brazil’s swap rates fell from a
five-month high as retail sales unexpectedly declined in
December, reducing speculation that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini said today at an
event in Brasilia that the monetary policy stance will be
adjusted if required and there is no risk of inflation getting
out of control.  “The economic recovery is still wrapped in uncertainty,”
 Roberto Padovani , an economist at Votorantim CTVM in Sao Paulo,
said in a phone interview. “The central bank will have to wait
for more numbers to evaluate the economy.”  Swap rates due in January 2015 dropped four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.41 percent at 3:48 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.9559 per dollar.  The volume of retail sales declined 0.5 percent in December
after increasing 0.3 percent in the prior month, the national
statistics agency reported today. The  median forecast  of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.8 percent increase.
A 0.2 percent advance was the most pessimistic projection.  Swap rates rose 16 basis points yesterday to their highest
level since September after Finance Minister Guido Mantega said
on Feb. 15 in an interview in Moscow that the government will do
whatever it takes to contain  inflation  and signaled higher
borrowing costs may be an option.  The annual rate of consumer price increases reached a one-
year high of 6.15 percent in January and has exceeded the 4.5
percent midpoint of policy makers’ target range for more than
two years.  Tombini View  “When necessary, if supported by the prospective scenario
for inflation, the posture of the central bank in relation to
monetary policy will be adequately adjusted,” Tombini said in
Brasilia.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today its IGP-M
Index, mostly composed of producer prices, rose 0.34 percent
from Jan. 21 through Feb. 10, less than the 0.36 percent median
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has reduced the target lending rate by
5.25 percentage points to 7.25 percent since August 2011 in the
most aggressive cuts among Group of 20 nations.  Gross domestic product will expand 3.08 percent this year
and 3.65 percent in 2014, according to the median forecast in a
central bank survey of about 100 analysts published yesterday.
That compares with last week’s growth projections of 3.09
percent and 3.80 percent. The analysts lowered their forecast
for 2013 inflation for the first time since November, reducing
it to 5.70 percent from 5.71 percent.  Mantega on Real  The real dropped on Feb. 15 as Mantega said that the
government won’t allow the currency to appreciate too much and
the central bank sold $1.35 billion of reverse currency swaps.  The central bank may step in again if it appreciates
further, according to  Italo Abucater , the head of foreign-
exchange trading at ICAP do Brasil CTVM in Sao Paulo.  “The question is whether the central bank will intervene
if the real hits 1.95 per dollar again,” Abucater said in a
phone interview.  The currency rallied to a level stronger than 2 per dollar
on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the central bank
renewed $1.85 billion of foreign-exchange swaps about to expire,
refraining from buying dollars to settle the contracts. On Jan.
31, the government exempted foreigners from a tax on real-estate
funds traded on the stock exchange, spurring speculation that
inflows will help sustain the real.  The real has strengthened 4.9 percent this year, the most
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It
advanced 0.2 percent last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  