-- Brazilian Retail Sales Unexpectedly Contracted in December
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-19T13:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/brazilian-retail-sales-unexpectedly-contracted-in-december-1-.html
Brazil’s retail  sales  unexpectedly
contracted in December, the first monthly drop since May,
prompting traders to pare bets that the central bank will raise
rates in the first half of this year.  The volume of sales declined 0.5 percent, after increasing
0.3 percent in November, the national statistics agency said
today in Rio de Janeiro. The median estimate from 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for sales to gain 0.8 percent, and the
lowest forecast was for a 0.2 percent rise. From the year
earlier, sales increased 5 percent, as compared to a 7.3 percent
 forecast  from 29 economists surveyed.  The fall in retail sales reflects rising inflation that is
crimping consumers, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil. In an effort to spur expansion,
President  Dilma Rousseff  has granted tax breaks for consumer
goods and pressured banks to lower borrowing costs, while the
central bank has kept its  benchmark  rate at a record low 7.25
percent since October. With industrial production and exports
falling last year, the measures thus far have failed to spur the
slowest growth among major emerging markets.  Growth Model  “Brazil’s growth model based on stimulating consumption
has reached its limit,” said Rostagno in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “This year, the government is going to have to
spur investments in both the private and public sector to make
the economy grow at a stronger rate, and not disappoint as it
did in the last two years.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 1 percent in 2012,
the central bank estimates, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 7.65 percent at 10:17 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.9602 per dollar.  Inflation as measured by the IPCA index accelerated to 6.15
percent in 2012, and has been above the 4.5 percent mid-point of
the central bank’s target range since September 2010.  Traders are betting the central bank may boost the Selic
rate as early as April. In the minutes to their Jan. 15-16
meeting, policy makers said that the best path to cooling
inflation without jeopardizing growth is to keep the benchmark
rate at its present level for a “sufficiently prolonged
period.”  Lower Forecasts  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos,
said he would trim his fourth quarter GDP forecast to 0.65
percent from 0.7 percent based on the retail sales figure. He
estimates 0.9 percent growth for 2012. The number will be
released next week.  Domestic demand “can’t grow at the same pace as we saw in
previous years,” Perfeito said by phone from Sao Paulo. “We’re
going to see an accommodation of demand. And that’s not bad, it
can help control the inflation to some extent.”  Analysts covering Brazil have increased 2013 inflation
forecasts while cutting growth estimates for six of the last
seven weeks, according to the latest central bank survey.
Economists predicted inflation of 5.70 percent this year and
growth of 3.08 percent, compared with 5.47 percent and 3.30
percent at the end of December, respectively.  Sales of electronics and telecom equipment fell 15.5
percent, while supermarket sales, food and beverages slid 0.3
percent in December, the agency said. Purchases of items for
personal and domestic use fell 4.1 percent in December after
rising 4.7 percent the prior month.  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, rose 5 percent from the previous
year, the statistics agency said.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  announced on Dec. 19 that
retailers, excluding supermarkets, will be exempt from payroll
taxes starting in April. He also extended IPI tax cuts on some
consumer goods through June, though at lower levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  