-- Brembo Sees Sales Boost in First Half on U.S. Car Demand
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-02-19T14:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/brembo-sees-sales-boost-in-first-half-on-u-s-car-demand.html
Brembo SpA , the Italian maker of
brake systems for Ferrari and Porsche sports cars, is
forecasting first-half sales growth as demand jumps in the U.S.  Sales in 2012 were at the high end of Brembo’s forecast
range, Executive Deputy Chairman  Matteo Tiraboschi  said. Brembo,
which won an  order  in January to provide brakes for the  General
Motors Co.  Chevrolet Corvette coming out in 2014, may add a
plant in the U.S. as sales gain, he said.  “We started well, and the backlog of orders indicates at
least a first-half growth versus last year,” Tiraboschi, 45,
said in an interview at Brembo headquarters outside the northern
town of Bergamo. “We won important contracts for new platforms
with the U.S. Big Three, among others, and this will let us
consider investing further to add to our presence.”  Consumers in the U.S. are replacing cars and trucks that
have aged to about 11 years on average after deferring purchases
following the recession that ended in 2009, bolstering demand at
GM,  Ford Motor Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, posted
record global deliveries last year. The Munich-based company
plans more growth in 2013 because of U.S. and Chinese sales.  Brembo  rose  as much as 2.8 percent to 10.92 euros, the
highest intraday price since Jan. 4, 2008, and was trading up
0.8 percent at 3:41 p.m. in Milan. The stock has gained 9.7
percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at 715 million euros
($955 million).  Margin Targets  The company reiterated its forecast for 2012 in November,
predicting a sales jump of 9 percent to 10 percent and
profitability in line with 2011, when earnings before interest,
taxes depreciation and amortization totaled 11.9 percent of
revenue. Brembo, which posted nine-month Ebitda of 128.6 million
euros ($172 million) on sales of 1.04 billion euros, is
scheduled to report 2012 figures on March 5.  Brembo is sticking to a margin target of 14 percent of
revenue in 2014, excluding new investments, Tiraboschi said in
the interview yesterday.  The component maker has 22 production or business sites in
18 countries, including a plant in Homer, Michigan. Brembo has a
target for its factory in the Czech Republic to break even this
year, Tiraboschi said. Brembo plans on 90 million euros to 100
million euros in capital spending this year, he said.  European Market  European auto sales fell to the lowest level for a January
as economic contractions in the southern part of the region
widened to Germany and France. In contrast, deliveries in Europe
by BMW and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz brand increased.
Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes is also planning to sell more
cars in 2013 as it refreshes the E-Class sedan line and
overhauls its top-end S-Class cars.  “Luckily for us, European business particularly means
high-end products, which we build in the region primarily for
German producers for their exports,” Tiraboschi said. “That’s
why we recorded growth in Europe too last year,” in addition to
gains in Asia.  Plans by  Fiat SpA , Italy’s biggest carmaker, to invest in
making more upscale models in its home market may bolster
Brembo, which also supplies the company’s Maserati and Alfa
Romeo brands, Tiraboschi said. Fiat’s strategy of adding 16
higher-end vehicles by 2016 part of its plan to become
profitable in Europe. Ferrari is also a Fiat division.  Brembo may consider acquisitions in the high-end sector,
especially outside Europe, Tiraboschi said. The manufacturer,
which “always attracts interest” from potential buyers, isn’t
for sale, he said.  Chairman  Alberto Bombassei  controls Brembo through his
Nuova Four B Srl holding company, which owns a 57 percent stake,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  