-- BRICs Demand for U.S. Exports Set to Beat EU: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-02-19T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/brics-demand-for-u-s-exports-set-to-beat-eu-chart-of-the-day.html
The share of U.S. exports to the so-
called BRIC countries may soon overtake sales to customers in
either the European Union or Canada as emerging-market growth
fuels demand for American products.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows U.S. goods and services sold to
Brazil, Russia, India and China made up 13.1 percent of all
exports in December, up from 4 percent at the start of 1993.
Orders from the EU took a 16.4 percent share, down from 24.8
percent, as the region’s economy slumped last year. Canada
accounted for 16.8 percent of the total, down from 19.5 percent.  “Europe is our most important market, but it’s not growing
and it’s hard to see it being a real force for export growth
going forward,” said  Catherine Mann , an economics professor at
Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts, and former
Federal Reserve economist. “I think Latin America and Russia in
particular can get the growth that’s relevant for the U.S. to be
a little bit more robust.”  China is now the world’s second-largest economy in dollar
terms, while Brazil is seventh, Russia ninth and India 10th,
according to IMF estimates for 2012 issued in October.  President Barack Obama said in his Feb. 12 State of the
Union address that he’d negotiate a new trade agreement with the
EU. His administration also is seeking a deal with 10 nations
for the Trans-Pacific Partnership as part of a larger goal to
boost U.S. manufacturing. The administration completed deals
with South Korea, Panama and Colombia in 2011.  U.S. exports reached a record $2.2 trillion last year,
according to Census Bureau figures dating back to 1960. Exports
accounted for 14 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, also
the strongest since at least 1960, according to data from the
Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Census Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michelle Jamrisko  in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  