-- Broker Admits to Scheme Involving Host Hotels, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-19T22:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/broker-admits-to-scheme-involving-host-hotels-u-s-says.html
A hotel broker admitted to taking
part in a $20 million scheme involving sales of  Host Hotels &
Resorts Inc.  properties to straw buyers, according to federal
prosecutors in Virginia.  Jonathan Propp, 48, pleaded guilty today in federal court
in Alexandria, Virginia, to conspiring to commit wire fraud. The
three-year scheme occurred while Propp was the chief operating
officer of Molinaro Koger, an international hotel brokerage
firm, according to an e-mailed statement from U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride .  As part of his plea, Propp also admitted to conspiring to
steal and launder an additional $15 million from prospective
hotel buyers by using money that was being held in escrow to pay
the salaries of employees at the brokerage firm, according to
the prosecutor’s statement, which said the investigation is
continuing.  From 2009 through 2012, Propp conspired with others to
illegally sell hotels owned by Bethesda, Maryland-based Host
Hotels, the largest U.S. hotel real estate investment trust, to
straw buyers, who would then sell the properties to another
buyer at a higher price, according to prosecutors. The
conspirators pocketed the difference.  Forged Signatures  Propp posed as a buyer, forged signatures and obtained a
driver’s license for one of the straw buyers, according to
prosecutors. He’s scheduled to be sentenced by U.S. District
Judge  Liam O’Grady  on May 31.  Todd Lawyer, 53, of Fairfax, Virginia, also pleaded guilty
today to wire fraud conspiracy for his role as a straw buyer,
prosecutors said. He’ll be sentenced on May 24.  Both face as long as 20 years in prison.  “We are pleased by the government’s successful prosecution
of this fraud,” Host Hotels said in an e-mailed statement.  Propp’s lawyers, Stephen Graff and Thomas Berger, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
plea. Lawyer’s attorney, Lauren Randell, declined to comment.  Host Hotels sued Molinaro Koger and its President Robert
Koger for fraud in a Maryland state court, winning a $22.8
million judgment in July. The award was vacated after the
parties settled the case on Oct. 9, according to court filings.  The cases are U.S. v. Propp, 12-cr-00523, and U.S. v.
Lawyer, 13-cr-00011; U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  