-- Brookfield Says U.S. Home Rebound Just Begun
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-02-20T01:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/brookfield-says-u-s-home-rebound-just-begun.html
Brookfield Residential Properties
Inc ., the second-best performing home-building stock in the
Americas over the past year, said the recovery in U.S. housing
is only just starting to add to earnings.  “We’re just at the beginning” of the recovery, Brookfield
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Norris  said in a telephone
interview from Calgary, where the company is based. “If you
take a look at our numbers, all of our profit is from Canada.
We’re only just starting to get to the point where the U.S. is
going to be contributing.”  Shares of Brookfield, which is considering Phoenix and Las
Vegas for expansion, surged 113 percent in the 12 months through
Feb. 15, the second-best performance on the  Bloomberg Americas
Home Builders Index . The advance stands only behind  Pultegroup
Inc. , which posted a 125 percent gain. Brookfield Residential
rose 1.2 percent to C$21.85 in Toronto today.  Homebuilding  stocks  have soared as low interest rates and
an improving job market drive a housing recovery after a
property collapse sent the index down 84 percent from 2005 to
2008. U.S. home prices rose 8.3 percent in December from a year
earlier, the biggest jump since May 2006, Irvine, California-
based CoreLogic Inc. said on Feb. 5. Existing home sales fell 1
percent to a 4.94 million annual rate in December as tight
supply put a lid on deals, according to the National Association
of Realtors, based in Chicago.  ‘No Supply’  “You have a classic situation of demand building up from
new entrants into the housing market, the banks starting to lend
again, interest rates are very low, making houses available, and
there’s no supply,”  David Baskin , president of Baskin Financial
Services Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$440 million
($437 million), said in a telephone interview on Feb. 14. “So
no surprise, new homes are being built again and prices are
recovering in some of the depressed markets.”  Brookfield Residential invested in U.S. land during the
housing downturn and now has almost 50,000 building lots in the
U.S., making it the fifth-largest property developer in Canada
and the U.S. The firm, which develops land and builds homes in
10 North American markets, including California and Edmonton,
Alberta, is about 69 percent owned by  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc ., the Toronto based asset manager with a market
value of C$23.3 billion.  While holding land through downturns requires “patient
capital,” the company is now beginning to see the rewards,
Norris said in the Feb. 14 interview.  “When land is moving and market cycle is good, it’s a
very, very profitable business,” he said. “We kept telling
people land is going to become a big issue as the recovery takes
hold in the U.S. Now that has transpired and it’s exactly as we
laid it out.”  Lots Rise  Phoenix and Las Vegas are possible areas to expand the
business because markets in those two cities “over-corrected,”
Norris said.  The real estate developer on Feb. 13 said fourth-quarter
net income more than doubled to C$56 million, helped by gains in
both land and housing development, while revenue rose to C$715
million from C$365 million. The company does not break out
Canadian and U.S. profit figures.  Brookfield said the average price of a single family lot
sold in the fourth quarter rose 14 percent to C$159,000 from a
year ago, helping revenue from its land business more than
triple to C$407 million in the period. The company benefited
from both higher prices and a greater number of transactions at
its housing division.  Further Upside  Craig Sterling , managing director and head of global equity
research with EVA Dimensions in New York, said Brookfield’s
shares still have room to grow as profitability returns to the
industry.  “If they execute properly, there’s probably another 50
percent in that stock,” he said in a phone interview on Feb.
15. “They seemed to have taken a bigger hit coming out of 2011
than most companies. They are starting to recover.”  The Canadian market will remain stable this year, said
Norris. The challenge in the Canadian market is associated with
high-rise development in Vancouver and Toronto, a segment the
company doesn’t participate in, he said.  After years of rising sales and prices, Canada’s housing
market has cooled. Home starts plunged 19 percent in January to
the lowest level since the end of 2009, led by a slump in
condominium construction.  Replenish Supply  “Our story is very much a play on Canada where we have a
very strong and stable franchise and huge optionality in a U.S.
recovery where we have half our assets,” Norris said.
Brookfield Residential says one in five Calgary residents live
in a Brookfield community.  Rising household formations, historically low interest
rates, the favorable conditions of owning versus renting and low
existing home inventories will all help boost U.S. demand for
new home construction this year,  Drew Reading , a Princeton, New
Jersey-based Bloomberg Industries analyst who covers
homebuilders, said by telephone on Feb. 15  “As a result of increased demand, homebuilders are
aggressively increasing land spend, so they can replenish their
lot supply amid faster community absorption rates,” he said.  Still, one of the main concerns about the durability of the
housing recovery is the possibility of U.S. legislation that
would increase the size of a required down payment on house
purchases, Reading, said. Unemployment remains high and is
impacting the speed of the recovery, he said.  “We haven’t seen first-time buyers get back into the
market,” Reading said.  City Shift  Brookfield is gradually shifting its mix of development to
include more redevelopment within cities as municipalities in
Canada in the U.S. focus on increasing density and slowing
suburban growth, Norris said.  Brookfield in 1995 began developing MacKenzie Towne, a
southeast Calgary “New Urbanist” community. Since then, the
company has applied similar approaches to development in other
cities in Canada and the U.S., said Norris.  While the company is well funded, Brookfield is “open” to
working with sovereign wealth funds, Norris said. The company
has no plans to expand beyond North America.  “We’re just at the start of a multi-year recovery in the
U.S. housing market,” said  Paul Diggle , a property economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, in an interview. “The U.S.
market has fallen so far it looks cheap.”  The big opportunity is buying up large portfolios of cheap
single family housing, Diggle said. “The inventory is starting
to run down and we’re starting to see a slow recovery for land
developers and builders,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  