-- Buccaneer’s Bowers Found With Gun in Bag at N.Y. Airport
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-19T16:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/buccaneer-s-bowers-found-with-gun-in-bag-at-n-y-airport.html
Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive end
 Da’Quan Bowers  was charged with two counts of criminal
possession of a weapon after authorities found he had a handgun
in his suitcase at New York’s LaGuardia Airport.  Bowers, 22, was arraigned last night at Queens Criminal
Court and posted $10,000 bond, according to a spokeswoman for
Queens County District Attorney  Richard A. Brown . The Buccaneers
said in a statement they’re aware of the case and had no further
comment.  Bowers has a court date scheduled for April 25 on the
charges, which carry a minimum prison sentence of 3 1/2 years.
Former New York Giants receiver  Plaxico Burress  faced the same
charge after accidentally shooting himself in the leg at a
Manhattan nightclub in 2008. Burress was sentenced to two years
in jail after he pleaded guilty to a state charge of attempted
possession of a weapon and served a 20-month sentence.  Bowers was arrested after informing a ticket agent that he
had an unloaded .40-caliber handgun in his suitcase ahead of a
flight from New York to Raleigh, North Carolina. He didn’t try
to go through security with the weapon, according to the Queens
County District Attorney’s office. The gun was licensed in South
Carolina, though Bowers didn’t have a license to carry it in New
York, the New York Daily News said, citing authorities it didn’t
identify.  “After a full and fair investigation of the facts and
circumstances regarding this registered firearm, Mr. Bowers will
be fully exonerated,” Bowers’s lawyer, Dennis Coppin, said in
an e-mail.  The 6-foot-4, 288-pound Bowers was a second-round pick of
the Buccaneers in the 2011 National Football League draft out of
Clemson University in South Carolina. He had three sacks in 10
games last season after missing the Buccaneers’ first six games
while recovering from a torn Achilles tendon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  