-- Bulgarian Police Clash With Sofia Anti-Government Protesters
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-19T16:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/bulgarian-police-clash-with-sofia-anti-government-protesters-1-.html
Bulgarian police clashed with
protesters angered about rising unemployment and energy prices
as the prime minister pledged to pull the power distribution
rights of Czech utility CEZ AS after firing the finance chief.  Premier  Boyko Borissov , who faces elections July 7 in the
European Union’s poorest member, refused to quit today after 11
people, including five officers, were hurt yesterday. Protesters
pelted Parliament with stones, smashed shop windows and battered
cars, Police Commissioner Valeri Yordanov said today, as
thousands marched in Sofia and other cities.  “I see no reason to resign now,” Borissov  told reporters.
“I want to complete the infrastructure projects started by my
government. If we resign now, the consequences will be
catastrophic.  Borissov, who was swept to power in 2009 amid protests
against austerity by the previous government, is under pressure
to keep the Balkan nation’s economy growing and avoid
international financial aid. The new round of demonstrations,
which already cost Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  his job, may
force the premier to ease up on further budget cuts to stay in
power after elections.  ‘‘The currently strict budget deficit targets may also fall
victim to more-populist economic policies,’’ said Kata Baller,
an analyst at DZ Bank AG. ‘‘The pressure on the government has,
of course, negatively affected the performance of Bulgarian
assets in the past days.’’  Djankov Praise  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds due in 2017
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.095
percent by 3:35  p.m. in Sofia. The yield rose 18 basis points
yesterday, the biggest increase since the note was sold in July.  Djankov won EU and International Monetary Fund plaudits for
his tight spending controls as Bulgaria navigated the global
economic crisis without borrowing abroad.  Aside from dismissing Djankov, Borissov wants to revoke the
license of Prague-based  CEZ,  the biggest power utility by market
capitalization in central and eastern Europe, following an
investigation into the local units of the Czech utility.  The State Energy Water Commission can decide that there are
grounds to start a procedure to revoke the license, which then
can be appealed in court, Ralitsa Stoyanova, the energy
regulator spokeswoman, said by phone today. The regulator hasn’t
announced its decision so far.  Legal Steps  ‘‘The license revocation is a very long legal process,”
Stoyanova said. “If the procedure is started, then a major
manager will be appointed in the company, who will be tasked to
find another to which to give the license.”  CEZ said the government steps were politically motivated
and denied any wrongdoing that could trigger removal of its
license in Bulgaria.  “CEZ rejects the politicizing of the entire matter in
light of the approaching parliamentary elections,” it said in
an statement from Prague today.  Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said today in an e-mailed
statement he will demand the Bulgarian government explain the
“unprecedented step.”  “I regard the statements by Bulgarian officials about CEZ
and  other foreign companies as very non-standard and see the
whole  issue as highly politicized because of the approaching
parliamentary elections,” Necas said. “I expect Bulgaria, as a
member of the European Union, to stick to its international
obligations, European law and its own laws on protection of
foreign investments.”  ‘Serious’ Problems  Borissov yesterday said he would widen the authority of
 Tomislav Donchev , the minister in charge of EU funds management,
to include the Finance Ministry after Djankov’s departure. The
changes have yet to be voted in Parliament, which will test
support for the Cabinet.  “No government can resolve in three or four years serious
structural problems which were accumulated over the past two
decades,” Menda Stoyanova, a ruling-party lawmaker and the head
of Parliament’s budget and finance committee, said on TV7 in
Sofia today. “The government didn’t achieve its pledge to
restore justice.’  Protesters yesterday chanted ‘‘Djankov went, time for
Borissov to go.”  In a response to public demand, the government will propose
to the energy regulator to cut power prices by 8 percent from
March 1, Borissov said.  Putin Talks  The Bulgarian premier had a phone conversation with Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  in which Borissov was invited to visit
Moscow to discuss joint projects and ways to resolve lawsuits
between Rosatom Corp. and the National Electricity Co. over the
canceled project to build a nuclear power plant at Belene, 220
kilometers (137 miles) northeast of Sofia on the Romanian
border, Borissov said.  Borissov, a former bodyguard, came to power on pledges to
root out corruption and improve living standards. The government
delayed efforts to overhaul the pension and health-care systems
and the energy industry amid smaller protests throughout his
term in office.  The EU’s poorest state in terms of per-capita output ranked
as the 27-nation bloc’s most corrupt country after Greece in
2012, according to Berlin-based research organization
 Transparency International.   Bulgaria’s economy expanded 0.5 percent from a year earlier
in the three months through December, the 10th quarter of
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  