-- California Pension Votes to Sell Shares of Smith & Wesson
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-19T20:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/california-pension-votes-to-sell-shares-of-smith-wesson.html
The California Public Employees’
Retirement System’s board voted to divest its $5 million in
shares of  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp.  and  Sturm Ruger & Co. 
because the companies make weapons banned in the state.  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , a member of the fund’s
board, proposed that the state’s public pensions sell the shares
after the Dec. 14 killings of 20 children and six adults at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. The move
has been mirrored by public funds across the U.S.  “There’s only one way we speak,” Lockyer, a 71-year-old
Democrat, said prior to the vote. “It’s with money.”  Calpers, the biggest U.S. pension fund with $254.5 billion,
owned 196,664 shares of  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp.  and 116,594
 Sturm Ruger & Co.  shares as of Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The companies are the biggest publicly
traded U.S. gunmakers. Both stakes were increased in the past
quarter, the data show.  California, the largest state by population, bans some
types of firearms and ammunition magazines that hold more than
10 rounds. The  California State Teachers’ Retirement System 
decided last month to begin selling its stakes in gunmakers.  The teachers plan, the second biggest U.S. pension with a
market value of $158 billion, had $2.9 million invested in Smith
& Wesson and Sturm Ruger, through index funds, when it decided
to divest.  Primary Weapon  The teachers’ pension also held a stake in New York-based
Cerberus Capital Management LP. The private-equity firm owned
Freedom Group Inc., the maker of the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle that
police said was the primary weapon in the Sandy Hook attack.  The Calpers board’s vote was 9-3. Board member Dan
Dunmoyer, who opposed the proposal, said Calpers invests in
other companies that make products that are prohibited under
state law, such as certain types of gasoline available in other
states, some acne medications and even automobiles that don’t
meet California’s clean-air standards.  “The premise under which we are taking this motion is
fraught with peril,” he said. “The intent of this is noble and
if I thought it would prevent future shootings, I would carry
this motion myself.”  The school attack, the second deadliest in U.S. history,
reignited a national debate over gun-control laws and stricter
bans on semiautomatic weapons such as the AR-15. California
specifically bans the Bushmaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  