-- Cameron Tells RBS to Speed Up Revival, Keeps Giveaway Alive
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-19T17:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/cameron-tells-rbs-to-accelerate-revival-keeps-giveaway-alive.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  to speed up the lender’s return to health as he left open
the possibility of giving the public shares in the bank.  Expressing frustration at the time it was taking to restore
Britain’s biggest publicly owned bank to a sustainable financial
position, Cameron said the idea of ultimately awarding shares to
British voters is “interesting.”  “It’s a huge undertaking,” he told reporters in Mumbai
during a three-day visit to India. “It was a very badly damaged
institution, but I think they are doing the right thing.
Obviously we want them to, where possible, accelerate the
adjustments that they are making in terms of making it a strong
organization.”  The government, which injected 45.5 billion pounds ($70
billion) into RBS five years ago in the costliest bank bailout
in the world, still faces a paper loss on its investment. While
Hester has shrunk assets by more than 800 billion pounds and cut
36,000 jobs, he has been hobbled by writedowns, the costs of
compensating customers wrongly sold loan insurance and a $612
million fine for rigging the London interbank offered rate.  The shares advanced 1.7 percent to 345.10 pence in London
trading today, bringing their gain so far this year to 6.4
percent. The government paid the equivalent of 502 pence a share
for about 81 percent of Edinburgh-based RBS, leaving taxpayers
with a paper loss of almost 15 billion pounds.  ‘All Possibilities’  When asked about giving RBS shares away, Cameron said that
“these are all interesting questions for the future.”  “The first job is to turn around the performance of RBS
and to strengthen its balance sheet, strengthen its business and
that’s what Stephen Hester and his team are doing,” Cameron
said. “But I am keen to examine all possibilities for what we
can do to put RBS in time back into the private sector.”  Hester, who replaced  Fred Goodwin  in 2008, still has to
return the bank to profit, and sell 316 branches by 2014 to
comply with European Union state-aid rules after its bailout.
RBS is expected to report a 1.2 billion-pound loss in the fourth
quarter, according to the average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The lender had a third-quarter net loss
of 1.38 billion pounds.  Liberal Democrats  RBS is weighing an initial public offering of the branches
after Banco Santander SA aborted talks to buy them in October.
The lender may opt to sell a minority stake in the outlets to
investors including JC Flowers & Co. LLC and  Apollo Global
Management LLC  before an IPO, Sky News reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  Cameron faces the prospect of heading into the 2015 general
election with few sweeteners to offer voters given the self-
imposed constraints of his deficit-reduction program. His
coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats, first proposed giving
away shares in RBS to Britain’s 45 million registered voters.
The Treasury, which is in charge of state-controlled banks, has
been cooler on the idea.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, said on
Feb. 6 that privatizing  RBS  “now looks a distant dream” and
again urged that the stock be given away to taxpayers.  The public “can benefit from the upside of eventual
recovery in share prices, while professional managers run the
bank with a long-term mandate which includes a commitment to
assist national recovery through expanded small and medium-sized
enterprise lending,” Cable said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative
like Cameron, on Feb. 16 ruled out selling the government stake
in RBS at a loss to taxpayers. An aide said there had been no
changes to policy and no new plans to give away the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Mumbai at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  