-- Canada Wholesale Sales Fall 0.9% in December on Communications
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-02-19T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/canada-wholesale-sales-fall-0-9-in-december-on-communications.html
Canadian wholesale sales fell for
the first time in three months in December, led by a plunge in
shipments of computers and telecommunications equipment.  Sales declined 0.9 percent in December to C$49 billion
($48.3 billion) after a 0.7 percent gain in November, Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 0.4 percent decline, based on the median of 14
forecasts.  The report adds to evidence the country’s economy probably
didn’t accelerate by much in the last three months of 2012 from
the 0.6 percent annualized pace recorded in the third quarter,
which was the slowest in more than a year. Canada’s statistics
agency gives fourth-quarter gross domestic product data next
week, and the Bank of Canada projected last month the report
would show growth at a 1 percent annualized pace.  Five of the seven major categories tracked by the agency
fell in December, Statistics Canada said, led by a 4.1 percent
decline in machinery and equipment sales. Sales of computer and
communications equipment dropped 8.6 percent, reversing gains in
November.  Wholesalers of motor vehicles and parts recorded a 0.3
percent decline in sales. Building material suppliers were the
only wholesalers to post gains, registering a 1.4 percent
increase. Sales of food and beverages were unchanged during the
month.  The volume of wholesale sales, which removes the impact of
price changes, decreased 0.9 percent.  Wholesale sales were 1.6 percent higher in December than
the same month a year earlier.  Wholesale inventories fell 0.6 percent to C$60.7 billion in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Theophilos Argitis} in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  