-- Canada December Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-02-19T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/canada-december-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of Canada’s wholesale trade report for December from
Statistics Canada.  Wholesale sales fell 0.9% in December to $49.0 billion,
after rising 0.7% in November. The decrease was largely a result
of lower sales in the computer and communications equipment and
supplies industry. The same industry was behind November’s
increase.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were down 0.9% in December.  Computer and communications equipment and supplies post the
largest decline  In December, five of the seven subsectors were down. The
majority of the decrease was concentrated in the machinery,
equipment and supplies subsector.  Sales in the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
decreased by 4.1%. Every industry in the subsector reported
lower sales. The computer and communications equipment and
supplies industry (-8.6%) accounted for two-thirds of the
decrease.  The decline in the computer and communications equipment
and supplies industry in December came in the wake of a 6.3%
advance in November, which coincided with a sharp gain in
imports of communications and audio and video equipment. Sales
in this industry can be affected by the timing of new product
releases.  The second-largest decline was in the personal and
household goods subsector. Sales fell 0.7%, mainly as a result
of decreases in the toiletries, cosmetics and sundries industry
and the home entertainment equipment and household appliance
industry.  The miscellaneous subsector declined 0.6%, its ninth
decrease in 2012. In December, four of the five industries in
the subsector had lower sales.  The largest increase in dollar terms was in the building
material and supplies subsector. Sales were up 1.4% in December,
their third consecutive advance.  Lower sales in six provinces  Wholesale sales were down in six provinces in December. The
majority of the national decrease was attributable to Ontario,
Quebec and Alberta.  Ontario posted a 0.9% decline in sales, the fourth decrease
in the second half of 2012. December’s decline was largely a
result of lower sales in the computer and communications
equipment and supplies industry.  In Quebec, weaker sales in the personal and household goods
subsector in particular contributed to the 1.9% decline observed
in December.  Sales fell 1.3% in Alberta, the first decrease in three
months. The December result was due to several industries,
including the computer and communications equipment and supplies
industry.  Decrease in inventories  Wholesalers’ inventories declined 0.6% in December to $60.7
billion, the third decrease in four months. Inventories were
down in 12 of the 25 industries.  The largest inventory declines in dollar terms were in the
construction, forestry, mining and industrial machinery,
equipment and supplies industry (-4.1%) and the motor vehicle
industry (-2.9%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio was 1.24 in December.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  Widespread growth in wholesale sales in 2012  On an annual basis, wholesale sales totalled about $590
billion in 2012, up 4.5% from the previous year. This increase
followed two consecutive years of 6.6% growth.  After peaking in May 2012, the sales of Canadian
wholesalers showed a slight downward trend late in the year.  In 2012, five of the seven wholesale trade subsectors
posted increases. The motor vehicle and parts subsector had the
largest gain in dollar terms, followed by the machinery,
equipment and supplies subsector.  At the provincial level, Alberta registered the largest
increase in 2012, with a growth rate of more than 10%.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted. For more information on
seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying
economic trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Total wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using relevant price indexes.
The wholesale sales series in chained (2007) dollars is a
chained Fisher volume index with 2007 as the reference year. For
more information, see Sales in Volume for Wholesale Trade.
( http://www23.statcan.gc.ca/imdb-bmdi/document/2401_D14_T9_V1 -
eng.htm)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  