-- Canada December International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-02-19T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/canada-december-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for December
released by Statistics Canada.  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian securities
by $1.9 billion in December, led by large retirements of bonds
and equities. Meanwhile, Canadian investors added $5.5 billion
of foreign securities to their portfolios, marking a fourth
straight month of investment. This was the second consecutive
month of a net outflow of funds in the form of securities.  Non-residents add Government of Canada debt securities to their
holdings  Non-resident investors acquired $4.8 billion of Canadian
debt securities in December, a sixth straight month of
investment. Inflows were focused on money market instruments as
non-residents purchased $5.4 billion. Federal government paper
accounted for $3.7 billion, despite a reduction in the overall
supply of these instruments in the month.  Foreign holdings of Canadian bonds declined by $0.7 billion
in December. This first reduction in six months was attributable
to large retirements and coupon payments. Nevertheless, foreign
acquisitions of Canadian bonds on the secondary market reached a
three-month high of $8.2 billion, mainly federal government
bonds. This activity largely offsets the significant retirements
in the month.  Cross-border merger and acquisition activity leads to reduction
in non-resident holdings of Canadian portfolio shares  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian shares by
$6.7 billion in December, the largest divestment since November
2007. This was related to cross-border merger and acquisition
activity, as non-resident portfolio investors rendered their
Canadian shares to foreign direct investors. Secondary market
transactions in Canadian equities generated a minimal inflow.
Canadian stock prices were up 1.6%, ending December at their
highest level since February 2012.  Canadian acquisitions of foreign bonds focus on US government
instruments  Canadian investors purchased $3.8 billion of foreign bonds
in December, with US government bonds accounting for $3.2
billion of the outflow. At the same time, Canadians continued to
reduce their holdings of maple bonds, with $1.4 billion of these
instruments maturing over the month. In December, long-term
interest rates in Canada exceeded comparable US rates by the
largest differential since April while the Canadian dollar
continued to trade above par against the US dollar.  Canadian investment in foreign equities strengthened  Canadian investment in foreign equities strengthened to
$2.5 billion in December. Almost three quarters of this
investment was placed in a well-diversified basket of US shares.
US stock prices edged up 0.7% in December to reach their highest
level in three months.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  