-- Carbon Plunges as EU Delays Vote on Fast-Track Market Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-19T17:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/carbon-plunges-as-eu-panel-stalls-on-fast-track-glut-fix-talks.html
Carbon prices plunged the most in
more than three weeks after the European Parliament’s
environment committee postponed a decision to seek fast-track
approval for a plan to fix a record surplus of emission permits.  The panel backed in a non-binding vote a compromise
proposal to reduce the supply of European Union carbon permits,
though a separate decision on authorizing its chairman to start
talks with member states was delayed until the committee’s next
meeting on Feb. 25 and Feb. 26. EU carbon futures for December
fell as much as 20 percent.  “We don’t have clarity about what the next move will be,”
 Sarah Deblock , director of EU policy at the International
Emissions Trading Association in Brussels, said in an interview.
The vote was “a good first step and a strong political signal
about the environment committee’s support.”  At stake is the EU’s 54 billion-euro ($72 billion) cap-and-
trade system, which imposes emission limits on about 12,000
power plants and factories owned by companies from EON SE,
Germany’s largest utility, to steelmaker ArcelorMittal. The aim
of the glut-fix plan is to help support the price of carbon
permits, which slumped to 2.81 euros a metric ton last month
from more than 10 euros a year ago as Europe’s sputtering
economy damped demand.  EU carbon for December fell to as low as 4.09 euros a ton
on ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract closed at
4.68 euros a ton.  Auction Change  The proposed change to the emissions-trading law makes
explicit the European Commission’s right to alter the schedule
of  carbon auctions . The committee, whose verdict is a
recommendation for the full 754-seat EU Parliament, also set
conditions for such market intervention.  The environment committee approved the proposal with 38
votes in favor, 25 against and two abstentions. The plan still
requires approval by the whole parliament in a vote tentatively
scheduled for April and by national governments.  The proposal passed “with a rather thin margin,”  Per Lekander , a Paris-based analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note.
“With today’s weak support, we see further delays as likely.”  Others analysts saw the vote margin as being better than
expected, including  Matthew Gray  at Jefferies Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG’s  Alexander Karnick  and James Brand .  Backload Strategy  The proposal opens the way for a separate measure to delay
sales of 900 million carbon permits over the next three years,
which would be returned to the market in 2019-2020 in a strategy
known as backloading. The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,
requested the intervention right last year.  The EU introduced its carbon system in 2005 to help meet
emission-reduction targets under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The
program issues allowances to factories and utilities, which must
surrender enough permits to cover their discharges of carbon
dioxide or face fines.  The supply glut may exceed 1.5 billion tons by the end of
2013, Jos Debelke, the commission’s director general for
climate, said Feb. 6. The surplus may swell to about 2 billion
tons by 2020, he said.  Representatives of political groups on the committee,
including  Peter Liese  from the European People’s Party and Chris
Davies from the pro-business Liberals, said the panel needed
more time to discuss a mandate for its chairman to hold direct
talks with member states.  Fast-Track Talks  A fast-track negotiating agreement between national
governments and Parliament would limit the number of times the
full assembly would have to be consulted. Otherwise, the whole
Parliament would vote first on the environment committee’s
position before talks take place between the assembly and
states, known as a trilogue. That may delay a final verdict.  The backloading proposal is short of a qualified majority
among member states because some, including Germany, remain
undecided, three EU officials with knowledge of the matter said
last month. Votes in Europe’s qualified-majority system for
national governments are weighted by each country’s size.  Chancellor Angela Merkel is following the debate “with
interest” and Germany “will have a common position when a
decision is necessary at the European level,” Steffen Seibert,
a government spokesman, said at a Berlin news conference today.  Matthias Groote, the environment panel’s chairman, said an
increasing number of Parliament members realize there is no
alternative to the emissions-trading system, or the ETS.  “I want to bring all colleagues on board,” Groote said in
an interview after the vote in Brussels. “It is not a hot
potato, it’s a democratic question and I want to bring it to
success.”  Divided Opinion  The backloading plan has divided Parliament members,
governments and industry. Its supporters, including Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, say current prices are too low to spur low-carbon
investment. Poland, which leads the group of opponents, says
that the plan amounts to “market manipulation.”  Backloading is a stop-gap measure to support prices, and
will be followed by a “structural” overhaul of the cap-and-
trade program that was outlined by the commission in November.  “Without the mandate, there’s no certainty when talks with
member states will start and how long the whole legislative
process will take,” IETA’s Deblock said. “Members of
Parliament should endorse the start of trilogue negotiations
next week for the backloading proposal to move forward and for
the debate to focus on structural measures for the EU ETS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  