-- Carbon Market’s Fate in Europe Hangs on EU Vote to Fix Surplus
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-19T07:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/carbon-market-s-fate-in-europe-hangs-on-eu-vote-to-fix-surplus.html
European Union lawmakers may
determine the fate of the world’s biggest carbon market when
they vote today on a proposal to cut a record surplus of
emission permits that has pushed prices to an all-time low.  The European Parliament’s environment committee is
considering an amendment to EU emissions trading law that will
enable sales of some carbon allowances to be delayed until the
end of the decade, a process known as backloading. The panel’s
non-binding opinion, due after 9 a.m. in Brussels, will serve as
a recommendation for the whole parliament in a later vote.  At stake is the EU’s 54 billion euro ($72 billion) cap-and-
trade system, which imposes emission limits on about 12,000
companies from EON SE, Germany’s largest utility, to steelmaker
ArcelorMittal. The aim of backloading is to help support the
price of carbon permits, which slumped to 2.81 euros a metric
ton last month from more than 10 euros a year ago as Europe’s
sputtering economy damped demand.  “If it’s ‘no’ for backloading, then the proposal could be
politically dead,”  Matthew Cowie , an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in London, said by e-mail. “If it passes with a
clear majority, it could bode well for further legislative
stages and prices may briefly rise to above 6 euros a ton.”  In today’s vote, the environment committee will decide on a
law change that makes explicit the European Commission’s right
to change the schedule of  carbon auctions . If approved, the
commission’s proposal still has to be signed off by the whole EU
assembly in a vote tentatively scheduled for April, and then the
EU’s member states.  Uncertain Outcome  The change would clear the way for EU nations to decide on
the commission’s strategy to remove 900 million tons of carbon
permits from auctions over the next three years. Those
allowances would be returned to the market in 2019-2020.  The supply glut may exceed 1.5 billion tons by the end of
2013, Jos Debelke, the commission’s director general for climate,
said Feb. 6. The surplus may swell to about 2 billion tons by
2020, he said.  “There are further legislative steps to be made and
uncertainty over their outcome won’t disappear right away,”
said  Paolo Coghe , a Paris-based power, coal and carbon analyst
at Societe Generale SA, who expects the environment panel to
back the proposal. “A ‘no’ vote will probably spell the end for
backloading” and the EU’s emissions trading system, he said.  The EU introduced its carbon system in 2005 to help meet
the emission-reduction targets under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. It
issues allowances to factories and utilities, which must
surrender enough permits to cover their emissions or face fines.  ‘Positively Optimistic’  Members of the environment committee have put forward a
total of 42 amendments to the commission’s one-sentence proposal,
ranging from outright objections to measures that would further
strengthen the emissions market.  Matthias Groote, chairman of the committee, offered
compromise amendments to the draft measure on Feb. 6 in a bid to
win support for its approval. Under his proposals, the auction
schedule can be changed one time in the 2013 to 2020 period, and
only if it doesn’t hurt the global competitiveness of European
companies.  “I’m positively optimistic,” Groote, a German Socialist
who oversees the proposal in Parliament, said in a Feb. 7
interview.  ‘No Tragedy’  The commission’s proposal won’t solve the oversupply
problem because it reintroduces the permits at a later date,
said Georg Zachmann, a researcher at Bruegel, the Brussels-based
economic think tank.  “It will be no tragedy if backloading doesn’t happen,”
Zachmann said in a Feb. 15 phone interview. “The proposal would
mean political intervention in the market and could destroy
long-term credibility of the system.”  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December were down 3.9
percent at 4.92 euros a ton at 7:50 a.m. on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange, extending yesterday’s decline of 1.3 percent.
Still, the contracts have almost doubled from their Jan. 24 low.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , the architect of
the plan to bolster carbon prices, urged members of the
environment committee to back the proposal.  “I’m confident that the European Parliament will act
responsibly and support backloading,” she said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  