-- CEZ to Lose Bulgarian Power License Today, Borissov Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-19T11:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/cez-to-lose-bulgarian-power-license-today-borissov-says.html
Bulgaria will cancel  CEZ AS ’s power-
distribution license today after an investigation into the local
units of the largest Czech utility, Prime Minister Boyko
Borissov said.  The State Financial Inspection Agency started a probe into
the units last year and submitted a report on Feb. 8, saying CEZ 
“evaded requirements of the Law for Public Tenders,” the Energy, 
Economy and Tourism Ministry said on its website yesterday. The 
ministry asked the authority to conduct a similar probe into the 
local units of Austria’s EVN AG and Prague-based Energo-Pro.  CEZ’s license will be revoked “in the course of the day,”
Borissov told reporters in the capital Sofia today.  The decision comes after thousands of Bulgarians marched 
through Sofia and other cities demanding lower electricity bills 
and higher wages in the run-up to elections in July. The 
anti-austerity demonstrations in the European Union’s poorest 
country led to the dismissal of the finance minister yesterday.  CEZ said in a statement today the Bulgarian government has
no grounds to revoke its license and that only an independent
energy regulator has the authority to start the procedure of a
license withdrawal.  “We consider media statements by the Bulgarian prime
minister and the prosecutor’s office to be a gross violation of
legal norms in Bulgaria as a member state of the European
Union,” CEZ said in the e-mailed statement.  Its shares dropped 2 percent to 603.9 koruna at 12:10 p.m.
in Prague, falling for a fifth day and valuing the company at
325.5 billion koruna ($17.1 billion). Its local units supply
electricity to Sofia and the northern city of Pleven, which
together account for 41 percent of Bulgaria’s power consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  