-- Child Cancer Survival Imperiled by Lack of New Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-19T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/child-cancer-survival-imperiled-by-lack-of-new-drugs.html
Improving  childhood cancer  survival
rates is being stymied by regulatory burdens and stagnant
research approaches, U.S. and European doctors said.  While five-year survival rates climbed to 80 percent in the
2000s, from 30 percent in the 1960s, the needle is no longer
making leaps, the doctors wrote in the journal Lancet Oncology.
Patients also face severe and lasting side effects that have yet
to be fully addressed, according to the article series called
“Improving Cancer Care for Children and Young People.”  Cancer is the most common cause of death from disease in
children beyond infancy who live in high-income countries,
second only to accidents, according to the articles. In
developing countries the situation is more dire, with four-
fifths of pediatric cancer patients in Africa dying.  “There needs to be a recognition that childhood cancer is
a global problem,” Gregory Reaman, an associate director at the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Office of Hematology and
Oncology Products, said in a telephone interview. “There needs
to be more international collaboration in clinical research.”  Headway is dependent on modernizing regulations and drug
research in richer countries, and increasing access to treatment
in developing countries, the oncologists wrote. Drugmakers now
typically gain clearance for cancer medicines in adults first
and then take the time to learn more about the drugs’ potential
in younger patients, a smaller and less profitable market.  That approach had led to only 15 such medicines being
allowed for use in children since 1998, according to data used
at a December meeting that the FDA held on four experimental
treatments that may one day help pediatric patients.  Novartis’s Gleevec  The medicines that were the topic of discussion that day
came from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , Amgen Inc.,  Threshold
Pharmaceuticals Inc . and  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH .  Researchers have had trouble in the past translating
advances in adult research into pediatric oncology, according to
the articles.  Novartis AG ’s Gleevec, first approved in 2001, was granted
U.S. approval Jan. 25 to market the drug for children newly
diagnosed with Philadelphia chromosome positive acute
lymphoblastic leukemia.  Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common cancer in
children, representing about 23 percent of pediatric diagnoses,
according to the National Cancer Institute. About 2,900 children
and adolescents younger than 20 years old in the U.S. are
diagnosed with the disease each year, which causes unformed
blood cells and peaks among 2- to 3-year-olds.  High Price  Before Gleevec, the recommended treatment for the disease
was a bone marrow transplant, Reaman said.  Many cancer treatments used now were developed at least two
decades ago, Peter Adamson, chief of the division of clinical
pharmacology and therapeutics at the Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia, said. Adamson also serves as chairman of the
Children’s Oncology Group, which helps coordinate most pediatric
clinical trials in cancer.  “The price children are paying is too high,” Adamson said
in a telephone interview. “And the price is side effects during
treatment and perhaps more importantly life-long effects.”  More than 80 percent of pediatric patients experience
severe, life-threatening or fatal toxicities, mainly infections,
from cancer treatment, he said. About 40 percent of survivors
experience side effects that affect their daily lives, including
heart failure, hearing loss and learning disabilities.  Europe particularly needs to change its regulatory
environment, according to the series of articles. The EU’s
Clinical Trials Directive implemented in 2004 requires pediatric
research of drugmakers that request marketing approval for their
products yet made the requirements onerous when perhaps such
data might not exist, Reaman said.  Unsustainable Funding  The directive quadrupled development costs and can lead to
substantial approval delays, according to the articles. Adamson
and Reaman each worked on parts of the Lancet Oncology series.  Novel drug development for children suffering from cancer
needs public-private partnerships since drugmakers aren’t highly
incentivized to enter the small market, Reaman said.  “The continuation and advancement of research into
children with cancer depends on long-term, sustainable funding;
however, evidence suggests that pediatric research and
development is reliant on short-term unsustainable funding,”
the doctors wrote in the article series.  The FDA in the U.S. is working to advance research and
coordination. The agency has responded to one of the companies
that received scrutiny at the December meeting of pediatric
advisers to help them expand and improve upon a proposed
children’s study, Reaman said. He didn’t say which company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  