-- China Stocks Drop Most in Five Weeks on Property Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-19T07:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-signaling-decline-for-index.html
China’s  stocks fell the most in five
weeks after valuations for the benchmark index climbed to the
highest level in 17 months and on concern the government may
introduce measures to curb property prices in March.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co. slumped more
than 4 percent, sending a gauge of developers to its biggest
loss in six months after China Business News said the government
may impose real-estate curbs around the time of an annual
legislative meeting. Anhui Conch Cement Co. slid the most since
September 2011 after the government forecast slowing cement
output growth. SAIC Motor Corp. dropped 4.5 percent, leading
losses for consumer companies reliant on economic growth.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 1.6 percent to 2,382.91
at the close, the biggest loss since Jan. 11 and the worst two-
day start to the Lunar New Year since 2007. The  CSI 300 Index 
retreated 1.9 percent to 2,685.61. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  slumped 1.4 percent.  “There’s been speculation that there will be more property
tightening as home prices have not fallen,”  Zhang Lei , an
analyst with Minsheng Securities Co., said by phone from
Beijing. “This talk is still making the rounds and there are
expectations more measures will be announced. Stocks are also
down after rallying a lot.”  The Shanghai index has risen 22 percent from a three-year
low on Dec. 3 on signs economic growth is accelerating. The
gauge traded at 13.4 times reported profit yesterday, the
highest level since September 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It’s now valued at 13.2 times.  RSI Signal  The Shanghai index’s 14-day  relative strength index  was at
69 yesterday. Some analysts see a reading of more than 70 for
the RSI, which measures how rapidly prices have advanced or
declined during the specified time period, as a signal to sell.
Trading volumes were 6.7 percent lower than the 30-day average
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A gauge of  property stocks  in the Shanghai index slid 4.6
percent, the most among five industry groups. China Vanke, the
nation’s biggest developer, slumped 4.3 percent to 11.20 yuan.
Poly Real Estate, the second largest, declined 5.1 percent to
12.22 yuan.  China may introduce more policies to curb property prices
before or after the National People’s Congress annual session
next month, China Business News reported, citing Xie Yifeng,
head of the Asia-Pacific City Development Research Center’s real
estate institute.  Property Curbs  “There’s expectation of more tightening measures as
property prices in some cities are still rising,” said  Zhu Jixiang , an analyst at CSC International in Shanghai. In an
effort to tighten the property market, the government has raised
down-payment and mortgage requirements, imposed a property tax
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacted home-
purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  In a report on Feb. 6, the central bank signaled inflation
and the housing market remain concerns and said it will maintain
a prudent monetary policy. One-year interest-rate swaps rose the
most in four weeks today after the central bank drained funds
from the financial system for the first time in eight months.  Anhui Conch slid 7.6 percent to 19.72 yuan. Huaxin Cement
Co. fell 7.2 percent to 16.27 yuan. The Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology forecast cement output growth of less
than 5 percent this year, compared with 2012’s 7.4 percent gain.  China’s stocks dropped yesterday on concern growth in
retail sales slowed during the Lunar holiday. Sales at shops and
restaurants monitored by the Ministry of Commerce increased 14.7
percent in the Feb. 9 to Feb. 15 holiday period from the year-
earlier break. That was down from a 16.2 percent pace in 2012.  “The economy is recovering, but we are unsure if it’s
going to be a strong rebound or a weak improvement,” said  Mao Sheng , an analyst for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. “This
can be seen from the declines in property and auto stocks.”  SAIC Motor, the biggest Chinese automaker, paced declines
for consumer-discretionary companies, falling 4.5 percent to
17.86 yuan. BYD Co. slid 3.8 percent to 26.15 yuan, after
jumping 6.8 percent yesterday. Gree Electric Appliances Inc.
slumped 2.5 percent to 28.52 yuan.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  