-- China Army May Be Behind Web Attacks, Security Firm Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-19T23:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-army-may-back-cyber-attacks-u-s-security-company-says.html
China’s army may be behind a
computer-hacking group that has attacked at least 141 companies
worldwide since 2006, according to a report by a U.S. security
firm.  The attacks, mainly directed at U.S. companies, were
carried out by a group that is “likely government sponsored”
and is similar “in its mission, capabilities, and resources”
to a unit of the People’s Liberation Army, Mandiant Corp. said
in a  report  today.  Mandiant said it traced the group, labeled Advanced
Persistent Threat 1, to four large computer networks in
Shanghai. Two of the networks serve the Pudong New Area
district, where a secret army unit called 61398 is based, the
report said. Corporations and government agencies are
increasingly finding themselves under attack from sophisticated
adversaries, many of them from China.  “It is time to acknowledge the threat is originating in
China,” Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant said. “Our
research and observations indicate that the Communist Party of
China is tasking the Chinese People’s Liberation Army to commit
systematic cyber espionage and data theft against organizations
around the world.”  A recently prepared U.S. secret intelligence assessment,
described Feb. 11 in the  Washington Post , said the country’s
economy is endangered by a massive and prolonged computer-
espionage campaign from China.  Server Addresses  Publishing detailed information about the hacking group,
including the Internet Protocol addresses of its servers, will
make it harder for the intruders to escape detection, said Dan
McWhorter, managing director of Mandiant’s intelligence unit. It
could take weeks or months for them to set up new servers and
write new malicious software, McWhorter said.  “They’ll have to go back to the drawing board,” he said.
“My guess is the group will go very dark for a while.”  The details Mandiant disclosed can help corporations spot
hackers in their own networks, ahead of similar government
actions that would happen under an executive order signed Feb.
12 by President  Barack Obama .  The order calls for sharing of secret government
information on the operations of Chinese hackers and other cyber
threats. It directs the government to develop voluntary
cybersecurity standards for companies operating the nation’s
vital infrastructure, such as power grids and air traffic
control systems.  ‘Grab Everything’  The attack Mandiant described is comparable in size and
sophistication to the one that  hit  Google Inc. and dozens of
other companies in 2009, said  Alan Paller , director of research
for the SANS Institute, a Bethesda, Maryland-based computer-
security research and training organization.  Attacks from China often bear different hallmarks than
those from other countries, Paller said.  “The Chinese have a technique called 1,000 grains of sand
-- these guys in China go grab everything that you have and then
sort it out back home,” he said. “Because the Chinese get so
much, and they really don’t seem to worry about getting outed.
They’re noisier. Whereas the tradecraft of the other guys is
very much like the tradecraft of the U.S. -- getting caught is
equivalent to failure -- the Chinese don’t seem to care about
being caught.”  The  New York Times  last month reported that its computer
systems were breached by Chinese hackers, a claim China has
denied. The Wall Street Journal outlined similar attacks on its
systems, while Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, said
there have been unsuccessful attempts to infiltrate its network.  ‘Unfounded Accusations’  China’s Foreign Ministry said today the country opposes
computer hacking and that it is a victim of attacks. The U.S. is
the biggest attacker of China’s Internet, said  Hong Lei , a
spokesman for the ministry. Making “unfounded accusations” is
not conducive to resolving the issue, Hong said when asked about
the report at a regular briefing today.  “It’s inaccurate and unprofessional to accuse the Chinese
military of Internet attacks,” the Ministry of Defense said by
fax today in response to a Bloomberg News request for comment on
the Mandiant report. “China’s military has never supported
hacking and the country has always cracked down on relevant
criminals.”  A spokesman for President Obama’s National Security Council
said the U.S. has “substantial and growing concerns” about
cyber threats, and the administration is aware of the Mandiant
report and its contents.  Raising Concerns  “We have repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest
levels about cyber theft with senior Chinese officials,
including in the military, and we will continue to do so,” the
spokesman,  Tommy Vietor , said in an e-mail.  Vietor didn’t draw a specific link between China and
hacking attacks. “The U.S. and China are among the world’s
largest cyber actors and it is vital that we continue a
sustained, meaningful dialogue and work together to develop an
understanding of acceptable behavior in cyberspace,” he said.  Obama has direct experience with the hacking group
described in Mandiant’s report. Bloomberg News reported in July
that the hacking team stole policy briefs and other information
from his 2008 presidential campaign, as well as the campaign of
Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican.  In the summer of 2011, the group hacked the president of
the European Union Council, a Washington law firm working on an
anti-dumping case involving China, an immigration magistrate in
Canada and a nonprofit group working on democracy issues in
China, Bloomberg News reported.  Sensitive Files  Bloomberg News also reported in November that hackers from
China broke into computer systems at Coca-Cola Co. in 2009 and
pilfered sensitive files about Coca-Cola’s attempted $2.4
billion acquisition of the  China Huiyuan Juice Group .  Investigators at dozens of commercial security companies
suspect many Chinese hackers are either with the military or
take their orders from some of China’s intelligence or
surveillance organizations, Bloomberg Businessweek reported this
month.  APT1, the Chinese group, has attacked companies in 20 major
industries, and 87 percent of the targets are based in countries
where English is the first language, according to the Mandiant
report. Targets were based in countries including the U.S.,
Canada, the U.K., India and Singapore. Mandiant’s research was
reported earlier by the New York Times.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  