-- China Allows More Firms to Sell Mutual Funds to Bolster Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-19T02:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-allows-more-firms-to-sell-mutual-funds-to-bolster-market.html
China published rules allowing
brokerages and insurers to sell mutual funds to the public as
regulators seek to increase the role of institutional investors
in the country’s capital markets.  The rules also allow companies that previously only managed
money raised privately to offer mutual funds, the China
Securities Regulatory Commission said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. Eligible firms may submit applications
starting in June, the regulator said.  CSRC Chairman  Guo Shuqing , since taking office in October
2011, has sought to bolster the role of institutional investors,
which the regulator says account for about 14 percent of  China’s
stock market  compared with 50 percent to 60 percent in developed
countries. The new rules are an important step toward building
an “open, inclusive, and diverse wealth management industry,”
the CSRC said.  The regulations released yesterday lower the entry
threshold for private fund mangers entering the mutual fund
business as compared with a December draft version of the rules.
Private equity and venture capital firms were also added as
eligible participants after the regulator took feedback on the
earlier version of the rules, the CSRC said.  Managers of private funds need to have an average of at
least 2 billion yuan ($320 million) in assets under management
in the past three years, the rules say. The requirement had been
3 billion yuan in the earlier draft version of the rules.  Insurance companies and securities firms need to have at
least 20 billion yuan in assets under management to be eligible,
according to the rules.  China last year also increased quotas for foreign
institutions and lifted the investment ceiling on overseas
central banks to encourage long-term investors.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  