-- China Developers Fall on Property Curb Concerns: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-19T08:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-developers-fall-on-property-curb-concerns-shanghai-mover.html
China’s property stocks had their
biggest drop in more than six months, on renewed concerns that
the government will issue more curbs to cool the real estate
market.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index lost 4.6 percent
at the close of trading, its biggest drop since Aug. 2.  China
Vanke Co. , the biggest developer listed on mainland exchanges,
declined 4.3 percent to 11.20 yuan in Shenzhen, a one-month low.
 Poly Real Estate Group Co. , the second largest, sank 5.1 percent
to 12.22 yuan, the lowest since Dec. 21.  China may introduce more policies to curb property prices
before or after the National People’s Congress annual session
next month, as several cities tightened credits of housing
provident fund loans, China Business News reported today, citing
researchers. Home sales in China’s 10 biggest cities almost
quadrupled to 8.5 million square meters (91.5 million square
feet) in the first five weeks from last year, property data and
consulting firm China Real Estate Information Corp. said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “There’s expectation for more tightening measures as
property prices in some cities are still rising,” said  Zhu Jixiang , a Shanghai-based analyst at CSC International Holdings
Ltd. “Still, bigger companies like China Vanke, Poly Real could
potentially benefit and increase market share with increased
tightening.”  In Hong Kong, state-owned  China Resources Land Ltd.  fell
4.4 percent to HK$21.50, the most in more than half a year at
the close of trading.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd.  lost 3.3
percent to HK$15.08, the lowest since Jan. 2.  Should there be any policy changes after the NPC meeting in
March, those would come mainly in the form of re-emphasis of
strict implementation of existing policies or policy fine-tuning
during early stages, said  Johnson Hu , a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research, in a report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  