-- China’s Truman-Style Resource Quest Tests UN Law and Neighbors
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-02-19T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-s-truman-style-resource-quest-tests-un-law-and-neighbors.html
When President  Harry Truman ’s push
for oil in 1945 prompted him to  claim  all resources on the U.S.
continental shelf, he unleashed a global race for the seas that
led the United Nations to create rules for asserting territory.  Seven decades later, China is making a broader claim in its
drive for resources in the South China Sea, a move that would
reinterpret the  UN Convention on the Law of the Sea . Last month
the Philippines sought UN arbitration over China’s  nine-dash map 
that asserts sovereignty of waters almost 800 miles away.  An unfavorable ruling for China would provide insight into
whether it will heed diplomatic pressure as it pushes to keep
foreign militaries from its shores and gain access to the area’s
oil, gas and fish. The Philippines and Vietnam, whose combined
defense budgets amount to about 4 percent of Chinese outlays,
reject the nine-dash line as a basis for joint oil exploration.  “This has a much larger repercussion, which is about how
will China in the coming years address disputes with neighboring
countries?” said  Ralf Emmers , an associate professor at Nanyang
Technological University in Singapore. “That’s a very important
question if you sit in Hanoi, Manila and also Tokyo.”  China has until tomorrow to appoint a member of the dispute
resolution body after the Philippines selected Rudiger Wolfrum,
one of  21 members  of the UN-backed International Tribunal for
the Law of the Sea. China’s ambassador met with Philippine
officials and told them it “does not accept such a notice and
has returned it,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Hong Lei  told
reporters in Beijing yesterday.  ‘Unfounded Accusations’  “The Philippines’ act is against the consensus regarding
the South China Sea reached between Asean and China,” Hong
said, referring to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian
Nations. “It not only contained many legal and historical
errors, but it also contained many unfounded accusations against
China.”  If China doesn’t appoint someone, the Philippines can ask
the tribunal’s president to pick the remaining four arbiters.
 Rulings  are valid even if one party doesn’t cooperate.  The Philippines is “committed” to arbitration and a
“friendly, peaceful and durable form of dispute settlement,”
the country’s foreign affairs department said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday, adding that the five-member panel will
be formed with or without China’s participation.  ‘International Outlaw’  In the seven law of the sea cases that have gone for
arbitration, all countries have respected the outcome even if
they disagreed with the decision, said  Paul S. Reichler , a
lawyer with Foley Hoag LLP who has been retained by the
Philippines.  “You’d have to assume that they think even in the case of
an adverse judgment, their core interests are better served by
compliance than becoming an international outlaw,” Reichler
said. “The examples of non-compliance or non-appearance are
extremely few and far between.”  China’s map, first published in the 1940s, extends hundreds
of miles south to the equatorial waters off the coast of Borneo.
It  claims  “indisputable sovereignty” over more than 100
islets, atolls and reefs that form the Paracel and Spratly
Islands, and jurisdiction over the seabed and subsoil.  The Philippines and Vietnam have led opposition to the map.
Under the 1982 Law of the Sea, which China  ratified  in 1996, a
country can exploit oil, gas and other “non-living resources”
on its continental shelf or an area stretching 200 nautical
miles from land known as an exclusive economic zone.  ‘Learning Process’  China has focused on joint development with the Philippines
and Vietnam in part to avoid legal questions over which country
can exploit the resources, according to  Hong Nong , a deputy
director at the National Institute for South China Sea Studies
in Haikou, China. Beijing’s leaders are torn between ceding
control to a third party and appearing afraid to defend its
claims in international arbitration, she said.  “It’s a learning process, and during the learning process
we might give the wrong impression to our neighboring countries
because we are very big in size,” Hong said. “China wants to
be a responsible stakeholder.”  China National Offshore Oil Corp. estimates the area may
hold about five times more undiscovered natural gas than the
country’s current proved reserves, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration . China surpassed the U.S. as the
world’s largest energy user in 2010.  Cable Cutting  China has cut the cables of survey ships working for
Vietnam, chased away an exploration vessel operating off the
Philippine coastline and sent its first deep-water drilling rig
to the region. In June, Cnooc invited foreign oil firms to bid
in areas that Vietnam already awarded to companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  and OAO Gazprom.  When state-run Vietnam Oil and Gas Group condemned the
move, ministry spokesman Hong  called  on Vietnam to stop actions
“that infringe upon China’s rights.”  The location of Cnooc’s oil blocks indicate China is
relying on historic rights to back the claim rather than an
exclusive economic zone or continental shelf, according to  Mark Valencia , an Hawaii-based associate at the Nautilus Institute
for Security and Sustainability. That would be unprecedented,
much like Truman’s claim.  “That was a completely new concept in international law
and many countries followed,” Valencia said. “It’s not
inconceivable that China may try to declare a precedent
regarding its claim to seabed resources in the South China
Sea.”  Resource Rights  China  exempted  itself in 2006 from disputes that involve
sea boundaries, historic bays, military activities or
initiatives of the UN Security Council. To get around that, the
Philippines  argues  that negotiations starting in 1995 have
failed and the case involves rights to resources, freedom of
navigation and whether China can declare an exclusive economic
zone around certain land features.  China has made a more detailed continental shelf  claim  in
the East China Sea, where it has sparred with Japan over
disputed islands. The tension has damaged trade ties and raised
concern in the U.S., which has a defense treaty with Japan.  The world’s biggest economies sparred in 2009 over the
interpretation of the UN maritime law after Chinese vessels
harassed a U.S. naval ship 75 miles south of Hainan Island.
China said military vessels aren’t allowed in the area without
permission, whereas the U.S. says ships are allowed anywhere
except for territorial seas 12 nautical miles from shore.  “It’s a defining moment in terms of determining what
international system we are going to have,” said Henry
Bensurto, who works on maritime issues at the Philippines’
foreign affairs department. “At the very least you have now an
opportunity China will have to clarify what its nine-dash line
is. For a long time the world has been guessing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  