-- China Party Newspaper Backs Restrictions on Property Disclosure
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-property-assets-should-remain-private-people-s-daily-says.html
The Communist Party’s official
newspaper ran a commentary saying China must restrict access to
property records, addressing demands for more disclosure amid
allegations that public servants amassed real estate illegally.  Real estate holdings are a “personal affair,” the
People’s Daily said in the front-page commentary yesterday. It
also said China should impose stricter requirements for public
officials to register their properties and anti-corruption
officials should work harder at exposing public servants’ hidden
assets.  The commentary follows revelations in recent weeks that a
provincial bank employee and a policeman used fake identity
documents to buy properties. China has begun a new anti-
corruption campaign, warning that official malfeasance risks
weakening the Communist Party’s grip on power.  “Asset information is a personal affair,” said the
commentary, written by Fan Zhengwei, whose title wasn’t given.
“We can’t write a person’s name, and go look at that person’s
bank deposits as we please. Similarly, for personal property
information you also should have mandatory protection.”  The deputy director of a bank in Shaanxi Province, Gong
Aiai, was detained earlier this month over allegations she
illegally accumulated more than 20 properties, the Xinhua News
Agency reported. Gong has become known as “house sister,” it
said. In Guangdong Province, discipline authorities said Zhao
Haibin, a policeman in the city of Lufeng, used a fake identity
card to invest in property, Xinhua reported separately.  Restrict Access  Amid such cases, Chinese provinces have sought to restrict
access to property information. The city of Zhangzhou in Fujian
Province issued new rules prohibiting people from searching by
name for property information, according to a Feb. 16 notice on
the city government website.  The eastern city of Yancheng introduced a rule clarifying
who can access property information, restricting it to police
and other officials, according to a Jan. 30 notice on its
government website. The measure was introduced after residents
expressed concern about the disclosure of personal property
information, it said.  “You should protect the assets of ordinary people,” Liu
Shanying, a political scientist at the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences, said in a telephone interview. “For public officials,
government officials their housing information should be public,
you should be able to search for it.”  The government needs to implement policies that instill
public trust in its anti-corruption campaign, an unsigned
commentary in the state-run Global Times newspaper said
yesterday. Asset disclosure by government officials is unlikely
this year because the number involved is so high, Liu said.  “The problem is government departments are avoiding the
people’s enthusiastic yearning for anti-corruption,” a
commentary by Cao Lin in the China Youth Daily newspaper said
yesterday. “They are not listening to the public’s requests for
information on official properties, which makes the public worry
that the government is shielding corrupt individuals.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  