-- China’s Shale Gas No Revolution as Price Imperils Output: Energy
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-02-19T05:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/china-s-shale-gas-no-revolution-as-price-imperils-output-energy.html
China, consuming energy at the
fastest pace among major economies, has set ambitious targets to
exploit its reservoirs of shale gas, the same fuel the U.S.
touts as the means to energy independence. It won’t meet them.  China is producing no commercial quantities of shale gas
yet has set a target of 80 billion cubic meters by 2020, or 23
percent of total expected demand. Output in 2020 will likely be
18 billion cubic meters, according to the average estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s more pessimistic
than a year ago when the forecast was 23 billion cubic meters.  “China’s production targets are not realistic,”  Chris Faulkner , chief executive officer of Dallas-based shale driller
Breitling Oil and Gas Corp., which is in talks in China, said in
an e-mail. “The only way China is going to be able to meet its
output goals is for the government to pour money into
exploration and development and ease up on the price controls.”  By dictating fuel prices in a centrally controlled economy,
China has discouraged investment in shale because drillers risk
losing money. The result: China National Petroleum Corp. and
China Petrochemical Corp., the two largest gas producers, didn’t
win exploration blocks in the last auction while companies with
zero gas-drilling experience did.  Missing targets to develop the world’s biggest reserves of
shale means China’s imports from foreign gas markets will be
greater than anticipated. Such purchases might benefit suppliers
of liquefied natural gas from  Exxon Mobil Corp.  to  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. , while bolstering supply from nations like
Turkmenistan that pipe gas to China.  Second Auction  China is spending $17 billion a year on natural gas
imports, about half in the form of liquefied natural gas. The
country will open a record number of LNG receiving terminals
this year, proving a boon for more than $100 billion of projects
being built by companies such as Exxon Mobil and Chevron Corp.
in Australia and Papua New Guinea.  The lack of shale enthusiasm was evident in December at the
government’s latest and biggest auction of blocks of land
containing natural gas trapped in shale rock strata. Coal miners
and provincial government investment firms with no experience of
shale drilling were among winning bidders. The bids by the big
two gas producers and China National Offshore Oil Corp., the
largest offshore oil producer, failed.  Awarding shale gas prospects to inexperienced companies in
the second auction and government price controls on natural gas
are likely to ensure imports continue to rise.  China imported $8.3 billion worth of liquefied natural gas
last year, up 41 percent from 2011. Piped gas comes mainly from
Turkmenistan.  ‘Massive Subsidy’  “If you want to kick start this industry quickly from zero
now, you need to either introduce a massive subsidy or allow
free market forces to prevail,”  James Hubbard , an analyst at
Macquarie Group, said. “You’ve got 20 blocks that have just
been awarded to companies no one has ever heard of.”  The government would need to increase the subsidy to 1.5
yuan (24 U.S. cents) a cubic meter from the current 0.4 yuan to
effectively spur growth, Hubbard said. The 0.4 yuan subsidy is
17.5 percent of the current 2.28 yuan price that Beijing
residents pay for piped gas.  “More incentives need to be introduced,”  Wang Guoqiang ,
chairman of China-based oilfield service provider SPT Energy
Group Inc., said in an interview on Jan. 29. Wang is investing
more in Central Asia and the Middle East to hedge the prospect
that China’s shale industry doesn’t take off.  Lacking Technology  Natural gas in New York has declined 4.9 percent this year.
The fuel fell to a decade low of $1.91 per million British
thermal units in April last year from a record of $13.92 per
million Btu in Sept. 2005 as the U.S. ramped up commercial
production of shale gas. The U.S. ousted Russia as the world’s
biggest gas producer in 2009.  Futures rose 1.1 percent to $3.19 per million Btu on the
New York Mercantile Exchange as of 11:52 a.m. Singapore time.  Drillers in China have yet to produce shale gas
commercially, with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  helping CNPC to sink
the nation’s first horizontal well in 2011. Total SA, Europe’s
third-largest oil company, said last week it was in “advanced
talks” with a Chinese partner to explore for shale gas.  Cnooc Ltd. and China Petrochemical, also known as Sinopec
Group, have invested more than $5.7 billion in so-called
unconventional oil and gas assets overseas, yet they find their
technology lacking at home.  No Experience  “None of these companies have the below-ground experience
of oil producers,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, said in an interview. “They need to
partner with other companies to even come close to the
targets.”  Two phone calls each to Sinopec and CNPC’s offices today
seeking comment were not answered and no voicemail was available
to leave messages.  Without unlocking shale gas reserves, China’s only option
is to import more LNG.  This year, China may add five LNG terminals with an annual
capacity of 15.7 billion cubic meters, the highest in a single
year, the Paris-based International Energy Agency said in  report 
last year.  Those terminals, being built by companies including Cnooc
and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., would increase the
nation’s LNG import capacity by 54 percent from the current 29
billion cubic meters a year, according to the report. Another
7.5 billion cubic meters a year is under construction and will
be completed by 2015. The first plant started in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  