-- Chubut Weighs $200 Million Bond Sale to Break 11-Month Drought
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-19T19:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/chubut-weighs-200-million-bond-sale-to-break-11-month-drought.html
Argentina’s Chubut province is
considering issuing as much as $200 million of bonds abroad,
which would be the first overseas sale for a province in almost
a year.  “We’re looking at our financial options on how to tap the
markets abroad,” Oscar Antonena, the province’s undersecretary
of finance coordination, said in a telephone interview from the
capital Rawson. “We are working to have everything ready so
that, in case there’s a window to sell, we can make the
decision.”  Argentine provinces have been absent from international
markets since March, when the northern province of Salta sold
$185 million of 10-year bonds to yield 9.5 percent, as borrowing
costs surged. Since the last sale, the extra yield investors
demand to hold Argentine government debt instead of Treasuries
has risen to 10.98 percentage points from as low as 7.84
percentage points on March 19 last year, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Chubut is also watching the government’s legal battle with
hedge funds seeking full payment for bonds from the country’s
2001 default to determine the best moment to issue, Antonena
said. A U.S. appeals court will hear arguments from Argentina
and the funds Feb. 27 to decide whether to uphold a judge’s
ruling that ordered President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to
pay investors $1.33 billion in principal and accrued interest.  Court Case  “We have to wait and see,” Antonena said. The province
hasn’t established the terms of the potential sale, he said.  Antonena, who traveled last week to New York to meet with
investors, said that the sale would be under the global program
approved by the local legislature. Proceeds would be used to
finance infrastructure projects, he said. BNP Paribas SA is
consulting on the sale, according to Antonena.  The yield of Chubut’s 7.75 percent bond that matures in
July 2020 fell to 9.26 percent on Feb. 14, the last day they
traded, from 11.77 percent on Nov. 27, according to prices
compiled by Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds are backed by
oil royalties and were sold in 2010.  The new securities may also be backed by oil royalties from
the energy-rich province, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  