-- Citigroup Will Take Over Best Buy Cards From Capital One
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-19T15:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/citigroup-agrees-to-buy-capital-one-s-best-buy-card-portfolio.html
Citigroup Inc . agreed to take over
the  Best Buy Co . credit-card business from  Capital One Financial
Corp . as Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  boosts the size
of a business he once sought to sell.  The deal allows Citigroup to issue and manage Best Buy
cards in the U.S. and gives the New York-based bank a loan
portfolio with balances of about $7 billion, according to a
statement today from McLean, Virginia-based Capital One. The
price wasn’t disclosed. The deal covers Best Buy’s house brand
of cards, which can be used only in its stores, as well as
MasterCards bearing Best Buy’s name that can be used anywhere.  Citigroup is reversing course by building its store-branded
cards business, which was once among assets tagged for sale in
the Citi Holdings division that Corbat led until the end of
2011. Former CEO  Vikram Pandit  moved the unit, also known as
Citi Retail Services, out of Citi Holdings earlier that year.  “This will add another premier retail franchise and high-
quality card portfolio to Citi Retail Services,” Bill Johnson,
head of the unit, said in a Citigroup statement.  Capital One expects “no significant gain or loss” while
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said the
purchase probably won’t affect profit significantly this year.
Best Buy, based in Richfield, Minnesota, is the world’s biggest
electronics retailer.  Citigroup’s store-branded cards business services almost 90
million accounts, the bank said in its statement. The unit
 posted  a $1.5 billion profit from continuing operations in 2012,
compared with $1.48 billion in the prior year, according to a
financial supplement. Revenue slid 4 percent to $6.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  