-- CMA CGM Bonds Outpace Peers After Debt Talks: Corporate Finance
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-02-19T11:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/cma-cgm-bonds-outpace-peers-after-debt-talks-corporate-finance.html
CMA CGM SA’s bonds rallied eight
times faster than peers in the past week after the third-biggest
container line won support from banks to loosen debt terms,
bolstering plans for a share sale as early as next year.  The extra yield over benchmark debt on the Marseille-based
shipper’s senior notes due 2017 tumbled 8 percent since the Feb.
12 agreement, compared with a 1 percent drop in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Large Cap Issuers Distressed High Yield Index.  The  owner  of the world’s largest container ship got banks
to reorganize loans and extend a 280 million-euro ($374 million)
facility to refinance debt coming due this year. Talks have been
going on since it breached financing conditions in 2009. CMA CGM
said the restructuring and a $150 million investment from the
French government lifted the threat of default and allowed it to
focus on a planned U.S. initial public offering.  “Bonds can start to rally when companies announce plans
for an IPO, especially if it’s expected that a portion of the
IPO proceeds will repay debt,” said  Quin Casey , a London-based
analyst at Aviva Investors Ltd., which manages 274 billion
pounds ($424 billion), including the French shipping company’s
bonds. “CMA CGM is an improving credit. The bonds may continue
to outperform its peers.”  Losing Money  CMA CGM’s profit was hurt by declining container rates and
the firm reported a 72 percent slump in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2011.  The group of 70 lenders led by BNP Paribas SA and Societe
Generale SA agreed to last week’s debt restructuring. They
replaced loan covenants based on Ebitda with a measure linked to
the company’s net worth, or how far its assets exceed
liabilities, according to the company.  Ebitda increased to $617 million in the third quarter, from
$460 million in the second, and a loss of $31 million in the
first three months of 2012, the company said. Its net worth
stands at $4.2 billion, from $4 billion at the end of 2012.  “Given what happened in the container-shipping industry in
the past three years, our lenders have come to terms with the
reality that it’s difficult to manage covenants based on Ebitda
with this level of volatility,” Chief Financial Officer Michel
Sirat said in a phone interview. “After the debt restructuring,
our most important financial plan this year is to get ready for
a potential IPO in 2014.”  Default Threat  Bondholders are counting on the new covenant arrangement to
free CMA CGM from the threat of default as the industry endures
the oversupply of capacity. The global containership fleet will
expand another 7.3 percent in 2013, according to London-based
Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker.  The yield on CMA CGM’s $395.7 million of senior, unsecured
notes due April 2017 and redeemable by the company next year,
narrowed to 1,172 basis points more than government debt, from
1,277 basis points on Feb. 11, according to Bloomberg prices.  The bonds also have rallied faster than those of rival
Hapag-Lloyd AG’s $250 million of 9.75 percent notes due in 2017,
whose yield relative to benchmarks tightened 2 percent since
Feb. 11, Bloomberg prices show.  “The credit fundamentals have improved significantly,”
said  Steven Mitra , a partner at LNG Capital LLP, a London-based
hedge fund. “The bonds continue to offer attractive value.”  Credit Favorable  CMA CGM will consider taking advantage of favorable credit-
market conditions to sell debt this year, Sirat said. Apart from
the dollar bonds, its only outstanding notes are 286.1 million
euros of 8.875 percent senior securities due in 2019 and with a
call option in 2015, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company issued both bonds in April 2011.  Ratings companies were becoming more favorable about CMA
CGM even before the restructuring and cash injection, amid signs
of a global economic recovery that would bolster demand.
Standard & Poor’s put the company on “positive” watch Nov. 28,
which meant it could upgrade its CCC+ rating, seven levels below
investment grade, within three months.  The New York-based ratings firm cited a “significant
improvement in CMA CGM’s operating cash flow and liquidity
position.” It also said the rating was constrained by a
“highly leveraged financial risk profile and the high operating
risk in the cyclical, capital-intensive and competitive
container shipping industry.”  Rating Cut  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the company by one
level to B3 in March 2012 after “weaker-than-expected”
results. That’s still one level higher than S&P’s assessment.  CMA CGM said last week it has $4.6 billion of loans and
bonds and about $600 million of cash, compared with $6.2 billion
of debt and about $630 million of cash at the end of 2009. Net
debt was 4.8 times Ebitda in the 12 months to September, from
12.9 times as of June, according to  Spread Research .  “The key challenge for CMA CGM is how they can weather the
currently soft freight rates and at the same time be able to
convince potential equity investors that the industry is on a
systemic recovery,” said Paul Marty, a Lyon, France-based
credit analyst at Spread Research. “The agreement with banks
and new investors will buy them time but it won’t insulate the
company from the downturn and the highly cyclical nature of the
industry.”  The cost to ship a 20-foot container to Europe from China
for the week ending Feb. 8 was $1,509, 49 percent higher than
the 2009 average of $1,011, the lowest in data going back to
2003, according the China Containerized Freight Index, published
by the  Shanghai Shipping Exchange . The price of marine fuel, the
vessels’ biggest expense, climbed 77 percent to a record $664.19
per metric ton, Bloomberg data show.  Lebanese Refugee  CMA CGM was founded in 1978 by a refugee from Lebanon’s
civil war, according to its website. It employs more than 17,200
people and runs a fleet of 394 vessels, ranking behind
Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and Mediterranean
Shipping Co. SA of Geneva. CMA CGM linked up in 2010 with
Yildirim Holding AS, a Turkish container-port operator, which
bought a 20 percent stake for $500 million.  The French shipper has also raised $885 million from
selling assets, including a stake in Malta Freeport Terminals to
Yildirim in the past three years, Sirat said. The investments
from Yildirim and the French government fund imply an equity
value for CMA CGM of about $2.5 billion and a total worth of
about $7.5 billion, according to Spread Research.  “CMA CGM is now in good stead,” said  Kai Miller , the
Hamburg-based head of the container desk at London ship-broker
ICAP. “It’s capitalized well in an industry that has
fundamentally changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  