-- CME Derivatives That Skirt Dodd-Frank Attracting Review by CFTC
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/cme-derivatives-skirting-dodd-frank-rules-attract-cftc-review.html
CME Group Inc.’s  decision to allow
users of its interest-rate swap future contracts to avoid
tougher oversight is drawing scrutiny from its U.S. regulator,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The contracts, which begin as futures and are converted to
swaps guaranteed by CME’s clearinghouse if held until delivery,
won’t be included in totals determining whether users face
higher collateral, capital and trading requirements, said  Laurie Bischel , a CME spokeswoman. Under CFTC rules, traders who buy or
sell more than $8 billion of swaps annually will face the
tougher standards by being designated a dealer or so-called
major-swaps participant.  “CFTC is currently reviewing this product, and we have not
yet taken a view on whether the resulting swap counts toward a
market participant’s status as a dealer or major-swap
participant,”  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Market participants are urged to consult the
rules in order to determine whether certain products would be in
compliance with CFTC swap regulations.”  Executives, traders and regulators are grappling over
whether the shift in some swaps to futures contracts, known as
futurization, constitutes a grab for market share by exchange
owners such as CME Group or is a natural progression in the
market as rules mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act take effect.  The majority of the $18 trillion energy-swaps market traded
on CME Group and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. shifted to
futures in October in part so users could avoid the higher
regulatory costs associated with being a dealer or major-swaps
participant.  Self Regulation  Futures are agreements to buy or sell an asset or commodity
at a specific price and time. They have standard sizes and
maturities, are traded on exchanges and guaranteed at
clearinghouses that take collateral from buyers and sellers.  Swaps are traditionally traded privately between buyers and
sellers, sometimes with customized maturities and sizes, and
often aren’t guaranteed at clearinghouses. Interest-rate swaps
create a series of payments between investors over the life of
the contract that are determined by how rates rise or fall.  CME, the world’s largest futures market, has the authority
to approve new contracts it offers without regulatory blessing
under its status as a self-regulatory organization, which is
granted by CFTC rules. The company used that authority for the
contracts, Bischel said.  “As futures contracts, deliverable swap futures don’t
count against the $8 billion threshold,” Bischel said in an e-
mailed statement. “Even if the futures contract goes to
delivery, delivery doesn’t count against the swaps dealing
threshold.”  Goldman Revenue  Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at Stanford University,
said the CME contracts should count toward identifying large
users if they convert to swaps upon delivery. While the shift to
futures from swaps is a normal progression, “if the delivery-
does-not-count rule is not changed, I would add this to the
negative column on futurization,” Duffie said.  The settlement mechanism embedded in the futures contract
physically delivers an interest-rate swap if held to expiration.
It was designed and patented by an executive at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., according to two people familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the details are private.  Goldman receives 12.5 percent of all revenue generated from
the CME Group contract because of the patent by managing
director  Oliver Frankel , one the people said.  Michael Shore , a CME Group spokesman, and  Michael DuVally 
of Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Underlying Assets  Futures can be used to acquire the physical assets they are
based upon, such as gold, Treasury bills, or barrels of oil.
While few futures contracts are held until the delivery date,
the possibility of delivery effectively ties the underlying
commodity to the derivative, which is used to set wholesale
prices.  The CME Group interest-rate swap futures trade in
increments of $100,000 and are based on two-, five-, 10- and 30-
year swaps. Total volume has exceeded $6 billion since they
began trading in December, with more than $1 billion of active
contracts, according to CME Group’s Shore.  The first contracts expire next month, at which point
investors could take delivery of the cleared swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 