-- Cold Symptoms May Depend on Length of Chromosome Cap
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-02-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/cold-symptoms-may-depend-on-length-of-chromosome-cap.html
DNA bits linked to age-related
illnesses may also determine cold symptoms, according to a study
that suggests the telomeres may affect human health at all
stages of life.  Telomeres  cap the ends of chromosomes and protect them from
degeneration, and length of the structures correlates with aging
and mortality in older adults. In a study published today in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association , scientists found
that people with the shortest telomeres caught more colds and
were less likely to fight off the virus than those with the
longest telomeres.  The study is one of the first to look at telomere length in
younger adults, said lead study author  Sheldon Cohen . Short
telomeres have been associated with aging-related illnesses such
as heart disease and cancer. The findings suggest how long
telomeres are may play a role in disease susceptibility in
younger people as well, Cohen said.  “There is growing evidence that this is an aging biomarker
that may have implications for health and well-being over our
life course,” said Cohen, a professor of psychology at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh, in a Feb. 15 telephone
interview.  Telomeres decrease in length every time a cell divides,
eventually leading to the cell’s demise. It’s thought that these
DNA structures put a time frame on an organism’s lifespan by
limiting the number of times cells can replicate before DNA
damage occurs.  Telomere length may be affected by a number of things
besides aging, including chronic stress, lower levels of
education, genetic markers and negative experiences in early
childhood, Cohen said.  Study Findings  Researchers wanted to find out whether there was any
variation in telomere length in younger people and whether those
with shorter telomeres were at greater risk of disease. So they
focused on white blood cells called  T-cells , which help fight
off infection in the body.  Between 2008 and 2011 they measured telomere length in
three types of these T-cells and another type of cell in 152
healthy Pittsburgh residents ages 18 to 55. The participants
were then quarantined in single rooms and given nasal drops
containing the  common cold virus . They were then monitored for
signs of infection and symptoms.  Almost 70 percent of the study’s participants showed signs
of infection with the cold virus, based on a blood test, while
22 percent went on to develop a verified infection with cold
symptoms.  Immune Cells  When scientists took a closer look at one particular T-cell
subset that’s been associated with immune function, they found
that 77 percent of those infected were in the group with the
shortest telomeres compared with 50 percent of those with the
longest telomeres. Among those who developed colds, 26 percent
were in the short telomere group compare with 13 percent with
longest telomeres.  Scientists also found that a greater percentage of those
with short telomeres were among older people in the study.  The findings, if duplicated in further research, may mean
that telomere length could help predict who needs extra
protection from vaccines or medications such as cholesterol-
lowering drugs to reduce risk of heart disease, said Elissa
Epel, a study author and an associate professor in the
Department of Psychology at the University of California, San
Francisco.  Nobel Medicine  Still, she said it’s unclear whether knowing one’s telomere
length is helpful. Epel was a founding member of Telomere Health
Inc., a Menlo Park, California-based company that provides
telomere length data to doctors and interested people. She is on
the advisory board of the company, along with  Elizabeth Blackburn , who was one of three who won the 2009 Nobel Prize in
Medicine for her work on telomeres.  “There is a lot of hype around telomere length, because it
appears to be a stronger risk factor for early disease and
mortality than traditional risk factors,” Epel said in an e-
mail today.  “It also tends to predict the range of diseases of
aging, not just cardiovascular disease. But essentially it is
just like cholesterol in that it is a risk factor that is partly
inherited, partly determined by lifestyle and is malleable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  