-- Colombia Coal Strike Halts 900,000 Tons of Shipments
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-02-19T20:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/colombia-coal-strike-halts-900-000-tons-of-shipments.html
Coal Marketing Co. , the exclusive
shipper of coal from  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  Cerrejon venture with
Xstrata Plc and Anglo American Plc in Colombia, canceled about
900,000 metric tons of shipments because of a strike.  The miners’ stoppage, which has entered its 13th day,
prompted the coal trader to cancel about 10 shipments, Chief
Executive Officer Howard Gatiss said. Cerrejon confirmed the
cancellations.  “CMC has declared force majeure on a number of shipments
because of the strike,” Gatiss said today in a telephone
interview from Dublin. “We’re in very uncertain territory as
the mine has never declared a force majeure before.”  Workers at Cerrejon, the world’s largest export-focused,
open-pit coal mine, walked off the job on Feb. 7 to push for a 7
percent pay increase and have since lowered the demand to a 5.8
percent raise. Government-brokered negotiations collapsed over
the weekend after company and union officials were unable to
agree on a time limit for wage talks.  Cerrejon produced 34.6 million tons last year, according to
its website. Along with Drummond Co., whose loading license was
suspended this month, it accounted for 80 percent of Colombia’s
coal exports of about 75 million tons in 2011, according to the
World Coal Association. Cerrejon ships half of its coal to
Europe, with another quarter going to the Americas, according to
CMC.  Ships Waiting  There are 13 bulk carriers waiting off the Colombian port
of Puerto Bolivar, from where the Cerrejon joint venture exports
coal, ship-tracking data from IHS Fairplay compiled by Bloomberg
show. A further three ships are sailing toward Colombia and
signaling Puerto Bolivar as their next destination, according to
IHS Fairplay, a division of IHS Inc., an Englewood, Colorado-
based researcher.  “The declaration of force majeure enables the company to
suspend its contractual obligations in the face of unexpected
events which include strikes,” Cerrejon said today in an e-
mailed statement. “The company regrets any inconvenience caused
to its clients by the current halt to operations, which have
stopped exporting about 90,000 tons a day.”  Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp rose for a second day, gaining 0.1 percent to $99.10 a
ton today. The benchmark price for hard-coking coal in the first
quarter is $165 a ton, down 2.9 percent from the fourth quarter
and the lowest since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Australian Storm  BHP spokesman  Ruban Yogarajah  and Anglo spokesman  James Wyatt-Tilby  and Xstrata external press officer Andy Mills, all
based in London, directed queries to Cerrejon spokesman Juan
Carlos Restrepo in Bogota, who declined to comment.  Xstrata, which also faced coal shipment delays in Australia
this month because of a storm, rose 5 pence, or 0.4 percent, to
1,117.50 pence in London today. Anglo gained 12.5 pence, or 0.6
percent, to 1,995.50 pence, while BHP gained 33 Australian
cents, or 0.9 percent, to A$39 in Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  