-- Colombia Currency Holds Within Peso of Week Low on Dollar Buying
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-19T20:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/colombian-peso-falls-for-fourth-day-on-boost-in-dollar-purchases.html
Colombia’s currency held within a
peso of a week low after the government said last week it will
buy $1 billion more to help exporters by easing gains in the
local exchange rate.  The peso was little changed at 1,790.88 per U.S. dollar
after closing yesterday at 1,791.57, the weakest since Feb. 7.
The currency has dropped 1.3 percent this year as the government
and central bank announced increased dollar purchases to stem a
rally that sent the peso to a 17-month intraday high on Jan. 2.  Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said Feb. 13 the
government will buy $1 billion to pay for interest and principal
on foreign bonds coming due this year, helping to weaken the
peso. The government said last month that it would purchase the
same amount for its oil stability fund.  “The dollar purchase announcements are having an impact on
the market,”  Daniel Escobar , the head analyst at Global
Securities brokerage in Bogota, said in a phone interview. “It
will probably be short-lived.”  The central bank said Jan. 28 it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion from February to May. A stronger peso curbs
exporters’ profits.  Yields on Colombia’s peso-denominated bonds due in 2024
were little changed at 5.02 percent as Cardenas, who is also
president of the central bank’s board, said in an interview on
RCN Radio today that the government wants lower interest rates.  The yields have fallen 17 basis points since Feb. 5, when a
report showed annual inflation slowed to 2 percent in January,
the lowest level since April 2010 and at the bottom of the
central bank’s preferred range. Policy makers will reduce the 4
percent target rate by 25 basis points on Feb. 22, according to
22 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two forecast the rate
will hold steady.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  