-- Conrad Black Loses Bid to Void Hollinger Fraud Conviction
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-19T23:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/conrad-black-loses-bid-to-void-hollinger-fraud-conviction-1-.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman convicted in 2007 on fraud and
obstruction charges, lost a bid to void that verdict on grounds
he was blocked from hiring the defense lawyers he wanted.  Black argued that the seizure by federal agents in 2005 of
about $9 million in proceeds from the sale of a Manhattan
apartment left him unable to retain criminal defense lawyers
 Brendan V. Sullivan  and  Gregory Craig , then both with
Washington’s  Williams & Connolly LLP . Craig is a former White
House Counsel under President Barack Obama. Sullivan is known
for defending U.S. Marine Corps Lieutenant-Colonel  Oliver North 
in the Iran-Contra scandal.  U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve , who presided over the
trial, today rejected Black’s argument and faulted him for not
pressing it earlier.  “I never thought there was much chance that Judge St. Eve
would rule in our favor,” Black, 68, said today in a statement
e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “The entire prosecution was a fraud
and a disgrace and any serious examination of it reveals that.”  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for acting Chicago U.S.
Attorney  Gary Shapiro , declined to comment on St. Eve’s ruling
or on Black’s comments.  Hollinger Chairman  Black led Hollinger as its chairman and chief executive
officer from October 1995 to November 2003, during which time it
was the world’s third-biggest publisher of English language
newspapers including the Chicago Sun-Times, the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph and Canada’s National Post.  He and four other Hollinger executives were accused of
skimming money from the Chicago-based company as it sold more
than $3 billion in assets between 1998 and 2001.  Black’s defense at trial was led by  Edward Genson  of
Chicago and  Edward Greenspan  of Toronto.  Black was convicted of three counts of mail fraud and one
count of obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
probe.  He successfully appealed two of the fraud convictions and
won a three-year reduction of his original 6 1/2-year sentence.
He was released from federal custody last year and is now living
in Toronto.  ‘Hotly Litigated’  “This case was hotly litigated from the beginning,” St.
Eve said in her 16-page decision. “Indeed, the docket contains
over 800 entries before the jury returned its verdict. During
the course of pretrial proceedings and the trial, petitioner
never informed the court that he was not represented by his
counsel of choice.”  She also rejected two related claims for relief and Black’s
request for an evidentiary hearing.  “I have left the country,” Black said today in his e-
mailed message. “The vagaries of the American justice system
are not my problem now.”  Former U.S. Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald , who led the office
during the Black case, is now in private practice with New York-
based  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP , where Craig is also
now a partner.  Hollinger International is now known as the  Sun-Times Media
Group Inc .  The case is Black v. U.S., 12-cv-4306, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  