-- Court Rejects LensCrafters on California Eye-Exam Rules
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-19T14:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/court-rejects-lenscrafters-on-california-eye-exam-rules.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact
California rules that bar eyeglass companies from offering on-
site vision exams, rejecting contentions that the system favors
local eye doctors over consumers and multistate optical
businesses.  The justices today turned away an appeal by companies
including LensCrafters Inc., whose parent  Luxottica Group SpA  is
the world’s biggest maker of eyeglasses. LensCrafters argued
that the rules unconstitutionally discriminate against
interstate commerce.  The appeal had support from  Walgreen Co. , which said a
lower court ruling upholding the California rules would let
states bar drugstores from offering health-care services in
competition with doctors. States might also restrict Internet
commerce to protect local businesses, Walgreen said.  The lower court decision “portends serious trouble for all
out-of-state sellers, not merely the sellers of eyewear involved
in this case,” the Deerfield, Illinois-based drugstore chain
argued in court papers.  The ruling came from the San Francisco-based 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers nine western states.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts  has
shown little interest in using the Constitution’s commerce
clause to overturn state laws as too protectionist.  California urged the Supreme Court not to get involved,
saying the restrictions are part of a broader effort to ensure
eye exams aren’t influenced by commercial motivations.  Conflict of Interest  “Co-location can result in conflicts of interest for an
optometrist,” the state argued. An optometrist might face
pressure “to act in a manner that promotes the optical store’s
commercial interests, such as sale of the store’s good or
limiting the time spent with a patient to maximize prescription
volume.”  LensCrafters said the rules put opticians at a competitive
disadvantage because California optometrists who don’t work for
an eyeglass company are allowed to sell eyewear as part of their
services, offering their patients the option of one-stop
shopping.  LensCrafters, whose parent company is based in Milan,
accused California of trying to “drive national eyewear
retailers from the state.”  Eye Care Centers of America Inc. and the National
Association of Optometrists and Opticians joined LensCrafters in
pressing the Supreme Court appeal.  The case is National Association of Optometrists and
Opticians v. Harris, 12-461.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  