-- Danone to Cut 900 Jobs After 2012 Profitability Declines
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-02-19T07:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/danone-to-cut-900-jobs-after-full-year-profitability-declines.html
Danone , the owner of Evian bottled-
water and Activia yogurt, said it plans to cut 900  jobs  in
Europe to help address declining profitability as consumption
weakens in the southern part of the region.  Both management and administrative positions will be shed
in 26 countries across Europe, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement as it reported a slight gain in profit. The
job cuts are part of a plan announced in December to reduce
costs by 200 million euros ($267 million) over two years.  Demand for Danone’s dairy products, which account for more
than half of sales, has weakened in southern Europe as the
region’s debt crisis pushes shoppers toward cheaper private-
label products.  Nelson Peltz , the activist investor who said in
November that his Trian Fund Management LP owned a 1 percent
stake in the company, has called for management to pare costs
and focus on cash returns.  “2013 will be a year of transition,” Chief Executive
Officer  Franck Riboud  said in today’s statement. “A year aimed
at returning our activities as a whole to strong, profitable
growth by 2014.”  Net income from continuing operations rose to 1.82 billion
euros last year, from 1.75 billion euros a year earlier, the
company said. The average  estimate  of 28 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 1.81 billion euros. The trading operating margin
narrowed 0.5 percentage point to 14.2 percent, while sales rose
5.4 percent on a like-for-like basis, exceeding 20 billion euros
for the first time.  2013 Targets  Danone said it expects revenue in 2013 to rise at least 5
percent, while the  operating margin  will probably decline by 30
basis points to 50 basis points on a like-for-like basis.
Business conditions will remain “negative” in Europe and
positive elsewhere, the company said.  Peltz, who helped bring changes to companies including H.J.
Heinz Co., Wendy’s Co. and  Family Dollar Stores Inc. , has also
called on Danone to avoid costly acquisitions.  The French company said Feb. 1 it won’t attempt a hostile
takeover to increase its stake in Yakult Honsha Co., confirming
a Nikkei newspaper report. Danone is already the Japanese milk-
drink maker’s biggest shareholder, with a 20 percent stake.  The company studies all acquisition opportunities that
arise, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse  said on a
call with reporters today. He had no comment on Nestle SA’s
plans to divest assets after its acquisition of an infant
nutrition unit of Pfizer Inc.  Dairy Products  Like-for-like sales increased 4.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, exceeding analyst estimates of a 3.7 percent gain. The
measure excludes divestments and currency changes.  “The fourth-quarter results were a bit better than
expected in terms of growth, though the margin guidance was
slightly disappointing,” said  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING
in Amsterdam. “It’s evidence of the very tough situation in
southern Europe for Danone.”  Sales of dairy products, which include Actimel drinking
yogurt, increased 1.3 percent in the quarter on a comparable
basis. The unit generates more than half of Danone’s revenue.  Revenue from Danone’s bottled-water business increased 8.5
percent in the quarter, helped by increased demand in  emerging
markets , where the company gets about half its sales. Sales of
baby-nutrition products climbed 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  