-- Deloitte & Touche Sued by Funds Over ChinaCast Losses
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-19T16:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/deloitte-touche-sued-by-funds-over-chinacast-losses.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP was sued by a
group of investment funds over “tens of millions of dollars in
losses” allegedly caused by the accounting firm’s failure to
properly audit ChinaCast Education Corp.  The funds, including Columbia Pacific Opportunity Fund LP
and Fir Tree Value Master Fund LP, are seeking to recover losses
in ChinaCast securities purchased from March 31, 2008, to March
30, 2012, according to a lawsuit filed in federal court in
Manhattan.  “Deloitte recklessly failed to conduct even the most
basic audit procedures and blatantly violated numerous
accounting standards,” the funds said in the Feb. 15 complaint,
citing losses in the “tens of millions.”  The company at issue in the case was formed originally as
Great Wall Acquisition Corp., a special-purpose entity created
with the intent to merge with another firm, the funds said in
the complaint. In 2006, it purchased Chinese e-learning company
ChinaCast Communication Holdings Ltd. and began trading on the
Nasdaq exchange under the name of ChinaCast Education Corp.,
according to the filing.  The company took out massive loans and pledged its assets
to third parties without making disclosure to investors,
according to the complaint. Its former chief executive officer
also engaged in “brazen looting” by diverting $35 million in
cash to parties outside the company, the funds alleged.  ChinaCast said in May that Nasdaq had decided to delist it
from the exchange.  Chris Faile, a spokesman for Deloitte, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Special Situations Fund II QP LP v. Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu CPA LTD., 13-cv-1094, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christie Smythe  in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  