-- Detroit May Get State Manager as Fiscal Emergency Shown
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-02-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/detroit-may-get-state-manager-as-finances-in-disarray.html
A fiscal emergency grips Detroit,
according to a report that opens a path to a state takeover of
 General Motors Co. ’s home town, citing deficits that have
stymied city officials after a $326.6 million gap last year.  “It doesn’t have to be adversarial,” state Treasurer  Andy Dillon  said yesterday at a news briefing about the report,
produced by a six-member review team that included Dillon.
“Detroit is fixable and brighter days are ahead.”  Michigan’s most-populous city needs help to take difficult
steps and make crucial changes to restore its long-term
viability, according to the report, ordered by Governor  Rick Snyder . The conclusion lets the first-term Republican name an
emergency manager to take control of Detroit’s finances, a move
that may spur a political backlash.  The governor won’t make a decision for “a week or two,”
according to  Sara Wurfel , a spokeswoman. He has 30 days to
decide, and can instead seek to modify and enforce an April
consent agreement, crafted to avert a takeover. That deal
envisioned spending cuts and concessions from city workers.  Detroit would be the sixth and largest  Michigan  city to get
an emergency manager, if Snyder takes that step. Several school
districts, including Detroit’s, are already operated by a state
overseer.  “I am not surprised by the findings of the state’s
financial review team,” Mayor  Dave Bing  said in a statement.
“My administration will stay focused on the initiatives that
most directly impact the citizens of Detroit: public safety,
public lighting, transportation, recreation and neighborhood
blight removal.”  Resources Needed  An emergency manager would “need resources -- particularly
in the form of cash and additional staff,” Bing said.  Snyder probably has to call for a state takeover, said  Doug Bernstein , a lawyer specializing in bankruptcies at Plunkett
Cooney PC in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. He said the challenge
is to find someone for the job willing to take on a temporary
role that will be met with hostility in the city.  “The risk is they have to just settle for somebody, or
they may have to overpay for somebody,” Bernstein said. “Maybe
there’s someone who is capable and doesn’t need the job but
wants to do some good for the city.”  Snyder has said he has been interviewing candidates for the
Detroit post in anticipation of the report’s conclusions.  State’s Fault  The city’s plight was caused by state aid cuts, said city
resident Ralph King, 56. “If this is going to minimize the
elected people of the city of Detroit, who we chose to handle
the problem, then I have some disagreement with it.”  The city is on track to have a cash shortfall of more than
$100 million by June, according to the report. Had it not
borrowed to help cover earlier deficits,  Detroit  would have had
an accumulated funding gap of $936.8 million by June of last
year, the review team said. They said the city has amassed more
than $14 billion in debt and long-term liabilities for pensions
and other post-employment benefits for municipal workers.  “No satisfactory plan exists to resolve a serious
financial problem,” according to the report.  The reviewers also cited provisions in Detroit’s governing
charter that impede meaningful restructuring by city officials.
The measures include requirements that make changing future
retirement benefits “all but impossible,” they said.  Bankruptcy Option  Detroit still could seek bankruptcy court protection as an
alternative to a state-appointed fiscal manager, Dillon said in
an interview. He said that is neither inevitable nor desirable.  “I don’t think it’s necessary to navigate the problems in
the city,” Dillon said. He said previous municipal bankruptcies
in the U.S. haven’t led to the kind of quick restructuring that
revived General Motors.  Detroit’s unfunded obligations -- especially $7 billion in
retiree health-care promises -- are the biggest challenge, and
the city charter prevents potential solutions, Dillon said.  City Council President  Charles Pugh  told the Detroit News
that the report’s conclusions were anticipated.  “The question is, what is the governor going to do,” Pugh
said, according to the newspaper’s website.  Pugh didn’t immediately respond to a message left by
telephone after normal business hours seeking comment on the
report. Council members  JoAnn Watson  and Kwame Kenyatta, who
have both been critical of state efforts to take over city
operations, also didn’t respond to e-mails or telephone calls
for comment.  ‘Bitter Pill’  “It’s a bitter pill to swallow” to have the state come in
to fix the city, said Charlotte Patnaude, 70, a lifelong
Detroiter. “I’m sad it’s come down to this, but we don’t seem
to be able to get enough minds thinking on the same page.”  Tensions heightened last month when the council balked at a
proposal to put Detroit’s Belle Isle Park under state
management, cutting $6 million in city maintenance costs. Some
Detroiters opposed the deal, calling it a seizure of city
assets.  Snyder expressed frustration at the rejection. The offer
would have led to improvements of the park on the 983-acre
Detroit River island, which has fallen into disrepair.  With the consent agreement failing to sufficiently ease the
city’s financial strains after more than six months, Snyder in
December sought a review, leading to yesterday’s report.  A 1990 law governs emergency managers. Michigan voters in
November repealed a 2011 measure, championed by Snyder, that
gave managers more sweeping authority, such as the power to
cancel union contracts, sell city assets and cut officials’ pay.  In December, Snyder and the Republican-led legislature
enacted a new law to replace the one repealed by voters.
However, it doesn’t take effect until March 27. It gives
emergency managers already in place the power to cancel or
change union contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Christoff  in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  