-- Deutsche Bank South Africa Head Quits on Lack of Development
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-20T12:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/deutsche-bank-south-africa-head-quits-citing-lack-of-development.html
Deutsche Bank AG ’s chief country
officer for South Africa,  Herman Bosman , said he’s resigning
after six years because the role doesn’t hold enough potential.  Bosman, 44, will stay until Aug. 31 and may provide
assistance until the end of this year, he said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg yesterday. He said that he and his
family plan to remain in the country after considering a range
of global opportunities within the Frankfurt-based bank.  “When you’ve decided you want to be in South Africa, then
you must consider if there’s development opportunities in your
current role,” said Bosman. “If not, then unfortunately you
need to consider going outside.”  Deutsche Bank was the biggest adviser over the past year on
South African mergers and acquisitions, including Absa Group
Ltd.’s 18.3 billion-rand ($2.1 billion) acquisition of the bulk
of Barclays Plc’s Africa assets. Deutsche Bank, which had about
9 percent of the country’s equity capital market last year,
remains “committed and excited” about South Africa and will
start searching for his successor, Bosman said.  “I still think South Africa is a land of opportunity,”
said Bosman, formerly head of corporate finance for Rand
Merchant Bank, the investment banking arm of FirstRand Ltd.
“There are things we need to address, but this is my home.”  Deutsche Bank hired Bosman, who has a master’s in Law from
the University of Johannesburg, in 2006. When he joined Deutsche
Bank, it was ranked second in mergers and acquisitions in South
Africa.  “Bosman has contributed significantly to the progress and
success of Deutsche Bank in South Africa,” the German lender
said in an e-mailed statement. “He will assist the group in
finding a suitable successor, ensuring a smooth transition of
leadership and stakeholder relationships and will remain active
on current mandates and projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  