-- Deutsche Annington Said to Consider $1.3 Billion CMBS
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-02-19T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/deutsche-annington-said-to-consider-1-3-billion-cmbs.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG,
Germany’s largest residential landlord, is considering issuing a
commercial mortgage-backed security to help pay off debt before
an initial public offering, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Deutsche Annington, owned by  Guy Hands ’ Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., may raise as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) by selling the CMBS, one of the people said. The
Bochum-based company is also weighing other financing options
such as mortgages and syndicated loans, the person said. Both
asked not to be identified because no decision has been made.  The real estate company plans to use the funds to repay
debt maturing this year and next to bolster its balance sheet
ahead of an IPO that will probably take place in the fourth
quarter, the person said.  A spokesman for Deutsche Annington declined to comment and
a Terra Firma spokesman didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment.  In December, Deutsche Annington restructured about 3.8
billion euros of debt in the largest deal of its kind in Europe.
The company said in July that a restructuring would allow it to
sell shares to the public for the first time.  Property Boom  Under the terms of the restructuring agreement, 1 billion
euros must be repaid this year and 700 million euros is due in
2014. Deutsche Annington  has already raised 700 million euros 
toward the 2013 maturity. Deutsche Annington must also repay 1.4
billion euros of the debt before paying any dividends, one of
the people said.  Terra Firma, which created Deutsche Annington in 2001 after
buying 65,000 homes, is planning the IPO to profit from a
residential property boom in Europe’s largest economy. The FTSE
EPRA/Nareit index of German property stocks gained 31 percent in
the past 12 months.  Deutsche Annington has 186,000 apartments in cities
including Berlin and Cologne, making it the biggest owner of
German homes.  Gagfah SA , with 145,000 homes, is the second
biggest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
 Neil Callanan  in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  