-- Di Canio Available for West Ham Job, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-19T10:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/di-canio-available-for-west-ham-job-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Di Canio Move  Paolo Di Canio ’s resignation from Swindon makes the Italian
a prime candidate to return to West Ham to replace  Sam Allardyce ,  the Daily Mirror said .  The former West Ham player managed Swindon for 21 months,
leading the squad to promotion from League Two. It’s in sixth
place in League One, three points from the top. Di Canio
resigned after a planned ownership change wasn’t approved this
week, the newspaper said.  Allardyce’s contract may not be renewed, depending on how
the Hammers finish the season, the Mirror said.  Dzeko Exit  Manchester City striker  Edin Dzeko  may return to Germany as
Borussia Dortmund lines up the Bosnian, valued at 20 million
pounds ($31 million), to replace Bayern Munich-bound Robert
Lewandowski,  the Sun said .  Dzeko, 26, isn’t a regular starter for City even though
he’s scored 13 goals this season, the newspaper said. He’d be
willing to accept a pay cut from his 120,000 pound-a-week salary
to move, the Sun said.  Chelsea Jeers  Chelsea captain  John Terry  said supporters have the right
to complain about manager  Rafael Benitez  unless the team starts
to win games,  the Independent said .  The Blues are 16 points behind league leader Manchester
United and Benitez, who joined in November, has been booed and
criticized by fans, the newspaper said.  Portsmouth Fails  Banker  Keith Harris ’s offer to buy Portsmouth was rejected
by the Football League, and the League One team can only be
saved by a successful bid from a supporters group, the Daily
Telegraph said.  Harris offered to purchase the team and give 15 percent of
the ownership to fans and financial supporters, the newspaper
said. The League’s board dismissed the bid, saying that its
focus will be on the Pompey Supporters Trust offer, the
Telegraph said.  Later this week, the Trust may move closer to acquiring the
club when a court sets a final date for the valuation of Fratton
Park, followed by a high court hearing that will permit the
takeover, the newspaper said.  Amorebieta for Arsenal  Arsenal is considering a bid for Athletic Bilbao defender
Fernando Amorebieta, who will be allowed to leave the Spanish
club after the season,  the Mirror said.   The 27-year-old from Venezuela played more than 250 times
for Bilbao, and his agent said he rejected an offer from Anzhi
in Russia, the newspaper said. He said negotiations have started
with Arsenal, with Amorebieta possibly joining in June, the
Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  