-- Dow Chemical Denies Conspiring to Fix Urethane Prices
-- B y   D a n   M a r g o l i e s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-19T23:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/dow-chemical-denies-conspiring-to-fix-urethane-prices.html
A  Dow Chemical Co.  lawyer told a
jury that the company didn’t conspire with other chemical makers
to fix the price of urethane products used in the manufacture of
cars, appliances and furniture.  Lawyers for Dow and suing urethane buyers delivered closing
arguments today in federal court in Kansas City, Kansas, at the
end of a four-week trial. The plaintiffs seek $1.125 billion in
damages, one of their lawyers said today.  The case started in 2005 with allegations that Dow plotted
with  BASF SE , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical
Co. Only Midland, Michigan-based Dow didn’t settle.  “What kind of cartel is it where everybody is doing
exactly what they would be doing otherwise?”  David Bernick , a
Dow lawyer, asked the jury of five women and two men. “There’s
a difference between a conversation and an agreement, this is
key,” he said, denying his client ever made such a pact.  At the center of the case are urethane-based products used
in the automotive, construction, appliance and furniture
industries. The plaintiffs contend that Dow and other companies
illegally plotted to fix product prices in violation of U.S.
law, attorney Joseph Goldberg said in court today.  “An agreement can be just a wink and a nod,” Goldberg
told the jury. He said such schemes aren’t agreed upon in
corporate board rooms; rather, they’re hatched in back rooms, on
golf courses and over cocktails.  ‘Overwhelming’ Evidence  “If it quacks like a duck and it walks like a duck, it can
be a duck, even if you don’t see it,” he said, calling evidence
of the price-fixing conspiracy “overwhelming.”  Bernick, the Dow lawyer, said the purchasers included
industrial companies such as 3M Corp. and  General Motors Co .  “When they don’t want to raise prices and we want to raise
prices, they tell us to pound sand,” he said.  The trial before U.S. District Judge  John W. Lungstrum 
began on Jan. 23. Lungstrum last year denied a motion for
judgment in Dow’s favor, ruling that the claims of a conspiracy
from 1999 to 2003 were sufficient to go before a jury.  “Each piece of evidence supports the other, such that a
reasonable jury could find that an agreement existed,”
Lungstrum wrote in his December ruling, citing testimony from
executives at Dow and  Bayer AG , which settled in 2006 and
deposited $55.3 million into a settlement fund.  Case Transferred  Dow, BASF, Huntsman and Lyondell were first sued in federal
court in New Jersey. The case was transferred to a multidistrict
docket in Kansas City as part of litigation involving more than
60 plaintiffs, some of whom later opted out of the group
litigation.  Bernick today told the jury the purchasers’ case was
“empty of truth, empty of facts and empty of fairness.”  “What Dow did was wrong,” Goldberg countered in his
rebuttal. “It colluded with its competitors and entered into a
price-fixing conspiracy.”  Jurors deliberated for about three hours before adjourning
for the day. They will resume their work at 8 a.m. Kansas City
time tomorrow.  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-
md-1616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Margolies in the federal courthouse in Kansas City, Kansas,
at   margolies@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  