-- Headache Cure Seen Helping Sanofi Gain Market: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-02-20T10:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/headache-cure-seen-helping-sanofi-gain-market-corporate-india.html
Sanofi India Ltd. , a unit of
France’s largest  drugmaker , is adding over-the-counter products
to help double its share of the $5.1 billion local market and
revive profit, which has dropped for four straight quarters.  The  company  will introduce as many as 10 new products to
treat ailments that won’t require a prescription, such as
headaches, to target a 4 percent market share in the next five
years, Anindya Chowdhury, senior director of Sanofi India’s
consumer health-care division, said in an interview in Chennai.
It will also  boost sales  of its existing portfolio that includes
products from acquisitions, he said.  Sanofi India is joining GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare
Ltd. and Cipla Ltd. in targeting a segment that KPMG estimates
is expanding at a faster pace than the nation’s drug industry.
Fewer regulatory restrictions, increased health-care awareness
and the freedom to advertise products such as Sanofi’s Combiflam
Plus help such products generate a 25 percent profit margin,
according to KPMG.  “In India, people are increasingly focused on wellness, be
it their fitness regime, diet or nutritional supplements,” said
Chowdhury. “This has fueled the growth in the consumer health
segment.”  Sanofi India , which has declined 1.3 percent this year,
fell 2 percent to close at 2,275 rupees in Mumbai. The BSE India
Healthcare Index has declined 1.7 percent this year.  Profitable Segment  Companies are widening their portfolio of over-the-counter
products as these can be sold without a prescription, allowing
drugmakers to market them and access patients directly,
according to Amit Mookim, national industry head for health care
at KPMG in India. The segment faces less impact of the
government’s pricing policy and the earnings margin before
interest, tax and depreciation is about 25 percent, he said.  Sanofi India posted an  Ebitda margin  of 20.1 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign drugmakers “will be able to utilize the
distribution channel more effectively and profitably by
launching a drug in the OTC segment,” said Mookim. “MNCs will
find it easier to leverage the brand name more effectively.”  In December, India announced details of a policy aimed at
making drugs more affordable. Prices of 348 medicines deemed
essential, including antibiotics, blood pressure drugs and
cancer medicines, will be capped at the average price of all
brands that have a market share exceeding 1 percent, the
department of pharmaceuticals said.  Majority of Sanofi India’s over-the-counter medicines are
not likely to come under price controls, according to  Ranjit Kapadia , senior vice president at Centrum Broking Ltd. in
Mumbai.  Acquisition Benefits  The company has benefited from the  acquisition  of a unit of
Universal Medicare Ltd., Kapadia said. The purchase gave Sanofi
a portfolio of branded formulations including vitamins,
antioxidants, mineral supplements and liver tonics.  “You cannot expect all the 40 products will grow more than
the industry,” said Kapadia. “On an average for the entire
basket, if it is growing more than the industry then it is very
good.”  The drugmaker doesn’t provide a breakup of its segment
revenue and profit.  Sanofi India has posted four consecutive quarters of
decline in net income. Profit would probably have dropped 9
percent to 1.74 billion rupees in 2012, according to the median
of eight  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Pressure  “The company’s margins are under pressure because of
increased marketing spend,” said  Rahul Sharma , an analyst with
Karvy Stock Broking Ltd., who recommends selling the stock.
“Once the new pricing policy comes into effect, Sanofi’s
earnings will be impacted by 20 percent,” he said, referring to
some of Sanofi India’s prescription drugs likely coming under
the new pricing regime.  Sanofi India this month unveiled Combiflam Plus, a headache
treatment that combines paracetamol and caffeine, in the
country. It has been selling Combiflam, a pain relief medicine,
for more than two decades in India.  “Data suggests that over 70 percent of men and women
experience an episode of headache every month and 36 percent
suffer from it weekly,” said Chowdhury. “That’s why we said
that if it is such a big problem, then we should be there.”  In addition to Combiflam Plus, Sanofi is focusing on
Combiflam cream, for local pain relief, and Seacod, a health
supplement.  Name Changes  Sanofi’s Combiflam Plus will compete with GlaxoSmithKline’s
Crocin Pain Relief and analgesics sold by other companies.  Sanofi India was incorporated in May 1956 under the name
Hoechst Fedco Pharma Pvt. Over the years, its name has changed
several times and in May 2012 its name was changed from Aventis
Pharma Ltd. It has manufacturing plants in Ankleshwar, in
western Gujarat state, and Goa, on the west coast, according to
its  website .  Sanofi, based in Paris, operates in India through five
entities including Sanofi-Synthelabo (India) Ltd., Sanofi
Pasteur India Pvt., Shantha Biotechnics Ltd. and Genzyme India
Pvt. Asia accounted for  8.1 percent  of Sanofi’s 34.95 billion
euros ($46.6 billion) of sales in 2012. It didn’t provide a
breakdown for India.  In the initial years after an over-the-counter medicine is
introduced, money is invested on building the brand, said Sujay
Shetty, pharma leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers in India.  “Once you build brands it generates steady amount of
volume and cash flow and is not subjected to as much
competition,” said Shetty. “Revenues are sticky. They do not
go away so easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  