-- Medtronic’s European Sales Decline as Economic Woes Hurt
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-19T21:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/medtronic-s-european-sales-decline-as-economic-woes-hurt.html
Medtronic Inc. , the world’s biggest
maker of heart-rhythm devices, said revenue from Europe fell,
sending the company’s shares down the most in three months.  European sales dropped about 1 percent in the three months
ended Jan. 25, after growing 2 to 3 percent in the previous
three quarters, Chief Financial Officer  Gary Ellis  said. The
sales decline took hold in January across all the Minneapolis-
based company’s divisions and hasn’t abated, he said.  “That’s a 3 percent or 4 percent change in a $1 billion
business,” Ellis said in a telephone interview. “It has a
meaningful impact. A lot of that happened in January, and that
gives us more pause.”  Medtronic shares fell 2.8 percent to $45.80 in New York,
the biggest drop since November, on the concern about the
European sales. The weakness expanded beyond the countries in
southern Europe, where an economic slowdown has been present for
some time, said Chief Executive Officer  Omar Ishrak .  “There is no question there is softness in the European
overall economy,” Ishrak said. “We aren’t sitting around
waiting for it to improve. We can catalyze growth with
information about the value we are providing with our products.
We are providing this data more clearly and with a greater sense
of urgency.”  Market Reach  Ishrak, who took the helm at Medtronic in June 2011, has
worked to broaden the company’s geographical reach and expand
its product offerings so it can withstand the natural ebbs and
flows of the business. The slowdown in Europe, seen among
patients and governments looking to cut costs, was balanced by a
20 percent surge in emerging market growth and an increase in
implant rates for defibrillators and spinal products.  “While we continue to execute in areas we can control,
including growing our markets, we’re at the same time early in
the process of building a business that is strong enough to
offset the variables that are beyond our control,” Ishrak said
today in a conference call with analysts. “We’re only at the
beginning of establishing our track record.”  Net income  increased to $988 million, or 97 cents a share,
from $935 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-
based company said today in a statement. Earnings excluding one-
time items of 93 cents a share beat by 1 cent the average of 24
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Turning Around’  The European slowdown in January was the biggest surprise
of the quarter, and muted the advances seen in the spine and
pacemaker markets, said  Derrick Sung , an analyst with Bernstein
Research in New York, in a note to investors. The core spine
business is “clearly turning around,” he said.  “This represents the last of Medtronic’s major
businesses in which the company is transforming from a share
loser to a share gainer,” he wrote. “Though Europe adds a hint
of caution to our outlook for the company, we continue to see
our investment thesis remaining intact. In particular, the
turnaround in the U.S. businesses appears well on track and will
be further fueled by upcoming new U.S. product launches.”  The company reiterated its  earnings  forecast for fiscal
2013 of $3.66 to $3.70 given on Jan. 7.  Medtronic shares have risen 15 percent in the past  year .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  