-- Lehman Brothers Sets Third Creditor Payment for April 4
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-19T14:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/lehman-brothers-sets-third-creditor-payment-for-april-4.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  set
its third payment to creditors for April 4 after getting a
judge’s approval to abandon a previously fixed schedule for
returning money.  The record date for the latest payment to holders of claims
against the defunct investment bank is Feb. 23, Lehman said in a
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan on Feb. 15. It
didn’t say how much it would pay out.  Lehman, which is still liquidating and trying to cut claims
after exiting bankruptcy court protection last year, has so far
paid creditors about 9 cents on the dollar, or half of what it
expects to pay by about 2016. It said in December that it raised
$3.9 billion for creditors in the quarter ended Sept. 30 and
another $1.6 billion in October and November, while its
$6.5 billion sale of apartment owner Archstone was due to close
by March 26.  Last week, as part of an $8.6 billion fight with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , New York-based Lehman said it would seek
international judicial assistance in forcing  Bruno Iksil , the
former JPMorgan trader known as the London Whale, to answer
questions about losses Lehman says spurred unnecessary
collateral calls that helped force it into bankruptcy.  Lehman, which is running the most expensive bankruptcy in
history, has paid managers and advisers more than $2 billion
since September 2008. Creditors include Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  UBS AG , the New York Giants professional football team and
Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  