-- Heinz Deal Trading Triggers FBI Criminal Investigation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-20T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/heinz-deal-trading-anomalies-are-subject-of-fbi-investigation.html
The Federal Bureau of Investigation
is working with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in a
criminal probe of trading “anomalies” before the announcement
of a deal to buy H.J. Heinz Co., said  Peter Donald , a spokesman
for the FBI’s New York office.  “The FBI is aware of trading anomalies the day before the
Heinz announcement,” Donald said. “The FBI is consulting with
the SEC to determine if a crime was committed.”  The SEC on Feb. 15 sued “unknown” traders over
“suspicious trading” of Heinz shares through what the
regulator said was an account at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The
trades came a day before  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.  and 3G Capital Inc. announced their $23 billion takeover,
the SEC said.  The SEC alleged in a Manhattan federal court complaint that
the unidentified traders earned $1.7 million by purchasing the
ketchup maker’s stock just before the announcement.  The trading before the deal, which Heinz and 3G called the
largest ever in the food industry, was done through a Zurich-
based account and involved call-option contracts, the SEC said.  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  in Manhattan, who on Feb.
15 granted an SEC request for a temporary freeze on the assets
in the Goldman Sachs account, directed anyone connected to it to
appear before him on Feb. 22 and explain why the assets
shouldn’t be permanently restrained.  Court Order  Sanjay Wadhwa , senior associate director of the SEC’s New
York office, said the agency swiftly identified the Goldman
Sachs account used to conduct the trades.  “Despite the obvious logistical challenges of
investigating traders involving offshore accounts, we moved
swiftly to locate and freeze the assets of these suspicious
traders, who now have to make an appearance in court to explain
their trading if they want assets unfrozen,” Wadhwa said.  The FBI’s Donald declined to comment when asked if agents
had identified the individuals who used the account.  Besides the asset freeze, Rakoff ordered that the
unidentified holders of the account be prohibited from
“destroying, mutilating, concealing, altering or disposing of
records of any kind” related to the account.  The account used by the defendants was identified in the
SEC complaint as “Switzerland GS Bank IC Buy Open List Options
GS & CO c/o Zurich Office.”  Goldman Cooperating  Tiffany Galvin , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs Group, has
said the bank is “cooperating with the SEC’s investigation.”  The defendants, using the Goldman Sachs account, invested
almost $90,000 in option positions the day before the deal was
announced, the SEC said. As a result, their position increased
to more than $1.8 million, a rise of almost 2,000 percent.  The SEC said that the traders had material nonpublic
information about the impending deal when they used an omnibus
account in Zurich to buy 2,533 out-of-the-money June call
options, which had a strike price of $65 on Feb. 13. Shares
closed that day at $60.48.  The purchase of these so-called “June $65 call options,”
which expire on June 22, 2013, was highly unusual, the SEC said.
On Feb. 12, only 14 were purchased, regulators said, while on
Feb. 11, no such options were bought. Since Nov. 14, no more
than 61 such contracts had been purchased on any other single
day, the commission said.  Options Trading  Trading in the options gives the right to buy the
underlying shares and profit when the stock rises. The timing
and size of the trades were deemed highly suspicious by the SEC
because the accounts through which the traders purchased the
options had no history of trading Heinz securities in the last
six months.  Heinz shares jumped 20 percent to $72.50 following the
announcement that Berkshire Hathaway and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G
Capital agreed to buy the Pittsburgh-based company. As a result
of the takeover announcement, the price of the June call options
jumped to a close of $7.33 on Feb. 14 from 40 cents the day
before, an increase of more than 1,700 percent.  Trading volume skyrocketed on Feb. 14 on news of the
acquisition, the SEC alleged, reaching more than 64 million
shares, an increase of more than 1,700 percent, the SEC said.
The increase was the highest level since Jan. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suspicious Trades  “The timing, size and profitability of the defendants’
trades, as well as the lack of prior history of significant
trading in Heinz,” made the transactions “highly suspicious,”
the commission said in its complaint, which accuses the
unidentified defendants of violating the Exchange Act.  Neither 3G nor any of its employees has been accused of
wrongdoing.  The SEC has been increasing its focus on insider trading by
overseas buyers of U.S.-traded securities. As of December, the
SEC had filed three times as many emergency asset-freeze
requests in such cases since 2010 as in the prior two years. The
regulator cited suspect trading patterns, typically before
mergers or other market-moving news.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Certain Unknown Traders in Securities of H.J. Heinz Co., 13-cv-
1080, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  