-- Melco Declines as New Engine Sinks Baidu: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-19T21:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/melco-declines-as-new-engine-sinks-baidu-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  slid to a nine-week
low in New York as  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd.  sank on
concern over Macau gambling revenue and Baidu Inc. retreated
after the introduction of a new search engine.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slipped 0.9 percent to 95.52
yesterday. Melco, a casino operator in the Chinese territory of
Macau, tumbled the most since Dec. 4 after HSBC Global Research
said the city’s gambling revenue trailed its projections in
February.  Baidu , China’s most-used search engine, slid to a two-
month low.  Guangshen Railway Co.  surged 13 percent on prospects
freight rates may be adjusted by the government.  The China-US gauge followed the  Shanghai Composite Index 
lower amid concern policy makers will impose measures to damp
property prices before next month’s National People’s Congress.
Data this month showed new home prices in the country rose the
most in two years in January. Mainland Chinese markets resumed
trading Feb. 18 after the week-long Lunar New Year holiday.  “Talk about property measures is one reason behind the
retreat in Chinese equities,”  Edmund Harriss , who oversees $300
million as a fund manager at Guinness Atkinson Asset Management
LLC in London, including Chinese stocks, said by phone. “People
have just come back from the Chinese New Year and they are
waiting to see what the new government’s new policies will be.”  The Chinese government may increase borrowing costs for
second-home buyers, and may also boost down-payment
requirements, the Shanghai Daily reported, citing an
unidentified banking official.  China ETF  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., fell for the first time in
five trading days, losing 2.2 percent to $39.44 in New York, the
lowest close since Dec. 24. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
gained 0.7 percent to 1,530.94 in the first day of trading this
week after a U.S. holiday Feb. 18.  Melco’s American depositary receipts dropped 6.4 percent to
$19.46, the biggest one-day slide since Dec. 4. The casino
company’s ADRs, each representing three underlying shares,
traded 6.4 percent  below  its Hong Kong stock, the widest
discount since July.  Macau’s gambling revenue for the first 17 days of February
came in at 15.2 billion patacas ($1.9 billion), below HSBC’s
estimates,  Sean Monaghan , a Singapore-based analyst at the bank
wrote in a research note dated Feb. 18. VIP, or high-stakes,
gamblers may have stayed away to avoid crowds during the New
Year, according to HSBC.  Baidu Cut  Macau tourist arrivals pulled back to 127,412 Feb. 16 from
a peak of 166,581 Feb. 12 during last week’s holiday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from Macau government statistics.
While arrivals from the Chinese mainland over the New Year rose
20 percent from a year earlier, that has not filtered into
revenue growth for the industry, CLSA Ltd. said in a research
note yesterday.  Beijing-based Baidu slipped 2.3 percent to a two-month low
of $92.18 in New York. Goldman Sachs AG analysts led by  Piyush Mubayi  cut their  price target  for the company to $89 from $135
in a note issued yesterday. Goldman cited concern over Baidu’s
ability to maintain its leadership of the search market as
online queries are shifting away from desktop computers to
mobile devices.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, has introduced a  search engine , the IDG News Service
reported yesterday. Hangzhou-based Alibaba declined to say
exactly when the site started, though it has been  available 
since at least Feb. 18, according to IDG. The s.aliyun.com
website is dubbed the Ali cloud search and directs users to hot
topics, according to the search engine’s website.  ‘Only Threat’  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. , an Internet company that started
its own search engine in August, rallied 0.8 percent to a one-
month high of $32.90, extending gains into a fifth day.  “China’s search engine market will be very interesting and
competitive in 2013,”  Henry Guo , a senior analyst at research
firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC, which focuses on technology
and media companies, said yesterday by phone from San Francisco.
“On the desktop side, Qihoo is the only threat to Baidu.”  Guangzhou-based  China Southern Airlines Co. , Asia’s biggest
airline by passenger numbers, sank 5.3 percent to $27.52 in U.S.
trading, the steepest slump since June 15.  A China Southern airplane returned to the city of Harbin
after part of its exterior fell off mid-flight Feb. 18, China’s
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the company’s
branch in Heilongjiang province where the incident occurred. The
aircraft was an Airbus A320, China National Radio reported on
the same day.  Sina Forecast  Sina Corp. , owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo service,
lost 4.5 percent to $53.48 yesterday, the biggest drop in two
weeks, before reporting fourth-quarter earnings after U.S.
trading ended. The shares were little changed at $53.17 by 4:39
p.m. in after-market trading.  The Shanghai-based company forecast first-quarter adjusted
net revenue of between $115 million and $119 million, compared
with the median of seven analysts’ estimates for $117.4 million.  Investors were concerned that Sina may provide
disappointing guidance for 2013 revenue due to the limited
growth potential for Weibo and its “weak” news portal,  Echo He , a senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, who rates
Sina sell, wrote in a note released prior to the results.  Guangshen Railway, which runs the only train line linking
the mainland with Hong Kong, jumped to $23.46 in New York, the
steepest one-day advance since April 2009. The company had the
biggest gain on the China-US gauge.  Shenzhen-based Guangshen said that it received a notice
that China’s National Development and Reform Commission and the
Railways Ministry are finalizing a detailed proposal on possible
freight rate adjustments, according to a regulatory filing Feb.
18 to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  sank 1.8 percent to
11,525.70 yesterday, the lowest close since Dec. 31, while the
Shanghai Composite slipped 1.6 percent to 2,382.91, the steepest
retreat in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  