-- Melco Crown’s Philippine Unit to Sell Shares for Casino Project
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-02-19T08:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/melco-crown-s-philippine-unit-to-sell-shares-for-casino-project.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd .’s
Philippine unit plans to sell as many as 1 billion new shares to
help fund a $1 billion Manila casino venture.  Melco unit  Manchester International Holdings Unlimited
Corp . shareholders approved the plan at a special meeting today,
it said in a stock exchange filing. The sale would raise as much
as 15 billion pesos ($369 million) at today’s price.  The
company will be renamed Melco Crown (Philippines) Resorts Corp.,
Manchester said.  Melco Crown, a casino venture of billionaire  James Packer 
and a son of gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , in December said it
paid 1.26 billion pesos for a 93.1 percent stake in Manchester.
It plans to invest about $600 million for a casino, hotel,
retail and entertainment complex in the Philippines, which it
will build with  SM Investments Corp .,  Belle Corp . and its unit,
Melco Crown said in an Oct. 25 filing with the Hong Kong stock
exchange.  Belle holds one of four casino licenses the Philippines
awarded to compete with Macau and Singapore.  The country’s annual revenue from gaming may rise to $10
billion in 2017 from more than $2 billion last year once the
Manila casino complex is operating fully, Philippine Amusement &
Gaming Corp. Chairman  Cristino Naguiat  said on Jan. 15.  Manchester’s Class A shares, reserved for Filipinos, rose 5
percent to 14.8 pesos at the close of trading in Manila. Its
Class B shares gained 2.1 percent to 14.8 pesos. The
Philippines’ benchmark  stock index  rose 0.9 percent to 6,620.72.  Shareholders also approved an over-allotment option of as
much as 20 percent of the total shares to be sold. Terms of the
offer, including the price, size and timing, have yet to be set
by the board, Manchester said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  