-- Telecom Italia Investors Write Down Holding to EU1.2 a Share
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-19T16:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/telecom-italia-investors-said-to-approve-writedown-of-stake.html
Telco SpA, the largest shareholder
of  Telecom Italia SpA , wrote down the value of its stake in
Italy’s biggest phone company by 920 million euros ($1.2
billion) after the stock plunged 25 percent in a year.  Telefonica SA ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA ,  Assicurazioni Generali
SpA  and  Mediobanca SpA , which together own 22.4 percent of
Milan-based Telecom Italia through holding company Telco, wrote
the investment down to 1.2 euros a share from 1.5 euros,
according to a statement today from Telco.  The reduction is the fourth in four years as Telecom Italia
and Europe’s other former phone monopolies struggle with losses
of fixed-line customers and intensifying wireless rivalry.
Telco, which bought the holdings for 4.1 billion euros in 2007,
posted a six-month loss in the period ended in October of 818
million euros because of the impairments on Telecom Italia, the
company said in the statement.  Today’s reduction leaves Telco’s
stake with a value of 3.6 billion euros on its books.  “This is a logical” writedown considering the market
price of Telecom Italia shares,  James McKenzie , an analyst at
Fidentiis Equities, said in a note. The writedown is “a
reminder of the liability that Telefonica, which owns 46 percent
of Telco, has with Telecom Italia,” he said.  Debt Woes  Spain’s Telefonica, like Telecom Italia, is struggling to
reduce debt as slowing sales weigh on earnings. Telco agreed in
May on a 3.4 billion-euro financing package, including a 600
million-euro capital increase to help repay loans obtained to
buy the stakes.  Telecom Italia shares have lost 74 percent of their value
in the past six years. The stock fell 0.4 percent to 62.2 cents
in Milan, giving the company a market value of 11.6 billion
euros. Telefonica has declined 43 percent in the past six years
and rose 1.6 percent today to 9.8 euros in Madrid.  Telecom Italia reported last week debt missing its target,
forecast  declining earnings  for this year and said it plans to
cut annual dividends to 450 million euros to preserve cash. The
company met investors to propose a sale of hybrid securities,
which help boost creditworthiness in the eyes of ratings firms,
a person with knowledge of the deal said this week.  The strategy has yet to convince investors, as derivatives
traders price its debt as junk and Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded its senior unsecured notes to the lowest investment-
grade rating this month.  Telecom Italia’s own board agreed yesterday to start
exclusive talks with Cairo Communication SpA to sell its stake
in the La7 television channel, excluding La7’s 51 percent
holding in MTV Italia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  