-- Emerging ETF Climbs on Europe Outlook as Russia Rebounds
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-19T22:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/emerging-stock-swings-fall-to-15-year-low-as-china-stocks-drop.html
The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index  exchange-traded fund climbed for the first time in three
days as a rally in Russian equities overshadowed declines in
Chinese and Brazilian stocks.  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB , a Mexican developer of acne
treatments, rose to a two-year high, leading the IPC Index
higher. Russia’s  Micex Index  added 0.8 percent, rising for a
second day. Dubai’s benchmark index jumped to a three-year high
as  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co ., a phone company
known as Du, surged after proposing higher dividends. The
Shanghai Composite Index fell the most since Jan. 11.  The ETF tracking developing-nation shares rose 0.2 percent
to $44.08 in New York, while the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was
little changed at 1,063.99. Data showing German investor
confidence rose more than economists predicted in February
bolstered the outlook for the debt-plagued region, trumping
concern that China may introduce more curbs to quell growth in
the property market.  The release of German confidence data “did help
sentiment,” Nick Chamie, global head of emerging-markets and
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “We had a relatively strong start to
the U.S. session, that’s helping to lift other markets.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 48.2 from 31.5 in January, the highest level since April
2010. Economists forecast a gain to 35, according to the median
of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7 percent after
being closed yesterday for a holiday.  Mexico Gains  The MSCI emerging-market stock gauge’s 100-day historical
volatility slumped to 8.48, the lowest level since August 1997.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the iShares ETF
and expectations of price swings, fell 2.2 percent to 15.  The IPC index advanced 1.1 percent in Mexico City. Genomma
Lab rose 7.7 percent after saying yesterday that Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. will distribute its products in the U.S.  Brazil’s Bovespa index dropped 0.5 percent on its fifth day
of declines, the longest streak of losses since October.  Braskem
SA,  Latin America’s largest petrochemicals producer, advanced
7.1 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the stock to
the equivalent of buy.  Gazprom Advances  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas producer, and
OAO Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company, led gains
in the benchmark Micex gauge. Gazprom added 1.3 percent, while
Norilsk climbed 2.6 percent, rising for he first time in four
days.  The  Dubai Financial Market  General Index jumped 1.7 percent
to its highest level since November 2009. Du rallied 12 percent
after fourth-quarter profit more than doubled.  “Today’s more positive indicator from Germany is balancing
out earlier concerns about China growth and is helping markets
recover,”  Chris Weafer , the chief strategist at Sberbank
Investment Research, a unit of Russia’s biggest lender, said by
e-mail today from Moscow.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index  lost 4.6
percent, the measure’s biggest one-day drop since Aug. 2, while
the Shanghai Composite measure of domestic Chinese shares
slipped 1.6 percent to the lowest this month.  China may introduce more policies aimed at stifling growth
in housing prices before or after the National People’s
Congress’ annual meeting next month, China Business News
reported today, citing Xie Yifeng, head of the Asia-Pacific City
Development Research Center’s real estate institute.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. , the Chinese developer
controlled by billionaire Hui Wingmau, dropped 3.3 percent in
its second day of declines. China Vanke Co.’s Hong Kong dollar-
denominated B-shares slipped 1.3 percent.  ‘Normalize’ Markets  China’s “government is trying to normalize the market,”
 Gopal Agrawal , the chief investment officer at Mirae Asset
Global Investments (India) Pvt., said by phone from Mumbai. “In
January, lending was heavy and that leads to very strong
property, automotive sales numbers and the government is seeking
to cool this overheating.”  Anhui Conch Cement Co. , the biggest Chinese cement maker,
sank 7.6 percent, the most since November 2011, as the
government forecast that growth in cement output will slow this
year.  In India, the S&P Dow Jones Sensex Index rose 0.7 percent,
while Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index added 0.5 percent.
Poland’s WIG20 Index was little changed.  The Jakarta Composite Index declined 0.2 percent, falling
for the first time in seven days. Trading volume was almost
triple the gauge’s average over 30 days. The Philippine Stock
Exchange Index increased 0.9 percent to a record.  Financials Drop  The Turkish lira led declines among emerging-markets
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, down 0.5 percent to 1.7768 per
dollar. The Brazilian real appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.9557 per
dollar.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 272, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  A  gauge  of financial stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index fell 0.5 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. The
broader index has gained 0.8 percent this year, trailing the
MSCI World Index’s 6.1 percent advance. The developing nations’
measure is valued at 10.4 times estimated profit. The MSCI
World, which tracks developed markets, trades at 13.9 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  E Ink Jumps  Au Optronics , a Taiwanese manufacturer of thin film
transistor-liquid crystal displays, surged 6.6 percent, bringing
gain to 14 percent in the first two trading days since an
investor conference on Feb. 6. The company had then said prices
for larger panels will increase in the first quarter from the
previous three months. Trading resumed yesterday after the Lunar
New Year break.  E Ink Holdings Inc ., a Taiwanese maker of liquid crystal
displays, jumped 6.9 percent, its second day of gains, after the
company’s revenue in January jumped 82 percent.  ZTE Corp ., which manufactures mobile communication systems,
slid 5.4 percent in Hong Kong after Morgan Stanley said Apple
Inc. may introduce a $330 iPhone Mini for the Chinese market.  PT Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s largest thermal coal
producer, jumped 7.5 percent after regulators said a change in
ownership control would require a tender offer for the whole
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  