-- Enbridge Turns to Unused Pipe for Activist Remedy Amid Oil Boom
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-02-19T23:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/enbridge-turns-to-unused-pipe-for-activist-remedy-amid-oil-boom.html
Enbridge Inc . sees reversing and
upgrading pipelines to transport growing volumes of North
American crude as a way to address public opposition that is
slowing new projects.  “There is no doubt that people want things in energy to be
developed in a sustainable way,” Chief Executive Officer  Al Monaco  said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Houston office today.
“The public’s expectations are evolving and greenfield projects
take longer. So if you can use existing infrastructure, it
obviously makes sense.”  More than 20 pipeline projects, including reversals and
expansions, are expected to come into service in 2013 to help
transport crude that’s become cheaper than oil traded globally
as new output in North America outstrips demand from Oklahoma to
Canada.  TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline, a $7.6 billion
proposal to move crude from Canada to Texas refineries, has
faced delays of more than two years as environmentalists who
oppose development of the oil sands urge U.S. regulators to
reject the project. Thousands of protesters marched to the White
House yesterday in opposition to the project, which is awaiting
approval from the U.S. State Department because it crosses an
international border.  Enbridge, the largest transporter of Canadian crude to the
U.S., announced last week a proposal to convert part of the
Trunkline natural gas system into the first pipeline capable of
moving as much as 660,000 barrels a day of crude from the
Midwest to Louisiana-area refineries.  Canadian Discount  The company, based in Calgary, also helped reverse the
Seaway pipeline from Oklahoma to Texas and is seeking approval
from Canadian regulators to ship crude from Alberta to the
Canadian East Coast.  Talks between industry officials, the Canadian federal
government and various provinces have improved in recent months
as some Canadian crude has begun to trade at as much as $40
below similar oil in Mexico, Monaco said.  “There’s this recognition that we’re leaving value on the
table,” Monaco said.  Enbridge rose 1 percent to C$44.81 at the close today in
Toronto, an all-time high. The shares have risen 4.2 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  