-- Energy Future Utility CEO’s Pay Triple That of Parent CEO
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-19T19:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/energy-future-utility-ceo-s-pay-triple-that-of-parent-ceo.html
The chief executive officer of
 Energy Future Holdings Corp .’s Oncor utility received $20
million last year, nearly three times the compensation paid to
parent company CEO John Young.  Pay to  Robert Shapard , chairman and CEO of the Oncor
Electric Delivery Co. unit, rose eightfold from $2.4 million in
2011 after the utility’s board made an early payment of awards
from an equity incentive program. Shapard received $18.5 million
of the $64 million paid to Oncor directors and executives from
the November payout, according to a filing today.  Energy Future awarded Young $6.77 million in salary and
incentives in 2012, down from $15.1 million a year earlier,
according to a regulatory filing by the Dallas-based company
today. Young’s 2011 pay included a $5.4 million one-time gain
when stock options were converted to restricted units,  Allan Koenig , an Energy Future spokesman, said in a phone interview.  “The management team has performed at a superior level,
despite persistently low commodity, wholesale and power prices
which have had an impact across our industry and business,”
said Koenig.  Energy Future, the Texas power plant owner taken private in
the biggest leveraged buyout in history, reported a $1.95
billion fourth-quarter loss today that was more than 10-fold
greater than its $136 million loss a year earlier, according to
its filing. Moody’s Investors Service expects it to file for a
restructuring within the next 12 months, according to a report
published Feb. 4.  Total Compensation  Energy Future owns 80 percent of Oncor, a regulated power-
line business that delivers electricity to more than 3 million
Texas homes and businesses. The utility operates under a board
with a majority of independent directors as part of a structure
that is intended to shield it from any corporate reorganization
by its parent.  Shapard’s total compensation including long-term awards is
at the median of executive compensation for utility peers when
divided over five years,  Chris Schein , a spokesman for Oncor,
said in a telephone interview.  “The long-term incentive program was structured on a five-
year basis that was earned over that time frame and paid out at
the end 2012 after board approval in November,” said Schein.
None of the long-term incentive payments are included in
customer rates and they are fully funded by shareholders, he
said.  Letters of Credit  Energy Future also provided letters of credit that would
guarantee Young and Mark “Mac” McFarland, the new head of its
Luminant power plant unit, paydays of $9.6 million and $4.3
million, respectively, if they stay on the job through 2015, the
company said in the filing.  Letters of credit can’t be rescinded if the company seeks
bankruptcy protection, said  Douglas Baird , a University of
Chicago law professor. Ailing companies are circumventing 2005
federal bankruptcy code restrictions on pay and perks by
squaring away incentives well before they land in court, Baird
said in a phone interview before the filing was made.  “The executive knows it’s as good as secure -- he gets
paid,” Baird added. While creditors may challenge those
payments in bankruptcy, “possession is nine-tenths of the
law.”  Incentive awards granted under the letters of credit are
earned based on performance targets and goals similiar to other
executive compensation, Koenig said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  