-- Energy Future Reports $1.95 Billion Quarterly Loss
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-02-19T21:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/energy-future-reports-1-95-billion-fourth-quarter-loss.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp. , the
Texas power plant owner taken private in the biggest leveraged
buyout in history, reported a $1.95 billion fourth-quarter loss
as lower prices forced a writedown in the value of an
electricity unit.  The quarterly loss widened more than 10-fold from $136
million a year earlier, the largest power plant owner in Texas
said in a regulatory  filing  made public today. Last year’s
results for the Dallas-based company included a $1.2 billion
write-off as lower natural gas prices reduced wholesale power
rates.  The eighth straight quarterly  loss  adds urgency after the
Texas power company hired law firm  Kirkland & Ellis LLP  to
restructure its debt, people familiar with the situation said
earlier this month. Debt rose to $43.2 billion at the end of
2012, from $42.9 billion as of Sept. 30.  Energy Future  has
struggled with a collapse in electricity prices tied to gas,
which has fallen 77 percent since 2008.  “Everything is on the table right now,”  Peter Thornton ,
an analyst at Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors
Inc., said today in an e-mail. “A restructuring or prepackaged
Chapter 11 filing is more likely to occur toward the end of 2013
or in early 2014.”  The company plans to pay the interest due lenders in May,
Chief Financial Officer  Paul Keglevic  said today on a conference
call with investors.  Debt Exchange  It expects to negotiate with creditors to lower interest
costs by offering to exchange old debt for new, debt for equity,
and to extend debt maturities, according to today’s annual
report.  “Aspects of our current financial condition may also be
challenging to our efforts to obtain additional financing,”
according to the filing. The value of generating plants may
decline further if current forward natural gas prices continue
to fall, according to the filing.  The company, formerly known as TXU, was taken private in
2007 in the largest buyout in history.  KKR & Co. , which helped
take it private, separately retained  Blackstone Group LP  as an
adviser to help restructure Energy Future’s debt, people
familiar with the situation said earlier this month.  Sales fell 6.6 percent to $1.28 billion from $1.37 billion
a year earlier, according to the filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Quarterly Loss  The fourth-quarter loss was $483 million excluding one-time
items such as the plant writedown, pension costs, adjustments to
management benefits and gains and losses from contracts used to
lock in fuel and interest costs, Energy Future said today in a
statement.  The company’s $1.23 billion of 15 percent bonds due April
2021 increased to 28.25 cents on the dollar at 11:53 a.m. in New
York, from 27 cents on Feb. 14, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The Texas Competitive $15.4 billion term loan due in
October 2017 rose to 68.2 cents on the dollar today from 66.75
cents on Friday, the highest since Oct. 23, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Its $3.8 billion portion that matures in
October 2014 rose to 73.4 cents today from 71.8 cents, the
prices show.  ‘Material’ Reorganization  Energy Future was sold to a group led by  KKR  and TPG
Capital in 2007, in a $43.2 billion cash transaction. Moody’s
Investors Service has predicted a “material” reorganization
this year.  Energy Future has sought to protect its regulated
independent utility Oncor Electric Delivery Co. from a potential
restructuring of other parts of the company by paying off
intercompany loans while changing the terms of outstanding bonds
to isolate the distribution unit.  Energy Future’s units include Oncor, the regulated power-
line business that delivers electricity to more than 3 million
homes and businesses; TXU Energy, a retail electricity seller;
and Luminant, which owns more than 15,400 megawatts of
generation capacity in Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  