-- The Environmentalist Case for the Keystone Pipeline
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-19T23:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/environmentally-sound-reasons-to-allow-keystone-pipeline.html
Americans who are concerned about
pollution and climate change have traditionally stood with
science, in particular the consensus that greenhouse-gas
emissions from human activity are warming the earth and changing
the climate.  Opponents of the Keystone XL pipeline, in contrast, seem to
deliberately ignore the evidence that the pipeline wouldn’t lead
to environmental disaster. Missing from their argument -- on
prominent display in Washington protests this past weekend --
are a few salient points. The pipeline would do little to
increase greenhouse-gas emissions in North America. It would
merely enable Canada to send its crude to Gulf Coast refineries
via a north-south pipeline  rather than  rail or ship, and allow
the U.S. to get more of the 8 million barrels of oil it imports
each day from a good neighbor.  Now that Nebraska has accepted a revised route for the
pipeline around the state’s sensitive Sand Hills region,
President  Barack Obama  is expected to decide this spring whether
to allow its construction. He has already encouraged TransCanada
Corp. to build the southern part of the line -- from Cushing,
Oklahoma, to the Gulf Coast, and has only to consider the
northern section, which crosses the Saskatchewan-Montana border.  Even if, in making his decision, Obama takes concern for
the environment into account, he will have no reason not to
approve the project.  Wrong Argument  Here’s what’s wrong with the environmental argument against
the Keystone project. Pipeline foes say that by pumping 700,000
barrels of crude a day to the U.S. it would encourage maximum
development of the Athabascan oil sands in Alberta, Canada.
Extraction of this thick, dirty crude requires heavy equipment
to inject steam underground to unearth the liquefied tar. The
process is therefore relatively expensive and high in carbon
emissions compared with simple drilling for liquid oil.  Similar steam-injection processes that are used to extract
oil from deposits in California’s San Joaquin Valley, however,
haven’t received the kind of attention that anti-Keystone forces
have aimed at the Alberta oil sands, as an  editorial  in the
journal Nature recently pointed out. If these processes are so
intolerable, why would the U.S. oppose Canada’s using them but
still allow them to proceed at home?  In any case, extraction methods are getting cleaner. By
2015,  carbon-capture  technology is expected to reduce emissions
from Canadian oil sands by as much as 35 percent. Even now, when
you look at the entire well-to-wheels life cycle of the oil
sands crude, its emissions are at most 20 percent  greater than
normal , because most of oil’s emissions come from burning the
fuel.  Like most every sentient being, the project’s foes are
worried about the pipeline’s potential to leak oil within the
U.S. TransCanada is taking pains to ensure that the pipeline is
designed for the heavy crude it is meant to carry and that it
would be safely operated. Even so, we could expect a leak or two
a year of more than 2,000 gallons of oil, according to the 2011
environmental impact statement on the project issued by the U.S.
State Department. In most cases, however, such spills are
expected to be contained in a small area and readily cleanable.
This is the calculated risk we take with other oil and gas
pipelines, thousands of miles of which crisscross the U.S.  So blocking the Keystone pipeline wouldn’t save the world
from environmental catastrophe.  Nor would it save the U.S. economy, as its supporters have
argued. The $7 billion project is forecast to bring 20,000
temporary jobs during its construction, but once built it will
be operated and maintained by perhaps  as few as  20 people.  The reason to approve the pipeline is that it would keep
Canadian oil flowing to U.S. refineries in the most efficient
way, within the bounds of safety, and this is reason enough.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 