-- Merkel’s SPD Challenger Steinbrueck Decries Bank ‘Blackmail’
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-19T12:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/merkel-s-spd-challenger-steinbrueck-decries-bank-blackmail-.html
German chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  said Europe’s crisis management is hostage to banks
and big investors, while declining to reveal whether he favors
further writedowns on government bonds.  Steinbrueck, the Social Democratic challenger to  Angela Merkel  in the September election, said a decision to rule out
further haircuts reflected “blackmail” by bond investors who
lost money in the Greek writedown, the biggest in history.  Steinbrueck declined to say how he would handle the bond
market, telling reporters in Brussels today that there is a
widespread view the Greek treatment sent a “highly dangerous
signal to private investors. But I’m citing opinions I’ve come
across and you can’t interpret this as my opinion.”  With elections on Sept. 22, Steinbrueck is trying to turn
his experience as a former finance minister into popular support
and close a poll lead of as much as 18 percentage points held by
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  The Greek case left the European Central Bank as the
principal backstop for the bond market, Steinbrueck said. In a
nod to German opinion, he questioned whether ECB President  Mario Draghi  went too far in pledging unlimited debt purchases, though
didn’t give an answer.  “Who is left to buy the government bonds? The  central
bank ,” Steinbrueck said. “The question that can justifiably be
asked is whether this is in line with the ECB’s mandate.”  Steinbrueck echoed Merkel’s approach to a bailout for
Cyprus, calling for a package that forces Cyprus to clamp down
on money laundering, shrink the banking sector, deal with its
low corporate tax rate, and sign up to a European financial
transaction tax.  Deposit Insurance  The finance minister in Merkel’s first coalition from 2005
to 2009, Steinbrueck also backed the current German policy of
opposing a European-wide deposit insurance fund since that could
force German savers to clean up banking messes elsewhere.
Likewise, he opposed using the European rescue fund to directly
recapitalize banks.  Steinbrueck got out in front of Merkel’s government by
calling for extra time for France and other recession-hit
countries to reduce their budget deficits, instead of waiting
for the European Commission to issue a ruling. The commission’s
economic forecasts are due on Feb. 22.  “The therapy is very one-dimensional and it is save, save,
save,” he said. “This doesn’t mean it is wrong. I think there
has to be budget consolidation. But the question is the
dosage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  