-- Tesla Rises as Public Editor Finds Story Flaws
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-20T23:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/tesla-rises-as-n-y-times-finds-story-flaws-s-f-mover.html
(Corrects story published Feb. 19 to say the public editor
of the  New York  Times in the first paragraph.)  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric vehicles led by billionaire Elon Musk, rose the most in
more than three months after the public editor of the New York
Times said there were flaws in a critical review of the battery-
powered Model S sedan.  The shares rose 6 percent to $39.28 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 5. The  Palo Alto ,
California-based company is to release fourth-quarter results
tomorrow.  Musk said last week a story by Times reporter John M.
Broder was “fake,’’ citing inaccurate details on speed, route,
use of the heating system and for failing to properly charge the
$101,000 car. Tesla released data from the test vehicle on Feb.
13 to back Musk’s statements.  “Did he use good judgment along the way? Not especially,”
Margaret Sullivan, public editor for the Times, said yesterday
in an online column, referring to the reporter. “In addition,
Mr. Broder left himself open to valid criticism by taking what
seem to be casual and imprecise notes along the journey, unaware
that his every move was being monitored.”  The paper last week rebuffed Musk’s statements, saying
Broder’s story was “fair and accurate.”  The flap between carmaker named for inventor  Nikola Tesla 
and the flagship newspaper of  New York Times Co. (NYT)  came before
Tesla reports Model S sales and results for the fourth quarter
of 2012. Musk has set a goal of delivering 20,000 lithium-ion
battery-powered sedans this year.  Excluding some items,the company may have lost  57 cents a
share , the average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  