-- Estonia Banks Plan Mortgage Bond Market to Cut Costs
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/estonia-banks-plan-mortgage-bond-market-to-cut-costs.html
Estonian banks, led by the local
unit of Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB , plan to create a mortgage
bond market to reduce borrowing costs and spur the revival of
capital markets in the euro area’s newest member.  The Estonian Banking Association probably will decide later
this week to take legal steps needed to start trading the bonds,
Swedbank Chief Executive Officer Priit Perens said in an
interview in Tallinn yesterday. He declined to estimate the
market’s potential size or when mortgage bonds may be offered.  Estonian banks, including units of Stockholm-based  SEB AB 
and  Nordea Bank AB , have cut reliance on funding from Nordic 
parents after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse burst 
a property bubble, shut off credit flows and triggered the world’s
worst recessions in the Baltics. Estonia’s decade-old mandatory
private pension system mostly invests fund abroad because of
illiquid local markets and as the government holds back on
selling new bonds to meet budget surplus targets.  “The main reason to do this is to finance our activities
more cheaply,” Perens said. “In Sweden, there is a clear
difference in prices of mortgage-backed bonds and senior
unsecured bonds. It would definitely also be a suitable
instrument to boost the local capital market.”  The Estonian bond market has contracted by nearly half
since before the global crisis, while activity in both the
primary and secondary market has dropped by almost 95 percent,
according to the central bank. The total volume of bonds issued
in Estonia amounted to 518 million euros ($691 million) at the
end of August, or 3.2 percent of gross domestic product, central
bank data shows.  Credit-Default Swaps  With no outstanding bonds, investors speculate on Estonia’s
creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps, whose cost for
five years has plummeted to 64 basis points, the fifth-lowest in
the euro area, from a peak of 737 in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The $22 billion economy may expand 3 percent this year and
4 percent in 2014, when it’s due to reach its pre-crisis level,
the central bank estimates.  Estonian mortgage bonds should also attract foreign
investors drawn to the country’s relatively low indebtedness in
the private and public sectors, Perens said.  “We see mainly local pension funds as potential
investors,” Perens said. “I myself think these bonds would be
rather suitable for foreign investors, mainly funds that want to
invest in this region. But the first prerequisite is that some
sort of market is created in Estonia.”  Liability Diversification  The private sector debt-to-GDP ratio was about 140 percent
at the end of the first half of 2012, according to central bank
data. Public debt-to-GDP was 9.6 percent last year, the lowest
in the European Union, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  told
Bloomberg in an interview on Jan. 31.  A mortgage bond market “would help banks to diversify the
structure of their liabilities, meaning it would create an
additional way to attract capital,” Jaak Tors, the head of the
financial stability department at the central bank, said in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Still, it would
definitely need to be analyzed what would be the effect of such
instruments on banking, what risks it would entail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  