-- EU Misses Basel Bank Rules Deal, Will Revive Talks Next Week
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-20T10:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/eu-misses-basel-bank-rules-deal-will-continue-talks-next-week.html
The European Union failed to seal a
deal on Basel bank rules after disagreeing on bonuses, capital
requirements for big lenders and disclosure of profit and tax at
talks in Brussels yesterday.  Lawmakers will resume negotiations with governments on Feb.
27 in a bid to avoid further delays after the bloc missed the
new-year deadline to begin implementing the so-called Basel III
accord.  “We are not ready now,”  Othmar Karas , the legislator in
charge of the EU parliament’s work on the rules told reporters
after the talks yesterday. “I think the council had no mandate
to finalize” the discussions, he said, referring to the
grouping of EU governments currently  chaired  by Ireland.  The EU, like the U.S., has struggled to agree on
legislation to apply the international standards on capital,
known as Basel III, which were published in 2010 as part of
efforts to prevent any repeat of the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Talks were deadlocked last night on five issues, Karas
said. Lawmakers failed to agree on bonus conditions which would
allow bankers to receive as much as twice their fixed pay with
shareholder approval, powers for the European Banking Authority,
capital requirements for systemically important lenders, tax and
profit disclosure and the ability of individual states to impose
tougher rules.  On tax disclosure, “the question of basic transparency
requirements” of the profits banks make, taxes they pay and
subsidies they receive “on a country-by-country basis” was not
resolved and will also be discussed next week, according to a
separate statement by Karas and other lawmakers.  Another unresolved issue going into next week’s talks is
how much flexibility EU states would have to impose stricter
rules on their banks.  Still, Karas said that the talks did find consensus on the
need to phase in a liquidity ratio by 2018, one year ahead of
the schedule agreed on last month by global regulators. The
measure requires banks to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to
survive a 30-day funding squeeze.  EU lawmakers have insisted that the EU legislation to
implement Basel III include curbs on variable pay as part of a
quest to reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making
machines.  Members of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee called last year for an outright ban on bonuses that
exceed fixed pay.  Fixed Salaries  “Imposing a cap on the ratio of variable to fixed pay runs
a high risk of increasing fixed salaries,” Isabel Pooley, a
lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna, said in an e-mailed statement.  Governments sought to reopen a draft deal reached in
December by the assembly and Cyprus, which then held the EU
presidency, to cap banker bonuses at twice fixed pay. Under that
proposal, bonuses exceeding fixed salary would be allowed only
if the majority of a bank’s shareholders voted in favor.  Several nations, including the U.K., opposed that plan at a
meeting last week. The British proposal included retaining
existing EU rules that require some portion of bonus awards to
be deferred and ensuring that payouts can be clawed back,
according to officials.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision brings together
banking regulators from 27 nations including to the U.S., U.K.,
and China to coordinate their prudential rule-making.  The Basel III measures, which must be written into national
laws, would more than triple the core capital lenders must hold
and set standards for how lenders should manage risks.  In anticipation of tighter capital rules, lenders are
selling shares, eliminating jobs and trimming costs. BNP Paribas
SA, France’s largest bank, announced plans to reduce expenses
and boost its dividend last week. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s
biggest lender, said Jan. 31 it exceeded a goal for raising
capital levels and eliminated more than 1,400 staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Ben Moshinsky  in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  