-- Euro Breakup Risk Falls to 5-Year Low in Butterfly: Currencies
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-02-19T14:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/euro-breakup-risk-falls-to-5-year-low-in-butterfly-currencies.html
The options market is signaling the
threat of a breakup in the 17-nation euro bloc is disappearing
as the price of insurance against wild swings in the region’s
single currency fall to a five-year low.  Butterfly options that protect against both gains and
declines slid to the lowest since March 2008 on Feb. 4. Implied
volatility on three-month options on the euro-dollar exchange
rate has risen about half as much as a broader  gauge  of currency
volatility this year.  The currencies of nations with top credit ratings have
dropped against the euro over the past six months as concern
eased that Europe’s currency union would unravel. The bonds of
Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy -- the region’s most
indebted-economies-- have been the best performers among
sovereign debt in that period, indexes tracked by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies show.  “People are talking about the great rotation out of fixed
income and into equities now, but the real great rotation we’ve
been seeing is a rotation back into the euro,” said  David Woo ,
head of global rates and currencies research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in New York. “You could argue that this is a
climax to the normalization of risk that began last summer.”  Bank Repayments  Stress in European funding markets has eased since July,
according to the Bloomberg Financial Conditions Monitor, the
same month European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
to do whatever it takes to preserve the monetary union. The Euro
Financial Conditions  Index  exceeded zero in September for the
first time since August 2007. It’s highest close this year was
0.665 on Jan. 25.  Draghi lent more support to so-called peripheral debt
markets in September when he unveiled an unlimited bond-purchase
plan, called Outright Monetary Transactions, or OMT. The bonds
of Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy have risen at
least 11 percent in the past six months, leading gains among 26
EFFAS indexes of sovereign debt.  On Jan. 30, 278 financial institutions returned 137.2
billion euros ($183 billion) in the first opportunity for early
repayment of the ECB’s initial three-year loans, part of its
Long-Term Refinancing Operation. The ECB’s first of two three-
year loan operations totaled 489 billion euros. Banks have
continued to make repayments in the weeks following.  Euro’s Advance  The shared currency has appreciated 4 percent over the past
three months and 7.1 percent over the past six, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. It has climbed more than 10 percent
on a trade-weighted basis since Draghi’s pledge in July.  Draghi spurred gains in the euro last month when he spoke
of “positive contagion” in financial markets and a return to
economic growth later this year. The ECB cut its  benchmark rate 
to a record low of 0.75 percent in July.  “Concerns of a break-up of the single currency and general
global economic concerns have eased,”  Alan Wilde , head of
fixed-income and currencies in London at Baring Asset
Management, which oversees $53 billion, said in a telephone
interview on Feb. 14. “Some of these tail risks have dissipated
as actions have been taken and markets have gained more
confidence.”  The gross domestic product-weighted average of 10-year
government bond yields in Italy, Spain and Portugal has
collapsed since July. That  narrowed   their premium  to rates in
seven AAA rated countries outside the currency bloc to 2.54
percentage points, close to the least since July 2011.  Allocation Moderating  Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Singapore, Sweden and
Switzerland have top AAA grades and stable outlooks from
Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The currencies of Canada, Australia and Singapore have
tumbled against the euro by as much as 9.6 percent in the past
six months. Denmark’s krone is linked to the shared currency.
Finland, another top-rated nation, is in the euro bloc.  “Capital was flowing out of the euro zone -- some went to
the Swiss franc obviously, some went into other currencies like
the Australian dollar,” said  Andrew Salter , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Sydney. “That allocation is now moderating” as the ECB has
stepped behind the peripheral bond markets.  Bond Buying  Since the ECB made its unlimited bond-buying proposal,
peripheral debt yields have retreated even though no euro
members have yet taken up the central bank’s offer, which grants
support for countries that sign up to economic reforms.  Net  portfolio investment  in Spain climbed for a fourth
month in November to reach the highest since May 2006.  “I’m long on the euro and short on the Australian
dollar,” said  Akira Takei , head of the international fixed-
income department in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $35 billion. “The ECB has made it clear that it
won’t let its member states default on their debt.”  Takei said he holds more Italian and Spanish notes than his
benchmark index and sees the euro strengthening to $1.42 this
year. The median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the euro to end this year at $1.31. The shared currency
gained 0.1 percent to $1.3363 at 9:31 a.m. in New York.  Draghi told reporters on Feb. 7 the euro’s appreciation is
a sign that confidence has returned to the currency. While the
exchange rate isn’t a policy target, it is “ important  for
growth and price stability,” he said.  Economy Shrinks  The currency bloc’s  GDP  shrank 0.9 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the statistics office
said last week. That was a fourth quarterly contraction and the
deepest decline since 2009.  “The crisis stage in Europe is coming to an end but the
debt problem hasn’t been completely resolved,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and fixed-income strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “I doubt
that the euro region has recovered enough to embrace both
austerity and a stronger currency, so the euro isn’t likely to
continue its rally against AAA currencies.”  The currency options market has dialed back perceived risk
in the euro to five-year lows by some metrics. The one-year
euro-U.S. dollar option butterfly was 0.328 percent on Feb. 15,
and closed at 0.308 on Feb. 4, the least since March 2008.  Implied Volatility  The butterfly measures the gap in implied volatility of
out-of-the money options, or those presently with no intrinsic
value, and those that would allow investors to buy or sell the
euro at close to where the exchange rate currently trades, so-
called at-the-money options. The value of the butterfly gets
larger as demand to hedge against wide swings in the euro-dollar
exchange rate increases.  The three-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate showed a 0.25
percentage point premium for euro puts -- which grant the right
to sell the common currency versus the dollar -- over calls on
Feb. 1. That was the smallest since October 2009.  Hedge funds and other large speculators have reversed bets
on the common currency this year, after their net wagers on the
euro’s slide reached to a record in June. The difference in the
number of bets large speculators have on a gain in the euro
versus the dollar and those for a fall, so-called  net longs , was
37,952 this month, according to the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  As recently as the week ended Jan. 8, there was a net short
position, which touched a record level of 214,000 in the week
ended June 5.  “People had priced in a currency crisis for the euro and
realize now that is just not going to happen,”  Eimear Daly , a
currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in London, said in
a Feb. 13 interview. “Draghi put a floor under the currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  