-- Eurotunnel Ferry Buy May Drive Up Prices: U.K. Regulator
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-19T10:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/eurotunnel-ferry-buy-may-drive-up-prices-u-k-regulator.html
The operator of the Channel Tunnel
linking Britain and France by rail may raise prices after buying
a ferry service between the countries to keep it from a
competitor, a U.K. antitrust regulator said.  Groupe Eurotunnel SA ’s 65 million-euro ($87 million)
purchase of three vessels from the former ferry operator
 SeaFrance  during its liquidation may drive up prices for
passengers traveling by both sea and tunnel, the  Competition
Commission  said today in a statement on its provisional
findings. Eurotunnel already controls more than 40 percent of
the cross-channel market, the watchdog said.  “It would seem that Eurotunnel moved into the ferry
business because it was concerned at the increased competition
it would face if another operator bought the assets,” Alasdair
Smith, the Competition Commission’s deputy chairman, said in the
statement.  Three ferry services have been operating between Dover,
England, and Calais, France, since SeaFrance ceased operations
in November 2011. One of the remaining companies is likely to
exit the market as a result of excess capacity on the route, and
customers will be better off if the remaining ferry operators
are independent, the regulator said.  During SeaFrance’s liquidation, Paris-based Eurotunnel
bought three of the company’s four ferries and created
MyFerryLink in August 2012. The Competition Commission says
Eurotunnel made the deal to block a unit of DFDS A/S,
Scandinavia’s biggest ferry operator, from buying the ships.  Eurotunnel will challenge the provisional findings, the
company said today in a statement. The deal was cleared by
France’s competition authority, it said.  Eurotunnel’s “acquisition of the ex-SeaFrance ships, nine
months after that company ceased all operations, and the
creation of a new competitor in the cross-channel marketplace,
MyFerryLink, constitutes an increase in competition and brings
additional choice for customers,” Eurotunnel said.  A final report is scheduled to be published by the London-
based Competition Commission by April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  