-- Texas Fracker Accused of Bully Tactics Against Foes
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/texas-fracker-accused-of-bully-tactics-against-foes.html
When a Texas landowner took his fear
that a gas driller had poisoned his well to federal regulators,
the company,  Range Resources Corp ., turned around and sued him
for conspiring “to harm Range.”  In Pennsylvania, a state lawmaker who criticized the
company was dubbed “completely unhinged” by a Range
representative and had his fundraising e-mails to its executives
leaked to the local newspaper.  Critics say the Fort Worth-based company, which pioneered
the use of hydraulic fracturing in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus
shale, has taken a hard line with residents, local officials and
activists. In one case it threatened a former EPA official with
legal action; in another it stopped participating in town
hearings to review its own applications to drill, because local
officials were asking too many questions and taking too long.  “ Range Resources  is different from its peers in that it
chooses to severely punish its critics,” said  Calvin Tillman ,
the former mayor of Dish, Texas, and an  activist  who has been
subpoenaed and issued legal warnings by Range. “Most companies
avoid the perception of the big-bad-bully oil company, while
Range Resources embraces it.”  The company counters that it enjoys a great working
relationship with lease holders, residents and officials in the
overwhelming majority of the 250 municipalities where it
operates, but faces determined opponents in a few.  Two Foes  Matt Pitzarella , a company spokesman, said  Range  faces two
intractable foes in western Pennsylvania: the local state
representative, Jesse White, who had pressed Range executives to
raise  more money  for his campaign before  souring  on the company
and its practices; and John Smith, an attorney who represents
townships that have had contentious relationships with Range and
homeowners who say their water was contaminated.  “Range wants nothing more than to have positive working
relationships in the places we work,” Pitzarella said. “It’s
fair to say that we may take a different approach from others
from time to time, but no different than a lot of individuals or
businesses.”  “It’s just in a different light given the work we do. We
accept that and embrace it,” he said.  Range’s fights with residents, local officials and anti-
drilling activists highlight the increasingly contentious ties
between the booming gas industry and landowners and officials
who say greater local oversight is necessary.  May Backfire  It’s an approach that may backfire, as Range is reliant on
regulatory approvals, which require support from local officials
and citizens.  “When companies get in this serve-and-volley game, it
doesn’t serve them well,” John Patterson, a senior adviser at
the  Reputation Institute  in New York, said in an interview. In
general, gas and oil producers have a worse reputation with the
public than consumer companies, and so, “you are really playing
from behind,” he said.  Hydraulic fracturing or fracking, in which water, sand and
chemicals are shot underground to break apart rock and free
trapped natural gas, has brought a  boom  in energy production to
Pennsylvania, Texas and Colorado, and lowered natural gas costs.
That’s lured chemical and other manufacturers to invest in the
U.S.  ‘Flaring, Noise’  It’s also brought complaints from some nearby landowners
and farmers, who say leaks from holding ponds, spills and
underground ruptures have led to contamination of their water.
There are more mundane worries as well.  “I don’t like the gas flaring, the traffic, the pollution
or the noise,” Carl Zeno, a resident of Robinson Township,
Pennsylvania, who lives near a site where Range wants to drill.  Range says it has moved to deal with the concerns. It was
the first company to disclose fracturing fluids for each well,
pioneered water recycling and helped pass stronger rules for
cementing and casing of wells, Pitzarella said. It also is a
large supporter of agricultural youth scholarships, the United
Way and other area charitable causes, he said.  “We’re ready and willing to listen, adapt and do whatever
is technically and legally allowable to ensure our work is done
in the most harmonious manner with the community,” he said in
an e-mail.  Harmony is not always possible.  White, whose district is based in Cecil Township where
Range has its Marcellus headquarters, was once a legislative
ally of the company. Range  circulates  a video of him praising
the company for bringing jobs and development to his district,
which is south of Pittsburgh.  Campaign Funds  In just August 2010, White e-mailed Pitzarella to tell him
he offered to speak with lawmakers who were coming to his area
to meet with Stephanie Hallowich, a homeowner who had sued Range
over water contamination.  “I believe the words ‘diffusing any potential
misinformation’ may have been used in my e-mail,” White wrote,
according to the communications, which were provided to
Bloomberg by Pitzarella. In June of that year, White also
complained to company officials that a recent event raised
campaign funds “considerably short of the intended target.”  This isn’t the first time these e-mails are showing up in
public. Late last year they were leaked to a reporter at the
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, and were used as the basis of a
front-page story.  ‘Never Enough’  For Pitzarella, who said he confirmed the authenticity of
the e-mails to the reporter but didn’t leak them, they paint a
clear picture: White didn’t get the fundraising he wanted from
Range, and so turned against the company. “It was never
enough,” he said in an interview.  It was after a radio call-in show to discuss these e-mails
that Pitzarella sent the e-mail to White and to Range colleague
Scott Roy with a picture of that day’s Tribune-Review story and
a one-line commentary: “He’s completely unhinged.”  Pitzarella confirmed that he was referring to White, and
said it was in response to White “coming unraveled” in the
 radio interview .  White said the leaks and the “head games” in sending him
that e-mail, are all part of an attempt to “shut me up.”  “Range wants people to believe that I am this wild-eyed
crazy person,” White said. “Their thought is to intimidate
me.”  Local Concerns  Instead of fundraising issues, it was growing complaints
from local residents and seeing what he views as Range’s actions
strong-arming local townships that turned him against the
company, White said in an interview. It was only after White
questioned state regulators’ testing of water where residents
say gas-drilling contaminated their supplies that his e-mails to
Range showed up in the newspaper, he said. Around that same time
a pro-drilling group also sponsored robo-calls to his
constituents, urging them to call White’s office and complain
that he opposes the gas industry.  “It’s a non-stop onslaught,” he said. “This has taken
over my life.”  The problems are not just with White.  Range filed two applications to drill in Pennsylvania’s
 Robinson Township  last year. As the town moved to review those
bids, Range said it faced a series of hurdles to get clearance
to drill, and it filed a letter with the town saying the delay
“violates Range’s due-process rights.”  Private Practice  Range’s lawyer declined to answer questions at a town
hearing in December to discuss its own application. Robinson
was unfairly dragging out the process, and should just approve
its application, the company said in documents filed with the 
town. Pitzarella blamed the delays on town attorney John Smith,
who has a private practice taking on drillers, including Range.  “I don’t know where that comes from,” Brian Coppola, the
town supervisor, said in an interview. “If anything, he is the
guy who tries to smooth things over.”  After local residents raised questions about the health
impact of fracking, Smith recused himself from the decision last
month. In general “my role is very limited to advising the
board to what the regulations are,” Smith said. “They
overstate my role.”  Robinson, which already has cleared other Range wells, was
just doing its appropriate due diligence, according to Coppola.
After Range refused to answer the board’s follow-up questions,
it voted down their applications on Feb. 11.  Even before that decision, Range filed a lawsuit against
the town, arguing that the town had unfairly delayed approval.  Too Quick  In nearby  Cecil Township  friction between the town and
company got so bad that the two sides had a public meeting in
December aimed at resolving their differences.  Dating back to 2011, relations had been tense. After the
town reworked a pending zoning rule to appease Range, the
company sued it, contesting the legality of those changes
because they were done too quickly, said Andrew Schrader, vice
chairman of the board of supervisors there.  Despite the meeting in December, Range sent the board a
legal notice in January that it may face another lawsuit from
the company soon.  “I hoped Range would abide by the statements of December
and not use lawyers and lawsuits. This is a matter of
credibility,” Schrader said. “Actions speak louder than
words.”  Last year it countersued a Texas landowner, Steven Lipsky,
who said Range’s drilling practices contaminated his water well
with explosive methane. It argued in local court that Lipsky
conspired to defame the company by getting his air and water
tested by Alisa Rich, president of Wolf Eagle Environmental
consultants, and taking that complaint to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and to the media.  False Accusations  “The object of the conspiracy was to make false and
damaging accusations that Range’s operations had contaminated
Lipsky’s water well,” the company said in its suit, filed in
July 2011.  While the case is still being fought in court, Lipsky
stands by his charge of Range’s culpability: “It’s ludicrous,”
he said, referring to the case. “They’re ruthless.”  In December 2010 the EPA determined that Range’s gas
drilling near Lipsky’s home had caused “extremely high levels”
of methane, which can be explosive, and benzene, a carcinogen,
in his water. Fifteen months later, the EPA dropped the matter
after the company agreed to test 30 local water wells and turn
over relevant testing data to the agency.  Fracking Blog  Separately, its lawyer issued a cease-and-desist letter to
anti-fracking blogger Sharon Wilson, who first published a video
of Lipsky holding a hose hooked up to his water well, which had
so much methane in it that he could light it on fire. Wilson has
blogged about the EPA action against Range, and the Texas court
fight between Lipsky and Range.  Wilson’s blog “continued misrepresentations about Range,
Range’s actions in the past and its intentions with regard to
this lawsuit subject your client to potential liability,”
Andrew Sims, a lawyer representing Range wrote to Wilson’s
lawyer last June 25.  Sims wrote that Range “respects the rights of citizens to
exercise free speech, including Ms. Wilson’s right to promote
her anti-oil and gas development agenda.”  Range has also fought the EPA, and its former top official
based in Texas,  Al Armendariz .  Roman Conquerors  Range’s allies in the oil and gas industry and in Congress
seized on a video that surfaced from 2010 in which Armendariz is
seen comparing the agency’s actions against polluters to Roman
conquerors suppressing Turkish towns by crucifying residents.  As a result of those comments becoming publicized,
Armendariz resigned in April. He remained in Range’s sights. In
October he was quoted telling reporters that in the Range case
with Lipsky, “the best available data I was presented by my
staff indicated that the driller’s natural gas was ending up in
private drinking water.”  Range objected.  “Your statements are contradicted by facts, science,
independent expert analysis,”  David Poole , Range’s general
counsel, said in a letter to Armendariz on Oct. 23. “You have
chosen to publicly make false comments about Range and we must
insist that you cease from making further false and disparaging
comments against Range.”  Through a spokesman, Armendariz, who now works for the
Sierra Club, declined to comment.  While Range may succeed in silencing some critics, that
doesn’t mean it will win the war. Its actions could make it
harder for the company to get applications approved by town
officials, or lead to a popular blowback against the company in
the places it is trying to expand, said Brenda Wrigley, a
professor of public relations at Syracuse University.  “Public relations is about relationship building and
relationship management,” Wrigley said in an interview. From
what she was told of the Range case, “it doesn’t seem that they
are using reputation management approaches that are advisable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  