-- Texas Republicans Won’t Budge on School Spending After Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/texas-republicans-won-t-budge-on-school-spending-after-ruling.html
The Eanes school district in
suburban Austin, Texas, spent $7,921 per student last year.
Twenty miles away, the Pflugerville school district, whose
population includes far more low-income students, spent about
$1,000 less, resulting in lower teacher salaries and more
children for every special education teacher.  It wasn’t supposed to be this way. A state formula for
distributing money -- approved seven years ago, after the  Texas 
Supreme Court found the previous formula to be unconstitutional
-- was designed partly to promote equality between rich and poor
districts with big gaps in property tax collections.  A state judge ruled this month that the funding system is
inequitable and doesn’t meet students’ needs. The ruling has set
up a battle between Democratic state lawmakers seeking more
money for schools and Republicans who control the legislature
and refuse to consider changes until the ruling is appealed.  “The state funding formula is random and capricious and we
have to do something about it,” said Pflugerville Independent
School District Superintendent  Charles Dupre  in an interview.
There isn’t enough money to pay teachers a competitive salary,
he said. “The constant message I’m getting from good, high-
performance people is that I love what I’m doing, but you can’t
give me more so I’m moving on.”  Texas is among 10 states facing legal challenges over
school finance, according to the Washington-based National
Conference of State Legislators. Most of the cases involve how
much must be spent to provide an acceptable education, said Dan
Thatcher, a senior policy analyst for the conference.  Funding Disparities  Disparities in Texas school funding have become more
pronounced as enrollment has grown and the state has approved
property tax cuts that prevented funding from keeping pace, said
Dan Casey, a partner at Moak, Casey & Associates, an Austin
research firm specializing in school finance.  Governor  Rick Perry , 62, says that keeping taxes low is the
key to attracting business and expanding the second-largest
state’s economy. Last week, he traveled to California, the
largest state, to persuade companies to relocate.  Perry has “created such an anti-tax fervor that putting in
any additional funding is unlikely,” said Albert Kauffman, a
law professor at St. Mary’s University in San Antonio who
represented low-income schools in previous financing lawsuits.  On Feb. 5, Texas District Judge  John Dietz  in Austin sided
with lawyers for most of the state’s school districts. He ruled
that the state formula used to determine how much each school
system receives is “inefficient, inequitable and unsuitable”
and that districts are “arbitrarily” funded. Texas contends
that schools have sufficient funding.  Perry declined to comment on Dietz’ ruling, spokesman Josh
Havens said.  Property Taxes  The state’s schools receive money from the federal
government, state and local taxes. Rick Gray, an attorney for
more than 400 poorer Texas school districts, told Dietz that the
districts he represents tax property at higher rates than richer
ones and yet receive less revenue per student from the state.  Republican House Speaker  Joe Straus  rejected Democrats’
requests for debate on school funding because he wants a final
court resolution before considering the issue, said Erin Daly, a
spokeswoman.  “Until the courts give us direction, we can’t act,” said
state Representative  Gary Elkins , a Houston Republican. “But at
some point we’re going to have to equalize funding so that a
district isn’t getting $1,000 per student more than a district
within a 30-mile radius.”  Reserve Fund  Texas should address school inequities by tapping the
state’s reserve fund and by using the tax collections, said
state Representative  Trey Martinez Fischer , a San Antonio
Democrat.  “We’ve got a lot of money right now, but we don’t have the
will,” he said.  Texas spends about $35 billion annually on public schools,
little changed from 2004 when adjusted for inflation, the
state’s nonpartisan Legislative Budget Board said in a January
2012 report. Average daily attendance since 2004 has grown to
about 4.7 million, an increase of about 700,000 students. Perry
has been Texas’ governor since December 2000, when he succeeded
 George W. Bush .  Texas ranked 44th in estimated per-pupil spending in the
2011-2012 school year, according to a June 2011 report by the
National Education Association, a Washington-based teachers’
union. Average spending per pupil in Texas was $8,908 compared
with a national average of $11,463.  Low-Income Families  Pflugerville has needier students, with 53 percent of those
enrolled from low-income families, compared with 3 percent at
Eanes Independent School District.  Pflugerville spent $6,907 per student in the last school
year, according to the Texas Education Agency, whose data
includes federal, state and local funding.  The school district has one special education teacher for
every 15 students, compared to one instructor for every six
children at Eanes.  Pflugerville, whose schools enroll 23,000, has experienced
rapid growth as many residents moved to the community for lower-
cost housing. Housing prices are higher in Eanes, whose school
population is 7,776.  Both school districts are part of the lawsuit against the
state.  The funding formulas for Texas schools were based on 2005
spending levels, which penalized Pflugerville and other
districts that had been more frugal than peers, Dupre said.  Job Cuts  As the state’s school population increased, funding didn’t
keep pace.  Pflugerville eliminated 40 teaching and administrative
positions last year, about 1.5 percent of the district’s
employees, Dupre said.  Eanes doesn’t have enough money to meet the community’s
expectations, Superintendent  Nola Wellman  said in an e-mail.
Teacher pay at Eanes is higher than other districts because
instructors stay longer, she said.  Because spending hasn’t kept up with enrollment, parents
spend more time raising funds, said Diane Harvey Anderson,
president of the parent-teacher organization at Pflugerville’s
Connally High School.  “I’ve seen layoffs happen, I’ve seen services cut and it
isn’t fair to our teachers, who are being asked to do more with
less resources,” Anderson said.  The cases are consolidated as Fort Bend Independent School
District v. Texas Education Agency, D-1-GV-11-002028, Texas
200th Judicial District Court, Travis County (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  