-- ExxonMobil Didn’t Have to Use MTBE, Oil Executive Says
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-19T20:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/exxonmobil-didn-t-have-to-use-mtbe-oil-executive-says.html
Oil companies didn’t have to add
MTBE to gasoline to meet federal pollution standards, two
witnesses told a New Hampshire jury that will weigh whether
 ExxonMobil Corp.  is liable for contaminating the state’s
drinking water with the chemical.  Duane Bordvick , who worked as an executive at oil refiner
 Tosco Corp. , said in videotaped testimony played today in state
court in Concord that his company made MTBE-free gasoline in
California that met U.S. Clean Air Act requirements as early as
1999.  Bruce Burke , an oil refinery expert, testified that there
were alternatives to adding the chemical, methyl tertiary butyl
ether.  “Refiners could have used ethanol instead of MTBE back in
the ’80s when decisions were being made,” Burke, a senior vice
president of consulting for Nexant Inc., told the jury today.  New Hampshire might seek more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in a lawsuit filed in
2003. ExxonMobil has argued that it isn’t liable for damages
because it used MTBE to comply with federal regulations, which
pre-empt state law. MTBE was used to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly to reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990
 Clean Air Act .  ExxonMobil has said in court that ethanol wasn’t a good
choice because there wasn’t enough of it when the government
required an additive. The Irving, Texas-based company has also
argued that New Hampshire was aware of the risks of MTBE when it
agreed to participate in a federal clean-air program.  Highly Soluble  MTBE is highly soluble in water and can be carried great
distances from where it is leaked. It leaked from gas stations,
junkyards, underground storage tanks and pipe fittings,
according to the state, which banned the additive as of January
2007. Bordvick said Tosco made MTBE-free gasoline because of
evidence that the additive could harm groundwater.  “We wanted to demonstrate that, should regulations change
to allow everyone to do this, it could be done,” Bordvick said.
“There were significant monies to be spent, but it was
doable.” Tosco is now a unit of  ConocoPhillips Co.   New Hampshire has said that it could cost about
$818 million to test, monitor and clean its groundwater. It’s
seeking damages based on the number of contaminated wells and on
ExxonMobil’s market share of gasoline sold in the state during
the period covered by the lawsuit. Based on an estimate that the
company’s share was about 30 percent, New Hampshire could ask
the jury for an award of $245 million.  Cleanup Funds  The state has received $213 million from oil companies for
two cleanup funds since 1989 through a 1.5 cent-a-gallon fee on
all gasoline imported into in the state. The funds have
$4 million left, the state said in court.  Citgo Petroleum Corp. , the other remaining defendant in the
New Hampshire case when trial began, filed a $16 million
settlement agreement with the state on Feb. 15.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued  Shell
Oil Co. ,  Sunoco Inc. , ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and  Hess Corp.  All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo.  The state received more than $100 million in settlements
from defendants before Citgo settled, according to court papers.  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against oil refiners, fuel distributors
and chemical makers. MTBE lawsuits have been consolidated in
federal court in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and
motions.  In 2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay New York
City $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells
in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  The New Hampshire trial began Jan. 14. The state said it
expects to rest Feb. 21. ExxonMobil would then present its case.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire, at 
 sarahearle.nh@gmail.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  