-- MF Global Holdings Files More Details of Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-15T21:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/mf-parent-creditor-disclosure-statement-approved-by-judge.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  filed new
information about its proposed bankruptcy resolution, including
details about the terms of $70 million in exit financing and
plans to liquidate the company’s remains through a trust.  A trust agreement will oversee liquidation of the company’s
remaining assets, including potential income from lawsuits.
Andrew Shannahan of Knighthead Master Fund LP, Joe Kronsberg of
Cyrus Capital Partners and Austin Saypol of Silver Point Capital
LP will be the initial members of a committee that will select
directors for the liquidating company’s board, according to
court papers filed in Manhattan bankruptcy court today.  Those lawsuits include some by MF Global Holdings’ trustee,
Louis Freeh, against MF Global’s UK unit, which is also winding
down.  Lenders to the $70 million senior secured credit facility
weren’t listed.  A rough outline of the company’s plan to repay creditors
has been approved, and a hearing to consider the plan is set for
April 5.  The plan was drawn up by banks and hedge funds including
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Silver Point Capital, and
revised with Freeh. New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., an MF
Global creditor and arranger of a $1.2 billion loan, recently
resolved its objection to the proposed plan.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011, after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
following its investment in the debt of troubled European
economies. The company, which was headed by former New Jersey
Governor Jon Corzine, listed assets of $41 billion and debt of
$39.7 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Trustee James Giddens is separately liquidating the MF
Global brokerage.  The case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  