-- Fed’s $1.2 Million Stolen in Heist Drives Debut Thriller
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/fed-s-1-2-million-stolen-in-heist-drives-debut-thriller.html
When a heist goes wrong in Atlantic
City, its mastermind calls on a ghostman, a specialist in
dealing with loose ends.  He’s a world-class bank robber sometimes known as Jack
Delton and the bloodless antihero of Roger Hobbs’s debut novel,
“ Ghostman ,” a cool, tense thriller crackling with action.  The robbers had grabbed $1.2 million in Federal Reserve
cash as it was being delivered to a casino, but then a sniper
fouled their getaway, killing one and sending the other off
radar.  Jack has to find the money, which comes with an embedded
ink bomb and an explosive charge rigged to detonate in 48 hours
once the cash is tampered with -- establishing a countdown that
runs through the book.  But the bomb doesn’t just threaten to spoil the loot: It
can also create a mess big enough to destroy a criminal career.
Saying more than that would be spoiling the plot.  The casino theft and its volatile haul turns out to be part
of a complex play between two drug kingpins. One is the
mastermind, Marcus Hayes, to whom Jack owes an unpayable debt
for screwing up a job in Kuala Lumpur. The other is a vicious
piece of work called the Wolf, who controls much of Atlantic
City’s criminal underworld.  Building Tension  Jack narrates his pursuit of the money in Atlantic City and
flashbacks to Malaysia. Hobbs handles the dual stories smoothly,
delaying revelations and building tension as he shifts from one
to the other with cliffhangers between.  It’s the stateside action that dominates, with Jack pursued
by the Wolf’s men, pressured by Marcus and occasionally tripped
up by a sharp F.B.I. agent.  There’s a fair amount of publishing industry hoopla
surrounding the book -- with movie and foreign rights sold, a
big ad in the right place -- not least because Hobbs wrote it
while at  Reed College  in Portland, Oregon.  I grant the wunderkind high marks on pace and suspense, and
exceptional skill in staging taut confrontational scenes. He
also presents some seriously nasty violence. I’ll never feel the
same about purple spray paint.  I’m not so high on the many times the action pauses to
supply an excerpt from the Hobbs Criminal Wiki, mini-lectures on
the facilitator, the getaway pack, the ink bomb, the wheelman,
the scatter, the boxman and more.  Relevant but not neatly integrated, the material feels like
the author’s tendering earnest bundles of bona fides. Maybe it’s
just the student playing teacher.  Homer, Joyce  As for Jack, the voice is persuasive but the character
largely presents little more than a James Bondish range of
criminal skills and a reading list that extends to Homer and
Joyce. (OK, he translates ancient Latin in his down time, but
it’s also one thing he admits to not doing well.)  He has no friends, family or females, and offers just
crumbs from his early life. He has good memories only of the
woman who helped him become a better crook.  Hobbs may have been shooting for the allurement of enigma,
but with a sequel in the works, as he has mentioned in an
 interview , he may want to work on fleshing out his ghostman.  “Ghostman” is published by Knopf (321 pages, $24.95). To
buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera and
 John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 