-- Fewer Afghan Civilians Killed in Airstrikes Last Year: UN
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-02-19T10:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/fewer-afghan-civilians-killed-in-airstrikes-last-year-un.html
The number of Afghan civilians
killed in airstrikes fell by nearly a half last year, the United
Nations said, a day after President  Hamid Karzai  barred local
forces from calling in air support in a bid to stem casualties.  In its  annual survey , the United Nations Assistance Mission
in Afghanistan said at least 2,754 civilians were killed amid
clashes between Afghan and U.S.-led troops and the Taliban in
2012, a 12 percent drop compared with a year earlier and the
first fall in six years. The number who died in aerial bombing
by international forces dropped 42 percent to 126, it said.  The lower numbers were due to fewer battles between the
warring parties, steps taken to reduce casualties, a smaller
number of air operations and a decline in suicide attacks by
what the mission referred to as “anti-government forces.”  Still, “the human cost of the conflict remains
unacceptable,” UN Special Representative for Afghanistan   Jan Kubis , said in an e-mailed statement today. “Steep increases in
the deliberate targeting of civilians perceived to be supporting
the government demonstrates another grave violation of
international humanitarian law.”  The mission attributed 81 percent of civilian casualties
last year to Taliban attacks. Eight percent were caused by
Afghan and U.S.-led forces fighting the 11-year-old Taliban
insurgency. Responsibility for the remaining 11 percent could
not be fixed. The number of women and girls killed or injured
increased 20 percent from 2011, the report said.  Forces Vulnerable  Karzai yesterday issued a formal decree ordering his
defense and interior ministries, and the country’s intelligence
agency, to avoid requesting the support of North Atlantic Treaty
Organization aircraft while conducting operations in residential
areas nationwide.  The order came after reports that 10 Afghan civilians,
including women and children, were killed by an airstrike in
eastern Kunar province, bordering Pakistan. The bombardment took
place at the request of Afghan forces who believed the buildings
hit to be a Taliban hideout.  While Karzai’s decree may help reduce civilian casualties,
it may hinder Afghan security forces bidding to prevent Taliban
guerrillas from taking control territory as the U.S. is set to
withdraw 34,000 troops within 12 months, cutting its military
presence in the country by half.  “Afghan forces cannot operate without any air support,”
General Abdul Hadi Khalid, a former deputy interior minister and
retired Afghan army general, said in a phone interview. “The
Taliban could recapture districts.”  Coalition Pledge  NATO’s International Security Assistance Force, or ISAF,
pledged to work with the Afghan government to implement Karzai’s
restrictions.  “We will provide continuous support in line with the
intent of President Karzai,” said German General Gunter Katz in
a press conference yesterday. ISAF will discuss the “details in
a few days” with Afghan officials, he said.  Improvised explosive devices planted by insurgents were
“the greatest threat to civilians in 2012,” causing 2,531
casualties with 868 deaths and 1,663 injuries in 782 separate
incidents nationwide, the report said.  The U.S. and its allies plan to fully hand over security to
Afghanistan’s army and police by the end of 2014. The former
commander of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in
Afghanistan, Marine General  John Allen , said Feb. 10 that Afghan
soldiers are almost completely leading operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  