-- Fisker Technology Shouldn’t Go to Chinese, Grassley Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-20T02:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/fisker-technology-shouldn-t-go-to-chinese-grassley-says.html
The technology of Fisker Automotive
Inc., the U.S. plug-in hybrid carmaker that owes American
taxpayers about $200 million, shouldn’t be sold to Chinese
companies, U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  said.  Grassley, an Iowa Republican, and Senator  John Thune , a
South Dakota Republican, compared the maker of the $103,000
Karma to its battery supplier,  A123 Systems Inc. , which received
$129 million in grants from the U.S. Department of Energy before
filing for bankruptcy and agreeing to be sold to a Chinese
company.  Fisker is weighing several bids including a $350 million
offer from Dongfeng Motor Corp. that would give the Chinese
carmaker majority control, people with knowledge of the matter
said last week.  “Like A123, this looks like another example of taxpayer
dollars going to a failed experiment,” Grassley, his party’s
ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Technology developed with American taxpayer
subsidies should not be sold off to China. I hope there’s at
least some accountability at the Department of Energy, but given
its track record, I’m not holding my breath.”  Bill Gibbons, an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-
mail that the department’s loan program “has strict conditions
in place to protect taxpayers. The department is working with
Fisker to review its revised business plans and determine the
best path forward so the company can meet its benchmarks,
produce cars and employ workers here in America.”  U.S. Loan  Fisker, based in Anaheim, California, received a $529
million loan from the Energy Department in 2010 for U.S.
engineering and development work and U.S. vehicle production.  It drew down $193 million before the rest was frozen in May
2011 for failing to meet required milestones on the Karma.
Fisker was supposed to use the rest of the money to build a
second model at a closed General Motors Co. plant in Wilmington,
Delaware. Fisker has said it’s delivered about 1,500 Karmas.  Roger Ormisher , a spokesman for Fisker, said in an e-mail
that given “the confidential nature of this matter, at this
point in our process we can only confirm that the company has
received detailed proposals from multiple parties in different
continents which are now being evaluated by the company and its
advisers.”  Fisker was one of five loan recipients in a program
intended to spur the development of alternative-fuel vehicles.
The company hasn’t produced cars since A123 stopped making
batteries, and has had to repair vehicles it already sold
following recalls on defective battery packs and cooling fans
that could cause fires.  ‘Under Duress’  Thune, in an e-mailed statement, called it “troubling to
see that yet another struggling taxpayer-backed company might be
purchased under duress by a Chinese company.”  Grassley and Thune complained last year about Chinese
investment in A123 and Fisker.  Fisker’s challenges were magnified when 338 Karmas, worth
more than $33 million, were destroyed by flooding during
Hurricane Sandy and XL Insurance America Inc. refused to pay a
damage claim, according to a lawsuit filed Dec. 28.  The cars, which are assembled in Finland, were sitting at
the Port of Newark, New Jersey, awaiting recall repairs on the
batteries and cooling fans, according to the complaint. XL
argued the cars weren’t “in transit” as required by the
company’s policy, the lawsuit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  