-- French Kidnapped in Cameroon Were Taken Into Nigeria
-- B y   P i u s   L u k o n g   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-02-19T17:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/french-kidnapped-in-cameroon-were-taken-into-nigeria.html
Seven French tourists, including
four children, kidnapped in northern Cameroon were taken across
the border into neighboring Nigeria, said Eloi Gabriel Essoa, a
local official in Cameroon.  The people were taken at the village of Dabanga after
visiting Waza National Park, he said by phone today from
Kousseri, a town in the Far North region that borders Chad and
Nigeria. The kidnappers were on motorcycles and the vehicle that
the visitors were using was abandoned, said Essoa, a senior
divisional officer there.  The kidnappings came a day after an Islamist group in
Nigeria claimed responsibility for taking seven foreigners
hostage at a construction site in the northern state of Bauchi.
The hostages, including four Lebanese, a U.K. national, a Greek
and an Italian, work for Setraco Nigeria Ltd., Hassan Mohammed,
a police spokesman, said on Feb. 17 by phone from Bauchi, the
state capital.  Nigerian police were informed of today’s kidnapping,
Cameroonian regional Governor Awah Fonka Augustine said by
phone, without giving details.  Speaking in Athens today, French President  Francois Hollande  said security was being stepped up in Africa for his
country’s nationals.  “There is a terrorist danger in most of West Africa,”
Hollande said. “The French who were taken hostage in Cameroon
were there for professional reasons, even if they were on a
tourist outing. We have told all our nationals in the region to
be careful.”  Nigerian Group  Jamaatu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladissudan, or “Vanguards
for the Protection of Muslims in the Land of the Blacks,” the
group that took the construction workers hostage, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday that its action was in response to
“the transgressions and atrocities done to the religion of
Allah” by European nations in countries such as Mali and
Afghanistan.  France, which intervened in Mali to help it restore state
control over a nation that vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-
biggest gold producer, has about 4,000 troops in that country.  Hollande said today special forces were involved in
“serious engagements” in northern Mali. He said one soldier
has been killed.  “We’re in the final phase of operations in Mali, though
we’re not done yet,” Hollande said.  The government of Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, has
been battling Boko Haram, another militant Islamist group, which
has carried out gun and bomb attacks in the north and killed
hundreds of people since 2009. Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
country with more than 160 million people, is roughly split
between the largely Muslim north and the predominantly Christian
south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pius Lukong in Yaounde, Cameroon, at 
 plukong@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Athens at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  