-- Fresenius Blood Volumizer Linked to Deaths in Study
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/fresenius-blood-volumizer-linked-to-deaths-in-study.html
A product made by  Fresenius SE  to
boost blood volume in critically ill patients increases the risk
of death and kidney damage, according to an analysis of previous
studies that excluded data from a discredited researcher.  In an analysis of 38 trials, patients who got an infusion
of hydroxyethyl starch solution weren’t any less likely to die
than those treated with other blood volume boosters, the study
by Canadian researchers found. However, when data was excluded
from seven studies by a German doctor whose research has been
widely retracted, the infusion was associated with a bigger risk
of death and kidney injury.  The study, published in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association , highlights a debate about which fluid is best used
to resuscitate emergency and operating room patients whose blood
pressure has plummeted. The analysis combined several recent
studies with existing research to indicate that despite being
more expensive than a salt solution, hydroxyethyl starch may not
be better, said Ryan Zarychanski, the study author.  “We need to ask ourselves why we’re using these products
so liberally and in such an unrestricted manner,´´ Zarychanski,
an assistant professor in the Department of Internal Medicine at
the  University of Manitoba , said in a telephone interview.  Fresenius, based in Bad Homburg, Germany, is the top seller
of hydroxyethyl starch. Closely held B. Braun Holding GmbH,
based in Melsungen, Germany, also makes the product.  Matthias Link , a spokesman for Fresenius, and Wolfgang
Schrammel, a spokesman for Braun declined to comment.  Safety Concern  Until additional randomized trials can be run, the study
suggests that hydroxyethyl starch ‘‘should not be used for acute
volume resuscitation of critically ill patients,’’ Massimo
Antonelli, of the Institute of Intensive Care Medicine and
Anesthesiology at the Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli,
wrote in an accompanying editorial.  Zarychanski’s research team analyzed trials that compared
hydroxyethyl starch with other intravenous fluids in 10,868
patients. The researchers ran the data twice, once to include
seven studies by German researcher Joachim Boldt and once
without Boldt’s work.  Eighty-eight of Boldt’s 102 studies published since 1999
were retracted due to research  misconduct  after an investigation
of the State Medical Association of Rheinland-Pfalz in 2011.  The seven studies excluded from today’s survey predated
1999, Zarychanski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  