-- Gasoline Pump Prices Soaring on Refinery Repairs, Oil Rally
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-02-19T21:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/gasoline-pump-prices-soaring-on-refinery-repairs-oil-rally.html
U.S. consumers facing the highest
gasoline pump prices ever for February may see further increases
as global crude oil futures climb and breakdowns and seasonal
maintenance at refineries reduce fuel supplies.  Gasoline futures have surged 11 percent this year, making
the fuel the top performing commodity in the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI  index . Prices at the pump are up 14 percent this year and
have risen 33 straight days, according to AAA data. Brent crude
in London, the pricing basis for gasoline imports and for oil
used by coastal refiners, advanced to a nine-month high Feb. 8.  Unit breakdowns and seasonal repairs reduced refinery
 processing  by 8.3 percent since mid-December, cutting fuel
production, Energy Information Administration data show. Regular
gasoline has jumped 45.6 cents this year, the fastest increase
in AAA data back to 2005. Prices may peak earlier than they did
last year, according to Avery Ash, a spokesman for AAA, the
nation’s largest motoring organization.  “What’s driving the price up is the fear we might not have
enough supply,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “It’s
a national concern.”  Gasoline for March delivery advanced 1.79 cents to $3.3145
a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange Feb. 15, the
highest settlement since Sept. 28. Futures slipped to $3.1212
today. Brent crude on ICE Futures Europe exchange has increased
$6.41 this year to $117.52 a barrel.  The average nationwide pump price gained 1.8 cents to
$3.748 a gallon, 19.2 cents higher than a year ago, AAA said on
its website today. In 2008, when prices reached an all-time high
of $4.114, regular gasoline cost $3.032 on Feb. 18.  Higher Crude  “We have sustained higher crude prices and concern also
about refinery capacity,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.  Seasonal maintenance typically peaks in March and April,
boosting speculation that inventories may dwindle just as demand
picks up in May when U.S. drivers head off on vacation. Hedge
funds  increased  net-long positions in gasoline futures to 90,120
contracts of futures and options in the week ended Feb. 12, the
most since April, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
reported Feb. 15.  An average of 1.5 million barrels a day of refining
capacity will be offline for planned work from January through
May, according to  Amrita Sen , chief oil market strategist at
Energy Aspects Ltd., a research consulting company in London.
The outages will peak in March at over 2 million barrels a day,
Sen estimated.  2012 Peak  Prices climbed as high as $3.936 last year in early April,
according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.  “Gas prices are rising at a faster-than-expected pace,”
Ash, an AAA spokesman in Washington, said in an interview today.
“There’s reason to suspect the peak we see will be earlier this
year. We still expect they will peak at a lower level than in
2012,” but they may approach that level, he said.  The EIA revised its forecast for 2013 gasoline prices up to
$3.55 a gallon Feb. 12, from a $3.44 estimate in January.  The jump in gasoline futures has swelled the crack spread,
a measure of refining profit. April-delivery gasoline’s premium
versus Brent was $21.72 a barrel, 52 percent higher than a year
ago.  Schork predicts the retail average rise another 15 cents to
20 cents by the end of February. Prices then usually climb
higher as the more-expensive summer-grade gasoline makes it way
to the pumps in mid-spring.  Shutdowns across the country are increasing concern about
supply availability and boosted wholesale gasoline prices.  Hess Shutdown  On the East Coast, which includes New York Harbor, delivery
point for the Nymex contract,  Hess Corp.  will close its Port
Reading, New Jersey, plant later this month. It represents 7.7
percent of East Coast gasoline-making capacity, estimated  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Philadelphia Energy Solutions shut the Girard Point section
of its plant, the largest near the New York trading hub, in late
January for 60 days of planned work.  BP Plc’s Whiting, Indiana,  refinery , the biggest serving
the Chicago market, won’t bring its 225,000-barrel-a-day crude
unit back online until the middle of this year after shutting it
in November to convert the unit to process Canadian crude, Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in the company’s fourth-
quarter  earnings call  on Feb. 5.  Gasoline in  Chicago , after sinking to 47 cents below Nymex
futures Dec. 18, was 3.5 cents under today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices Rising  “We’ve obviously seen crude prices rising over the last
couple of months, and we’ve seen the switchover to summer-grade
in the midcontinent and Midwest earlier than normal and that can
cause the peak to come a little bit earlier in the year,” Ash
said.  On the Gulf Coast, Motiva Enterprises LLC shut a fluid
catalytic cracker overnight for unplanned repairs at its Port
Arthur, Texas, refinery, the largest in the U.S just as it’s
starting scheduled work on other units. The plant’s new 325,000-
barrel-a-day crude unit, plagued with fires and leaks since its
May debut, is running at about 80 percent of capacity.
Conventional 87-octane gasoline jumped 2.75 cents today to
parity to futures from a 22-cent discount Feb. 5.  Refineries on the U.S. West Coast, including  Valero Energy
Corp. ’s Wilmington and  Tesoro Corp. ’s Golden Eagle plants, have
had to cut fuel production to repair equipment in the past two
weeks. California-grade gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles, was
31.5 cents over futures, from a discount of 5.5 cents Jan. 22.  Demand  for the motor fuel is showing signs of improvement
at the same time as refineries are slowing down. Deliveries of
gasoline to wholesalers was 4.4 percent above a year earlier in
the four weeks ended Feb. 8, according to EIA data.  Stronger Demand  “Part of this rally was based on EIA stats showing
gasoline demand for first part of 2013 is about 3.8 percent
higher than the corresponding period last year,” Lipow said.
“The preseason rally we normally see in April and May appears
to be occurring in February this year. But the market has gotten
way ahead of itself.”  The market may be forgetting that Colonial Pipeline Corp.
is expanding its product pipeline from Gulf Coast refineries to
the East Coast this money, easing supply bottlenecks on the more
refinery-rich Gulf, Lipow said.  He also estimates that the addition of the new Motiva crude
unit and the return to production of the Trainer, Pennsylvania,
 refinery  after it was bought last fall by Delta Air Lines Inc.
adds 500,000 barrels a day of processing capacity.  Capture Profit  The crack spreads may also entice refiners returning from
maintenance to ramp up output to capture profit.  “The plants are down right now,” said  Andrew Lebow , a
senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in New York. “When
they come back, particularly with these healthy margins, they’re
going to want to produce full out so the rally is going to be
blunted. It’s a matter of timing.”  If refiners are tempted to postpone repairs to capture
margins and keep rates elevated for longer period, it could also
lead to breakdowns, Schork said.  “The incentive is there for maintenance being postponed
because margins are nice and fat,” Schork said. “It gets into
the question of the operational integrity of a system that is
pushed to the limit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  