-- GE to Spend $300 Million in Indonesia in Emerging Markets Push
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-02-19T08:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/ge-to-spend-300-million-in-indonesia-in-emerging-markets-push.html
General Electric Co.  today said it
plans to spend more than $300 million in Indonesia over five
years in areas including rural health care and deep-sea drilling
as the company steps up investments in emerging markets.  GE will also create a learning and technology center in
partnership with  PT Garuda Indonesia , the country’s biggest
airline, state utility  PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara  and  PT
Pertamina , the state-owned oil and gas company, GE said in a
statement in Jakarta.  The world’s biggest maker of jet engines is boosting
investments in developing nations as Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt  focuses on manufacturing while shrinking the
finance unit. Such expansion fueled the aviation and health-care
divisions, which drove industrial performance and helped build a
record $210 billion order backlog.  “We have seen extraordinary growth in our business here in
Indonesia over the past two years in tandem with the country’s
accelerated growth path to build more infrastructure,” Immelt
said in the statement.  The investments planned in Indonesia will also be used for
developing new products in areas such as rural health care,
biomass power plants and for modernizing locomotives through co-
operation with PT Kereta API Indonesia, Handry Satriago, Chief
Executive Officer of GE Indonesia, said at an event to sign an
initial pact for the learning center.  GE has been in Indonesia since 1940 and has invested more
than $1 billion in the country, according to the statement.
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who has led the
nation since 2004, has pledged to build more roads, ports and
airports to achieve average economic expansion of 6.6 percent by
the end of 2014.  GE’s industrial revenues in emerging markets climbed 11
percent last year, the company said in January. In China, sales
increased 19 percent to about $6 billion, lead by the health-
care unit’s 22 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  