-- Wind Blows German Power Swings to Five-Year High: Energy
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-02-19T13:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/german-power-swings-highest-since-07-on-weather-energy-markets.html
Germany is getting more power than
ever before from sources dependent on wind and sunshine, pushing
short-term price swings to the biggest in five years and
boosting volume as utilities increase trading.  The gap between the highest and lowest price over two
months for electricity deliverable the next day widened to the
most since December 2007 through yesterday, according to broker
data compiled by Bloomberg. German  wind output  peaked at a
record 23,331 megawatts on Jan. 31, enough to supply 46 million
homes. That compares with an average of 5,079 megawatts during
2012, data from European Energy Exchange AG on Bloomberg show.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is trying to push the
proportion of German power produced by renewable sources to 35
percent by 2020. Solar and wind generation jumped 80 percent
over the past three years, damping prices on sunny, gusty days
and boosting them when natural gas or coal plants are required
to offset shortfalls. Intraday volume on the EPEX Spot SE
exchange in Paris rose more than 11-fold over the past five
years as traders focused on near-term contracts for speculative
buying and selling.  “Renewable generation has brought some volatility to the
market,”  Johannes Teyssen , EON SE’s chief executive officer,
said on a Jan. 30 conference call. “We have the possibility to
earn some extra money.”  Germany’s biggest utility lost 66 million euros ($88
million) from buying and selling energy commodities for its own
account in the nine months through September last year, on an
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
basis. The performance cut EON’s total income for the period to
8.82 billion euros, up 35 percent from a year earlier, according
to its Nov. 13 earnings statement.  Replacing Nuclear  Day-ahead electricity in Germany traded in a 109.50 euro
($146.31) range from Nov. 23 to Feb. 18, the biggest 60-day
price swing since the two months ending Dec. 27, 2007, according
to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. Baseload electricity, for
supplies delivered around the clock, fell as low as minus 48
euros a megawatt-hour on Dec. 25 and was at 44 euros at 2:42
p.m. Berlin time today.  Germany is expanding its output from climate-dependent
renewable energy sources to replace nuclear power that will be
phased out by 2022. Installed  solar  and wind capacity was about
64 gigawatts at the end of 2012 compared with 35.6 gigawatts at
the end of 2009, according to a Bloomberg Industries analysis of
data from the German Environment Ministry and wind lobby
Bundesverband WindEnergie e.V. Renewable plants provided enough
electricity to meet about 22 percent of total demand last year,
according to BDEW, a Berlin-based utility lobby group.  Higher Bills  The electricity bill for German households with power
consumption of 3,500 kilowatt-hours a year will rise to the
highest in at least 15 years to pay for the increased generation
from wind and solar, according to BDEW. The average price for a
private three-person household will increase to 28.50 euro cents
a kilowatt-hour this year from 25.89 cents in 2012 and 13.94
cents in 2000, the lobby group estimates.  Germany guarantees operators of wind and solar plants a
fixed income for the electricity they generate and smaller users
such as households pay for any discrepancy with market prices
through a so-called renewable energy fee. The levy, for
consumers of less than 1 gigawatt-hour a year, will rise to
5.277 euro cent a kilowatt-hour this year from 3.592 cents in
2012, according to BDEW.  Better Opportunities  It’s possible for wholesale electricity prices to fall
below zero if supply exceeds demand, prompting utilities to pay
consumers to take delivery because power, unlike other
commodities, can’t be stored. Day-ahead prices turned negative
for the first time in December amid above-average wind output,
low demand and mild temperatures for the season.  Warmer-than-usual weather damped average hourly demand to
40.9 gigawatts on Dec. 25, according to data from European power
grid operator group Entso-e, compared with a mean of 44.2
gigawatts during the last week of the year. Temperatures in
Germany rose to a maximum of 18 degrees Celsius (64 Fahrenheit)
in Stuttgart on Jan. 25, according to  Deutscher Wetterdienst .
That was the highest temperature on Dec. 25 since 1961, when the
office started recording the data.  RWE AG, Germany’s second biggest utility, “benefited from
a substantial improvement” in the performance of its energy
trading activities in the nine months through September,
according to its Nov. 14 earnings report. The Essen, Germany-
based company didn’t disclose financial details.  ‘Bearish Weather’  Cumulus Energy Fund, a hedge fund with $176 million under
management, surged 39 percent in December after predicting the
slump in near-term prices that month, it said in an investor
letter. The fund boosted its returns when “extremely bearish
weather” caused the collapse in German spot prices over the
holiday period, London-based Chief Investment Officer  Peter Brewer  wrote.  Intraday volume on EPEX Spot, the biggest exchange for
short-term German power trading, climbed to 15.8 terawatt-hours
last year from 1.4 terawatt-hours in 2007, according to a
company statement on Jan. 8. Total electricity traded on the
bourse, which covers contracts for as long as one day ahead in
France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland, increased by 8 percent
in 2012 to a record 339 terawatt-hours.  “With more renewable generation increasing volatility we
are concentrating more people and more effort into intraday
trading,”  Stefan Dohler , head of asset optimization and trading
at Vattenfall AB, Germany’s third-largest power producer, said
in an interview in Essen on Feb. 5.  Vattenfall made a profit from trading and optimizing the
use of its power plants last year, Thorsten Ziegler, a
Vattenfall spokesman said yesterday by e-mail. He declined to
provide financial details.  Next-Year Contract  In addition to the one-day market, utilities, banks and
hedge funds trade electricity several years ahead. Germany’s
next-year contract is the most liquid in Europe and is used as a
benchmark throughout the region. As renewable energy floods the
market and increases price swings for next-day and intra-day
electricity, it’s having the reverse impact on longer-dated
contracts as the boom in green power sources creates a surplus.
Germany has a buffer of about 5,000 megawatts, Vattenfall’s
Dohler said.  Price swings in the next-year contract, as measured by 30-
day historical volatility, slumped to 5.11  percent on Dec. 21
from 17.14 percent on March 19, according to EEX data on
Bloomberg. The measure has recovered this year and was at 15.49
percent yesterday. Year-ahead trading fell 36 percent to 384
terawatt-hours on EEX in 2012 compared with a year earlier, the
bourse said by e-mail.  Price swings in near-term electricity contracts may become
more pronounced as daily fluctuations in the weather keep
supplies in flux,  Henrich Quick , an analyst at Poyry Oyj in
Dusseldorf, said by phone.  “There used to be 50 extreme hours in a year and by 2020
it will be the new normal where you have 200 to 300 freaky
hours,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  