-- German Stocks May Decline as DAX's Momentum Abates
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-19T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/german-stocks-may-decline-as-dax-s-momentum-abates.html
A gauge of  German stocks  may drop if
indicators signaling that the DAX Index lacks momentum are
confirmed by a break below two support levels, according to an
analyst at Louis Capital Markets LLP.  The Moving Average Convergence-Divergence line, or  MACD , on
a graph of the DAX’s weekly highs and lows has crossed below its
nine-day moving average, showing a lack of momentum, Louis
Capital’s  Andy Dodd  wrote in e-mailed comments. Also, the
Relative Strength Index on the gauge  fell through last week ,
diverging from the trend of the German equity benchmark, and
providing a second bearish signal, Dodd wrote.  A break below 7,600.41, which was the DAX’s intraday peak
in the first week of May 2011, followed by a drop below
7,478.53, the gauge’s highest level in the third week of
September 2012, would confirm these bearish indicators,
according to the London-based technical analyst.  “I remain long whilst the short-term uptrends exist, but
am happy to sell rallies and will probably reverse the positions
on a break of the uptrends and supports,” he said in an e-mail.  The  DAX  gained 0.5 percent to 7,628.73 in Frankfurt
yesterday, following its longest weekly losing streak since
April. The gauge has added 0.2 percent so far this year, the
fourth-worst performance among 24 developed-market equity
indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Still, Dodd said it’s too soon to recommend a short
position on the index. The DAX last week touched a trend line
connecting the weekly lows of June and November 2012, which may
show a consolidation of the gauge’s recent advance.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of price, volume and other trading data to predict changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  