-- German Savings Banks Won’t Cut Jobs Like Deutsche Bank
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-02-19T15:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/german-savings-banks-won-t-cut-jobs-like-deutsche-bank.html
Germany’s savings banks, which
employ almost a quarter of a million people, won’t fire staff as
they continue collecting deposits and lend to industry, said
 Georg Fahrenschon , head of a group representing the 423 lenders.  “Banks need to refocus on old, basic functions,”
Fahrenschon said at a conference in Berlin today. They should
refrain from investing swathes of cash in international markets
or transferring funds to ailing units abroad, he said.  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Commerzbank AG , Germany’s biggest
banks, have announced cost-cutting measures, including
reductions in staffing, after the financial crisis hurt their
profitability. While Frankfurt-based Commerzbank got an 18.2
billion-euro ($24 billion) bailout in 2009, none of the
country’s savings banks, which tend to confine their operations
to certain regions, applied for government money.  Savings banks employed 245,969 people in Germany at the end
of 2011, according to Fahrenschon’s association, known as DSGV.
They account for 43 percent of all lending to the German
Mittelstand, the small and medium-sized companies that power
Germany’s economy, the association says on its website.  Persistently low interest rates may prompt banks to change
their business models,  Renate Braun , chief executive officer of
 Sparkasse Passau , a savings bank based in Passau, a German town
of about 50,000 people bordering Austria, said at the
conference.  “We are adjusting our costs basis and trying to increase
provision income,” Braun said. The bank has pushed up its fees
for current accounts “substantially,” she said.  Fahrenschon said banks should focus on quality of service
to attract new account-holders rather than offering signing-on
bonuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  