-- German Investor Confidence Surges to Three-Year High: Economy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-19T14:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/german-investor-confidence-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
German investor confidence jumped
more than economists forecast in February to the highest in
almost three years, adding to signs that Europe’s largest
economy is rebounding from its slump.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 48.2 from 31.5 in January. That’s the highest since April
2010. Economists forecast a gain to 35, according to the median
of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The Bundesbank said yesterday it expects Germany to return
to growth this quarter as confidence improves and the global
economy gains strength.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.6 percent
in the final quarter of 2012, more than economists forecast, as
exports declined and companies postponed investment amid
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Despite the upbeat ZEW reading, we remain cautious with
regard to Germany’s prospects as there are many challenges to
overcome in 2013,” said Johannes Gareis, euro-zone economist at
Natixis in Frankfurt. “We still expect positive growth out of
Germany, albeit at a slower pace than 2012.”  ZEW’s gauge of the  current situation  fell to 5.2 from 7.1.
Economists had forecast a gain to 9. The euro rose 0.1 percent
today and traded at $1.3365 as of 3:32 p.m. Frankfurt time.
European stocks climbed for the first time in four days, with
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rising 0.9 percent.  Forecasts Cut  The Bundesbank in December predicted German growth will
slow to 0.4 percent this year from 0.7 percent last year. That’s
still better than the 0.3 percent contraction forecast by the
European Central Bank for the euro region as a whole.  European Union car sales fell to the lowest level for a
January in at least 23 years, the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said today.  Registrations dropped 8.7 percent to 885,159 vehicles last
month from 969,219 cars a year earlier, ACEA said. The figure
was the lowest start to the year since the group began tracking
sales in 1990.  MAN SE , the commercial-vehicle maker controlled by
Germany’s Volkswagen AG, said on Feb. 8 it may slow investments
and will work to cut spending as the region’s shrinking
economies cause earnings to drop.  While the euro’s appreciation could undermine exports,
latest data suggest Germany is on the rebound. Factory orders
and industrial production rose more than forecast in December
and unemployment unexpectedly dropped in January.  Worst ‘Over’  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-biggest chip
maker, on Jan. 31 forecast earnings will improve in the current
quarter as demand picks up in the car industry.  “Many people in capital markets now believe the worst of
the debt crisis is over,” said  Michael Schroeder , an economist
at ZEW in Mannheim. “We also have the lowest interest rates in
decades.”  The ECB has cut its  benchmark rate  to a record-low of 0.75
percent, flooded the banking system with cheap loans and pledged
to buy government bonds if needed to restore order to financial
markets. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that the euro
region, whose recession deepened in the fourth quarter, should
begin a gradual recovery later this year as monetary stimulus
works its way through the economy.  Global Rebound  The Reserve Bank of Australia said today there are
indications that lower borrowing costs are starting to spur its
economy and reiterated that tame prices provide scope to ease
further if needed.  In the U.S., the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence may have
climbed this month to 48, the highest reading since 2006, from
47 in January, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Germany’s outlook “has improved relatively quickly and in
remarkable fashion in the past three months,” the Bundesbank
said in its monthly report yesterday. “For the first quarter of
2013 an expansion of overall economic output can be expected
from today’s perspective. For the remainder of the year, a
gradual economic recovery is on the cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  