-- Google Tops $800 for Record High as Mobile Search Gains
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-19T21:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/google-tops-800-for-record-high-as-mobile-search-gains.html
Google Inc. , operator of the world’s
largest Web-search engine, surpassed $800 for the first time as
mobile computing bolsters growth.  The shares advanced 1.8 percent to $806.85 in New York, for
the highest closing price since the company went public in
August 2004. The stock has gained 33 percent in the past year,
compared with a 12 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Google is benefiting as more advertisers place promotions
on its website, buoyed by the growing number of users who access
the service on smartphones and tablets. The company grabbed 67
percent of the search market in the U.S. in January, while
rivals  Yahoo! Inc.  and Microsoft Corp. had less than 30 percent
combined, according to  ComScore Inc.   “This is just such a great business, and they so clearly
dominate it,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at Wedge
Partners in Greenwood Village, Colorado. “Google has got this
knight-in-shining-armor that nobody can kind of penetrate.”  As Google has advanced, Apple Inc. has declined 8.4 percent
over the past year. Apple, the world’s most valuable technology
company, is trading at a 56 percent  discount  to Google on a
price-to-earnings basis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the widest spread since July 2006, about a
year before the iPhone was introduced.  Digital Ads  Google, based in Mountain View, California, had more than
41 percent of all digital ad revenue in the U.S. in 2012,
according to EMarketer Inc. In mobile, Google holds a 53 percent
share, compared with 8.4 percent for Facebook Inc., owner of the
world’s largest social network. Google dominates the U.S.
search-based advertising market, with a 75 percent share,
according to EMarketer’s estimates.  Fourth-quarter profit, excluding certain items, rose to
$10.65 a share, Google said last month. Analysts on average had
estimated profit of $10.50 a share.  Google makes money from search with ads that run next to
query results. Earlier this month, the company revamped the ad
service to make it easier for marketers to reach users on
different devices. It also helps companies manage bids for ads
running at different locations and times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  