-- Great-West Lifeco to Buy Irish Life for C$1.75 Billion
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-19T21:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/great-west-to-buy-state-owned-irish-life-for-c-1-75-billion.html
Great-West Lifeco Inc. , Canada’s
second-largest insurer, agreed to buy Irish Life Group Ltd. for
C$1.75 billion ($1.73 billion) from Ireland’s government as it
seeks to expand European operations. Shares climbed the most in
almost seven months.  The transaction will add about C$215 million, or 10
percent, to Great-West’s 2014 earnings, the Winnipeg, Manitoba-
based company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Allen Loney  is bolstering
operations in Ireland, where Great-West sells coverage through
its Canada Life brand. The Irish government re-opened talks with
Great-West last year after abandoning them in November 2011 amid
concerns about the euro-area debt crisis, two people with
knowledge of the matter said Dec. 4.  “In Ireland, our operations were really below the size we
needed to operate effectively,” Loney said in a telephone
interview today. “Here was an opportunity, in one transaction,
to leap from a relatively-modest market position to a market-
leading position.”  The deal marks the Dublin-based government’s second
transaction this year to lower its 64 billion-euro ($85 billion)
gross cost of bailing out its financial system. The government
recouped 1 billion euros in January by selling convertible debt
in Bank of Ireland Plc.  ‘First Time’  Ireland’s government bought Irish Life, the nation’s
largest life assurer, with a 33 percent market share, for 1.3
billion euros in June from debt-laden lender Irish Life &
Permanent Plc, which was subsequently renamed Permanent TSB
Group Holdings Plc.  The Great-West agreement is the “first time during this
crisis that a company in which we have invested has been
returned fully to private ownership,” Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said today in a statement. The accord will lower
Ireland’s borrowings below 120 percent of gross domestic product
this year, compared with a 121.3 percent target, the government
said.  Great-West’s existing Irish subsidiary, Canada Life, has a
5 percent share of the market, according to  Peter Routledge , an
analyst at National Bank Financial Group in Toronto. Europe
accounted for about one-third of Great-West’s  revenue  last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The insurer also owns
Boston-based Putnam Investments.  Cost Cuts  Great-West’s acquisition “will provide the company with
critical scale in the Irish market as well as operational
synergies and expense savings,” Fitch Ratings said today in a
statement.  Loney told reporters in Dublin he expects 40 million euros
of cost cuts, although the firm hasn’t “put a specific number
on redundancies.”  Irish Life CEO  Kevin Murphy  postponed plans to retire at
the end of last year amid the revived talks to sell the state-
owned insurer.  Great-West rose 2.4 percent to close at C$27.43 in Toronto,
the most since July 26. The shares have gained 18 percent in the
last 12 months, compared with the 13 percent  advance  of the 44-
company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials Index.  The original auction of Irish Life in 2011 also attracted a
joint bid from U.S. private-equity firms JC Flowers & Co. and
 Apollo Global Management LLC  and a separate proposal from
London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., people with knowledge of
the talks said at the time.  U.S. insurers Unum Group and Delphi Financial Group Inc.
also bid, the people said.  Great-West purchased domestic competitor Canada Life
Financial Corp. for C$7.33 billion in 2003, the company’s
largest-ever acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  