-- Greenlight to Get Apple Ruling Before Feb. 27, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/greenlight-makes-case-to-stop-apple-preferred-stock-vote.html
A federal judge in New York said he
would rule on Greenlight Capital Inc.’s bid to stop  Apple Inc. 
from adopting measures the hedge fund says limit the iPhone-
maker’s ability to offer preferred stock before a Feb. 27
shareholder vote.  Greenlight, whose founder,  David Einhorn , has been urging
Apple to share  cash  with investors by issuing high-yielding
preferred shares, alleged in a lawsuit that the company unfairly
lumped a stock restriction with two other corporate governance
matters set for a vote by investors on Feb. 27.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan yesterday
declined to rule from the bench on Greenlight’s request to block
the vote unless Apple allows the provisions to be considered
separately.  Greenlight may have shown a likelihood of “success on the
merits,” he said. He added that the “focus is on irreparable
harm” and questioned whether the hedge fund would necessarily
be harmed if Apple moves forward with the vote.  Apple’s lawyer, George Riley, said Greenlight probably
wouldn’t be harmed at all if the vote favors Apple.  “It seems to be Mr. Riley has suggested a scenario where
the court doesn’t have to do a darn thing and you haven’t
rebutted it,” Sullivan told  Mitchell Hurley , the lawyer for
Greenlight.  Greenlight ‘Harmed’  Earlier in the hearing, Hurley had said Greenlight “will
be harmed immediately and irreparably because it will be forced
to vote against its own interests.”  Responding to Sullivan’s queries, Hurley said “it’s not
clear what position Greenlight will take” if the measure is
rejected. “But they will be harmed,” he said.  Einhorn, whose  Greenlight  claims to hold more than 1.3
million Apple shares, has been asking the Cupertino, California-
based iPad maker to issue preferred stock to help shift the
value of a $137 billion stockpile of cash to investors.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has said the company
is considering ways to give more money to shareholders and
described Greenlight’s suit as a “silly sideshow” during a
Feb. 12 investor conference in San Francisco.  Riley told the judge during the hearing yesterday that the
injunction requested by Greenlight “would be an unprecedented
intrusion” in the voting process.  ‘Slippery Slope’  “I don’t see the slippery slope or the dangerous precedent
you do,” Sullivan said in response.  Along with the preferred share proposal, Apple is seeking
votes on measures that would facilitate majority voting in
 director  elections and establish a par value for the company’s
common stock. Hurley said Greenlight supports those measures and
would like to vote on them separately.  Apple said in court filings that the preferred share item
wouldn’t prevent it from offering that category of shares, only
ensure that they couldn’t be issued without investor approval.  The company said it “strongly believes that the issuance
of preferred shares, which can dramatically subordinate the
rights of common shareholders, should be subject to approval by
those common shareholders.”  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the University of
Michigan in Ann Arbor, said the dispute “has taken on the
flavor of Tim Cook showing that nobody pushes him around just
because he’s not Steve Jobs.”  “Apple hasn’t given any logical reason the measures should
be bundled and could have easily unbundled them,” Gordon said
in an e-mail. “But, as a matter of policy, courts give
companies wide latitude to decide these sorts of things.”  The case is Greenlight Capital LP v. Apple Inc., 13-
cv-00900, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  