-- Greek Labor Unions Strike as Samaras Implements Austerity
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-02-20T11:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/greeks-hold-first-general-strike-as-samaras-implements-austerity.html
Greek labor unions held their first
general strike this year as Prime Minister  Antonis Samaras ’s
coalition government implements a new round of austerity
measures amid record  unemployment .  Schools, ferries, trains and government services are shut
today as 30,000 protesters marched to parliament in central
Athens, according to police estimates. Civil aviation workers
are holding an eight-hour work stoppage prompting delays and
cancellations at airports.  Athens bus and trolley workers are holding walkouts during
the day while the city’s metro is running in order to bring
protesters to the city center.  “Our government talks about development and investments
but we see more poverty for the people,” said 22-year-old
student Manolis Poulos. “It’s always the people that pay the
price. I worry about finding a job. I think things will be
difficult for the next 20 years.”  One group advocating a return to the drachma held a banner
in front of parliament which read “Plan B, no to the euro, stop
paying, lift the burden now.”  Fresh cuts in pensions and wages as well as tax rises
follow a wave of austerity measures that have led the country to
a sixth year of recession, with unemployment at a record 27
percent. The jobless rate among Greeks at age 15 to 24 now
stands at 61.7 percent, the statistical service said on Feb. 14.
That’s the highest in the 27-nation European Union.  Emergency Decrees  The strike is the latest challenge from unions to Samaras,
who has used emergency decrees twice in the past month to end
walkouts by metro and ferry workers prompted by the spending
cuts and tax increases required to keep funds flowing to the
country. Samaras clinched agreement from euro-area finance
ministers to ease terms of emergency loans in return for the
budget measures in November.  Greece has received 240 billion euros ($321 billion) in
loan pledges from the euro-area and the International Monetary
Fund since 2010 and carried out the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history last year to avert a collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  