-- IAG CEO Buying Boeing 787s Backs Airbus A350 Battery Switch
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-19T14:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/iag-ceo-buying-boeing-787s-backs-airbus-a350-battery-switch.html
IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said Airbus was right to remove lithium-ion batteries from
the A350 aircraft after fires in similar  Boeing Co . power packs
grounded the global fleet of 787 Dreamliners.  “Its a sensible thing to do,” Walsh said of Airbus’s
decision, which the planemaker disclosed last week. While the
switch will add weight, Walsh said it’s the right move, “given
the problems that the industry has seen in relation to the use
of lithium-ion batteries and the concern that has grown in the
public domain about lithium-ion batteries.”  Walsh, speaking at the Aviation Carbon 2013 conference near
his London Heathrow office, is awaiting delivery of the first of
30 787s in May.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA , as
IAG is known, is not a customer of the A350, which is slated for
its maiden flight toward the middle of this year.  Boeing has suspended 787 deliveries since the fleet was
grounded on Jan. 16 after a fire on an  All Nippon Airways  flight
linked to a lithium-ion power cell. The company has told
airlines with near-term delivery slots their jets may be
delayed. Airbus last week switched from the Li-ion technology in
favor of traditional nickel cadmium cells.  Walsh said the Airbus shift will come at a cost because it
adds weight and will therefore “clearly have an environmental
impact.” The older-technology batteries weigh 60 kilograms (132
pounds) more to deliver the same power, he said.  Walsh reiterated his confidence in the Dreamliner aircraft
batteries, saying “the technical issues will be resolved and we
will be able to move forward with the use of lithium ion as a
power source.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  