-- Iceland Foreshadows Death of Currencies Lost in Crisis
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-02-19T11:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/iceland-foreshadows-death-of-currencies-too-small-for-new-order.html
Iceland is hinting its currency may
be too small to survive in the volatile world left behind by the
global financial crisis.  Less than five months after Finance Minister  Katrin Juliusdottir  said the krona probably will never be restored to a
free floating regime, central bank Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  is
signaling the same.  “We’ve said that Iceland can live with the krona, but then
we have to do this and that,” Gudmundsson said in a telephone
interview from Reykjavik. “And it may well be the case that we
don’t like all the things we have to do. Then we have to
consider other options. Another option is to join a large
currency union.”  After its biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
Iceland imposed currency controls to cauterize the outflow of
capital. The International Monetary Fund and economists,
including Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman , praised the step as
necessary. Now, even as Iceland outgrows much of Europe, the
nation is holding on to the currency restrictions amid concern
the krona won’t survive on its own.  Offshore investors have about $8 billion in kronur locked
behind the controls. That compares with Iceland’s total economic
output in 2012 of $13 billion. A slump in the krona would drive
inflation higher and hurt households in the Atlantic island,
where loans linked to the  consumer price index  made up 83
percent of all borrowing as of September 2012.  Different Risks  Even with the controls, the krona has lost almost 6 percent
against the euro in the past 12 months. Versus the dollar, it’s
declined almost 5 percent in the period. Annual inflation held
at 4.2 percent in January, the statistics office said Jan. 29.  Though the currency restrictions are protecting the krona
from even steeper losses, they come with a different set of
risks, Gudmundsson said.  “The restrictions have long-term costs for the economy and
its international links,” he said. “Also, it might lead to
asset bubbles and other such things, which we still haven’t seen
much of yet. However, over the short- and medium term, there are
benefits to the capital controls as they maintain stability. As
soon as the long-term costs are greater than the medium-term
benefits, we should abolish the controls. We have, however, not
arrived at that juncture.”  Japan, G20  While policy makers responsible for some of the world’s
smallest currencies are struggling to protect their markets, the
world’s biggest economies have also focused on exchange rates as
the debate shifts from debt reduction to trade competitiveness.  Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting in Moscow over the
weekend signaled Japan has scope to keep stimulating its economy
as long as policy makers don’t publicly advocate a weaker yen.
The group pledged not “to target our exchange rates for
competitive purposes” following signs that some governments
were descending into a contest to help exporters through
devaluations.  “This isn’t only a problem for Iceland,” Gudmundsson
said. “This is a discussion that’s taking place all over the
world. As the country is smaller, the more difficult it is.”
Gudmundsson stopped short of calling it “impossible” for a
small currency to survive in a free-float regime.  Nordic Currencies  In the Nordic region that Iceland is a part of, Sweden and
Norway have free-floating currencies. Denmark pegs its krone to
the euro, while Finland is a full euro member. Sweden’s krona
soared to a four-month record against the euro last week, while
Norway’s krone touched a nine-year high in August as capital
poured into the AAA rated nations.  Yet the direction of those flows has varied as investors
try to gauge whether the euro area is over the worst of its
crisis, or whether they need to keep buying safer assets.  For Sweden’s krona, one-month implied volatility -- a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate -- has averaged
14.96 percent since the start of 2008, compared with 10.2
percent in the five years leading up to the financial crisis
that broke out in 2007. Volatility on the Norwegian krone was
14.4 percent since the start of 2008, compared with pre-crisis
average of 10.2 percent.  While Sweden has signaled it won’t resort to policies that
target a weaker krona, exporters in the nation have complained
about the competitive disadvantage they say they’re struggling
against. In neighboring Norway, central bank Governor  Oeystein Olsen  said last week he’s ready to cut rates should the krone
appreciate too much. Both Sweden and Norway rely on exports for
about half their total economic output.  Economic Milestones  Iceland has passed a series of milestones on its path to
economic resurrection. The nation won a court battle against the
U.K. and Netherlands last month, freeing it of as much as $2.6
billion in damages for not honoring depositor claims. That
victory prompted Moody’s Investors Service to raise the outlook
on Iceland’s Baa3 grade to stable, while Fitch boosted its
rating to BBB from BBB-.  According to  Fridrik Jonsson , an economist at the
Washington-based World Bank, even those successes aren’t enough
to protect the island from an external shock. He warns that the
restoration of a free-floating krona would trigger “another
economic collapse,” unless Iceland takes “radical action.”  For Iceland, which started European Union membership talks
in 2010, the lesson of the euro crisis is that being inside a
larger currency group isn’t always the best protection. The key
is having an economy that’s aligned with the currency bloc a
nation plans to enter, according to  Anders Svendsen , an
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.  Euro Membership  Euro membership “may have short-term benefits, but those
may be outweighed by longer-term downsides accompanied by
actually tying yourselves up while the economy is not anywhere
near an equilibrium,” Svendsen said by phone.  Iceland’s policy makers are mindful that “there’s a lot of
risk” associated with maintaining a small currency, Gudmundsson
said. “Everyone needs to be aware of the risks and we need to
have rules that regulate the risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  