-- ICIS Opens Consultation on European Gas Market Pricing Method
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-02-19T12:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/icis-opens-consultation-on-european-gas-market-pricing-method.html
ICIS asked for comments on its
European natural gas pricing methodologies, opening a monthlong
consultation following criticism of its approach from a former
employee.  Submissions will be accepted through March 15 and public
responses will be published by March 22, according to a  document 
on the company’s website dated Feb. 15. A summary of all
comments and a decision on any changes to the methodologies will
be published March 29.  London-based ICIS, a unit of Reed Elsevier Plc, has been
forced to defend its practices after former price reporter  Seth Freedman  last year accused the company of providing inadequate
training to its staff, leaving its pricing mechanisms open to
manipulation. ICIS reported what it described as irregular
trades to regulators in September. Freedman brought the issue to
the attention of the Financial Services Authority in October.  Questions on the consultation document include: “This
methodology seeks to provide a reliable measure of physical
market value. How well do you think the ICIS methodology
achieves this aim?”  ICIS price assessments are formed by a team of journalists
who call or e-mail about a dozen traders to collect prices of
natural gas for delivery from one day to five years ahead. They
gather data on completed deals as well as bids and offers, and
then compare those with trades on Trayport Ltd.’s online
platform, which aggregates prices from brokers including ICAP
Plc and GFI Group Inc., and make their assessments.  Brokers ICAP Plc, Marex Spectron Group Ltd. and Tullett
Prebon Plc started a range of indexes Feb. 6 under the name
Tankard that use thousands of daily trades they execute every
day to derive prices.  Freedman was fired by ICIS Dec. 28 because it was no longer
practicable for him to work within the price-reporting team,
according to a a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  