-- Microsoft Says Outlook.com Has 60 Million Users
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/microsoft-says-outlook-com-has-60-million-users.html
Microsoft Corp.  said its free
Outlook.com Web-based e-mail service has gained 60 million
active users in its first six months, with a third of those
switching from  Google Inc. ’s Gmail.  Microsoft had expected it to take a year to reach that
level of usage and it took Gmail two years to get there,
Dharmesh Mehta, a senior director for Outlook.com, said in an
interview. A third of active users are Gmail customers now using
Outlook.com as their primary free e-mail account, he said.  While free e-mail isn’t a huge money-maker -- Mehta said
Outlook.com carries about 60 percent fewer advertisements than
Microsoft’s previous Hotmail product -- the Redmond, Washington-
based company considers it critical to gaining and retaining
consumers. Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, has
been losing users of its Windows operating system to smartphones
and tablets such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  Outlook.com, accessed mainly via Web browsers, shares the
brand name with Microsoft’s e-mail, contacts and calendar
program, part of the Office suite of software installed on
personal computers running Windows.  The software has been in preview since July 31. Microsoft
is releasing the final version today, with features mostly
unchanged. Outlook.com works on Windows-based machines, as well
as Apple’s. There’s also an application for devices running
Google’s Android mobile-operating system.  To promote the service, Microsoft is beginning what Mehta
says is the biggest-ever advertising campaign for an e-mail
product, spending “tens of millions” of dollars on U.S.
television, online, print and bus ads to market Outlook.com. The
company will also run TV ads in Europe in the coming weeks.  Microsoft will also begin moving customers to Outlook.com
from its Hotmail service, Mehta said. Microsoft will initially
encourage Hotmail users to switch before moving them permanently
by the end of the first half. While Hotmail users can keep their
old e-mail addresses, they will use the new Outlook.com
interface, Microsoft said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  