-- Microsoft Skype Unit Approaching $2 Billion in Annual Sales
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-02-19T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/microsoft-s-skype-unit-approaching-2-billion-in-annual-revenue.html
Microsoft Corp. ’s Skype unit, which
includes Lync software for corporate instant messaging and
Internet calling, is approaching $2 billion in annual sales.  The division is getting close to the size of Microsoft’s
SharePoint business, which focuses on tools that help employees
collaborate, according to Giovanni Mezgec, a general manager in
the Skype division. SharePoint will bring in more than $2
billion in revenue for the current fiscal year, Microsoft said
in  November .  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, has 5 million
users for Lync, its Internet-calling product for companies.
That’s up from 3 million 14 months ago, Mezgec said. Microsoft
wants to sell more Lync software to corporations to catch up
with  Cisco Systems Inc.  in the market for Internet telephony and
communications, which Forrester Research Inc.  predicts  will be
worth $14.5 billion in 2015.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, paid $8.5
billion to buy Skype in 2011 to add the most popular Web-calling
service, targeted at consumers. Skype had about $800 million in
sales when Microsoft acquired the company.  Of the 100 largest companies, by Fortune magazine’s
ranking, 90 are Lync customers, Mezgec said.  By June, Lync users will be able to connect to Skype for
telephony, instant messaging, and to see whether contacts are
online, according to a  blog post  by Skype President  Tony Bates ,
who is speaking today at a Lync conference in San Diego.  Mobile versions of Lync for Microsoft’s Windows Phone and
 Apple Inc. ’s iOS will be available early next month. An
application for  Google Inc. ’s Android smartphones is planned for
a month later, Bates said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  