-- Miliband Makes Better Childcare Priority For U.K. Labour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-19T16:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/miliband-makes-better-childcare-priority-for-u-k-labour.html
The U.K.’s opposition Labour Party
is looking at how it can offer parents better support for child
care, its leader,  Ed Miliband , told lawmakers in Sweden, citing
that country as a possible model.  “A decent child-care system has got to be a big priority
for the next Labour government,” Miliband said in a speech to
the Social Democratic Party in the parliament in Stockholm
today. “You have been world leaders in this. We’ve got further
to go to really get near to the kind of universal provision you
have here.”  Miliband said political leaders have to do more to
encourage women to progress in business and politics and that
child care is central to the problem. Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday there are “not nearly
enough” women in the U.K. Parliament.  The Labour leader, whose party leads the Tories in opinion
polls, was speaking on the second day of his tour of Northern
European economies. Yesterday he was in Copenhagen, where he met
Social Democrat Prime Minister  Helle Thorning-Schmidt . Tomorrow
he’s in the Netherlands, where he’ll see  Diederik Samsom , the
leader of the Labor Party that’s part of the Dutch coalition
government.  Miliband is drawing inspiration from Scandinavia’s Social
Democrats. Last night he stayed in the Swedish party’s country
retreat of Bommersvik, southwest of Stockholm, where the
facilities include a sauna and a lake, currently frozen.
Miliband and his delegation, which includes Labour’s foreign-
affairs spokesman,  Douglas Alexander , said they didn’t use
either.  Swedish System  Sweden offers  free child care  for most children, and
parents get 480 days of paid leave per child, to be taken in the
first eight years of its life. The result, according to the
Swedish government, is that 80 percent of all children have a
mother who goes out to work.  Swedish Social Democrat leader  Stefan Loefven  faces an
election in late 2014, and Miliband will take on Cameron in May
2015. “These are two coming prime ministers standing here,”
Loefven told his lawmakers.  Miliband drew laughter and applause when he turned to
Cameron’s proposed referendum on the U.K.’s membership of the
European Union.  “The Labour Party is determined to remain in the EU,” he
said, before arguing for reform of the 27-nation bloc. “We must
be the people who are not for the status quo, we must be the
people who are for change. How do we address this? The answer is
not to leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Stockholm at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  