-- Milton Friedman Warns Fed Against Fooling Mother Nature
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-02-19T16:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/milton-friedman-warns-fed-against-fooling-mother-nature.html
In December 1967,  Milton Friedman 
delivered the  presidential address  at the annual meeting of the
American Economic Association. In it, he outlined the things
monetary policy can and can’t do.  Friedman, along with co-author  Anna Schwartz , had already
rewritten history. Their 1963 book, “A Monetary History of the
United States,” placed the blame for the Great Depression
squarely at the feet of the Federal Reserve for allowing the
monetary base to contract by one-third between 1929 and 1933. At
the AEA conference, he talked about how their work had
influenced the thinking on the effectiveness of monetary policy:
from obsolete -- “pushing on a string” was the favored Keynesian
diagnosis of the 1930s -- to potent once again.  Then he got to the gist of his argument. The two things
monetary policy can’t do are peg a real interest rate or the
unemployment rate for more than a very limited period.
Coincidentally, these happen to be “the two main unattainable
tasks” most likely assigned to monetary policy, Friedman said.  Fast forward 46 years. The Fed, confronted with stubbornly
high unemployment, is moving in the direction of doing just
that. In December, policy makers said the benchmark rate would
remain at 0 to 0.25 percent at least until the unemployment rate
dips below  6.5 percent .  Full employment is one of the Fed’s two mandates (the other
is stable prices). It’s also a qualitative term: What
constitutes “full” in today’s environment may differ from “full”
in the past.  Economists agree that the U.S. economy is operating well
below its potential: Many people who would like a job can’t find
one. What they don’t know is how many of the long-term jobless
are unemployed because they lack the skills employers need. Such
structural employment may be an impediment to achieving full
employment, which the Fed thinks is  5 percent to 6 percent  in
the long run.  Just as there is some natural, unobservable rate of
interest that keeps the economy growing at its potential in
perpetuity, there is also a natural rate of unemployment,
Friedman explained. Monetary policy can fool Mother Nature for a
while, increasing employment at the expense of higher inflation.
But ultimately all it has to show for its effort is higher
inflation.  Back then, Friedman recommended steady money-supply growth
as to promote economic stability. With velocity, or the rate at
which money turns over, no longer stable, a strict money target
isn’t viable. That’s why many economists have turned to nominal
income as a substitute.  Using an interest rate or the unemployment rate to
determine the stance of monetary policy is akin to a space
vehicle fixated on the wrong star, Friedman said. Even with a
sophisticated guidance system, “the space vehicle will go
astray.”  ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow her  on
Twitter.)
 