-- Immigration Reform Must Look Beyond Today
-- B y   A l v a r o   V a r g a s   L l o s a
-- 2013-02-19T23:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/immigration-reform-must-look-beyond-today.html
The U.S. immigration reform
proposals put forward by President  Barack Obama  and the Senate’s
“Gang of Eight” are a step in the right direction. But they miss
the lesson of experience: The future matters just as much as the
present.  This means many foreign-born individuals could find
themselves outside the law again a few years from now.  The proposed reforms would beef up border security, crack
down on employers who hire illegal immigrants, grant a path to
citizenship to millions of undocumented foreigners, and increase
the number of visas available to certain classes of individuals,
favoring some -- those with advanced technical degrees, for
example -- over others. But these decisions will be made by
politicians, not the market. A more flexible approach, in tune
with the needs of the economy, would be better.  We’ve been down the reform road before. While technological
advances will make employer verification and border interdiction
more effective than in the past, the current initiatives are not
much different from President  Ronald Reagan ’s 1986 amnesty. The
main elements are the same: conditional legalization, enhanced
border patrols and employer sanctions.  Yet that law is seen as a failure today -- not for what it
did in its time, but what it failed to do in ours.  Unanticipated Needs  The Reagan-era reforms did not anticipate the ways in which
the needs of the market would circumvent the new restrictions,
producing the estimated 11 million undocumented workers residing
in the U.S. today. The same had happened with previous laws,
most notably the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which
eliminated national origin quotas and emphasized, as the Obama
proposal would, family reunification.  Lawmakers and their constituents need to understand three
things. First, the number of immigrants needed to fill jobs in
the U.S. -- from picking fruit to writing computer code -- is
impossible to predict. Second, the U.S. would not be overrun
by undocumented workers if a more flexible system was
adopted, rather than setting predetermined immigration caps.
Third, current immigrants do not pose an economic or cultural
danger to the U.S., just as those of the 19th and early 20th
centuries, equally maligned at the time, did not.  The notion that a more flexible system would open the
floodgates is illogical. In the early part of the last decade,
about 800,000 undocumented immigrants were entering the U.S.
annually. By 2010, net migration from Mexico, the main country
of origin, had dropped to zero. The principal reason was not
border-patrol enhancement but the downturn in the economy. The
same had happened after the dot-com bubble burst.  Similar patterns are noticeable elsewhere. In Spain, a
major destination for Latin Americans and North Africans,
migration has taken an ironic turn: Thousands of Spaniards now
flock to northern Europe and Latin America.  The proportion of foreign-born people in the U.S., about 13
percent today, is similar to what it was during other periods in
U.S. history. Until the 1920s, about 15 percent of the
population was foreign-born. The 19th and 20th century averages
are 10 percent.  The idea that immigrants take jobs from citizens, instead
of filling the needs of the economy, is also false.  Consider Arizona. Before 2008, undocumented foreigners made
up 10 percent of Arizona’s 3-million-plus workforce. But
unemployment was a mere 4 percent. In other words, they were
filling a vacuum, not pushing citizens aside.  As for the cultural danger posed by immigration, myth also
rules. Undocumented workers today show similar acculturation
patterns to those of the past. As a general rule, assimilation
is strong among the second generation and complete by the third.  Similar Households  Immigrants’ values align closely with those of most U.S.
households. The overwhelming majority of Latinos who have
arrived since 1990 are Christian, mostly Catholic. Half of all
undocumented immigrants live with a spouse and a child. While
the proportion of single-parent households among citizens is
one-third, among undocumented immigrants it’s 13 percent. Nearly
12 percent of immigrants are self-employed, similar to the
percentage among citizens.  Lawmakers should heed these realities when they put
together the new immigration law, creating a system that makes
it easy for immigrants of various skill levels to enter
according to the needs of the economy.  If they do, they will be surprised by how the tide of
immigrants will ebb and flow naturally. The numbers at times
will hardly be noticeable.  ( Alvaro Vargas Llosa  is a Washington-based senior fellow
with the Independent Institute in Oakland, California. His new
book on immigration, “Global Crossings: Immigration,
Civilization and America,” will be published in June. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alvaro Vargas Llosa at  avllosa@independent.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 