-- In China, Horse With a Side of Poisonous Fake Mutton
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-02-19T23:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/in-china-horse-with-a-side-of-poisonous-fake-mutton.html
No one covers European horse meat
quite like  China Central Television , the state-owned and
operated news media and entertainment juggernaut.  For the past week and a half, CCTV newscasts just haven’t
been complete without  the most up-to-date information  on the
deceit that led to horse meat being sold as beef  across Europe .
Indeed, horse meat fever runs so hot at CCTV that, as of the
afternoon of Feb. 19 in China,  a search for  “horse meat” on the
network’s official website produced 313 video results, with only
a handful predating Feb. 11.  What might account for such editorial devotion to a foreign
news story that will never affect China? “Atypical Pisces,” the
handle of an anonymous microblogger on the popular Sina Weibo
platform,  tweeted  a theory on the morning of Feb. 18. Her
missive opens by describing a conversation with a foreign
correspondent for one of China’s state-owned news outlets:  “During Chinese New Year a foreign correspondent told me
that when something happened domestically in China, they were
told to go find an analogous situation in the country where
they’re stationed. For example, if a landslide happened in
China, they had to find local news about a landslide; if a
bridge collapsed in China, they had to find a similar piece of
news. When this similar news is broadcast on TV, people will
think the problem happens globally and China isn’t alone in its
suffering. Recently, we are talking about horse meat so that
must mean China has a big problem with mutton … ”  As it happens, China does have a big problem with what
state-owned and operated China Radio International recently
characterized as “ poisonous fake mutton ,” of which more than 40
tons was recently seized in northern China. This incident --
only the latest in China’s  history of food scandals  -- involves
fraudsters treating cheap duck meat with toxic chemicals and
mutton grease and selling it as far more expensive lamb to
hotpot restaurants. (A  2009 version  of the same scam, in which
duck was dipped in nontoxic lamb urine to infuse it, supposedly,
with muttony flavor, is an all-time Chinese food-scandal low
point.)  Despite poisonous fake mutton being a far more disgusting,
dangerous and -- at the moment, at least -- Chinese problem than
European horse meat disguised as beef, CCTV has run only  one
story  (on Feb. 17) about the domestic mutton scandal.  Other
state-run news organizations  have also been one-sided in their
coverage of horse meat versus poisonous fake mutton, though the
ratios are not nearly as skewed.  Of course, news editors and producers have many reasons for
choosing the mix of stories that run on their programs and in
their newspapers. It’s quite possible that CCTV’s brass believe
that their viewers are far more interested -- if not entertained
-- by horse meat than by poisonous fake mutton.  As it turns out, the Chinese are interested in both -- and
especially in how the coverage of one scandal, and the reality
of the other, reflects poorly on the country’s leadership.
Indeed, food scandals -- and the incompetence of the regulators
responsible for stopping them -- have been particularly popular
on China’s microblogs for several years. In this case, the horse
meat coverage has not only failed to distract the Chinese from
their own food issues, or convince them that Europe suffers
similar afflictions, but also managed to create an intense
backlash against CCTV and China’s already much-hated food safety
regulator.  On Sina Weibo, a Feb. 19  search  for “fake lamb” brought up
more than 490,000 results, while a  search  for “horse meat”
brought up 430,000. (Admittedly, fake lamb scandals have been
around since 2009, at least, and horse meat is a relatively new
social media interest.) Of those search results, a vast number
of the tweets are either critical of China’s abysmal food-safety
record or scathing about CCTV’s unwavering, wall-to-wall
coverage of a European scandal when China has far more serious
food issues.  In the former category, the tweets tend to link the horse
meat and fake poison lamb scandals, such as in this Feb. 13  post 
to Sina Weibo by “Exercise Book,” an anonymous microblogger with
5 million followers: “I envy the European countries where horse
meat is mixed with beef. In our country, duck is mixed with
poisonous lamb meat essence.” Much in the same spirit, but
without reference to poisonous mutton, the Sina Weibo account
registered to  New Weekly , a popular, independent Guangzhou-based
magazine wrote a  tweet  related to the two scandals on Feb. 17
that has been forwarded more than 38,000 times: “In Europe,
unscrupulous businesspeople just add horse to the beef; in
China, you don’t know whether what you have eaten is meat or
not.”  In the latter category of tweets, China’s microbloggers
have become borderline political, often calling into question
the integrity and competence of Communist Party-run CCTV. On
Feb. 19 a self-identified Beijing police officer  tweeted : “When
you see CCTV and other mainstream media report the European
horse meat scandal, and then you go back and look at our
country’s food safety crisis and groundwater contamination,
don’t you want to blush? The nerve!”  Some of the most popular tweets generated from the dual
scandals combine the two critiques: culinary and media. This
rambling Feb. 15  missive  from “fen1234,” a microblogger in Anhui
province, names several infamous Chinese -- and non-Chinese --
food safety scandals: “CCTV has reported the European horsemeat
event for days on end with no goal other than to taunt the
European officials: ‘Can’t you handle such a small thing? It’d
be solved if it happened in China.’ Is horsemeat poisonous?
Compared with clenbuterol, water-injected beef, hormone-ripened
chicken, leather milk, melamine, and Sudan red, horse meat is a
trifle. Despite the fact that China’s food safety situation is
notorious around the world, CCTV is willing to serve as the
conscience of the capitalist media.” Fen1234’s tweet has been
forwarded more than 5,400 times and generated more than 800
comments.  It seems the already considerable gap between state-run
media outlets and the growing ranks of microbloggers who have
made a national pastime of deriding them is only growing wider.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 