-- India Profit Growth Curbed by Slowing Economy, Kotak Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-20T11:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/india-profit-growth-curbed-by-slowing-economy-kotak-says.html
India’s slowest economic expansion
in a decade is limiting profit growth at the biggest companies
even as foreigners remain net buyers of the nation’s stocks,
according to Kotak Institutional Equities.  Earnings-per-share (SENSEX)  for the 30 companies making up the
benchmark S&P Dow Jones Sensex Index in the year ending March
31, 2014, will probably be 1,320 rupees, 2 percent below
previous estimates, Sanjeev Prasad, co-head and senior  executive
director  at Kotak, said yesterday in Mumbai. Profits grew 7.5
percent in the December quarter, missing an 11 percent
projection, he said.  “We may have reached a bottom but I’m not sure whether we
will see recovery any time soon,” Prasad said at the broker’s
“Chasing Growth” investor conference. “Underlying trends in
volume, margin, profitability and banking sector non-performing
loans are very disappointing. Earnings downgrades are still
taking place.” Kotak has been named the best local brokerage in
the Asiamoney Brokers Poll for seven years through 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG said Feb. 18 that its earnings
growth forecast for the 50 companies on the CNX Nifty Index may
drop to between 7 percent and 8 percent for the fiscal year
ending March.  India ’s gross domestic product will rise 5 percent
this year, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the least since the
4 percent increase in the 2002 to 2003 period, India’s
statistics office said Feb. 7. Data last week showed factory
output fell for a second month in December.  Government Borrowing  The government pared its annual borrowing program this week
after Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram curbed spending
and raised $4 billion selling stakes in state-owned companies to
pare the fiscal deficit. The moves are part of a wider policy
overhaul since September to revive economic growth by further
opening up  Asia ’s third-biggest economy to foreign investment.  Chidambaram, scheduled to present the  federal budget  this
month, is under pressure to keep a pledge to narrow the deficit
to 3 percent of gross domestic product in four years, from a
targeted 5.3 percent for this fiscal year. Officials are trying
to avert a ratings downgrade after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings said last year that they may demote India to junk
status, citing the shortfall and a widening current-account gap.  “India will have to continue with the reforms it started
in September and signal overseas investors and ratings agencies
that fiscal consolidations will take place, and then take steps
to revive the investment cycle,” Kotak’s Prasad said.  ‘Inflection Point’  Policy measures have prompted overseas funds to buy a net
$7.92 billion of local shares this year, extending last year’s
net purchases of $24.5 billion that were the highest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China . Asian
equity funds attracted $535 million in the week to Feb. 13, a
23rd week of inflows, Citigroup Inc. said in a Feb. 15 report.  “We are close to an inflection point in the earnings cycle
and that will be key driver for Asian markets including India in
the second half of the year,”  Geoff Lewis , global market
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in  Hong Kong , said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India today. “We are maintaining our
overweight stance on India.”  The Sensex trades at 13.9 times projected 12-month
 earnings , data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
multiple of 10.3 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The
Indian gauge closed at a two-year high on Jan. 25 and advanced
less than 0.1 percent to 19,642.75 today.  “There is money flowing in on the back of strong global
liquidity and India will get its fair share because the longer
term prospects still look OK,” said Prasad. “Five percent GDP
growth on a relative basis is better than what we are seeing
elsewhere. India must play its part. It is not given that money
will keep coming. Valuations are no longer cheap.”  Prasad said he holds more stock of oil and gas explorers
and drugmakers than their weight in the benchmark. He prefers
shares of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the
fuel,  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , the nation’s largest iron ore producer, and
utilities  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  and Power Grid Corp. because they may
benefit from reforms to the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  