-- India’s BSE Ties Up With S&P Dow Jones for Sensex Index Branding
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-02-19T13:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/india-s-bse-ties-up-with-s-p-dow-jones-for-sensex-index-branding.html
India’s  BSE Ltd.  said it would use
the name of S&P Dow Jones Indices for its indexes, a week after
bigger rival the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. ended a
similar agreement with the U.S. company.  The BSE, formerly known as the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd.,
renamed its benchmark 30-stock BSE India Sensitive Index to S&P
Dow Jones Sensex Index starting today, according to a statement
issued in Mumbai.  The National Stock Exchange, BSE’s main rival in India’s
$1.2 trillion stock market, said Feb. 12 a pact with S&P Dow
Jones for its 50-stock CNX Nifty Index and other gauges ended on
Jan. 31. The NSE handles twice the amount of shares of its 137-
year-old rival and controls  more than 80 percent of the
nation’s $28 billion equity derivatives market, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. MCX Stock Exchange Ltd. Feb. 11 became the third
local bourse to trade stocks.  “S&P branding will give the Sensex more international
recognition but whether that will translate into volumes or
revenue only time will tell,”  U.R. Bhat , managing director of
Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt., said by phone from Mumbai.
“It’s all about building adequate liquidity.”  About 25 million Indian households invest directly or
indirectly in the capital markets, according to a survey in July
2011 by the  National Council of Applied Economic Research .
Retail participation at 1.3 percent of the population compares
with 9.4 percent in China, 41 percent in Australia and 18
percent in the U.K.,  Thomas Mathew , a former joint secretary in
the Ministry of Finance’s capital markets division, said in an
interview on Sept. 5.  The BSE, Asia’s oldest stock exchange, is backed by
 Deutsche Boerse AG , while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has a stake
in the NSE, according to the exchanges’ websites.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  