-- India Slowdown ‘Deepening and Widening,’ Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-19T05:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/india-slowdown-deepening-and-widening-credit-suisse-says.html
Earnings forecasts for the biggest
Indian companies are declining again as profits grow at the
slowest pace since the financial crisis, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Consensus earnings-per-share estimates for the 50 companies
on the CNX  Nifty  Index are dropping, after rising in January,
Credit Suisse analysts  Neelkanth Mishra  and  Ravi Shankar  wrote
in a report dated yesterday. Forecasts for earnings growth may
drop to 7-8 percent for the fiscal year ending March 31 as wages
and borrowing costs rise faster than revenue, they wrote.
Projections for 2014 profits may drop as much as 10 percent, the
report said.  Profits at 43 percent of the 30 companies on the BSE India
 Sensitive Index  trailed estimates in the three months through
Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent in the previous two quarters,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross domestic product
expansion this fiscal year will be the weakest in a decade, the
statistics office on Feb. 7, while data on Feb. 12 showed
industrial output fell for a second month in December.  “The economic slowdown is deepening and widening,” the
report said. “While the slowdown in investment activity has
been prolonged and well-flagged, commentary from companies did
not suggest any bottoming out or inflection. Results showed that
construction activity, steel and cement demand and even order
books slowed during the quarter.”  More cuts in consensus  earnings estimates  are expected in
financial, materials and industrial stocks including  State Bank
of India , Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd,
according to the report. The nation’s banking system is “still
in poor health,” the analysts wrote.  Spending Cuts  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh embarked on a policy overhaul
in September to revive investment after corruption allegations
against officials and parliamentary gridlock hurt his
development agenda. The government opened retail and aviation to
more foreign participation, eased caps on capital inflows and
set up a panel to accelerate infrastructure projects. Diesel
prices were partially freed from state control last month to
limit fuel subsidies.  Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram , who unveils the
annual budget on Feb. 28, has vowed spending curbs to narrow a
record deficit, avert a credit rating downgrade and damp
inflation. India cut its federal borrowing for the year ending
March 31 as it raised as much as 220 billion rupees ($4.1
billion) selling stakes in state companies. The government
canceled a 120 billion rupee bond sale scheduled for Feb. 22,
the last for the year, the finance ministry said yesterday.  “Gains from the sharp rally in investment-driven stocks
that started on 6 Sept. 2012 -- around the time that the
government action on economic reforms grabbed headlines -- have
already disappeared,” the report said.  The Sensex dropped 0.1 percent 19,489.55 at 10:11 a.m. in
Mumbai. The measure is valued at 13.6 times  estimated earnings 
for the year ending March 2014, down from the year’s peak of
13.9 times on Jan. 25, when the gauge closed at a two-high, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  