-- India’s Sensex Climbs to Two-Week High as Infosys Gains
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-02-19T12:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/india-s-nifty-futures-advance-on-government-moves-to-cut-deficit.html
Indian  stocks climbed to a two-week
high amid speculation the government will sustain policy steps
to revive economic growth. Software makers and energy companies
led the advance.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, rose 0.7 percent
to 19,635.72, the highest close since Feb. 6, with most of the
gains coming in the last hour of trade. Volumes in the measure
were 35 percent below the 30-day average.  Infosys Ltd ., the
second-biggest software exporter, increased to a 10-month high.
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , the nation’s biggest state explorer,
climbed to the highest level since Feb. 1.  India cut its annual borrowing program as Finance Minister
 Palaniappan Chidambaram  curbed spending and raised $4 billion
selling stakes in state companies to pare the fiscal deficit.
The moves are part of a wider policy overhaul since September to
revive an economy growing at the weakest pace in a decade.
Chidambaram is due to present the federal budget on Feb. 28.  “There are some noises about the budget being better than
expected and also the fact that the government borrowing has
dropped is reassuring because it means the government will be
able to meet its deficit targets without extra funds,”  U.R. Bhat , managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt. in
Mumbai, said by phone from Mumbai.  The government canceled a 120 billion rupee ($2.2 billion)
bond sale due for Feb. 22, the last for the year, according to a
statement from the finance ministry yesterday. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s administration planned to borrow a record 5.69
trillion rupees this fiscal year before scrapping this week’s
debt sale, according to budget documents.  Software, Energy  Infosys gained 1.5 percent to 2,820.45 rupees, the highest
close since April 9, 2012. ONGC increased 3.7 percent to 329.70
rupees.  ICICI Bank Ltd ., the nation’s third-biggest lender by
value, added 0.8 percent to 1,131.4 rupees. Cipla increased 2.1
percent to 387.6 rupees, the largest rise since Feb. 11.  The CNX  Nifty  Index of the National Stock Exchange gained
0.7 percent to 5,939.7. India VIX, which measures the cost of
protection against declines in the Nifty, sank 3 percent to
15.81, the biggest drop since Jan. 29.  Chidambaram, who last month addressed investors in Asia and
Europe, is under pressure to limit spending and keep his pledge
to reduce the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product in
four years, from a targeted 5.3 percent for this fiscal year
ending March. Officials are trying to avert a ratings downgrade
after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said last year that
they may demote India to junk status, citing the shortfall and a
widening current-account gap.  ‘Government Promises’  “We are encouraged but we have to wait to see how the
government delivers on its promises,”  Hugh Young , who helps
manage about $70 billion of Asian equities at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd. in Singapore, told Bloomberg TV India
today. “We have seen how previously the government took two
steps forward and three steps back, which disconcerted foreign
investors. The proof of the pudding will be in the eating.”  The Sensex has fallen 2.3 percent from a two-year high on
Jan. 25 even as foreign funds plowed a net $7.92 billion into
domestic stocks this year, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg excluding China. The gauge is valued at
13.6 times estimated earnings for the year ending March 2014,
down from the year’s peak of 13.9 times on Jan. 25, when the
gauge closed at a two-year high, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  