-- InterContinental Profit Rises on Revenue From Americas
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-02-19T17:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/intercontinental-2012-profit-climbs-as-company-expands-in-china.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc ,
the world’s largest provider of hotel accommodation, said 2012
profit rose 10 percent as the company generated more revenue per
room in the Americas, its biggest market.  Operating profit excluding exceptional items rose to $614
million from $559 million a year earlier, the Denham, England-
based company said in a statement today. Analysts expected a
profit of $608 million, the average of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  InterContinental’s revenue per available room, a measure of
occupancy and rates, rose 5.2 percent, led by the Americas.
While that region accounts for almost half of the company’s
revenue, InterContinental said an increasing proportion of new
rooms are coming from developing markets such as Greater China.
Global revpar rose 6.6 percent in January, Chief Financial
Officer  Tom Singer  said on a conference call with reporters.  “Forward indicators are encouraging, with supply in
developed markets at near historic lows and global demand at
record levels,” he said.  InterContinental fell 36 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 1,953
pence in London, paring the gain for the past 12 months to 27
percent. The company has a market value of 5.24 billion pounds
($8.1 billion).  Higher Dividend  Net income climbed to $544 million from $460 million, while
revenue rose 4 percent to $1.84 billion, InterContinental said.
The company plans to pay a  dividend  of 64 cents per share for
2012, up from 55 cents in 2011.  InterContinental said it started looking for buyers for its
London Park Lane hotel and also plans to divest the
InterContinental New York Barclay.  “Both the Barclay in New York and the Park Lane continue
to trade well, and we’re not under any pressure to sell,”
Singer said.  Revpar for the Americas was 6.1 percent last year, the most
of any region, while Greater China had a figure of 5.4 percent.
Europe was lowest at 1.7 percent  In the fourth quarter, revenue in China underperformed
other regions as political uncertainty reduced the number of
guests, Singer said on the call.  The flare-up of a territorial dispute between China and
Japan reduced the number of Japanese guests, he said. In
addition, the planned change-over in the Chinese presidency
damped the number of business travelers to China as companies
wait for the new administration to take office, he said.  “There is no material change in the underlying trend in
China,” Singer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  