-- InterMune Sale Looms as Lung Drug Nears FDA Nod: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-02-20T21:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/intermune-sale-looms-as-lung-drug-nears-fda-nod-real-m-a.html
InterMune Inc., whose  stock  has lost
81 percent since the biotechnology company last explored a sale,
is back in play.  InterMune’s Esbriet medication went on sale in Europe in
2011 and became available in Canada last month, and analysts
estimate the drugmaker will double  revenue  this year in those
regions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While the
treatment was rejected by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
in 2010, William Blair & Co. says there’s an 80 percent chance
it will get clearance this time around for sale in a nation
where at least 132,000 people stand to benefit from the remedy.  InterMune may once again be a takeover target since
biotechnology companies typically get bought a couple of years
after their drugs begin selling, according to Lazard Capital
Markets LLC. The company had weighed a sale in April 2011,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. JMP Group Inc.
says a buyer will wait until U.S. approval is secured. While
that’s at least a year away as the $742 million company
continues its phase 3 trial of the drug’s safety and efficacy,
Robert W. Baird & Co. says Novartis AG, GlaxoSmithKline Plc and
Gilead Sciences Inc. will probably be among interested suitors.  “Any pharma company, if they have confidence in the
commercial opportunity and it gets approval, has to take a look
at it,”  Brian Skorney , a New York-based analyst for Baird, said
in a phone interview. “If the trial data are positive, people
will absolutely expect there’s the potential for an
acquisition.”  Jim Goff , a spokesman for Brisbane, California-based
InterMune, said the company doesn’t comment on potential M&A
activity, when asked whether it will weigh a sale or has been
approached by suitors.  Lung Scars  InterMune makes Esbriet, a treatment for idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, or IPF, a rare disease that causes
 unexplained  scarring in the lungs and makes it hard for patients
to breathe.  Esbriet was approved by the European Commission in March
2011, and InterMune said last month that the drug is available
for purchase in nine of the 15 countries it’s targeting in the
region, including Germany and France. It also began selling in
Canada in January.  The company’s revenue may more than double this year and
next to about $130 million in 2014, analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg show. Even before obtaining U.S. approval, analysts
 project  InterMune’s shares will climb 62 percent in the next 12
months to $14.75 from $9.12 yesterday, the data show.  Today, InterMune shares fell 0.7 percent to $9.06.  FDA Rejection  While Esbriet won the backing of an FDA advisory panel
three years ago, U.S. regulators rejected the medicine in May
2010 and asked that a new clinical trial be conducted. The
decision caused InterMune’s stock price to  plunge  from more than
$45 to about $11.  InterMune had 500 patients enrolled in December for its
phase 3 trial in the U.S. The results are expected in the second
quarter of 2014 and will help the FDA determine whether to
approve Esbriet.  “Even if the data are positive, the next hurdle is getting
through the FDA,”  Katherine Xu , a New York-based analyst for
William Blair, said in a phone interview. She pegs the odds at
80 percent.  “There’s a good chance” it gets approved for sale in the
U.S., she said. “That’s the basis of our ’buy’ thesis.”  Orphan Appeal  The pressure will be on the FDA to clear the drug because
no other treatments have been approved specifically for IPF in
the U.S. yet, said  Liisa Bayko , an analyst for JMP in San
Francisco. At least 132,000  Americans  have the disease and
40,000  die  from it each year, according to the Pulmonary
Fibrosis Foundation.  “This is a pretty big unmet medical need,” Bayko said in
a phone interview. “How I would vote with my dollars” is that
“there’s going to be a lot of pressure to approve this drug.”  In April 2011, after InterMune won European approval for
Esbriet and its shares touched as high as $51.08, Bloomberg News
reported that the company was weighing a sale and working with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to find a buyer, citing three people
with knowledge of the matter. InterMune said a day after the
report that it was “not currently in discussions” over a sale.  U.S. approval could make InterMune an attractive takeover
candidate for pharmaceutical companies such as Novartis, Glaxo
and Gilead that have an interest in orphan diseases -- those
that  affect  fewer than 200,000 people -- and respiratory-related
franchises, Baird’s Skorney said.  Respiratory Synergies  Novartis, Europe’s largest drugmaker, makes Seebri for
smoker’s cough, which competes with Glaxo’s Advair, the world’s
best-selling drug for that condition and asthma. Gilead, which
focuses on HIV and hepatitis C medicines,  expanded  into
treatments for respiratory illnesses through the acquisitions of
Corus Pharma Inc. and Myogen Inc. in 2006.  Julie Masow , a spokeswoman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, and  Amy Flood , a spokeswoman for Foster City,
California-based Gilead, declined to comment on whether their
companies are interested in InterMune.  Mary Anne Rhyne , a
spokeswoman for London-based Glaxo, also wouldn’t comment and
referred to the chief financial officer’s remarks last week.  “If we do any M&A, it’s going to be relatively small bolt-
ons and in-fills,”  Simon Dingemans , Glaxo’s CFO, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview Feb. 13. Multibillion-dollar
deals are “not really on the cards,” he said.  InterMune is in a race with  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH , the
world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker, to secure FDA clearance
for the U.S.’s first medicine for IPF. Competition from the
German company could hurt InterMune’s share price and even
dissuade suitors, said JMP’s Bayko.  Upside Potential  Should there be any interested acquirers, bids are unlikely
to surface before Esbriet is approved in the U.S., and InterMune
probably wouldn’t want to sell itself before then so that it can
get the best price in a deal, Bayko said.  “Why would InterMune sell now without trying to capture
that upside?” she said. “In today’s day and age, pharma
companies are unwilling to give you any credit for things like
that just given the downside risk. They’d rather pay more and
get in later.”  Still, InterMune Chief Executive Officer  Dan Welch  has a
history of selling businesses. Welch was at the  helm  of Triangle
Pharmaceuticals Inc. when Gilead bought it in 2002. The deal
gave Gilead an HIV drug that was already under FDA review and
helped build the company into the world’s largest maker of such
medicines.  “That was widely heralded as the best acquisition in the
history of biotech,” Skorney said. Welch is seen “as not being
an empire builder, but someone who takes things to a certain
point and then sells the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  