-- Iran Backs Nuclear-Free Middle East in Dig at Israeli Arsenal
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-19T13:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/iran-backs-nuclear-free-middle-east-in-dig-at-israeli-arsenal.html
Iran supports the establishment of a
Middle East free of nuclear weapons and backs efforts to dispose
of existing ones in the region, Iranian Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said today.  “We are at the forefront of efforts to scrap nuclear
weapons,” Mehmanparast said at a press conference in Tehran
aired live by Iran’s state television.  Iranian authorities complain of double standards over their
country’s nuclear program, which they say is solely civilian
while the U.S. and Israel say it may have military intent.
Israel neither confirms nor denies its reputed nuclear-weapons
arsenal. The London-based  International Institute for Strategic
Studies  estimates that Israel has as many as 200 nuclear
warheads.  “Countries which speak against our peaceful nuclear
activities have themselves committed violations and acted
against the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,” Mehmanparast
said. He said Iran, a signatory, abides by the treaty.  Israel, which has not signed the accord, has threatened
military strikes to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.
The U.S. has backed diplomacy to achieve the same goal while
warning that it too doesn’t rule out the use of force.  Mehmanparast criticized the cancellation of a proposed
United Nations conference on ridding the region of weapons of
mass destruction, and accused the U.S. of blocking the talks.
The U.S. believes that “the conditions aren’t right for that
conference to take place,” though it supports the goal, State
Department spokesman  Mark Toner  said in December.  Saudi Call  Mehmanparast’s comments follow similar ones by the former
intelligence chief of Saudi Arabia, a U.S. ally and one of
Iran’s main regional rivals, who criticized nuclear powers for
failing to convene the Middle East meeting.  “The only way we can reach a fair and workable solution to
the issue is through a Middle East zone free of weapons of mass
destruction,”  Prince Turki al-Faisal  said at the Munich
Security Summit on Feb. 3. “Sanctions against Iran are not
enough. The zone free of weapons of mass destruction is the only
way that we can deal fairly with this issue.”  Signatories to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty pledged
to work toward a Middle East free of nuclear weapons when they
extended the accord in 1995. In 2010, they promised to hold a
meeting in 2012 to begin the process of setting up the zone, a
plan that was stymied by Israel’s reluctance to participate.  Such a plan “has never been put to the test, even in the
most peaceful regions of the world,” Israeli atomic chief Shaul
Chorev told the International Atomic Energy Agency in September.
It’s “certainly much less applicable in the current volatile
and hostile Middle East region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net . 