-- Iron Ore Seen Dropping as Price Near ’11 High Deters China
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-02-19T09:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/iron-ore-seen-dropping-as-china-deterred-by-price-near-2011-high.html
Iron ore  will probably fall in the
next two months as prices near the highest level since October
2011 discourage buyers in  China , the world’s largest importer,
according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   Rates may decline $5 a ton to $10 a ton to the “high
$140s,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at ANZ, said in
an interview in  Melbourne  today. “At about $155, we think
there’s slightly more downside risk.”  Iron ore has surged 81 percent from a three-year low in
September to $157.20 a dry ton as China’s growth accelerated and
port inventories dropped to the lowest level in more than three
years. Mills in China, returning from Lunar New Year holidays,
may not boost stockpiles as much as anticipated because of the
cost of imports relative to domestic supply, Arctic Securities
ASA and RS Platou Markets AS said yesterday.  “The key question will be: are the traders prepared to
come in now and start restocking,” said Pervan. “Probably not,
it’s probably a little too high. What it does mean is that
they’ll be quite opportunistic to buy slight dips. You might see
easing prices, but it won’t fall sharply.”  Ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese port
of Tianjin rose 1.4 percent yesterday to the highest level since
Jan. 10, according to The Steel Index Ltd. Prices have increased
8.5 percent this year compared with a 2.7 percent gain in the
London Metal Exchange  index  of six non-ferrous metals from
copper to zinc where China is also the biggest consumer.  Volatile Range  Prices may trade in a $40 range between now and the end of
March, according to Justin Smirk, senior economist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  Sydney-based Smirk is the most accurate base-
metals forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in the past three
quarters and correctly predicted a slump last year.  “We’ve still got a target of $170 to be hit sometime
before the end of the June quarter, but it could be quite a
volatile range,” he said by phone today. “We have to see how
the demand side kicks in, with restocking and rebuilding
inventories. But we also need to see how the Chinese supply side
is responding to these high prices.”  Inventories at Chinese ports dropped 5.2 percent this year
to 66.9 million tons on Feb. 1, the lowest since January 2010,
according to data from Beijing Antaike Information Development
Co.  Iron ore  reached $158.50 a ton on Jan. 8, the highest level
since October 2011, after rallying from $86.70 in September.  “It has been fairly momentum-based and what will happen
now is there’ll be a pause with the New Year, a reality check,”
ANZ’s Pervan said. “We’ve seen it trade at $140 a ton and stay
there comfortably.”  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  