-- Is Currency War Breaking Out in Tokyo?
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-02-19T21:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/is-currency-war-breaking-out-in-tokyo-.html
The G-20 finance ministers’
meeting ended on Feb. 16 with the obligatory note of amity
on exchange rates. “We will not target our exchange rates
for competitive purposes, will resist all forms of
protectionism and keep our markets open,” read the
 communiqué .  The IMF’s  Christine Lagarde  added her  gloss : “We think
that talk of currency wars is overblown. People did talk
about their currency worries. The good news is that the G-
20 responded with cooperation rather than conflict today.”  Of course, targeting the currency for competitive
purposes is exactly what many have suspected Japan of doing
-- not least because  Shinzo Abe , the new prime minister,
had previously said that’s what he wanted to do.  It’s been left to finance minister  Taro Aso  to, let’s
say, clarify the position. After the G-20 meeting and its
emollient declaration, the foreign exchange market decided
not much had changed, and the yen continued its recent
slide. But when Aso appeared to rule out buying foreign-
currency bonds -- which would be a pretty forthright
measure to drive down the yen, one that that Abe had
previously mentioned as a possibility -- he had a more
marked effect. The yen  strengthened  for the first time in
several days.  A theme of dissension in the new Japanese cabinet is
thus gaining ground. Who’s in charge, Abe the radical
currency-manipulator or Aso the monetary moderate? Just as
the currency war talk is overblown -- Lagarde’s quite right
about that -- so is the idea that Abo and Aso are at odds.
In due course, they may be, but not yet.  The distinction between monetary policy that’s
intended mainly to stimulate domestic demand (using
interest rates, quantitative easing and forward guidance)
and a narrowly focused exchange-rate policy (using forex
intervention) shouldn’t be that hard to grasp. The second
is unneighborly and rightly frowned upon by the G-20. In
Japan’s case, the first is not just fine but both necessary
and in the G-20’s common interest.  If Aso disagrees with Abe over the need for a strong
new domestic-policy stimulus, then there’s a problem to be
sure. But it’s too soon to reach that conclusion. A new
commitment to domestic reflation is called for, and Aso
seems to be onboard.  In the meantime, Abe ought to express himself a bit
more cautiously.  ( Clive Crook  is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him
on  Twitter .)
 