-- Italy’s Bersani May Need Post-Vote Deal With Monti: Scenarios
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/italy-s-bersani-may-need-post-vote-deal-with-monti-scenarios.html
Below are some frequently asked
questions about  Italy ’s elections that begin tomorrow and
conclude the following day.  There are about 51 million citizens eligible to vote for
the Chamber of Deputies and about 45 million for the Senate,
because of different minimum-age requirements. Polls are open 8
a.m. to 10 p.m. on Feb. 24 and 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Feb. 25, Rome
time.  Under Italian law, the publication of polls is forbidden
15 days before the election. The first instant polls will be
released shortly after 3 p.m. Feb. 25 (2 p.m. in  London , 9 a.m.
in  New York ) when polling stations close.  Which are the main coalitions?  -- Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of
Liberty (PDL) party with ally  Northern League  (NL) and other
smaller center-right parties.  -- Pier Luigi Bersani’s Democratic Party (PD) with ally
Nichi Vendola’s Left, Ecology, Liberty (SEL) party and other
smaller parties. The coalition is called “Italy common good”
(IBC).  -- Caretaker premier  Mario Monti ’s coalition of centrist
parties backing his agenda. They are presenting a single list of
candidates in the Senate called “With Monti for Italy.”  -- Comedian Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement.  -- Former Palermo prosecutor Antonio Ingroia’s  Civil
Revolution .  -- Journalist Oscar Giannino’s  Act to Stop the Decline
party .  What is the election law?  -- Proportional system in the 630-seat Chamber of Deputies
with a “majority premium.” The coalition that wins the most
votes automatically gets at least 340 seats, or 54 percent of
the total.  -- In the 315-seat Senate, the  premiums  are assigned to the
winning coalitions on a regional basis. The regions that have
the most seats are Lombardy (49), Campania (29), Lazio (28),
Sicily (25) and Veneto (24). For a summary of the election law,
click here. The upper house also has four senators for life,
including Monti.  Is there a likely winner?  -- Bersani had support of 34.9 percent, according to the
average of five polls published Feb. 8, one day before the
blackout kicked in. Berlusconi’s alliance trailed by an average
of 6 percentage points, with 28.9 percent, while Grillo was
third with an average 16.4 percent. Monti’s coalition polled at
13.7 percent while Ingroia had 4.1 percent, just more than the 4
percent threshold to get seats in the lower house. The five
polls published that day had an average margin of error of about
3 percent and reported about 30 percent of undecided or
abstentions.  Why is the Senate race crucial?  -- Even if Bersani’s bloc wins by the margin indicated by
opinion polls, it may still fall short of a majority in the
Senate because of the regional nature of the voting.  -- The key battlegrounds will be the regions of Lombardy
and Sicily, traditionally center-right strongholds, and
Campania. In  Lombardy , which also votes for governor,
Berlusconi’s bloc and Bersani’s coalition were tied at 34.4
percent, based on the average of eight polls. In Campania,
Bersani led 33 percent to 29.8 percent, based on the average of
six polls. In Sicily, Berlusconi led 30.7 percent to 28.5
percent. These regions are considered too close to call as the
gap between the coalitions is within the average margins of
error.  -- A  Tecne poll  Feb. 7 showed the gap between the two blocs
was equal or less than the margin of error of 3.1 percentage
points in Lombardy, Campania and also in Piedmont and Friuli
Venezia Giulia. The difference was less than 5 percentage points
in Puglia and Molise. Tecne gave a 7.5 percent lead to
Berlusconi in Sicily.  -- Bersani needs to win all the three swing regions for a
158-seat majority, based on polls. If he loses Lombardy, he
would need to win all the other regions, including Veneto, where
Berlusconi is ahead by 7 points, and could only afford to lose
one or two small regions to reach 158 senators.  What are the possible outcomes of the vote?  -- The center-left bloc wins a majority in both houses that
allows Bersani to form a government without the support of
Monti’s centrists. The  Democratic Party  has already said that
even in that case it would be open to collaborate with the
outgoing premier’s coalition.  -- Bersani’s coalition doesn’t win an outright majority in
the Senate and is forced to seek an alliance with Monti’s
centrists.  -- The center-left, without a majority in the Senate, signs
a pact with Monti’s centrists and the move strains ties with
Bersani’s ally Vendola, who should get between 11 senators and
18 senators, based on an SWG poll and a Piepoli poll,
respectively. Bersani and Monti could do without Vendola’s
senators only if the center-left wins in at least one of the
three main swing regions, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Both Vendola, who has called for reversing some of Monti’s
policies, and  Pier Ferdinando Casini , one of the outgoing
premier’s main partners, have ruled out a post-vote alliance
between the two parties. Bersani has said any post-vote
coalition would have to include Vendola.  -- If the center-left loses the three swing regions or
Monti’s bloc polls much less than the last polls show, Monti’s
votes in the Senate won’t be enough for the Democratic Party to
assemble a majority. This means that Bersani may be forced to
reach out to Berlusconi’s coalition to assemble a majority or
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano may have to call new
elections or appoint a caretaker premier to carry out urgent
reforms such as changing the election law before going to
another vote.  What are the latest projections for the Senate?  -- According to SWG estimates released Feb. 8, which don’t
take into account the six senators elected by Italians abroad,
Bersani’s bloc would have 146 seats in the upper house, while
Monti’s centrists would get 21 seats, for a total of 167. In
2006 former Prime Minister  Romano Prodi  governed with a 1-seat
majority in the Senate.  Are exit polls accurate?  -- In 2008, exit polls gave a 2 percent lead to
Berlusconi’s bloc over the Democratic Party’s Walter Veltroni
and his allies, less than the final 9.3 outcome in the lower
house. In 2006, Romano Prodi won by less than 0.1 percent after
first exit polls gave him a 5-point lead.  Who becomes prime minister?  -- The prime minister is appointed by the president of the
republic. Coalitions have to indicate the head of the bloc and
not the prime minister candidate. The head of the coalition
winning the most votes isn’t necessarily appointed premier,
though this happens most of the time. Napolitano, whose mandate
expires in May, will designate a prime minister, who then tries
to form a government. In case the designated premier fails,
Napolitano can appoint someone else or call new elections.  -- Bersani is the prime ministerial candidate for the
center-left and Monti is running for a second term for the
centrist bloc. Berlusconi, head of the center-right coalition,
has indicated party secretary  Angelino Alfano  should be premier,
while his ally, the Northern League, has said former Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  should be the candidate. Berlusconi has
also said he is prepared to serve as finance minister or foreign
minister. Grillo is leading his movement, but is not the
candidate for premier.  What are the main parties’ programs?  --  Democratic Party : Bersani would cut taxes for low and
middle earners and would fund this by raising taxes on the rich
and by cracking down on  tax evasion . Bersani has said he will
uphold Italy’s deficit commitment with the European Union while
lobbying at a European level for more relaxed fiscal rules on
investments to boost growth. His ally Vendola has been critical
of Monti’s austerity and labor reforms.  --  People of Liberty : Berlusconi, who has stepped up his
anti-austerity rhetoric after Monti refused his offer to lead a
center-right coalition, has promised to cut taxes and abolish
and refund a property tax known as IMU introduced by Monti,
whose government he backed for a year. He has also said the EU’s
fiscal compact is hurting growth and that the  European Central
Bank  should become a lender of last resort.  --  Monti ’s list: the caretaker premier’s pro-Europe and
reform-minded  roadmap  to make Italy more competitive includes
fiscal rigor and further efforts to open up closed professions,
measures to battle corruption and conflict of interest and steps
to lift employment among young people and women. Monti pledged
to cut taxes by 30 billion euros ($40 billion) in five years.  --  Five Star Movement : Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity agenda
for Italy includes a referendum on the euro, the abolition of
public funding to political parties, laws to address corruption
and conflict of interest. The comedian-turned-politician has
stressed that exiting the euro is not a taboo.  What are market expectations?  -- A victory for Berlusconi in both houses “remains very
unlikely,” Eurasia Group analysts, including Peter Ceretti,
said in a Feb. 12 note to clients. “The center-right has a
remote chance of taking the lower house, but a victory in the
Senate can be ruled out.” Eurasia assigns a 50 percent to 60
percent probability to a Bersani-Monti coalition, which will
hardly be able to “push ahead with an ambitious structural
reform drive,” according to the note. The probability of a
stalemate in the Senate is 20 to 30 percent, Eurasia said.  -- The most probable and most favorable scenario is a
Bersani-Monti coalition, UniCredit economist Loredana Federico
wrote in a note to clients Feb. 7. Negotiations between Monti
and Bersani and his ally Vendola won’t be easy, with the risk of
veto power by Vendola’s SEL if the coalition doesn’t secure a
solid majority, she said.  -- If the vote produces a hung Senate, “either a grand
coalition or renewed elections may follow,” economists at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch including  Raffaella Tenconi  said in a
note to clients Feb. 7. A new Monti-led coalition of the three
main political parties “could be more fragmented” after
Monti’s decision to back a party, Merrill Lynch said. Another
election could follow “as soon as early summer,” the worst
case scenario, as “it implies prolonged political uncertainty
and further delays” to reforms, it said.  -- A Monti-Bersani post-vote alliance is “the best
outcome,” economists at  Barclays Capital  including Fabio Fois
wrote in a note Feb. 8, adding that “questions remain over
whether there will be convergence on the key structural
reforms.” Financial markets will focus in particular “on the
government’s strategy to reduce labour market duality, enhance
competitiveness in the non-tradable services sectors, reduce the
inefficiencies of the public administration” and cut debt
through asset sales.  -- The base case scenario is for a “weak” government with
Bersani and Monti “potentially forced to be enlarged to take in
other minor parties,” Mediobanca analyst Antonio Guglielmi
wrote in a note to investors Feb. 18. “The risk of new
elections would therefore be material,” he said. A “booming
success” of Grillo’s Five Star or a Berlusconi victory would
“scare the market sufficiently to put pressure on the spread so
to offer Italy the perfect excuse to apply for the European
Central Bank’s bond buying program.” Mediobanca notes this
worst-case scenario could “paradoxically” be the best as it
would force Italy’s hands in a bailout.  -- JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in a Feb. 4 note that
polls underestimate Berlusconi’s support by 4 percentage points.
Still, the center-left should be able to “patch together a
deal” with Monti for the Senate, they said. A surprise win by
Berlusconi, their worst-case scenario “if managed poorly,”
could prompt Italy to seek a bailout after “heavy market
pressure.”  -- A majority for Bersani and Monti of less than 10 seats
“would increase the risk that the reformist drive could be
significantly slowed,” Deutsche Bank analyst wrote in a note
Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  