-- Lithuania to Borrow for Ukio’s Deposit Insurance Payouts
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-19T15:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/lithuania-to-help-deposits-insurer-meet-ukio-insolvency-payouts.html
Lithuania’s government plans to lend
between 500 million litai ($193 million) and 600 million litai
to help the state deposit-insurance fund meet obligations
related to insolvent lender  Ukio Bankas  AB.  The bank’s activities were suspended on Feb. 12 because of
risky lending to related companies, according to the Bank of
Lithuania. Ukio’s liquidation could cost the deposit-insurance
fund as much as 2.7 billion litai, according to central bank
data based on the amount of insured deposits.  The fund is “rather empty” following the 2011 bankruptcy
of Bankas Snoras AB,  Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius  said
today on Lithuania’s LRT public radio in the capital Vilnius.  The central bank said yesterday it plans to sell Ukio’s
assets and liabilities to  Siauliu Bankas AB , reducing the
obligations for the deposit insurer to an estimated 800 million
litai.  The deposit insurance fund would seek to recover its money
over time through bankruptcy proceedings for the “bad” part of
Ukio’s assets that won’t be taken over by Siauliu, according to
Sadzius. “This really is the best of the alternatives we had,”
he said.  The finance ministry plans to raise the money by borrowing
on the domestic market, spokesman Giedrius Sniukas said in an e-
mail. The government had planned to borrow about 7 billion litai
this year, sourcing 75 percent of the debt domestically.  The Finance Ministry sold 225 million litai of one-year
Treasury bills at an average yield of 0.776 percent yesterday in
the Baltic nation’s biggest domestic debt auction in more than
seven years.  The cost to insure Lithuanian debt against non-payment
using five-year credit default swaps rose to 107 basis points
yesterday from 103 basis points, the most since Jan. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  