-- Mitsubishi Heavy, IHI Said to Seek Petrobras Sea Hub Order
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-02-19T07:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/mitsubishi-heavy-ihi-said-to-seek-petrobras-floating-hub-order.html
A Japanese group including
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd . and  IHI Corp . is seeking an
order from Petroleo Brasileiro SA to build a floating transit
hub off Rio de Janeiro to transport workers from the coast to
deepwater platforms.  A Japan-backed project will also build high-speed ships to
move workers from the coast, according to a Japanese transport
ministry official. Japan’s transport ministry plans to give
about 1 billion yen ($11 million) for the current and next
financial year as aid to help develop the facility, the official
said.  Deep water exploration projects need transit hubs as
explorers develop offshore projects further away from the coast.
Workers will be carried by high-speed ships to the hub from
where they’ll board helicopters for the final leg of the journey
to drilling and production platforms.  Mitsubishi Heavy, IHI and affiliate Japan Marine United
Corp.,  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd ., Mitsui Engineering &
Shipbuilding Co., and Nippon Yusen K.K. won approval from the
government to form a venture to conduct research on developing
the hub, according to a statement from the country’s
transportation ministry today, which didn’t identify the
customer.  Fast Ships  Kawasaki Heavy is part of the Japanese group and is
considering cooperation in the area of high-speed ships,
spokesman Yusuke Kamada said today by phone.  Toyoshi Kodama, spokesman for IHI and Japan Marine United,
couldn’t be reached for comment, when contacted by Bloomberg.
Hideo Ikuno, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy, wasn’t available
for comment. Petrobras’ press office in Rio de Janeiro declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. Petrobras is
Brazil’s biggest oil company.　 　  Plans to build the floating platform were earlier reported
by the Yomiuri newspaper, which didn’t identify the Brazilian
customer.  The hub will use floating technology developed by Japanese
shipbuilders and steelmakers, the official said. The steel
structure can also be used as an aircraft runway and a platform
to store oil. Japan is in talks with Indonesia to build a
floating dock off the coast of the East Kalimantan province to
speed coal shipments, Japan’s trade ministry said in May 2011.  IHI, Japan Marine United and Japan Drilling Co. last month
 agreed  to jointly design drilling rigs for deepwater projects.
Kawasaki Heavy  said  last year it will buy a 30 percent stake in
the venture with Brazilian partners to build drill ships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  