-- Mizrahi Drops Amid Central Bank Home-Loan Curbs: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-19T14:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/mizrahi-drops-amid-central-bank-home-loan-curbs-tel-aviv-mover.html
Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. , an
Israeli mortgage provider, fell the most in more than three
weeks as the central bank issued draft directives aimed at
shielding the financial system from rising house prices.  Shares of the bank fell 1.2 percent, the biggest decrease
since Jan. 27, to 38.75 shekels the close in Tel Aviv. About 1.4
million shares were traded, almost triple the three-month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Tel Aviv
Banking Index  rose 1.1 percent.  Mizrahi, Israel’s fourth-biggest bank by assets, derived 29
percent of its retail banking revenue from mortgage lending in
the first nine months of 2012, according to its financial
statement. The Bank of Israel told lenders to set aside more
money to protect against losses from home loans after house
prices and credit surged. It also asked lenders to set aside
more provisions for debt that hasn’t been repaid.  “Mizrahi is the most affected because it is mainly a
mortgage bank,”  Terence Klingman , head of trading at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “The Bank of
Israel wants to fight a real estate bubble with these steps.”  Governor  Stanley Fischer  has been trying to contain a real
estate boom fueled in part by expansionary monetary policy aimed
at boosting growth. The new guidelines, effective Jan. 1, come
after house prices climbed about 50 percent in the past decade,
according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. Housing credit in
Israel has jumped about 76 percent in the last five years, the
central bank said today.  Shares of Mizrahi have advanced 0.7 percent this year
compared with a 4 percent gain in the Tel Aviv Banking Index.
 Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.  and  Bank Hapoalim  Ltd., the nation’s
two biggest lenders, today increased 0.8 percent and 1.7
percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  