-- J&J Jury Begins Deliberating in First Vaginal Mesh Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-19T23:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/j-j-jury-begins-deliberating-in-first-vaginal-mesh-trial.html
A New Jersey jury ended its initial
day of deliberations on the first lawsuit to go to trial over
whether  Johnson & Johnson ’s Ethicon unit properly designed a
vaginal mesh implant and adequately warned of its risks.  A panel of six women and three men is weighing a lawsuit by
Linda Gross, a South Dakota nurse. She contends Ethicon’s design
of her Gynecare Prolift was defective and blames the device for
18 surgeries. Gross claims J&J failed to warn her and her doctor
of the risks and made fraudulent misrepresentations to her.  “Would Linda have chosen a different procedure if she knew
everything that Ethicon knew? Absolutely,” Gross attorney Adam
Slater argued in state court in Atlantic City in his summations
on Feb. 15. “They obviously failed to warn.”  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
claims Prolift is safe and effective, and Ethicon warned
properly of the risks. The case is the first of 1,800 such
lawsuits to go to trial. Gross, 47, seeks $3.38 million for lost
earnings and past and future medical expenses. She also seeks
damages for pain and suffering. Deliberations resume tomorrow.  Slater claims that her chronic pain and other health
problems were risks Ethicon knew about before first selling
Prolift in March 2005. Slater said Ethicon knew the device
caused pain and often became exposed through the vaginal skin.
He said it hardened in women’s bodies, caused pain, and was
difficult for surgeons to remove.  Implanting Surgeon  Jurors today watched again the video deposition of Dr.
Kevin Benson, the South Dakota surgeon who implanted her Prolift
on July 13, 2006, to shore up pelvic muscles. He did three
follow-up surgeries to remove portions of the mesh to help her
with her pain. Other doctors also removed parts of her mesh.  The Prolift, made of a polypropylene mesh, was inserted
through an incision in the vagina.  In closing arguments, both sides said Benson’s testimony
helped their failure-to-warn case.  J&J attorney Christy Jones said Benson’s deposition showed
he warned Gross that complications of her Prolapse surgery could
include pain, infection, urinary retention and sexual pain.  “He testified that he knew of all of those, and he
testified that he told Ms. Gross about those,” Jones argued.
“Whether or not he told her is not what’s important here.
What’s important here is that in fact he knew, because the
responsibility of Ethicon is to warn the doctors of the risk.”  Slater countered that Ethicon knew far more of the risks
than it disclosed to doctors, including Benson. During the
deposition, Slater asked if Benson’s recommendations to Gross in
2006 would have been different if he had known then what he
knows now about the risks of mesh.  ‘More Robust’  “It would have been a much more robust discussion about
everything that can go on,” Benson said.  Benson said he no longer uses mesh for the type of
condition that Gross had in 2006. He also said that while his
talk about risks probably took 15 or 20 minutes, it now would
probably consist of two one-hour discussions.  Superior Court Judge  Carol Higbee  hasn’t ruled yet whether
Gross can seek punitive damages if jurors award her compensatory
damages. New Jersey caps punitive damages at five times
compensatory damages or $350,000, whichever is higher.  Pain, Suffering  Jurors will weigh these questions: Was Prolift defectively
designed? Did J&J fail to provide adequate warnings to Gross,
and to her implanting surgeon? Did J&J make a fraudulent
misrepresentation to Gross? If the answer is yes to any of those
questions, were they a proximate cause of Gross’s injuries?  If answering yes to any of those sets of questions, jurors
would then consider damages for Gross’s pain, suffering, lost
wages and medical expenses, as well as the loss of companionship
and conjugal affections for her husband, Jeff.  Slater said Ethicon failed to warn doctors of risks it knew
and didn’t tell them how to remove mesh. He said the written
instructions were “completely inadequate” and should have
warned of 28 complications not mentioned.  In August, J&J stopped selling four mesh devices in the
U.S., including the Prolift. The company, based in New
Brunswick, New Jersey, said in June that it would end sales
worldwide because of the products’ lack of commercial viability,
and not based on their safety and effectiveness.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  