-- Japan Stock Futures Rise After German Investor Confidence Jumps
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-02-19T23:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/japan-stock-futures-rise-after-german-investor-confidence-jumps.html
Japanese  stock   futures  rose after
global equities gained as a pickup in German investor confidence
signaled Europe’s largest economy is rebounding from a slump.
Australian equities advanced.  American Depositary Receipts of  Canon Inc. , a camera maker
that gets 30 percent of its revenue in Europe, climbed 2.2
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. The company was
also upgraded at Credit Suisse Group AG. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, gained 0.1 percent in Sydney as
it named its copper unit head Andrew Mackenzie as chief
executive officer to succeed Marius Kloppers and reported a 58
percent decline in first-half profit. Prada SpA, an Italian
fashion company, may be active in Hong Kong after reporting a 29
percent increase in full-year sales.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
March closed at 11,420 in Chicago yesterday, up from 11,370 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 11,420 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3
percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.9 percent.  “Data in Europe, even if you are pessimistic, you’d have
to conceive that they are stabilizing and there are points of
improvement,” said  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief
investment officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion. “There’s nothing you can point to as
negative. The most negative thing actually is the size of the
rally we’ve had since the middle of last year.”  Investor Confidence  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The index added 0.7 percent to close at the
highest level since 2007 in New York yesterday on optimism over
deal making and data showing rising investor confidence in
Germany.  U.S. office supply retailers Office Depot Inc. and
OfficeMax Inc. have discussed a merger and may announce a deal
as early as this week, a person familiar with the matter said.
In Europe, German investor confidence jumped more than
economists forecast in February to the highest level in almost
three years, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced about 10 percent from
the start of November through yesterday, led by Japanese shares
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to beat deflation and
pressed the central bank to ease monetary policy. Asia’s
benchmark traded at 14.9 times estimated earnings as of
yesterday compared with 13.8 for the  S&P 500  and 12.5 for the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. declined 0.9 percent to 95.52
yesterday in New York.  Of the 341 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have reported quarterly earnings and for which Bloomberg has
estimates, 50 percent exceeded profit expectations. That
compares with 71 percent of S&P 500 companies that topped profit
forecasts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 