-- Nippon Telegraph Plans Dollar Debt Sale as BTMU Markets Notes
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-19T04:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/japan-australia-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. 
and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. are marketing U.S. dollar-
denominated notes after Japanese corporate debt risk fell to a 1
1/2-year low.  NTT Telegraph & Telephone, which owns Japan’s largest
mobile phone company, is offering seven-year bonds at about 90
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi plans to sell three-, five-and 10-year securities, a
separate person said.  The cost of insuring an index of Japanese corporate bonds
from non-payment reached 117 basis points on Feb. 13, the least
since July 2011, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
Companies from the East Asian country pay an average 2 percent
to sell dollar debt, 1.02 percentage points less than a year
ago, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The funding position is favorable,” said  Manabu Tamaru ,
a fund manager at Baring Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
Borrowers “might suspect that a U.S. interest rate increase is
in progress and want to fund the money while the rate is very
attractive. They will also diversify their funding base.”  Benchmark U.S. 10-year government yields will rise to 2.32
percent by Dec. 31 from 2.01 percent today, according to
Bloomberg surveys, with the most recent predictions given the
heaviest weightings. The forecast has climbed from 2.14 percent
in the first week of January.  Dollar Offerings  Japanese borrowers raised $46.3 billion selling U.S.
currency bonds last year, the most in Bloomberg data going back
to 1999. Sales have totaled $6.8 billion so far in 2013, the
data show.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi is considering selling five-year
bonds at about 85 basis points more than Treasuries and 10-year
debt at about a 125 basis-point spread, the person familiar with
the matter said. The lender will also sell three-year notes,
which may be fixed- or floating-rate, at about 65 basis points
more than U.S. government debt and an equivalent spread over the
three-month London interbank offered rate, the person said.  Korea Housing Finance Corp. meanwhile plans to meet
investors in Hong Kong and Singapore this week to discuss a sale
of dollar-denominated covered bonds, a separate person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1.5 basis points to
124 basis points as of 9:08 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The measure is set to pare its drop this month to
11 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Australia Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 1 basis point
to 113 as of 11:07 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The gauge is headed for its third
straight daily rise after falling to the lowest in more than a
month at 112.5 on Feb. 14, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 0.5 of a basis point to 110 basis
points as of 8:13 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Credit
Agricole SA prices. The benchmark is set to close at the lowest
level since Jan. 29, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  