-- Junk Bond Froth Leaks Into Emerging Market Debt: Credit Markets
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-02-19T16:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/junk-bond-froth-leaks-into-emerging-market-debt-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds of companies in emerging
markets are the most expensive in seven years relative to the
U.S., underscoring concerns by policy makers from Mexico to the
Philippines who say the threat of asset bubbles is increasing.  Speculative-grade securities from nations including China
and Brazil returned 14.8 percent since end-June, versus 9.4
percent in the U.S., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Emerging-market yields fell to 7.3 percent from 9.3
percent a year ago even as net debt rose to a record 3.02 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The median yield-to-leverage
ratio of 2.4 compares with 2.1 in the U.S., the smallest premium
since 2005, the year before developing-nation returns lagged
behind.  “If global economic conditions remain sluggish, high-yield
companies will be at risk given their high leverage,” said
 Brigitte Posch , an executive vice president at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of
the world’s largest bond fund. “Going forward being selective
is extremely important.”  Zero Rates  Investors repressed by near-zero benchmark interest rates
in the U.S., the euro region and Japan are paying up for debt in
developing nations at the same time the International Monetary
Fund says the economies will expand less than the decade
average. Junk-rated companies, including Chinese property
developer  Hopson Development Holdings Ltd. , raised $18 billion
last month, or 44 percent above the previous record in May 2011.  Posch, whose firm manages the $285.6 billion  Total Return
Fund , said in a Feb. 12 e-mail that she has pared holdings of
some emerging-market corporate debt with “tight valuations”
the past few months, while looking to add “good credits.”  When the yield-to-leverage ratio for junk borrowers in
emerging markets fell this low versus American peers in 2005,
the developing-nation index returned 9.3 percent the following
year, trailing the 11.8 percent gain in the U.S., Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The ratios measure how well investors are compensated
relative to the company’s debt level. A higher reading indicates
better risk-adjusted returns.  Profit Pressure  Emerging market businesses have been adding debt even as
profit growth slows and borrowing costs stop tumbling. Ebitda at
companies in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s high-yield index
increased 9.5 percent in the past 12 months, less than half the
23 percent pace a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The quality of bonds issued now is lower than it was six
months ago,”  Guillermo Osses , who oversees $15 billion as the
head of emerging-market debt at HSBC Asset Management in New
York, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 18. “This is
difficult to sustain,” said Osses, who has reduced holdings of
high-yield corporate bonds.  J&F Participacoes SA, the Sao Paulo-based parent of the
world’s biggest beef producer, and Schahin Oil & Gas Ltd., a
Brazilian rig operator, both postponed debt sales this month as
borrowing costs rose.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.6 basis point from Feb. 15 to a mid-price of 86.2
basis points as of 11:41 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  Markets were closed in the U.S. yesterday for the
Presidents’ Day holiday.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, was little changed at 15.25 basis points as
of 11:41 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of JPMorgan Chase & Co. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, at 11:42 a.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  ‘Credit Booms’  A growing number of policy makers have expressed concern
that credit markets are overheating after Bank of America’s
gauge of global junk debt jumped 115 percent in the past four
years, outpacing the 91 percent total return from the MSCI All-
Country World Index of shares.  Funds investing in developing-nation bonds attracted $13.5
billion this year, after drawing a record $97 billion in 2012,
JPMorgan said in a Feb. 15 note.  The “credit booms” in emerging markets may leave them
vulnerable to a reversal in capital flows once advanced-country
policy makers pare back monetary stimulus, Mexican central bank
Governor  Agustin Carstens  said in a Feb. 5 speech in Singapore.  Philippine central bank Governor  Amando Tetangco  said on
Jan. 15 in Manila that he’s focused on containing speculative
inflows that may spur asset-price bubbles. Thai central bank
Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  echoed that concern in a policy
address in Bangkok on Jan. 22.  Bond Returns  U.S. Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said Feb. 7 that
investors’ “fairly significant pattern of reaching-for-yield”
doesn’t “bode well” for speculative-grade debt.  Average emerging-market corporate yields have climbed 21
basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, from a more than seven-
year low of 7.04 percent on Jan. 23. Yields for American junk
bonds rose 12 basis points to 6.56 percent.  Investors submitted bids for new emerging-market corporate
bonds last month that were on average 10 times the amount being
offered, up from four times a year earlier, Bank of America said
in a Jan. 31 report. High-yield sales accounted for 43 percent
of the total, above the three-year average of 27 percent.  Investors have begun “to care less about whether or not a
bond compensates them appropriately and more about whether the
bond compensates them at all,”  Chris Hays  and  Oleg Melentyev ,
New York-based strategists at Bank of America, wrote in the
report.  Finance Expansion  The Washington-based IMF cut its 2013 growth forecast for
developing nations to 5.5 percent on Jan. 23 from a previous
estimate of 5.6 percent. While that’s slower than their average
growth rate of 6.6 percent during the past decade, it’s still
faster than the 1.4 percent pace projected for advanced nations.  Emerging market companies are borrowing to finance
expansion opportunities and yields are high enough to compensate
investors for the risk of a selloff in global debt markets, said
 Philip Meier , an emerging-market money manager at DWS
Investments, which oversees 283 billion euros ($378 billion).  “Investors are still keen on adding emerging markets
corporates exposure,” said Meier. “We expect the emerging
markets discount to narrow further in a positive market
environment in 2013.”  Hopson Development, a Beijing-based property developer that
increased net debt to 14 times Ebitda as of June from 4.1 times
a year earlier, sold $300 million of five-year notes on Jan. 9.  Firing Workers  The securities, rated CCC+ by S&P, or seven steps below
investment grade, were priced to yield 9.875 percent. That
compared with 10.2 percent for similar-rated bonds globally and
an average 15.5 percent for emerging markets, data compiled by
Bloomberg and Bank of America show. The bonds have lost about
2.1 percent.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s second-largest
carrier, sold $200 million of 10-year bonds on Feb. 7 with an 11
percent yield. The debt, rated B- by S&P, has slipped to 98.5
cents on the dollar from an issue price of 98.51.  The airline is cutting flights, firing workers and seeking
to renegotiate covenants on local securities after losses in
five of the past six quarters. Adjusted  net debt  climbed to 14.3
times trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and rent in the third quarter from
6.7 times a year earlier, the company said on Nov. 13.  “When you see massive credit issuance, it comes hand in
hand with the slippage of underwriting standards,” said  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset
Management, whose $6.1 billion MainStay Marketfield Fund has
outperformed 96 percent of peers the past five years. “The
class of 2013, 2012, 2011 will have much worse credit conditions
than we are used to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  