-- Kirkland, King & Spalding, K&L Gates,S&C: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-19T12:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/kirkland-king-spalding-k-l-gates-s-c-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP hired two West
Coast corporate attorneys with high-profile mergers and
acquisitions experience,  Michael S. Ringler  and  Rick C. Madden .  Ringler, previously a mergers and acquisitions partner at
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, joins the San Francisco
office. Madden, previously a corporate partner at Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, will be based in Los Angeles. Both
are partners.  Ringler has public company transactional experience in
Northern California, with a focus on the technology sector. He
recently represented Meraki Inc. in its $1.2 billion sale to
Cisco Systems Inc.; salesforce.com in its $750 million
acquisition of Buddy Media Inc.; and Taleo Corp. in its $2.1
billion sale to Oracle Corp., among others.  Madden focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions for
public and private companies and private equity firms, out-of-
court restructurings, and securities offerings, the firm said.
Madden’s representations include Joltid Limited, a member of the
investor group in Skype Global S.a r.l., in connection with
Microsoft Corp.’s $8.5 billion acquisition of Skype; Centro
Properties Group in its $9.4 billion sale of its U.S. shopping
centers to Blackstone Group LP, among other matters, the firm
said.  “They both add geographical and industry experience to our
group and complement the multidisciplinary M&A practice that we
have been building at the firm,”  David Fox , a partner in the
New York office and member of Kirkland’s global management
executive committee, said in a statement. “We continue to have
the fastest growing and busiest practice, and pride ourselves on
providing clients with creative solutions for the most
challenging transactions.”  Kirkland & Ellis LLP is a 1,600-attorney law firm with 10
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  King & Spalding Hires Paul Hastings Team in Atlanta  King & Spalding LLP recruited a team of three partners and
two lawyers from Paul Hastings LLP to join its financial
institutions practice in Atlanta.  Jesse H. Austin , III, a lending-side bankruptcy and
restructuring lawyer, joined last week as a partner in the
financial institutions practice. The week before, partners  Chris D. Molen  and J. Craig Lee, joined the firm along with two
associates, also in the financial institutions practice in
Atlanta.  The new hires “significantly increases our bench strength
for serving our leveraged-lending clients,”  Richard T. Marooney , co-leader of King & Spalding’s financial institutions
practice said in a statement.  Austin focuses primarily on the representation of
institutional senior secured lenders in syndicated credit
facilities and has experience in debtor-in-possession lending.  Molen focuses on commercial and banking transactions, debt
restructuring and workouts, with particular experience in the
financing of merger and acquisition deals, asset-based
financing, leveraged finance and health care and communications
industry lending practices, the firm said.  Lee focuses on debt financing transactions, representing
creditors, investors and borrowers. He has experience in secured
and unsecured credit facilities, bankruptcies, reorganizations
and workouts, cross-border transactions, acquisitions,
recapitalizations and other leveraged financings, according to a
firm statement.  “We wish our former partners the very best at their new
firm,”  Allan Whitescarver , a Paul Hastings spokesman said on a
phone call.  King & Spalding’s financial institutions practice has more
than 100 lawyers across the firm’s 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  K&L Gates Hires Two Lateral Partners in Boston  K&L Gates LLP expanded its Boston office with the addition
of two new partners, Mark L. Johnson and Paulo J. Marnoto.
Johnson joins the firm’s corporate securities and finance
practice from Cooley LLP, along with two associates. Marnoto
joins the firm’s private equity and fund formation practice from
Ropes & Gray LLP.  Johnson advises issuers, investment banks, and investors in
public offerings and other financings. He advises public and
private companies on ongoing corporate matters, including merger
and acquisition transactions and corporate governance issues.  Marnoto has experience in the areas of fund formation and
investing; venture capital, securities, buyout, and
international transactions; general corporate law; and
securities law compliance, the firm said. The associates from
Cooley have experience in capital markets transactions and
public and private company representation  Mark E. Haddad , administrative partner of K&L Gates’ Boston
office said in a statement of the hires, “With their extensive
transactional experience, they will play important roles in our
expanding Boston corporate practice and, at the same time, they
will be able to better serve their clients on the K&L Gates
platform, one of the legal profession’s largest and most
integrated global platforms.”  K&L Gates has lawyers at 47 offices in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and South America.  Sutherland Asbill Rehires Tax Partner in Washington  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP  rehired Todd A. Lard as a
partner in the state and local tax practice in Washington. Lard
worked at the Council On State Taxation for the last five years,
most recently as its vice president and general counsel. Prior
to joining COST, he was counsel at Sutherland.  At COST, Lard led a legal team that oversaw legislative,
administrative and judicial advocacy, the firm said in a
statement.  Sutherland Asbill has about 425 lawyers at six offices in
the U.S. and London.  Video  M&A Looking Up in 2013; ‘The Negatives Are Built In’  Frank Aquila , partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, talks
with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the prospects for mergers
and acquisitions activity in 2013.  Aquila notes that while 2012 was something of a
disappointment, we are off to a strong start in 2013 with
several indications for a solid year for dealmakers.  Terminal Users: Click here to play video.  Balto Says Herbalife Is Not ‘Traditional’ Ponzi Scheme  David Balto, antitrust attorney and former policy director
at the Federal Trade Commission, talks about the FTC’s position
on Herbalife Ltd., which  William Ackman  of Pershing Square
Capital alleges is a pyramid scheme.  Balto speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Lunch Money.”  Terminal Users: click here to play video.  News  Vatican Names German Lawyer as New Head of Embattled Bank  The Vatican appointed a German lawyer and financial adviser
to lead its bank, nine months after its previous head was ousted
amid a money laundering probe.  Ernst von Freyberg , 54, a member of the religious order of
the Knights of Malta, is founder of a Frankfurt-based financial
advisory company currently called DC Advisory Partners. Von
Freyberg was among 40 candidates and appointed by a commission
of cardinals with the consent of the pope, Vatican spokesman
Father  Federico Lombardi  said at a press briefing in Rome.  Von Freyberg brings “vast experience of financial matters
and the financial-regulatory process,” the Vatican said in a
statement on its website today.  Filling the post was seen as one of the most important acts
pending completion before  Benedict XVI ’s resignation on Feb. 28,
which will make him the first pontiff to quit in nearly 600
years.  The Vatican bank, which is formally called the Institute
for the Works of Religion, or IOR, had been under the interim
leadership of its vice chairman since the board of directors
ousted former head  Ettore Gotti Tedeschi  in May last year for
“failing to carry out various duties of primary importance,”
according to a May 24 statement by Lombardi.  He and Director General Paolo Cipriani were placed under
investigation for allegedly omitting data in wire transfers from
an Italian account. Prosecutors seized 23 million euros ($30.7
million) from a Rome bank account registered to the IOR amid
suspicion of violations of money-laundering rules.  The Italian prosecutors’ probe triggered calls to bring the
city-state in line with European Union financial rules and
become more transparent.  Von Freyberg’s appointment also raised questions because of
his ties with Hamburg-based  Blohm & Voss  group, a German
shipbuilder that includes warships among its product line. Von
Freyberg has served as chairman of the company since 2012,
according to the Vatican website.  Von Freyberg’s connection to the ship-making company is not
an issue, Lombardi said Feb. 15, praising his “human and
Christian sensibility” as well as his “competence.”  For more, click here.  Firm News  Linklaters, Sidley Austin, Gibson Win Singapore Law Licenses  Linklaters LLP ,  Sidley Austin LLP   Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP  and  Jones Day  won licenses to practice local corporate law
in Singapore as the Southeast Asian city further opens its legal
market.  The firms have six months from April 1 to start their
operations as Qualifying Foreign Law Practices and the licenses
are valid for five years, Singapore’s law ministry said in an e-
mailed statement today. Twenty-three law firms had applied.  International law firms have expanded in Asia citing a
shift in global business activity to the region. Singapore has
opened its legal market to boost its reputation as a financial
center and as cross-border deals rise. The city awarded the
first six licenses allowing foreign firms to practice Singapore
corporate law and hire locally-qualified lawyers in 2008.  The second round of licenses “marks Singapore’s continued
push to broaden and deepen its legal services market,” the law
ministry said in the statement.  The four firms, ranked among the world’s top 20 law firms,
have extensive global networks and expertise in key practice
areas that will support Singapore’s economy and the development
of its legal services, the ministry said.  “We’ve seen a substantial increase in the frequency and
complexity of transactions negotiated from Singapore,” said
Sushma Jobanputra, partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Singapore
office, which has 27 lawyers. “We have fairly aggressive plans
for Singapore.”  Mergers and acquisitions in Southeast Asia rose 45 percent
to $140.9 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The value of such deals globally fell 7.8 percent to
$2.23 trillion, the data show.  London-based Linklaters, the No. 2 legal adviser on mergers
and acquisitions in 2012 according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, last year ended an 11-year-old joint venture with
Singapore firm Allen & Gledhill LLP.  The license will “open up further opportunities for
Singapore lawyers in international practice and help
internationalize the Singapore legal profession,” Kevin Wong,
managing partner of Linklaters’ Singapore office, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Chicago-based Sidley Austin opened office in Singapore in
1982, its first in Asia. Gibson Dunn, based in Los Angeles, has
over 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices.  Washington-based Jones Day, which opened its Singapore
office in 2001, was one of 20 firms which applied in the first
round in 2008 on the day Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy.  All four winners had  revenues  of at least $1.17 billion in
the latest fiscal year, placing them among the world’s 20
biggest law firms, according to trade magazine American Lawyer.  Singapore’s legal services market has expanded 27 percent
to S$1.9 billion ($1.5 billion) in 2012 from S$1.5 billion in
2008, according to the law ministry.  White & Case LLP , Latham & Watkins LLP,  Clifford Chance
LLP , Herbert Smith LLP, Allen & Overy LLP and Norton Rose LLP
had committed to doubling their revenue, staffing and profits in
the city in five years when they won licenses in 2008.  The second batch of licenses comes as some international
firms including DLA Piper LLP, Allen & Overy and Eversheds LLP
move jobs to cheaper locations or cut positions to trim costs.  Singapore started opening its legal market in 1981 by
allowing foreign banks to bring in lawyers from New York, London
and Hong Kong to advise on some offshore transactions. In 2000,
the Asian city formalized collaborations between foreign law
firms and local ones by allowing joint ventures and alliances.  Since then, the number of foreign lawyers registered in
Singapore has more than doubled to 1,304 as of September from
630 in 2007, according to figures from the Attorney-General’s
Chambers, which also regulates foreign lawyers.  For more, click here.  Anderson Kill & Olick Opens Office in Burlington, Vermont  Anderson Kill & Olick PC, which primarily represents
policyholders in insurance coverage disputes, opened a new
office in Burlington, Vermont.  Marshall Gilinsky, a shareholder in the firm’s insurance
recovery group, will head the new office, which will focus on
insurance recovery on behalf of captive insurance firms in
disputes with their reinsurance providers, the firm said.  Gilinsky works on behalf of captive insurance companies as
well as on property insurance, commercial general liability
insurance, professional errors and omissions, insurance and
directors’ and officers’ insurance matters.  Anderson Kill has lawyers at seven U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 