-- Natural Gas Gains as Colder U.S. Weather Spurs Heating Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-02-19T15:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/natural-gas-gains-as-colder-u-s-weather-spurs-heating-demand.html
Natural gas futures rose the most in
almost three weeks in New York on speculation that colder
weather across the U.S. in early March will spur fuel use.  Gas gained for the first time in three days as Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, predicted below-normal
temperatures for most of the lower 48 states from March 1
through March 5 after milder weather in the East next week. A
gas  surplus  to the five-year average has widened since the end
of November as mild weather crimped demand for the heating fuel.  “The weather is proving to be fairly cold so that’s
showing a lot of demand,” said  Tom Saal , senior vice president
of energy trading at FCStone Latin America LLC in Miami. “I
wouldn’t look for any large rallies here because there’s plenty
of inventory left in storage.”  Natural gas for March delivery increased 8.3 cents, or 2.6
percent, to $3.236 per million British thermal units at 9:50
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. If prices settle there
it would be the biggest one-day gain since Jan. 30. Trading
volume was 43 percent above the 100-day average for the time of
day. Prices are down 3.4 percent this year.  March $3.30 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were up 1.2 cents to 2.8 cents per
million Btu on volume of 713 contracts as of 9:53 a.m. Calls
accounted for 66 percent of options volume.  Pacific Storm  A storm moving off the Pacific Ocean will probably bring
heavy snow to the mountains around San Diego and Los Angeles
before blanketing the Upper Midwest and Great Plains later this
week, according to the National Weather Service.  Six to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) of snow are
possible in the mountains just north and east of Los Angeles.
After the storm crosses the Rocky Mountains, it may drop as much
as a foot of snow on the drought-parched Upper Midwest and
central Great Plains.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  Gas inventories  totaled 2.527 trillion cubic feet during
the week ended Feb. 8, the EIA, the statistical arm of the
Energy Department, said in report last week. A supply surplus to
the five-year average has widened to 16 percent from 4.6 percent
on Nov. 30.  A  stockpile deficit  to year-earlier levels increased to 9.7
percent from a surplus of 0.7 percent at the end December, EIA
data show. Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record for the
contiguous 48 states, reducing fuel demand from power plants and
households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  