-- NCAA Fires Head of Enforcement After Violations in Miami Probe
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-19T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/ncaa-fires-enforcement-head-after-violating-its-own-protocol-1-.html
The National Collegiate Athletic
Association’s head of enforcement was fired after an independent
review said internal protocols were violated during the
organization’s investigation into the University of Miami.  Julie Roe Lach was replaced by Jonathan Duncan yesterday as
the vice president of enforcement for college sports’ governing
body. NCAA President  Mark Emmert  declined to comment further on
Roe Lach’s status within the NCAA.  Roe Lach’s ousting came after New York law firm Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft released the results of its 27-day review of
the NCAA’s investigation into possible improper benefits
provided to Miami athletes. The review, published yesterday on
the NCAA website, found that while the NCAA did nothing illegal,
staff members disregarded legal advice while using outside
counsel and a federal bankruptcy process to obtain information.  “This is something that is an embarrassment to the
association and our staff,” Emmert said yesterday on a
conference call to discuss the findings. “It’s something that
is contrary to all of the activities and directions that we’ve
been engaged with and all the things that we espouse.”  The NCAA has expunged any information obtained through
these actions from its examination of Miami and will continue
with its investigation, Emmert said. University of Miami
President  Donna Shalala  said yesterday that the school was
“wronged” and urged the NCAA to close the issue.  Emmert called for the review in January after announcing
that former NCAA enforcement staff members worked with a
criminal defense attorney for  Nevin Shapiro , a Hurricanes
booster who has said he provided cash and benefits to at least
72 Miami athletes, to obtain information for their investigation
of the university.  Subpoena Power  The NCAA doesn’t have subpoena power, meaning it doesn’t
have the authority to compel testimony during investigations.
Staffers in the organization’s enforcement department used
subpoena authority through Shapiro’s bankruptcy proceedings to
obtain information that wouldn’t have been available otherwise,
Kenneth Wainstein, a partner at Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft
said on the conference call.  The technique, proposed by Maria Elena Perez, Shapiro’s
attorney, was approved by two supervisors in the enforcement
department, despite vocal concern from the NCAA’s legal staff,
Wainstein said. Perez was paid to depose two people in Dec. 2011
using questions proposed by the NCAA, according to the report.  Perez said in a telephone interview that she was never told
that her work with the NCAA was in violation of their own rules
and that she felt “enormously betrayed” by the NCAA.  “I played by the rules, to the letter, and I wish they had
done the same thing,” Perez said.  Outside Counsel  The actions violated an NCAA policy that says only its
legal staff is allowed to hire outside counsel, Wainstein said.
He added that while it was not illegal, it could be perceived as
a manipulation of the bankruptcy process, and that it showed
disregard for the expectations of the NCAA’s membership.  Roe Lach was named a director of enforcement for the NCAA
in 2004 and was promoted to vice president two years ago,
according to the New York Times. Ameen Najjar, who oversaw the
NCAA’s Miami investigation, left the NCAA in 2012, Wainstein
said.  The 52-page independent review looked solely at the actions
of NCAA staff members, Wainstein said, and did not address any
facts regarding Miami’s conduct, or the actions of people not
associated with the NCAA. He said the NCAA cooperated fully with
the review.  No Bowls  Miami declared itself ineligible for bowl play for the
second straight football season in November as the NCAA’s
investigation continued. Emmert, who said there is still a lot
of information that was not tainted by the review’s findings,
did not have an estimate on when a ruling will be announced.  “I wouldn’t characterize this as a case of corruption,”
Emmert said. “It was certainly a case where there was some bad
judgment and some bad decisions made, but it shouldn’t over the
long run diminish the ability of the NCAA to govern itself.”  Miami believes its self-imposed sanctions have been
sufficient punishment, Shalala said in a statement.  “The lengthy and already flawed investigation has
demonstrated a disappointing pattern of unprofessional and
unethical behavior,” Shalala said. “Regardless of where blame
lies internally with the NCAA, even one individual, one act, one
instance of malfeasance both taints the entire process and
breaches the public’s trust.”  Emmert said the NCAA will soon start a second review phase
by surveying its member institutions to see what kinds of
investigations and techniques they would like NCAA staff members
to examine.  “We need to get much greater clarity as to what it is the
membership wants and expects and sees as appropriate,” he said.
“What techniques, what policies, what practices do you want the
staff to engage in on your behalf.”  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Erik Matuszewski  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  