-- Netanyahu Recruits Livni to Steer Palestinian Peace Efforts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-20T09:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/netanyahu-brings-livni-into-coalition-to-steer-palestinian-talks.html
Tzipi Livni , the former Israeli
foreign minister who condemned Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
for failing to advance peace efforts, agreed to join his
coalition and manage talks with the Palestinians.  Netanyahu and Livni announced the agreement at a press
conference in Jerusalem late yesterday. Livni, whose Hatenuah
party won six parliamentary seats in last month’s vote, said she
and the premier agreed to put aside bitterness from the campaign
and work together on the peace process. She was also named as
justice minister.  “I criticized the government’s management over the past
four years, but since the election, we’ve come to understandings
to put all that aside,” Livni said.  The accord leaves Netanyahu, whose Likud-Beitenu list won
31 seats, needing another 24 for a majority in the 120-member
Knesset. The prime minister has said he intends to have his new
government in place before President  Barack Obama  visits in late
March.  Livni turned down Netanyahu’s invitation to team up after
the 2009 elections when she was head of the Kadima party. Even
though Kadima won the most seats, Netanyahu outmaneuvered her to
form a coalition, leaving Livni as opposition leader, a post she
quit in frustration last year.  “Livni learned the hard way that she made a mistake last
time and she can accomplish more by being inside the
government,”  Avraham Diskin , a political scientist at the
Hebrew University in Jerusalem, said today in a telephone
interview.  Possible Ally  Yair Lapid ’s Yesh Atid party, which finished second in the
vote and was named as a possible coalition ally by Netanyahu,
has expressed support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. Other parties including Jewish Home, a
member of Netanyahu’s outgoing coalition, and some members of
the premier’s own Likud bloc are opposed to it.  Peace talks broke down in 2010 and Palestinian leader
 Mahmoud Abbas  says he won’t resume them unless Israel stops
adding to settlements in the West Bank. Livni, who led
negotiations with the Palestinians under former Prime Minister
 Ehud Olmert , has criticized new settlement plans announced by
Netanyahu’s government.  “Tzipi, I’m glad you decided to act responsibly and join
with me,” Netanyahu said at the press conference.  Their agreement also calls for Livni’s party to take charge
of the Environmental Protection Ministry, which will probably go
to former Defense Minister  Amir Peretz .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  