-- Nevada Booze Bonds Seen Overcoming Worst Housing Slump
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-02-19T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/nevada-booze-bonds-seen-overcoming-worst-housing-slump.html
Nevada  Governor  Brian Sandoval ,
whose borrowing ability has withered as the state suffered the
nation’s biggest drop in property values, wants to tap a revenue
stream that emerged from the recession unscathed: liquor taxes.  Levies on alcoholic beverages rose in seven of the past
eight years, even as property taxes have suffered, state data
show. The Republican governor proposed $58 million in general-
obligation bonds to repair state buildings in his 2013-2015
 budget  proposal, and his administration is considering using
revenue from existing booze levies to back the debt. It’s an
opportune time to borrow, as signs of an economic rebound lead
investors to ask for less extra yield on Nevada securities.  Sandoval, 49, is seeking a way to borrow at municipal
interest rates close to  four-decade lows . The property tax
revenue that traditionally funds the state’s general-obligation
debt service has been falling since 2010. As a result, Nevada is
unlikely to be able to issue new debt backed by those taxes
until 2020,  according to  the state treasurer.  “What we need is a very predictable, reliable funding
stream,” said Jeff Mohlenkamp, director of the state’s
Department of Administration in Carson City.  Recession Hit  In Nevada, the recession that ended in 2009 hit harder than
elsewhere in the nation. The  jobless  rate peaked at 14 percent
in 2010, the highest since at least 1976. While it fell to 10.2
percent in December, that tied the state with Rhode Island for
the nation’s highest level, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Nationwide, the rate was 7.8 percent.  Nevada is one of 11 states without a prediction for when
tax collections will return to peak levels, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures. It wouldn’t be the
first to turn to alcohol sales to bolster its finances.  Last month, a private entity created by Ohio Governor  John Kasich  to spur job growth sold $1.5 billion in debt backed by
profits from the state’s wholesale liquor distribution system.
In 2009, the state issued taxable Build America Bonds with a
similar backing of liquor profits.  While Sandoval is still weighing options for a dedicated
funding source for the debt, such as the tax on slot machines,
the liquor levy on licensed importers and wholesalers has
emerged as the most probable choice, Mohlenkamp said.  Alcohol Advance  Revenue from that source has surpassed pre-recession
levels, rising every year except one since fiscal 2005. It will
probably keep climbing over the next three years, according to
the state’s  Economic Forum , the entity charged by the
legislature with estimating general-fund revenue.  Meanwhile, state property tax collected to repay general-
obligation bonds is projected to decline to $129.8 million in
fiscal 2013 from $186.7 million in 2010, according to the
treasurer’s General Obligation Debt Capacity and Affordability
Report. Property-tax revenue generally trails changes in home
values.  The proposed bonds, which would need approval from the
legislature as part of Sandoval’s $6.6 billion budget plan,
would probably be structured so the debt is backed secondarily
by the state’s general fund, Mohlenkamp said. If approved, the
same mechanism could be used for more bonds in the next
biennium, he said.  Funding Promise  The promise of stable, dedicated funding may alleviate some
concern that the housing market may not have bottomed, said
 Michael E. Johnson , managing partner in Solana Beach,
California, at Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC.  “It is something we could be interested in,” said
Johnson, whose firm handles $4 billion in munis.
“Traditionally, liquor revenues across the country are
relatively stable. I tend to like that part of it.”  Last month, Nevada, which has about $2 billion of debt,
issued tax-exempt general obligations. The refinancing sale
showed the state shrank its relative borrowing costs in the past
year.  Five-year tax-exempt debt sold last month yielded 1.18
percent, or about 0.33 percentage point above benchmark bonds,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That extra yield is down from
about 0.5 percentage point for similar-maturity debt at a Nevada
offer in March. The securities were rated AA by Standard &
Poor’s, the third-highest level.  Premium Push  Before the sale, state officials worked to reduce what they
call the “Nevada premium” resulting from the state’s fiscal
travails, said Chief Deputy Treasurer  Mark Mathers .  “During the financial crisis, Nevada was in the news for
its high foreclosure rate and high unemployment rate,” Mathers
said in an interview. “The headlines left our bonds, despite
being AA, trading at a higher spread than other AA-rated
states.”  There have been signs of a turnaround in Nevada, the
fastest-growing state in the last decade.  Home values  in Las Vegas, Nevada’s largest city, rose about
10 percent in November from a year earlier, the fifth-best
annual gain in the 20-city S&P/Case-Shiller index. Prices fell
61 percent from February 2007 to March 2012 -- the most of any
American city.  Home prices in Nevada remained 52 percent lower in December
than they were at their peak in March 2006, the largest drop of
any U.S. state, according to  CoreLogic , an Irvine, California-
based data provider.  States’ Quest  Nevada joins states investigating alternative funding to
expand debt capacity as traditional revenue streams stagnate,
said  Emily Raimes , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  “There are a lot of discussions going on in the states on
the best way to fund the transportation and capital programs
they want to fund,” Raimes said from New York. “Nevada is not
very unusual in that it is looking at other funding sources.”  While the state isn’t required to identify a dedicated
funding stream for its general-obligation debt, the treasurer’s
office has recommended the step to reassure investors,
Mohlenkamp said.  “They have recommended we identify a direct funding stream
to provide a little more certainty, a little more structure to
the bond purchasers,” he said.  Following is a pending sale:  NASSAU COUNTY  in New York plans to sell $142 million in
general-obligation bonds and $187 million in bond anticipation
notes as soon as Feb. 21, according to offering documents. The
county had its finances taken over by a state control board in
2011. (Added Feb. 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  