-- New Coronavirus Infects Human Airways Faster Than SARS
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-19T16:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/new-coronavirus-infects-human-airways-faster-than-sars.html
A new pneumonia-causing virus that’s
killed six people in the past year can infect the lining of a
person’s airways faster than the SARS bug, a study found, though
researchers still don’t know how easy it is to spread.  The so-called novel coronavirus, which is related to the
pathogen that killed  774 people  in 2002 and 2003, can penetrate
cells that line the entry to the lungs and reach its peak
ability to replicate in two days, compared with as much as four
days for the SARS virus, researchers from the cantonal hospital
in St. Gallen, Switzerland, wrote today in the journal  mBio ,
which is published by the American Society for Microbiology.  Twelve cases of the virus have been confirmed, including
eight in the Middle East and four in the U.K., where three
members of the same family were diagnosed last week, suggesting
human-to-human transmission. Still, the discovery that the virus
can easily get into respiratory cells doesn’t mean it can easily
get out again and spread through the air to other people, said
Volker Thiel, who led the research.  “We don’t know whether the cases we observe are the tip of
the iceberg, or whether many more people are infected without
showing severe symptoms,” Thiel said in a statement.  New Death  One of the patients diagnosed in the U.K. last week died
Feb. 17, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham said in a
 statement  today. The patient had been receiving treatment for an
unrelated long-term health condition and had a depleted immune
system, the hospital said, without specifying the person’s age
or gender.  The first patient, who had traveled recently to Saudi
Arabia and Pakistan, is still receiving treatment, while the
third patient had a mild illness and has recovered, the U.K.
Health Protection Agency said in a statement today. More than
100 people who had contact with the family members have tested
negative for the virus, the London-based agency said.  “The recent U.K. experience provides strong evidence of
human-to-human transmission in at least some circumstances,”
said John Watson, the head of the HPA’s respiratory diseases
department. “The risk of infection in contacts in most
circumstances is still considered to be low and the risk
associated with novel coronavirus to the general U.K. population
remains very low.”  Testing for the new virus should be considered in patients
with unexplained pneumonia, the World Health Organization said
in a Feb. 16  statement . Although last week’s cases suggest
person-to-person infection, no sustained transmission between
people has been identified, the Geneva-based agency said.  While the virus is related to the one responsible for SARS,
it should not be described as SARS-like because the two
pathogens are genetically distinct, the WHO has said.  Potential Treatment  The new coronavirus is susceptible to proteins called
interferons, suggesting a potential treatment, Thiel and his
colleagues wrote. Interferons are commonly used to fight
infection with the hepatitis C virus.  Genetic evidence suggests the virus is most closely related
to a coronavirus found in bats, the WHO said in November. That
makes it surprising the pathogen can so quickly infect human
cells, Thiel said.  “There’s a certain phase of adaptation, like we have seen
for SARS,” Thiel said in a telephone interview. “This is
obviously not needed, at least not in the epithelium,” or
lining of the lungs, for the new virus.  The research was funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation, the 3R Research Foundation Switzerland, the German
Ministry of Education and Research, the German Research
Foundation, the Danish Cancer Society and the Danish Council for
Independent Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  