-- Nigeria Needs Balanced Oil-Industry Law, Shell Says
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-19T16:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/nigeria-needs-balanced-oil-industry-law-shell-says.html
Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer,
needs a balanced industry law favorable to the government and
energy companies that pump the country’s crude, said  Mutiu Sunmonu , chairman of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ’s local unit.  A bill before lawmakers to reform the way Nigeria’s oil and
gas industry is regulated and funded should “provide optimal
revenue to the government whilst providing sufficient incentives
for new investment to fuel growth,” Sunmonu said today at a
conference in the capital, Abuja.  The Petroleum Industry Bill, which was sent to Parliament
in July, proposes to boost the government’s share of revenue to
73 percent from 61 percent, Petroleum Minister  Diezani Alison- Madueke  said in a statement on Sept. 28. The bill was first sent
to Parliament four years ago and wasn’t passed before the end of
the last legislative session in May 2011.  Energy companies including Shell,  Chevron Corp .,  Exxon
Mobil Corp .,  Total SA  and  Eni SpA  said in a joint presentation
to lawmakers in 2009 that the proposed tax increases would make
exploration “uneconomical.” They pump more than 90 percent of
the country’s oil through ventures with state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.  The government is in talks with energy companies operating
in the country to reach an agreement on the fiscal provisions in
the draft legislation, Alison-Madueke said on Dec. 4. There is a
significant disparity in the positions held by the government
and oil companies on taxes, she said.  “It’s going to take a long while to truly negotiate,”
 Wale Tinubu , chief executive officer of Lagos-based exploration
and production company  Oando Plc , said today in Abuja. “There’s
quite a number of things to discuss, and I find it very
difficult to see how we would end up with a Petroleum Industry
Bill by the end of this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  