-- Nissan’s Infiniti Seeks to Turn Profitable With China Exp
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-19T04:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/nissan-s-infiniti-seeks-to-turn-profitable-with-china-exp.html
Nissan Motor Co.’s luxury Infiniti
unit said it’s targeting to turn profitable in the next three-
to-four years as it begins production in China and introduces
entry-level vehicles to attract customers.  Infiniti, which last year relocated its headquarters to
Hong Kong from Japan, plans to start building cars in China in
the third quarter of 2014 and for global sales this year to gain
at least 10 percent to about 200,000 units, President  Johan de Nysschen  said in an interview today.  “We really have been a U.S.-centric brand,” de Nysschen
said on Bloomberg TV’s “Asia Edge” show with Susan Li and
Rishaad Salamat in Hong Kong. “The future has got to be for us
to look at China.”  Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  hired de
Nysschen, formerly Audi AG’s U.S. head, to revamp Infiniti as
the brand seeks a bigger share of China’s growing luxury auto
market and boost global sales of the brand to 500,000 units a
year. The Yokohama, Japan-based automaker is looking to boost
Infiniti’s position against Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Daimler
AG ’s Mercedes-Benz,  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi and  Toyota Motor
Corp .’s Lexus.  Global sales last year were below 200,000 units, de
Nysschen said last month in Detroit. Infiniti sold 12,551
vehicles in China in 2012, according to researcher LMC
Automotive.  Nissan moved Infiniti’s global headquarters to Hong Kong in
May 2012. The marque in December said it would revamp model
names this year -- Q for cars, QX for light trucks -- as part of
a push to expand in the U.S. and China.  It unveiled the Q50 sports car at the North American
International Auto Show in Detroit last month, in its first shot
against BMW, Audi and Mercedes-Benz.  China Delay  In China, Infiniti delayed introducing some models and cut
back on marketing and promotion after consumer sentiment turned
against Japanese brands last year as a territorial dispute
escalated between the two countries over a group of uninhabited
islands in the East China Sea.  “The very intense emotion around the issue seems to have
subsided somewhat, and we find that business is returning to a
more normal state,” de Nysschen said. Still, tensions between
the two countries remain a “strong undercurrent” to doing
business, he said.  Infiniti is incorporated as a separate legal entity with
its own corporate culture and brand philosophy, though it’s a
wholly owned unit of Nissan, de Nysschen said.  Growth Market  Infiniti is confident of increasing sales this year in
China by at least 10 percent and plans to add 20 dealerships in
2013 to the 60 in operation as of the end of last year, he said
last month.  Annual sales in China, the biggest growth market for
Infiniti, should reach 200,000 units by the end of the decade,
de Nysschen said at the time. The brand had not previously
released sales figures for China, according to its country head
Allen Lyu.  The marque is looking into introducing lower-priced, entry-
level models to attract younger buyers as baby boomers decline
in numbers, de Nysschen said today.  On the yen, the weakening of the currency has brought a
“sense of relief” as most of Infiniti’s production is in
Japan, with only one model made outside of the country, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  