-- Nobel Biocare Profit Tops Estimates as It Cuts European Jobs
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-02-19T16:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/nobel-biocare-fourth-quarter-net-beats-estimates-amid-job-cuts.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG , the
second-biggest maker of dental implants, reported fourth-quarter
profit that beat estimates as it moved European jobs to faster-
growing markets.  Net income fell to 11.2 million euros ($15 million) from
13.3 million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland-
based company said in a statement today. The earnings beat the
average analyst estimate of 9.5 million euros, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nobel Biocare and competitor  Straumann Holding AG  face
weaker sales amid the economic downturn in southern Europe as
people put off getting crowns and bridges, which are mostly paid
out of pocket. Rivals  Biomet Inc.  and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. 
reported declining sales during their most recent quarters.  “We anticipate the market environment to remain difficult
in the short term, but we are rebuilding Nobel Biocare to
perform in all conditions,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Laube  said.  Nobel Biocare said it started a cost-savings plan involving
job cuts in the fourth quarter. It moved a net 90 jobs to growth
markets in the U.S., Brazil, India and China and expanded its
research and development team, according to a company slide
presentation.  Modest Growth  For 2013, the company expects to “modestly build market
share and deliver modest revenue growth” as conditions remain
difficult and on par with the previous year. Nobel Biocare aims
to deliver a margin improvement of 50 to 100 basis points on
earnings before interest and taxes at constant exchange rates.  “Investors had hoped for more aggressive cost-reduction
measures and profitability ambitions,”  Christoph Gretler , an
analyst with Credit Suisse, wrote in a note.  Nobel Biocare fell 3.2 percent to 9.61 Swiss francs in
Zurich, ceding yesterday’s 3.2 percent gain and giving the
company a market value of 1.2 billion francs ($1.3 billion).  Fourth-quarter sales fell to 153 million euros from 154.6
million euros, topping the average estimate of 151 million
euros. The company proposed a dividend of 20 Swiss centimes a
share, compared with 15 centimes a share in 2011 and the
Bloomberg forecast of 18 centimes.  For 2012, the company reported Ebit of 68.7 million euros
and a sales decline of 2.7 percent, excluding currency shifts,
in line with its forecasts. Analysts had expected Ebit of 69
million euros.  Oskar Ronner , a former vice chairman at Straumann, withdrew
a request yesterday to put himself and two Siemens AG executives
on the Nobel board after the company opposed his nominees. Nobel
separately nominated a former Straumann executive,  Franz Maier ,
48, for the board. Shareholders will elect board members at the
annual meeting March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  