-- Nominee for NATO Commander Retires Citing Wife’s Health
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/nominee-for-nato-commander-retires-citing-wife-s-health.html
Marine General  John Allen , who was
the top commander of U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan
for the past 19 months, said he will retire to care for his ill
wife, declining advancement to the post of supreme allied
commander in Europe.  President  Barack Obama , who accepted Allen’s decision to
retire after 38 years in the military, will now have to select a
new nominee to be the top commander of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. He was succeeded in the Afghanistan post on Feb.
10 by U.S. Marine General  Joseph Dunford .  Allen “cares deeply for the men and women in uniform who
serve our nation -- as well as their families -- and I am
grateful for the sacrifices made by his family in supporting him
during his service,” Obama said in a statement yesterday.  Allen’s nomination to the NATO post was put on hold in
November after the revelation of e-mail communications between
the general and Jill Kelley, a Tampa, Florida, socialite. The e-
mails surfaced as part of an investigation into former CIA
Director  David Petraeus , who admitted to an affair with his
biographer, Paula Broadwell.  A Defense Department investigation last month cleared Allen
of wrongdoing, and White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Jan. 23
that the Obama administration was urging the Senate to resume
consideration of the general’s nomination.  Allen said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the
reasons for his decision were personal.  “I did not come to it lightly or quickly, but given the
considerations behind it, I recognized in the end it was the
only choice I could make,” Allen said. “While I won’t go into
the details, my primary concern is for the health of my wife,
who has sacrificed so much for so long.”  Virginia Home  The Washington Post reported yesterday that Allen, in an
interview, said his wife is suffering from a combination of
chronic health issues that includes an autoimmune disorder.  “For more than 35 years, my beloved Kathy has devotedly
stood beside me and enabled me to serve my country,” he said in
the e-mailed statement. ‘It is profoundly sobering to consider
how much of that time I have spent away from her and our two
precious daughters. It is now my turn to stand beside them, to
be there for them when they need me most.’’  He said he is returning to his home in Virginia “to take
care of my family.”  Allen presided over the withdrawal of 33,000 U.S. troops
from Afghanistan and closed almost 600 bases and facilities as
part of the phased pull-out scheduled to be completed by the end
of next year.  Farewell Letter  “I wish I could say that this war is simple and that
progress can be easily measured -- but that’s not the way of
counterinsurgencies,” Allen wrote in a farewell letter to
troops on Feb. 10. “Nonetheless, I believe this campaign is on
track. We are making a difference.”  Allen, a 1976 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy in
Annapolis, Maryland, served as deputy commander of U.S. Central
Command under Petraeus before taking over coalition forces in
Afghanistan in July 2011.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said Allen “has proven
himself to be one of the United States military’s most
outstanding battlefield leaders, a brilliant strategist, and an
exemplary Marine, and I am deeply grateful for his many years of
dedicated service to our country.”  Obama praised Allen for having “presided over the
significant growth in the size and capability of Afghan National
Security Forces, the further degradation of al-Qaeda and their
extremist allies, and the ongoing transition to Afghan security
responsibility across the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  