-- North Sea Crude Benchmark Change Gains Momentum on Platts
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-02-19T10:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/north-sea-crude-benchmark-move-gains-momentum-on-platts-change.html
Liquidity in North Sea benchmark
 Dated Brent  crude is set to be boosted after Platts, a global
pricing agency, announced changes in conjunction with an earlier
modification by Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Platts proposed introducing a quality premium for Ekofisk
and Oseberg crudes, two of the four grades that make up the
Dated Brent marker used to price more than half the world’s oil,
in London yesterday. The move comes less than two weeks after
Shell made adjustments to its trading contract for three blends
including Brent. A unification of the two initiatives is in the
best interest of the market, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  “The escalator issue has successfully been fast-tracked
and now looks almost certain to be implemented by mid-year, a
timeline that just a few weeks ago would have seemed
impossible,” the Vienna-based researcher said in a note today.
“Two competing systems could split the liquidity of the BFOE
market, which would not be in anybody’s favour.”  The changes aim to increase transparency and trading volume
in Dated Brent at a time of falling North Sea production. Shell
said earlier this month it would change its SUKO 90 contract for
buying and selling BFOE cargoes to introduce a premium for the
delivery of higher quality Brent, Ekofisk and Oseberg grades
rather than only Forties, which is typically the cheapest and
thus used to price the benchmark.  Korea FTA  A free trade deal between the European Union and South
Korea opened a new  crude flow  to the Asian nation, as refiner
there don’t have to pay a 3 percent import tariff. The export of
tax-free North Sea grades, especially Forties, meant there were
fewer cargoes available for trading in the benchmark market.  While Platts is the main provider of price assessment for
the North Sea crudes, actual purchases and sales in the over-
the-counter market are governed by bilateral contracts, with
Shell’s SUKO 90 used as the industry’s template.  “In the past it has mainly been Platts who have come up
with changes to the North Sea contract but after a very pre-
emptive move by Shell, there was no other option but for Platts
to put forward a similar proposal,”  Ehsan Ul-Haq , senior market
consultant at Walton-on-Thames, England-based KBC Energy, said
by phone yesterday.  BP Plc agreed to Shell’s amended terms, which since 1990
has acted as an industry standard for the trading of Brent Blend
crude or Dated Brent.  Platts Support  “We are pleased that Platts have supported all the
concepts of our Feb. 8 proposal to introduce a quality premium
as regards BFOE forward transactions,” Shell said in a
statement yesterday.  Platts, a unit of McGraw Hill Cos., is requesting feedback
on its proposal by March 10 with the changes coming into effect
from May for shipments that load the following month,  Jorge Montepeque , global director of markets and pricing at Platts,
said yesterday. Its proposal differs from Shell’s in that Platts
only suggests escalators for Oseberg and Ekofisk grades while
Shell’s also includes Brent.  “It was clear to us that the vast majority of companies
were very much on board with the idea,” Montepeque said, adding
that Platts had first considered such a move in June 2011,
without setting a timetable.  Shell’s changes to its pricing formula will probably be
adopted by the market, a Bloomberg News survey Feb. 13 of eight
traders directly involved in the business showed. The platts
escalator is less complex than Shell’s proposal, JBC said.  Abundant Grade  The amendment should incentivize delivering Brent, Ekofisk
and Oseberg into the contract rather than only higher sulfur
Forties, which is also the most abundant grade. Shell imposed a
25 percent premium for Brent and Oseberg based on their
difference to the Forties differential while for Ekofisk it will
be 50 percent, while Platts is recommending a 50 percent premium
for the two grades.  Forties  loading in 10 to 25 days rose 18 cents yesterday to
28 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Daily exports of the four main North Sea crudes will
decrease by 10 percent in March from this month, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show. Production has fallen
year-on-year since for at least five years with March output 35
percent lower than in 2008, the data show.  Platts competes with Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, in providing news and data on energy markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  