-- Novartis Chairman Agrees to Cancel $78 Million Payout
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-02-19T17:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/novartis-board-vasella-agree-to-cancel-golden-handshake-accord.html
Novartis AG  scrapped a plan to pay
outgoing Chairman  Daniel Vasella  as much as $78 million to keep
him from working for rivals after details of the payout emerged
days before a Swiss referendum on executive compensation.  The accord that was “intended to protect the company”
barred Vasella from “making his knowledge and know-how
available to competitors,” the Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker said in a statement today.  The agreement drew criticism after Swiss blog  Inside
Paradeplatz  reported the size of the sum on Feb. 15. The news
broke two weeks ahead of the March 3 referendum that, if passed,
will give shareholders annual votes on executives’ compensation
and criminalize payouts for departing managers. Vasella had
offered to donate the payment to charity. His about-face hasn’t
appeased all investors.  “The pile of rubble is still here,”  Rudolf Meyer , who
heads the  Actares  shareholders association, said in a telephone
interview. “This has damaged Novartis’s reputation around the
world.”  Novartis said last month it would pay Vasella “fair market
compensation” for refraining to work for the competition for
the coming six years, without disclosing the sum. Shareholder
rights groups demanded the agreement be annulled after Inside
Paradeplatz reported the details.  Unreasonably High  “I have understood that many people in Switzerland find
the amount of the compensation linked to the non-compete
agreement unreasonably high,” Vasella said in the statement.
The company would have paid him as much as 12 million Swiss
francs ($13 million) annually for six years.  The cancellation of the accord means Vasella is free to
work in the pharmaceutical industry, said  Eric Althoff , a
spokesman for Novartis.  Still, Vasella may not have an easy time finding another
job,  Tim Race , an analyst at Deutsche Bank in London said in a
telephone interview. “There is a question if another mega-cap
pharma company would take him, especially now seeing how
shareholders might react.”  Some investors are now demanding Novartis stick to
Vasella’s promise of donating the pay. “Donating the money is
not off the table,” Hans-Jacob Heitz, a Swiss lawyer who acts
for shareholders, said in a telephone interview. Heitz filed a
criminal complaint against Vasella and the company’s
compensation committee yesterday for breach of trust and
untruthful business information.  Novartis rose 0.6 percent to close at 64.30 francs in
Zurich. The stock has gained 29 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 21 percent gain
for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  ‘Fair Compensation’  Vasella received 13.1 million francs in compensation last
year, more than double the rest of Novartis’s board combined,
according to the company’s  annual report .  Franz Humer , the
chairman of cross-town rival  Roche Holding AG , received about
8.7 million francs in compensation, according to the company’s
annual report.  Vasella also holds about $220 million in Novartis shares
according to  information  compiled by Bloomberg. He oversaw the
1996 merger of Sandoz AG and Ciba-Geigy AG that created
Novartis, a transaction that ranked as the world’s largest
merger at the time. He served as chairman and chief executive
officer until 2010, when he ceded the CEO job to  Joe Jimenez .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  