-- Obama Clashes With Yield Shows Bonds Below Growth Outlook
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-19T17:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/obama-clashes-with-yield-shows-bonds-below-growth-outlook.html
As President Barack Obama starts his
second term, the bond market is already telling him that the
administration’s forecasts for economic growth over the next
four years are too optimistic.  The  Office of Management and Budget  predicts yields on 10-
year Treasury notes will rise to average 4.1 percent in 2015 and
4.9 percent in 2017 as the economy expands at about a 4 percent
rate in the second half of Obama’s term. Bond prices suggest the
yield, now at about 2 percent, will average below 3 percent two
years from now, implying that gross domestic product will fall
short of OMB projections, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While Obama’s legacy may depend on a recovering economy,
the bond market is signaling GDP may not in the next few years
exceed the 3.3 percent annual average of the decade preceding
the financial crisis and tax revenues will fall short of what
the president needs to close the budget gap. That’s not all bad
news because Treasury borrowing costs just above last year’s
record lows mean easy credit for consumers and companies as well
as sustained demand for riskier assets such as stocks.  “Clearly, the bond market is on one end of the spectrum
and these guys are on the other end, believing rates are going
to go up so fast,”  Priya Misra , the head of U.S. rates strategy
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve, said Feb. 8
in a telephone interview.  Not ’Normal’  “The 10-year  yield  rising to about 5 percent in four years
is too optimistic,” Misra said. “Maybe you could argue that
rates are a little depressed now, given inflows into bond funds
and the Federal Reserve’s debt purchases, but this is nothing
like a normal recovery.”  Market expectations reflected in bond yields are consistent
with the median estimate of 84 economists in a Bloomberg survey
who say the U.S. will grow 2.7 percent in 2014. The OMB
forecasts 3.5 percent next year.  The clashing views come after the 10-year note  yield  fell
as low as 1.38 percent in July and averaged 1.79 percent in
2012, the  lowest since  the debt was first issued in 1953. The
next threat to Obama’s forecast is looming as Congress faces a
March 1 deadline to avert spending reductions of $1.2 trillion
over nine years that may cut growth in 2013 by half, according
to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.  Colin Kim , director of the Treasury’s Office of Debt
Management, noted the  divergence  between the market outlook and
his agency’s assumptions during the government’s regular
quarterly meeting with the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
on Feb. 5, according to  minutes  posted on the Treasury
Department’s website.  Yield Curve  The gap between rates implied in the future by the so-
called yield curve of actively traded securities and the
administration’s forecasts may be narrower than just looking at
the raw numbers suggests. Demand for government bonds has been
elevated by Federal Reserve purchases and new rules requiring
banks to buy the safest assets for their reserves, which have
depressed the  compensation  investors demanded for holding
longer-term debt.  The Fed has  bought  more than $2.3 trillion of Treasuries
and other securities since 2008, and plans to continue
purchasing a combined $85 billion of government and mortgage
debt a month to pump money into the financial system. Deposits
at U.S. banks exceed loans by $2 trillion, with much of the
surplus used to buy Treasuries. Bank holdings of Treasuries
increased 15 percent to  $521.3 billion  in the past year.  Bond Trading  While slower growth would make it harder for Obama to meet
his deficit goals, yields below the administration forecast
would limit government debt-service costs. Interest on the $16
trillion debt has fallen as Treasury yields stayed about record
lows. The U.S. spent $359.8 billion on financing expense in
fiscal 2012, down from $454.4 billion in 2011.  Yields on 10-year notes rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2 percent last week, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. The benchmark 2 percent note maturing in
February 2023, sold Feb. 13, finished the week at 99 31/32. The
yield was unchanged at 12:34 p.m. in New York.  Treasuries lost 1.1 percent in January, the worst start to
a year since 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond indexes. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note has risen
25 basis points from 1.76 percent at the end of last year.  Fed debt purchases have pushed corporate and consumer
borrowing rates down. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds
dropped to a record low 2.73 percent on Nov. 8, compared with
the 10-year average of 5.02 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond indexes. Freddie Mac said last week
rates on  30-year mortgages  averaged 3.53 percent, down from 6.74
percent in 2007.  Obama Stimulus  Yields on 10-year notes are forecast to climb to 2.25
percent by the end of the year, according to the median estimate
of 65 respondents in a Bloomberg News survey. The last time
rates were above 4.9 percent, the average for 2017 anticipated
by the Office of Management and Budget, was in July 2007 as the
financial crisis was mounting.  Obama said in his Feb. 12 State of the Union address that
even though the labor market is improving, more needs to be done
to create jobs. He proposed raising the federal minimum wage to
$9 an hour from $7.25 by 2015 and spending $50 billion on urgent
infrastructure projects.  “What we’ve seen over the last couple of years from both
the Federal Reserve and the fiscal authorities is that they are
overly optimistic on their growth expectations,”  Guy LeBas,  the
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview on Feb. 14.  Three Factors  “The sources of higher interest yields include higher
economic growth, increasing inflation expectations and reduced
Fed demand. While one of those three might come into play in
2013 or 2014, it is very unlikely that all three do,” said
LeBas, who predicts the 10-year note yield will end the year at
about 2.2 percent.  While the U.S. pulled out of its worst economic downturn
since the Great Depression during Obama’s first term,
 unemployment  has  remained  higher than the average of 6.8 percent
over the past 10 years.  Average weekly earnings adjusted for inflation showed no
gain in 2012, and the unemployment rate in January rose to 7.9
percent from 7.8 percent the month before. The economy
unexpectedly shrank by 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter.  Jobless Rate  For the three years  following the recession  that ended in
June 2009, the jobless rate averaged 9.2 percent and growth
after accounting for inflation averaged 2.3 percent,  Robert Pollin,  a professor of economics and co-director of the
Political Economy Research Institute at the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst, said in a telephone interview on Feb.
12. That compares to average unemployment of 6.3 percent and
real GDP expansion of 4.5 percent for the three-year periods
following the end of the previous eight recessions.  “You’ve got strong headwinds every way you look working
against returning to the kind of economic growth levels we saw
pre-2007,”  Alan Wilde,  head of fixed-income and currencies in
London at Baring Asset Management, which oversees $53 billion,
said in a telephone interview on Feb. 12.  “The idea that bond yields could return to 4 percent to 5
percent, with a nominal growth rate compatible with stable
employment, is still some way off,” he said. “I subscribe to
the gently rising scheme of things for Treasury yields rather
than a rapid burst higher.”  Term Premium  Implied yields may be below Congressional Budget Office
estimates in part because the so-called  term premium  required by
investors to hold longer-maturity debt has remained around
record lows, and negative since 2011, amid Fed purchases. A
negative term premium means investors are not requiring any
excess return to hold long-term debt instead of rolling over a
series of short-term securities as they mature.  “We can’t take market implied forward rates today at face
value due to the Fed’s quantitative easing,”  Zach Pandl , an
interest-rate strategist in Minneapolis at Columbia Management
Investment Advisers LLC, which oversees $340 billion said in a
telephone interview on Feb. 15. These rates “are related to
expectations about where the economy and monetary policy is
going, but central banks are deliberately distorting those rates
to stimulate recovery.”  The  premium  was minus 0.62 percent last week, up from a
record low of minus 1.0187 percent on July 24. It averaged 0.916
percent in the decade before the start of the financial crisis
in 2007.  Economic Improvement  Even if growth doesn’t meet Obama’s forecasts, rising home
and car sales show the economy is improving, according to  James Smith , chief economist at Parsec Financial in Asheville, North
Carolina. His forecast for a 10-year Treasury yield of 4.11
percent at the end of 2013 is the highest in a survey of 64
participants by Bloomberg News.  “The flight-to-quality demand and Fed purchases has helped
keep yields below the historic 100-year average of about 3
percentage points over the inflation rate,” Smith, an economist
at the Fed in Washington from 1975 to 1977, said in a telephone
interview Feb. 14. “But the Fed buying won’t last forever and
the economy is back to looking more like a typical expansion,”
he said. “Market expectations always turn on a dime and nobody
sees it coming.”  U.S. auto sales per dealership probably will rise to a
record in 2013, according to  Urban Science , a Detroit-based
consulting firm. U.S. light-vehicle sales have climbed by at
least 10 percent each of the last three years, including a 13
percent increase last year that was the biggest since 1984.  CBO Estimate  Purchases of  new U.S. homes  reached 367,000 in 2012, the
most since 2009 and the first annual gain in seven years.  The Congressional Budget Office  assumes  the 10-year
Treasury yield will average 5 percent in 2017 with real GDP
growing more than 4 percent in each of the two prior years,
according to its long-term budget and economic outlook report
published Feb. 5. Accelerating growth will help boost revenues
and narrow the U.S. deficit-to-GDP ratio to 2.4 percent by 2015.  The budget deficit will decrease to $845 billion, the least
since 2008, or 5.3 percent of GDP, for the current fiscal year,
ending September 30, the report said. In fiscal 2012 the deficit
amounted to 7 percent of total U.S. output.  Sequestration Looms  Obama called on Congress last week to pass spending
reductions and close tax loopholes to delay the budget cuts,
known as sequestration, set to begin next month. Republicans
have said they won’t consider raising revenue beyond the $650
billion tax increase on top earners the president won as part of
the budget deal enacted on Jan. 2.  The sequestration cuts “won’t help the economy, won’t
create jobs, and will visit hardship on a whole lot of people,”
Obama said today at the White House. “The whole design of these
arbitrary cuts was to make them so unattractive and unappealing
that Democrats and Republicans would actually get together and
find a good compromise of sensible cuts as well as closing tax
loopholes and so forth.”  Lawmakers agreed to the automatic spending cuts, to be
spread over nine years, as part of a 2011 fiscal deal to raise
the U.S. debt limit. The reductions were supposed to be so
onerous that Congress and the president would never let them
occur and would find a plan to replace them.  “We seem to be a long way away from 4 percent real
growth,”  David Brownlee , the head of fixed-income at Sentinel
Asset Management, which oversees more than $18 billion, said in
a Feb. 13 telephone interview from Montpelier, Vermont. “It’s
just really preliminary to think rates can go up that high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  