-- Ohio Plans Drones to Hunt Lost Kids as They Bring Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-02-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/ohio-plans-drones-to-hunt-lost-kids-as-they-bring-jobs.html
Medina County  Sheriff Tom Miller
says he understands why some people in northeastern Ohio may be
wary about having his department’s drone overhead.  “If I have a barbecue in my backyard, I certainly don’t
need somebody droning over me to see what’s going on,” Miller
said by telephone from the county of about 173,000. “But if my
grandson’s missing, or my granddaughter, I would like to think
there’s technology available that can help us search more
quickly to locate them.”  The remote-controlled, unmanned aerial vehicles used for
years by the U.S. against al-Qaeda fighters overseas are poised
to become fixtures in everyday U.S. life as law-enforcement
agencies, states and universities acquire them, and businesses
eye potential uses. Their steady advance is forcing governments
and citizens to grapple with the consequences and opportunities
created by the culture of surveillance.  Even as the Federal Aviation Administration works to
incorporate drones into U.S.  airspace  for civilian uses, and
states such as Ohio plan to become leaders in their manufacture,
lawmakers in Congress, states including Virginia and local
governments are weighing limits to preserve privacy.  Inscrutable Robots  “Drones have the potential to be transformative
technology,” Ryan Calo, a professor at the University of
Washington School of Law and a former director at the Stanford
Law School Center for Internet and Society, said by telephone
from Seattle. “There will be some people who will never get
used to the idea of inscrutable flying robots watching, but I
think for many, they’ll come to accept this technology.”  Congress has directed the FAA to develop policies and
procedures to integrate unmanned aircraft by 2015. Until then,
government entities must obtain the agency’s approval before
flying drones, and there were 327 active permits through Feb.
12, the agency said.  In Ohio, applicants include the Medina sheriff’s office 
and the state Transportation Department, according to the 
response to a public records request from the Electronic 
Freedom Foundation. There are also universities such as
 Sinclair Community College  in Dayton, which said it has one 
of the first commercial drone simulator labs in the U.S. and 
a program to certify students for employment.  The Buckeye State is creating an Unmanned Aircraft Systems
Center and Test Complex near Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
outside Dayton. The state is also banding together with Indiana
in a joint application for one of the six U.S. sites the FAA
will approve for drone research and testing, hoping to attract
companies and jobs.  Humanless Future  “If you’re building unmanned vehicles, that’s the vehicle
of the future,” Governor  John Kasich , a first-term Republican,
told reporters Feb. 13 in Columbus. “No question about it, it
could bring a lot of jobs to Ohio.”  Drones can be equipped with high-powered cameras and
sensors, and unlike the larger military drones with weapons
systems, unmanned vehicles for civil and commercial use can be
about the size of model airplanes. They can help farmers monitor
crops, news organizations cover events, and fire departments
respond to disasters.  Paparazzi will use drones to get their celebrity photos,
and other potential uses are studying weather and even flying
over golf courses to see what fairways need to be watered, said
Matt Waite, a professor of journalism at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln who established the Drone Journalism Lab in
November 2011.  Remote Control  “A lot of the things that people want to do with UAVs are
things that they’ve always wanted to do but couldn’t because
manned aircraft would just make it prohibitively expensive,”
Waite said in a telephone interview.  The Ohio Transportation Department wants to use its 
$15,000 drone to map road and bridge projects instead of using 
a manned aircraft that costs as much as $500 an hour.  The agency’s drone is made by  senseFly LLC , a unit of 
Paris-based  Parrot SA . The Swinglet CAM weighs 1 pound (half 
a kilogram) with a wingspan of about 2.5 feet (80 centimeters), 
spokesman Steve Faulkner said by e-mail. The remote-controlled 
device, made of plastic foam, travels as fast as 22 miles 
(35 kilometers) an hour and has a battery life of 25 minutes, 
he said.  Tiny Tarmac  The Ohio transportation drone is grounded until the agency
develops policies for using it and addressing privacy concerns,
Faulkner said. It’s parked in a cubicle at the agency’s district
offices in Toledo, he said.  Bills have been introduced in at least 18 states to limit
or regulate drones, according to the National Conference of
State Legislatures.  The City Council of Charlottesville, Virginia, voted Feb. 5
for a two-year moratorium on the use of drones, and a day later
both the state House of Delegates and Senate passed bills to
delay the use of unmanned aircraft by law-enforcement and
regulatory entities until 2015, except in emergencies.  Police should have to get a warrant in most cases before
sending up a drone to “peep into our lives,” said Virginia
Senator  Donald McEachin , sponsor of the legislation and chairman
of the Democratic caucus.  “The founders never imagined a robot that could sit above
your home, take pictures, hear sounds, even detect smells and
send them back to a home base,” McEachin said by telephone from
Richmond.  Flying Death  Miller, the 63-year-old Medina County sheriff, said his
department’s drone -- which looks like a helmet attached to four
propellers on rods -- hasn’t been used for missions yet while
deputies are trained to operate it. The vehicle will be used
only for search-and-rescue efforts and never for surveillance,
he said.  That’s not enough, because good intentions can lead to
misuse of drones without laws governing them, said Amie
Stepanovich, a lawyer at the Electronic Privacy Information
Center, a nonprofit group in Washington that monitors technology
and civil liberties.  Part of the challenge is that the word “drone” conjures
images of killer robots and spying machines because of its
military uses, said Kent Wingate, 62, who is chairman of the
Aviation Technology Department at Sinclair Community College and
a retired Air Force flight-test engineer. Used properly, the
devices -- which he prefers to call unmanned aerial systems --
can be indispensable in peacetime, he said.  Friendly Skies  “They turn it into this bad connotation of this drone
that’s going to spy on you, and it’s going to follow you around
in your car and take pictures of you and take pictures of your
family,” Wingate said. “It’s such a negative and wrongly
portrayed to the public.”  The FAA estimates there may be about 10,000 active
commercial drones in five years. Annual spending on unmanned
aerial vehicles worldwide will almost double to $11.4 billion in
the next decade, according to an April 2012 report by Teal Group
Corp., a defense industry consultant based in Fairfax, Virginia.
Major drone makers today include  Northrop Grumman Corp. , based
in Falls Church, Virginia; General Atomics Aeronautical Systems
Inc., in Poway, California; and  AeroVironment Inc. , in Monrovia,
California, according to Teal.  The  Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International ,
an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group, projects that more
than 70,000 U.S. jobs will be created in the first three years
of drone integration, with more than 100,000 jobs by 2025, 
Melanie Hinton, a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Trace Curry, a 24-year-old student from Dayton who has
studied unmanned aerial systems at Sinclair college, said he’s
confident he’ll be able to earn a good living.  “I see this as something that in 50, 60 years, my
grandkids will be able to just walk outside and say, ‘Hey,
there’s a UAS flying around,’” Curry said. “And to think that
I would be someone who contributed to that, that’s really
something that keeps me going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Niquette  in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  