-- Tombini Says Brazil Ready to Shift Monetary Policy If Needed
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-19T18:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/tombini-says-brazil-ready-to-shift-monetary-policy-if-needed-1-.html
Brazilian central bank President
 Alexandre Tombini  said policy makers could adjust monetary
policy as needed as they seek to reassure investors the
government won’t refrain from raising interest rates to keep
consumer prices tamed.  “When necessary, if supported by the prospective scenario
for inflation, the posture of the central bank in relation to
monetary policy will be adequately adjusted,” Tombini said at
an event in Brasilia.  After  inflation  accelerated more rapidly than economists
expected in January, policy makers have expressed more concern
about the pace of consumer price increases. Tombini’s comments
signaled that the central bank stands ready to tighten monetary
policy, said  Nick Chamie , global head of foreign exchange
strategy and emerging markets research at RBC Capital Markets.  “They don’t want people to think that hiking interest
rates is off the table,” Chamie said in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “They want to anchor inflation expectations and
bolster the confidence and the credibility in keeping inflation
around the target.”  Record Low  Policy makers have held the benchmark Selic rate at a
record low of 7.25 percent since October. In the minutes to
their last meeting on Jan. 15-16, policy makers stated that the
best path to cooling inflation without jeopardizing growth is to
keep rates at the current level for a “sufficiently prolonged
period.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, pared their earlier decline and
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.70
percent at 3:01 p.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.4
percent to 1.9557 per dollar.  An unexpected decline in December retail sales had pushed
swap rates down by the most in two months, as traders bet a
struggling economic recovery could prevent the central bank from
raising borrowing costs.  While Tombini said there is no risk of inflation in Brazil
going out of control, he did not rule out the possibility of a
tightening cycle.  “The bank has communicated its strategy, a strategy that
remains valid at this moment,” Tombini said. “On the other
hand, that obviously does not mean that monetary cycles have
been abolished.”  The bank has not yet decided on the timing of a rate
increase, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco
WestLB do Brasil. “Tombini signaled that in the medium term he
can increase rates, depending on the next inflation data,”
Rostagno said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  Inflation as measured by the IPCA index accelerated to 6.15
percent in January, and has been above the midpoint of the
central bank’s target range for the past 29 months. The bank
targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  