-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in February
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-19T15:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-in-february.html
Confidence  among U.S. homebuilders
unexpectedly dropped in February from a more than six-year high,
a sign the real-estate market will take time to accelerate.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder confidence index fell to 46 from January’s 47 that
matched the highest reading since April 2006, a report from the
Washington-based group showed today. The  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 50 economists called for a rise to 48.
Readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said conditions
were poor.  Faster gains in employment and income and easier access to
credit are needed to foster a stronger rebound in the industry
that was at the center of the 2008 financial crisis. At the same
time, rising sales at companies like  PulteGroup Inc.  and  Lennar
Corp.  show near record-low mortgage costs are attracting buyers,
putting a floor under demand.  “You need more robust consumer demand which would entail
job growth and wage gains,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York, who was the
only person surveyed by Bloomberg to correctly project the drop
in sentiment. Builders may also be responding to a slowdown in
the appreciation of their share prices, Porcelli said.  Builder stocks dropped after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Home Builder Index fell 0.2 percent to
494.67 at 10:43 a.m. in New York. The S&P 500 Index climbed 0.4
percent to 1,526.16 amid optimism over possible mergers and data
showing rising investor confidence in Germany.  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 46 to 50. The
index, which was first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in
the five years leading to the recession that began in December
2007. It reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of  present  single-family home
sales fell to 51 this month from a revised 52 in January. A
measure of sales  expectations  for the next six months climbed to
50 from 49. The gauge of buyer  traffic  decreased to 32, the
lowest since September, from a more than six-year high of 36 the
prior month.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Regional Breakdown  Confidence improved among builders in two of the four U.S.
regions, led by the Northeast, where it jumped to 41 from 36.
Builders in the West saw an increase to 60, the highest since
June 2006, from 59. The confidence measure held at 46 in the
Midwest and fell to 44 from 51 in the South.  “Having risen strongly in 2012, the HMI hit a slight pause
in the beginning of this year as builders adjusted their
expectations to reflect the pace at which consumers are moving
forward on new-home purchases,”  David Crowe , the association’s
chief economist, said in a statement. “We expect home building
to continue on a modest rising trajectory this year.”  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by market value,
said orders rose 27 percent in the fourth quarter from the same
time a year earlier, while Lennar reported a 32 percent gain.  Toll Brothers Inc. , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
is among companies looking to garner more sales as builders gear
up for the spring selling season, traditionally viewed as
starting the weekend after the National Football League’s Super
Bowl. The event was held Feb. 3.  Improving Outlook  “All signs point to a very good spring,” Chief Executive
Officer Doug Yearley said in a January interview, citing the
number of visitors to Toll Brothers model homes and the amount
of closings.  Demand may be outstripping supply, contributing a rising
prices. New listings in 21 of the largest U.S. cities plunged 21
percent in January from a year earlier, according to Redfin, a
Seattle-based brokerage.  At the same time, declining mortgage costs are making it
cheaper to buy a home for those who qualify for credit. The
average fixed rate on a 30-year loan held at  3.53 percent  in the
week ended Feb. 14, down from 3.87 percent a year ago, according
to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 