-- Money-Losing Panamax Owners Boosted by Brazilian Crop: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-02-19T17:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/money-losing-panamax-owners-boosted-by-brazilian-crop-freight.html
The glut of grain-carrying Panamax
ships is so great that even record cargoes from South America
and a 34 percent surge in freight rates will be insufficient to
halt five quarters of unprofitable charters.  Earnings from the ships hauling about 75,000 metric tons of
soybeans and grains will rise to an average of $9,000 a day in
the second quarter from $6,732 now, according to New York-based
Morgan Stanley. Traders can profit by purchasing shipping swaps
called Forward Freight Agreements, which currently anticipate
rates of $8,690 for the same period.  Shippers will have a harder time eking out gains because
bank estimates and derivatives are below $11,000, the
approximate amount owners need to pay running expenses and debt,
according to Pareto Securities AS. The Panamax fleet is
expanding four times faster than demand for grains after owners
ordered the most new vessels ever in 2010, when rates averaged
$25,000. Soy and corn exports from Argentina and Brazil will
rise 2.5 percent this harvest year to a record 87.3 million
tons, the U.S. Department of Agriculture predicts.  “The South American harvest is going to offer owners some
respite,” though it won’t provide a sustained rally,  Marc Pauchet , an analyst at  ACM Shipping Group Plc , a London-based
shipbroker, said in a Feb. 13 e-mail. “Brazil and Argentina are
stepping up to fill the deficit, which will make this season
busy, but there are still way too many ships.”  Slump to Persist  FFAs for the second quarter gained 14 percent from the
start of this year, tracking a 22 percent advance in charter
rates, according to the Baltic Exchange, which publishes prices
for the swaps and shipping rates on more than 50 maritime
routes. The $8,690 a day anticipated by FFAs for the second
quarter will slump to $7,150 in the following three months
before rallying to $7,992 in the final quarter of 2013, the
bourse’s data show.  The fleet expanded 13 percent to 171.8 million deadweight
tons in the past year, according to data from IHS Inc., an
Englewood, Colorado-based researcher. Supply of Panamaxes, the
largest ships to navigate the Panama Canal, will increase by
another 13 percent this year, more than three times faster than
trade in iron ore, coal and grains, according to data from
London-based Clarkson Plc. About 40 percent of Panamax cargoes
are grains, according to ICAP Shipping International Ltd., a
London-based unit of ICAP Plc, the biggest broker of trades
between banks.  Long-Term Charters  Of the world’s  six largest owners  of the vessels, Safe
Bulkers Inc. has the highest proportion of Panamaxes in its
overall fleet, according to data from Clarkson, the world’s
largest shipbroker. The Athens-based company’s shares plunged 52
percent to $3.63 in the past year and will rebound to $4.49
within 12 months, according to the average of five analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. As of 12:47 p.m., the shares
rose 4.1 percent, the most since Jan. 29, to $3.78.  Safe Bulkers is avoiding the slump because it leased out
vessels on long-term contracts that don’t fluctuate as much as
day-to-day charter rates, according to  Natasha Boyden , an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in New Orleans who has
covered the industry for 12 years and recommends buying the
shares. At least 16 of the company’s 24 vessels have charters
until July, according to data on the ship owner’s website.  South American farmers are increasing output after the
worst drought in half a century curbed crops in the U.S., the
biggest exporter. Rain in Brazil’s biggest soy-growing state of
Mato Grosso is lifting production and disrupting transportation,
another positive for rates. Vessels at Brazilian ports may have
to wait as long as 50 days to load, Siegfried Falk, co-editor of
Oil World, a Hamburg-based forecasting service for oilseed
crops, said Feb. 14. Delays curb vessel supply.  Port Delays  “The harvest is very good, which is a boost for the
market, and we expect port congestion will also help,”  Loukas Barmparis , president of Safe Bulkers, said by phone Feb. 15.
“We see the current market is recovering gradually and expect
we will see a better quarter. Any good news on the demand side
is very good, because the market will still suffer this year
from excess supply.”  There were 25 vessels berthed, arrived or expected to load
corn at Brazil’s five major ports on Feb. 13 and 106 for
soybeans, compared with six for corn and 51 for soybeans a year
ago, according to SA Commodities. The ships include Panamaxes
and smaller vessels.  U.S. Cargoes Shrink  Additional cargoes from South America will be offset by
lower exports from the U.S., which produces 25 percent of the
world’s seaborne supply. American shipments plunged 17 percent
to 72.5 million metric tons in the 2011-12 crop year and will
slump another 14 percent in the current season, according to
Clarkson. Global trade in grains and soy will swell 3.1 percent
this year, the broker estimated in a January report.  “Last year the U.S. grain harvest was a disaster,” said
Global Hunter’s Boyden. “That really impacted the vessels. The
grain harvest in South America is looking much better, and that
will certainly have an impact.”  While Safe Bulkers’ most-watched measure of  net income  will
decline to $81.6 million this year from $90.2 million in 2012,
its profit will exceed earnings of any owner in the 12-member
 Bloomberg Dry Ships Index , according to analysts’ forecasts
gathered by Bloomberg. The company with the largest weighting in
the index, Hong Kong-based Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., will
earn $39 million, the average of 19 estimates shows.  Unprofitable Ships  Tianjin, China-based  China Cosco Holdings Co. , the biggest
owner of Panamaxes, will narrow its net loss this year to $184.7
million from $1.03 billion in 2012, according to the average of
as many as 28 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Tokyo-
based Nippon Yusen K.K., the second-largest, will earn $53.3
million, 14 estimates show.  Cosco and Nippon Yusen’s fleets include oil tankers,
container ships and other vessels. Three of six oil-tanker types
aren’t making enough to cover their daily running costs,
according to the Baltic and International Maritime Council, the
industry’s biggest trade group. Bloomberg Industries’ index of
container-shipping stocks slumped 22 percent in the past year.  “Last year was a disaster because of the U.S. drought,
whereas now we expect to see a pickup because South America
should have a very strong season,” said  Herman Hildan , an
analyst at RS Platou Markets AS in Oslo. “It looks quite good
from a rate perspective, even though it’s low now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  