-- Ontario Premier Wynne Pledges Budget Balance and Cooperation
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-02-19T22:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/ontario-s-wynne-agenda-speech-pledges-balanced-budget-by-2017.html
Ontario Premier  Kathleen Wynne 
promised to eliminate the province’s deficit by the fiscal year
starting April 2017 and to work with opposition parties to
secure support for her minority government.  Wynne, who replaced  Dalton McGuinty  as leader of the
province’s Liberal Party last month, made the pledge today in a
 speech  laying out her government’s agenda. Ontario is Canada’s
most populous  province .  “For the benefit of the entire province, your government
intends to work with opposition parties, in a spirit of renewed
cooperation, to get the people’s business done,” according to a
copy of a speech read in the province’s legislature by
Lieutenant Governor David Onley.  Wynne said her government will restrain spending to balance
the budget by 2017-18, as promised by McGuinty. After the
deficit is eliminated, Ontario will restrict spending increases
to one percentage point below gross domestic product growth
until the province’s debt-to-GDP ratio returns to 27 percent,
she said.  The message of restraint comes as the province struggles
with a strong Canadian dollar and weak U.S. demand. Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded Ontario’s credit rating in April,
citing the province’s growing debt burden and declining economic
growth.  The Liberals hold 51 of the 107  seats  in the provincial
legislature, meaning they need some support from opposition
lawmakers to pass budgets and remain in power.  Former Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said Jan. 22 the
province’s deficit in the fiscal year that began in April will
be C$11.9 billion ($11.8 billion), less than the C$14.8 billion
previously forecast.  Wynne said the province’s “true potential cannot be
reached through austerity alone.” The government will
contribute C$50 million to a new venture-capital fund and try to
create jobs through the deployment of energy-saving
technologies, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  