-- Monte Paschi Accounts Questioned in Suit Opposing State Bailout
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-19T09:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/monte-paschi-accounts-questioned-in-suit-opposing-state-bailout.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
may face as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) more losses
after misrepresenting derivatives transactions, a consumer group
challenging the lender’s bailout alleged in a court filing.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest lender, is being probed by
regulators and prosecutors after using derivatives to hide
losses. In one transaction that wasn’t fully disclosed to
shareholders, the bank made a money-losing bet on the country’s
government bonds in a structured deal disguised as a loan,
Bloomberg News first reported on Jan. 17.  The bank may have to classify that bet as a credit default
swap and record a trading loss as the value of Italian bonds
fell after the deal was put in place, consumer group Codacons,
based in Rome, said in the court filing.  “It’s highly probable that these operations are in fact
credit-default-swap deals artificially documented as assets
(government bonds) and debts (repos),”  Giuseppe Bivona , a
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley banker who is
advising Codacons, wrote in a report submitted to the court and
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Officials for Monte Paschi in Siena and the Rome-based Bank
of Italy, the firm’s regulator, declined to comment. The
administrative court for the region of Lazio will hold a hearing
on Codacons’s request to halt the bailout tomorrow.  Monte Paschi, engulfed by probes of its former managers,
said on Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro hit to assets
after reviewing structured deals from 2008 and 2009 that hid
losses. Monte Paschi is seeking state funds to boost capital
after failing to meet regulators’ minimum requirements in a
rescue some lawmakers and consumer groups oppose.  Santorini, Alexandria  Italy’s third-biggest lender has said that the impact of a
trade dubbed Santorini will be 305.2 million euros, while a deal
labeled Alexandria will bring losses of 272.5 million euros.  “Alexandria and Santorini are exposures that we have as an
AFS reserve and that will be totally associated to future trends
of our spreads over Italy’s sovereign-debt risk,” Chief
Financial Officer  Bernardo Mingrone  said during a conference
call with analysts on Feb. 7, according to a Bloomberg
transcript.  “These transactions that Monte Paschi has assessed are
very common with the entire banking system and are documented
this way by the market in general,” Mingrone said on the call,
in answer to a question from Bivona.  ‘Same Practices’  On the same call, Chief Executive Officer  Fabrizio Viola 
declined to disclose the details of the contracts.  “As far as this issue is concerned we have highlighted in
our press release too that on the part of the supervisory
authorities, there are some talks in place and that concern the
entire banking system,” Viola said. “We are not a specific or
peculiar case. But we think we are a bank that operates exactly
in the same way as and according to the same practices as the
other Italian banks.”  Codacons’s consultant Bivona, who ran Goldman Sachs’s
fixed-income sales for Italy from 2008 through 2011, said Monte
Paschi may have a “gigantic” trading position that might be
larger than Long-Term Capital Management’s value-at-risk when
the hedge fund failed in 1998, according to the filing.  The Bank of Italy spotted accounting irregularities that
allowed Monte Paschi to mask losses more than two years before
the lender was forced to say it will have to restate profit. In
2010, “a problem came to light” on Monte Paschi’s booking of the
Santorini deal, the regulator said in a Jan. 28 report. The Bank
of Italy alerted “other authorities” a year later and talks with
those regulators, which it didn’t identify, haven’t concluded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  