-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Falls; North Sea Pricing Set to Change
-- B y   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2013-02-19T12:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/top-oil-market-news-wti-falls-north-sea-pricing-set-to-change.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Drops a Second Day; BofA Sees Brent Capped at $140 This Year  West Texas Intermediate fell, extending the biggest drop in
two weeks, while Brent was little changed. The North Sea crude
may be capped at $140 a barrel this year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  North Sea Crude Benchmark Change Gains Momentum on Platts (2)  Liquidity in North Sea benchmark Dated Brent crude is set
to be boosted after Platts, a global pricing agency, announced
changes in conjunction with an earlier modification by Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  March Fuel Oil Shipments to Asia Increase to 3.2 Million Tons  Fuel oil shipments to Asia rose, with 3.2 million metric
tons scheduled to arrive in March from Western countries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan’s CPC Seeks Low-Sulfur Crude Cargoes for April Loading  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, issued a tender
to buy low-sulfur crude for loading in April or delivery in May,
according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Energy Market May Benefit from EU FTA, Morgan Stanley Says  A free trade agreement with the European Union could have a
“significant impact” on U.S. energy markets, Morgan Stanley
says in e-mailed report.  Brent Crude Capped at $140 This Year, $175 in 2017, BofA Says  The upper limit for Brent crude will rise from $140 a
barrel this year to $175 in 2017 because of constraints on
supply, Bank of America Corp. estimates.
OPEC  OPEC Seen Cutting by Morgan Stanley as Tanker Charters Slump (2)  OPEC may be extending the longest stretch of output cuts
since the 2009 global recession as fewer oil tankers are booked
to ship Middle East crude to Asia, according to Morgan Stanley.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Lukoil to Halt Petrotel Refinery in Romania for Maintenance  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, will halt
its Petrotel refinery in Romania from Feb. 20 until April 12 for
maintenance works, the company’s local unit Petrotel-Lukoil SA
said in an e-mail today.  Motiva Norco Refinery Shuts Unit on Over Pressuring: NRC Filing  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut a unit at its Norco refinery in
Louisiana due to over-pressuring in a system, according to a
filing with the U.S. National Response Center.  Sinopec to Shut Jinan Oil Refinery for Maintenance in March  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. plans to shut its Jinan
oil refinery in Shandong province for about two months starting
in March, Zhang Mingsheng, a company spokesman, said by phone.  CPC Plans to Restart No. 5 Kaohsiung Cracker Today After Outage  CPC Corp., Taiwan’s state-run oil refiner, plans to restart
the No. 5 naphtha cracker in Kaohsiung after it was shut
yesterday because of a fault in power supply equipment,
according to a company official.  PBF Delaware City Refinery Reports Flaring, Emissions Release  Refinery released 672 pounds of sulfur dioxide during
flaring today, according to release with Delaware regulators.  Flint Hills Corpus Christi Refinery Reports Leak From Exchanger  Flint Hills Corpus Christi refinery stopped a leak in an
exchanger shortly after it was detected Feb. 16, according to a
filing with Texas regulators.  Algeria’s Skikda Refinery to Resume Full Operations in March  Sonatrach’s Skikda oil refinery will resume full operations
in the first week of March, Abdelkader Benchouia, vice president
for downstream operations, says today in an interview in
Algiers.  Exxon Joliet Refinery Flares After Unit Shuts Down: NRC Filing  A unit at Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Joliet refinery in Illinois
shut down for unknown reasons, resulting in flaring, according
to a filing with the U.S. National Response Center.  China Teapot Oil Refinery Run Rates Fall to 39.8%, Oilchem Says  China’s smaller oil refineries in Shandong province reduce
their utilization rate to 39.8% of capacity on Feb. 7, industry
website Oilchem.net says on website Feb. 16.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Wind Blows German Power Swings to Five-Year High: Energy Markets  Germany is getting more power than ever before from sources
dependent on wind and sunshine, pushing short-term price swings
to the biggest in five years and boosting volume as utilities
increase trading.  China’s Shale Gas No Revolution as Price Imperils Output: Energy  China, consuming energy at the fastest pace among major
economies, has set ambitious targets to exploit its reservoirs
of shale gas, the same fuel the U.S. touts as the means to
energy independence. It won’t meet them.  Tudor Alumnus McMillan Said to Hire Lee for Investment Firm (3)  Andrew McMillan, who ran a commodity team at Tudor
Investment Corp., hired Singapore lawyer Amy Lee to help run the
investment firm he plans to start this year, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Coking Coal Contracts May Rise From Record Low, Survey Shows (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest exporter of
metallurgical coal, may get a 6 percent increase in quarterly
contract prices as steelmakers from China to Japan boost
purchases.  Carbon Market’s Fate in Europe Hangs on EU Vote to Fix Surplus  European Union lawmakers may determine the fate of the
world’s biggest carbon market when they vote today on a proposal
to cut a record surplus of emission permits that has pushed
prices to an all-time low.  Thousands March on White House to Protest Keystone XL Pipeline  Thousands of protesters marched to the White House
yesterday in opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline, which
environmental groups say would worsen the risks of climate
change by encouraging development of Alberta’s oil sands.  Argentina Heads for Solar Surge With Incentives, Domestic Credit  Argentina, which along with Venezuela has the least
renewable energy in Latin America, is set to expand solar
capacity as much as 35-fold as the government plans its first
incentives for individual projects.  Coking Coal Contracts Set to Rise From Record Low, Survey Shows  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest exporter of
metallurgical coal, may get a 6 percent increase in quarterly
contract prices as steelmakers from China to Japan boost
purchases.  BP Ready for Trial After Failing to Find ‘Reasonable’ Settlement  BP Plc will defend itself against claims over 2010’s Gulf
of Mexico oil spill at a trial next week after failing to reach
a settlement with the U.S. and individual states.  BMW Taps Wind to Guard Profits in Merkel’s Nuclear Switch: Cars  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG will harness winds whipping
across eastern Germany to secure power -- and defend profits --
as costs rise due to Germany’s 550 billion-euro ($740 billion)
shift away from nuclear energy.  Drax Gains to Four-Year High on Faster $1 Billion Biomass Plans  Drax Group Plc, operator of the U.K.’s largest coal-fired
power station, rose to a more than four-year high in London
trading after accelerating a 700 million-pound ($1 billion) plan
to convert the plant to biomass.  OTHER MARKETS  European Shares Gain After ZEW; Yen Strengthens, Metals Retreat  European shares rose for the first time in four days after
a report showed rising investor confidence in Germany. The yen
strengthened while Chinese shares retreated the most in a month
and industrial metals declined.  Yen Gains as Aso Rules Out Foreign Bond Purchases; Rand Slides  The yen strengthened for the first time in three days
against the dollar and euro as Japanese finance minister Taro
Aso said the government doesn’t intend to buy foreign bonds to
end deflation by weakening the currency.  Volatility Falls Most Since Depression as Stock Funds Gain (1)  Price swings in U.S. stocks are narrowing the most since
the Great Depression, a signal of reviving investor confidence
that’s fueling the bull market poised to enter its fifth year.  Tin Leads Drop in Metals on Concern About China Property Market  Tin reached a six-week low in London, leading industrial-
metals declines, on concerns demand in China may not be strong
enough as the government may introduce measures to curb property
prices.  E-Bike Boom Hits Lead on Chinese Recycled Batteries: Commodities  Recycled battery lead from electric bicycles is leaving
China, the world’s biggest consumer and producer of the metal,
with the largest glut in six years.  Hollande Calls for French Investors in Greece During Athens Trip  French President Francois Hollande called for investment in
Greece, seeking to promote growth in the first visit of a French
leader to Athens since the euro debt crisis began there more
than three years ago.  Monti Fights for Relevance as Italy Voters Eye Entertainers (1)  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, an economics professor
who has never won an election, says he’s aware of his handicap
in a campaign dominated by entertainers.  SPORTS  Jerry Buss, Lakers’ Owner for 10 NBA Championships, Dies at 80  Jerry Buss, whose Los Angeles Lakers teams won 10 National
Basketball Association championships during an ownership that
spanned more than three decades, died yesterday at the age of
80.  Patrick Remains Daytona 500 Longshot Even With Pole Position  Danica Patrick remains a longshot to win the Daytona 500,
according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, even after becoming the first
female to earn the pole position in the 55-year history of
Nascar’s season-opening race.  Buccaneers’ Bowers Is Found With Gun in Luggage at N.Y. Airport  Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive end Da’Quan Bowers was
charged with two counts of criminal possession of a weapon after
authorities found he had a handgun in his suitcase at New York’s
LaGuardia Airport.  NBA Union Must Focus on Goals for Hunter Successor, Tellem Says  National Basketball Association players, who three days ago
fired the leader of their union, need to pinpoint what they want
from the next executive director before selecting that person,
agent Arn Tellem said.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)         95.40  -0.46  -0.5  Nymex    March
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)      117.33  -0.05   0.0    ICE    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         1,001.00  -0.75  -0.1    ICE    April
Gasoline (c/Gal)         314.58  +1.13  +0.4  Nymex    March
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)      3.19  +0.04  +1.3  Nymex    March
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)      118.38  -0.25  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil              320.29  -0.75  -0.2  Nymex    March
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.66    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,609.50  -1.6
MSCI World Index     1,411.14  +0.2
Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raj Rajendran in London at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  