-- Orban May Expand Hungary Rate-Setter Body, Citigroup Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-19T10:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/orban-may-expand-hungary-rate-setter-body-citigroup-says.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will probably expand the central bank’s rate-setting
Monetary Council as the board prepares to channel cheap loans
into the recession-hit economy after a new Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president is selected, Citigroup Inc. said.  Orban may expand the Monetary Council to nine members from
the current seven, including by adding a third vice president,
Citigroup’s Budapest-based economist  Eszter Gargyan  said in
research note today after meeting government officials and
monetary policy makers last week.  “Market consensus” shows Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
remains the favorite to succeed central bank President  Andras Simor , whose six-year term ends March 3, Gargyan said. Matolcsy
headed Hungary’s self-described unorthodox policies, such as
pension-fund nationalization and industry tax increases, and
pledged a “strategic alliance” between the government and the
new central bank leadership.  Changes on the Monetary Council “will likely deliver
changes to policy that may be key drivers to local asset
prices,” Gargyan said.  The MNB’s new leadership may focus on channeling “cheap,
below market-rate funding” into the economy via state-owned or
state-controlled banks after six consecutive quarter-point rate
cuts to 5.5 percent failed to boost lending, she said.  While policy makers may trim the European Union’s highest
 benchmark rate  to as low as 4.5 percent if market conditions
remain supportive, quantitative easing could limit the central
bank’s rate-cut room, Gargyan said.  ‘Conservative Side’  Monetary Council members “stand on the conservative side
about lowering foreign-currency reserves at a faster pace than
the reduction in the countries’ external debt falling due, and
they do not seem to agree with any form of monetary financing
apart from major market disruptions,” Gargyan said.  Orban, who faces re-election in the second quarter of 2014,
is under pressure to kick-start growth after narrowing the
budget gap to less than 3 percent of output in 2012 at the cost
of driving the economy into its second recession in four years.  Hungary may exit the excessive-deficit procedure in
December, lifting the threat of EU funding cuts, Gargyan said,
though this is unlikely to lead to a “major loosening” of the
budget before elections. The government may present additional
budget steps before April 15 to push the deficit below 3 percent
of GDP this year and in 2014, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  