-- Orix to Buy Rabobank Asset-Management Unit for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-02-19T14:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/orix-to-buy-rabobank-asset-manager-robeco-for-1-94-billion-euros.html
Orix Corp. , a Japanese owner of
leasing and insurance businesses, agreed to buy control of
 Rabobank Groep ’s asset-management unit for 1.94 billion euros
($2.6 billion) in its largest-ever acquisition.  The Japanese company will purchase a 90 percent stake in
Robeco Groep NV, gaining a Dutch mutual-fund brand that dates to
1929 and Chicago-based Harbor Capital Advisors. Rabobank, the
biggest Dutch savings bank and mortgage lender, will retain 10
percent of Robeco and receive as much as 150 million euros of
Orix shares, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.  Orix , which also manages Japan’s Buffaloes baseball team,
will take control of an asset manager with growing earnings and
189 billion euros of assets as of the end of last year. The
company is buying financial businesses to boost its capital and
expand in faster-growing markets abroad, while Rabobank is
shedding units to help strengthen its finances amid slowing
asset growth and competition for deposits in the Netherlands.  “We should be able to go for another sizable deal in the
coming year,” Chief Executive Officer  Yoshihiko Miyauchi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the announcement. Miyauchi said he
expects to see opportunities in Southeast Asia and South
America, where the company opened a Brazilian unit to seek
acquisitions in September.  Profit Growth  The purchase is the largest overseas acquisition announced
by a Japanese company since mobile-phone operator Softbank Corp.
said it would pay $20.1 billion for control of Sprint Nextel
Corp. on Oct. 15.  The deal was announced after Tokyo trading ended for the
day. Shares of Orix, which was established in 1964,  rose  0.2
percent to 10,330 yen, taking their gains for the past year to
32 percent. Rabobank, a Utrecht-based cooperative made up of
independent lenders, isn’t publicly traded.  Rabobank has owned Robeco since 2001. The unit has about
1,500 employees in 15 countries, according to  its website , and
reported full-year profit of 197 million euros for 2012, up from
134 million euros in 2011. Among its divisions, Harbor Capital
had about 45 billion euros in assets at the end of 2011, while
Rotterdam-based fund manager Transtrend had assets of about 7
billion euros.  Biggest Deal  Orix’s previous biggest purchase was the 50-billion-yen
($540 million) acquisition of U.S. investment bank Houlihan
Lokey Howard & Zukin in 2006.  Seeking to insulate themselves from an anemic domestic
economy, Japanese companies struck a record $105 billion of
overseas acquisitions last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Ambitious CEOs including Orix’s Miyauchi are driving the
spending, said  Nobuo Sayama , a managing director at mergers
adviser GCA Savvian Group Co.  “Big deals need decisive leaders,” Sayama said in an
interview last week. “That may accelerate Japan’s M&A momentum
this year, possibly exceeding 2012’s deal count.”  Orix’s revenue increased 12 percent to 783 billion yen in
the nine months ended Dec. 31. Net income climbed 35 percent to
90.1 billion yen, propelled by higher profits from real estate,
insurance and mortgages, according to a filing with the  Tokyo
Stock Exchange  in January.  The extra yield investors demand to own Orix’s $750 million
bonds due 2015 rather than Treasuries dropped 4.9 basis points
to 151.8 basis points at 5:34 p.m. in Tokyo, according to BNP
Paribas SA prices. Orix’s credit-default swaps, the cost to
insure debt against non-payment,  rose  one basis point to 119.5,
according to data provider CMA.  Rabobank Capital  Rabobank is selling assets as it seeks to meet a target for
its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, of 14 percent in 2016, higher than required by
regulators. The ratio stood at 12.7 percent at the end of June.
The company’s profit fell 29 percent in the first half of last
year on bad loans to the Dutch construction, retail, property
and horticulture industries.  The sale of Robeco is expected to boost Rabobank’s core
Tier 1 ratio by 70 basis points, Chief Financial Officer  Bert Bruggink  told reporters on a conference call today. A basis
point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  “This looks like a good price, even when taking into
account the rally in shares of asset managers in the last
months,” said  Jan Willem Weidema , an Amsterdam-based analyst at
ABN Amro Bank NV. “The resulting book gain should provide an
decent uplift in Rabobank’s core Tier 1 ratio.”  Among publicly traded European asset managers, shares of
 Henderson Group Plc  have rallied 23 percent so far this year,
while  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc  has gained 18 percent.  Rabobank announced it was reviewing options for Robeco last
April. In July, it sold a controlling stake in Bank Sarasin &
Cie., a Swiss private bank, for more than 1 billion Swiss francs
($1.1 billion) to Safra Group.  The need to own an asset-management firm has diminished as
Rabobank’s local lenders increasingly sell funds from other
companies, Bruggink said.  Orix was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., it said in
today’s statement. Rabobank and Robeco were advised by Barclays
Plc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  