-- Osiris Rises on European Stem-Cell Drug Title Decision
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-19T21:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/osiris-rises-on-european-stem-cell-drug-title-decision.html
Osiris Therapeutics Inc.  rose the
most in eight months after European regulators transferred the
orphan drug title for a stem cell therapy to the company, making
it easier to seek a buyer or partner for the treatment.  Osiris gained 9 percent to $7.65 at the close in New York,
its biggest intraday jump since June. The European Medicines
Agency made the title transfer for the intravenous treatment
Prochymal, which treats a disease that attacks bone marrow-
transplant recipients, Columbia, Maryland-based Osiris said in a
statement today.  The orphan designation provides 10 years of market
exclusivity if the medicine is approved, and the simplifying of
who holds the title “clears the way for a transaction” should
Osiris opt to sell Prochymal to another company, said  Edward Tenthoff , a senior analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York.  “They’ve started to get approvals for Prochymal,” said
Tenthoff, who has a neutral rating on the stock. “There’s a way
for them to monetize that.”  Tenthoff said Osiris’s former partner,  Sanofi ’s Genzyme
unit, probably held Prochymal’s orphan drug title before. Osiris
didn’t name the previous title holder in its statement.  Osiris had declined 22 percent this year through Feb. 15.
An orphan drug typically targets rare diseases and is intended
for a small number of patients with few treatment options.  Patent Challenge  Prochymal is the world’s first approved drug with a stem
cell as its active ingredient, Osiris said.  Osiris said in a separate statement it won a patent
challenge in Australia. Prochymal is approved in New Zealand and
Canada to treat children with acute graft versus host disease, a
bone marrow transplant complication that kills as many as 80
percent of children affected. It’s the first drug approved to
treat the disease, the company said.  The drug is available in seven other countries, including
the U.S., under an expanded access program, Osiris said. Such
programs make investigational drugs available to treat patients
with serious conditions or diseases who cannot participate in a
controlled clinical trial.  The company hasn’t sought a U.S. Biologics License
Application approval yet, which may be what has weighed on the
stock this year, Tenthoff said.  Prochymal is being tested for refractory Crohn’s disease
and acute myocardial infarction, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  