-- U.K. Stocks Advance to Five-Year High on German Data
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-19T16:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/most-u-k-stocks-advance-stanchart-gains-vodafone-falls.html
U.K. stocks  rose, with the FTSE 100
Index advancing to its highest level since January 2008, as a
report showed that German economic sentiment improved more than
forecast in February.  Standard Chartered Plc jumped to the highest price since
December 2010 as Morgan Stanley recommended investors buy the
stock. Drax Group Plc surged to a four-year high. Vodafone
dropped 2 percent after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. downgraded
the shares. InterContinental Hotels Group Plc fell the most in
almost four months after reporting earnings.  The  FTSE 100  gained 1 percent to 6,379.07 at the close in
London. The benchmark gauge has rallied 8.2 percent so far this
year as U.S. lawmakers reached a budget compromise. The measure
is also heading for its ninth monthly increase, its longest
winning streak since 1997. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also
rose 1 percent today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.6 percent.  The German data “confirms again that the outlook for
Europe is slowly but surely improving,”  Adrian van Tiggelen ,
The Hague-based chief equity strategist at ING Investment
Management, which oversees 183 billion euros ($244 billion),
told Guy Johnson on Bloomberg TV. “Germany is picking up, the
rest of Europe is still weakish, but equity investors see
sufficient positive news worldwide to remain positive.”  German  investor confidence  jumped more than economists
forecast in February to the highest since April 2010, data
showed. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, climbed to 48.2 this month from 31.5 in January.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a gain to 35.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered gained 2.4 percent to 1,771 pence.
Morgan Stanley upgraded its rating on the stock to overweight,
similar to a buy recommendation, from equal weight. Analysts led
by  Anil Agarwal  cited an improving outlook for its Asian
business. A gauge of London-listed lenders added 0.5 percent.  Drax Group , which operates the U.K.’s largest coal-fired
power station, jumped 6.1 percent to 641.5 pence, its highest
price since November 2008. Drax said it is speeding up the
plant’s conversion to fire biomass and will switch on the first
unit in April, rather than June as previously planned.  Vodafone Group Plc slid 3.3 pence to 163.5 pence after
Bernstein cut its rating for the world’s second-largest wireless
carrier to underperform from market perform, signaling investors
should sell the shares. Vodafone’s European assets, which
account for about 40 percent of the group operating profit, may
shrink by 23 percent in the next three years, Bernstein said.  Wireless Decline  “As neither the lowest-cost provider nor a differentiated
operator, Vodafone seems destined to decline with the wireless-
only segment,” analysts including  John Keith  said in a note.  InterContinental Hotels lost 1.8 percent to 1,953 pence
after Investec Plc cut its recommendation for the stock to hold
from buy. The world’s largest provider of hotel rooms said its
2012 operating profit excluding exceptional items rose 10
percent. The shares have still gained 14 percent this year.  “There’s a degree of indigestion after a very strong run
in the share price,”  James Bevan , chief investment officer at
CCLA Investment Management Ltd., which holds shares of
InterContinental Hotels, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg TV.
“The market is saying the valuation is now rich, maybe we
should take some chips off the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  