-- Pakistan Orders Security Operation Amid Outrage Over Bombing
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-02-19T18:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/pakistan-orders-security-operation-amid-outrage-over-bombing-3-.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Raja Pervez Ashraf  ordered an immediate and targeted security
operation in the southwestern city of Quetta after a weekend
bombing killed 84 members of the Shiite Muslim minority.  The offensive will be “aimed at eliminating those
responsible for playing with lives of innocent civilians and
restoring peace and security in Quetta,” Shafqat Jalil,
Ashraf’s press secretary, said in a statement in Islamabad.
Jalil didn’t say whether the operation would be led by
paramilitary police or the army.  Thousands of Shiites, including women and children, spent
the night in near freezing temperatures by the corpses of those
killed on Feb. 16, as anger over the sectarian attacks triggered
protests in other cities across Pakistan.  Shiite leaders asked relatives sitting alongside coffins at
the site of the blast in the capital of Baluchistan province to
end their protest and bury the dead after successful
negotiations with a government team in Quetta today.  The relatives refused to carry out burials until the army
was deployed to stem the carnage against the ethnic Hazara
community, which straddles the Pakistan-Afghan border. A bombing
in the city killed at least 96 people a month ago and forced the
dismissal of the provincial administration.  Ongoing Protest  “The protest is continuing until the demand of the
relatives is met,” Muhammad Amin Shaheedi, deputy secretary
general of the Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen Pakistan, a Shiite
umbrella group, said on the phone from Quetta. “We support
their demand and will stand with them until they are comfortable
to leave.”  Shaheedi had earlier appealed to the protesters to call off
the strike. Protests continued today after an agreement was
reached between the representatives of the affected families and
the government, with people in the eastern city of Lahore
occupying a portion of the airport, causing disturbance to
passengers, Geo television reported.  Shiites make up about 15 percent of Pakistan’s population
of 200 million people and are considered heretics by extreme
groups among the Sunni majority due to differences in religious
doctrine dating back to near the beginnings of Islam.  Security forces killed four “wanted persons” and arrested
170 suspects in connection with the latest bombing in raids that
began overnight, Information Minister Qamar Zaman Kaira, who led
the government team, told reporters. He gave no details.  Sunni Militants  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, or the Army of Jhang, a Sunni militant
group named after a city in Punjab province, is among those to
have claimed previous assaults on Shiites. While Lashkar’s
violence is driven by the historic schism that ruptured Islam
centuries ago, the Hazaras’ opposition to Sunni-led Taliban
movements in the region may help single them out as a target,
said  Hasan-Askari Rizvi , a Lahore-based political analyst.  A separatist insurgency in Baluchistan means law and order
is weak, making it “relatively easy for extremist groups such
as LeJ to function there,” Rizvi said.  Political and religious parties held protests in major
cities, including Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and the capital
Islamabad. In Karachi, the commercial capital, sit-ins blocked
two main highways, trains and flights were disrupted and markets
closed in support of the protests. The area around Bilawal
House, President  Asif Ali Zardari ’s personal home, has been
fortified with shipping containers as has the official residence
of the chief minister of Sindh province, whose biggest city is
Karachi.  Terrorist Group  The U.S. State Department in 2003 listed LeJ as a terrorist
group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda and was involved with the
2002 kidnapping and murder of Wall Street Journal correspondent
 Daniel Pearl  in Pakistan.  At least 225 people were injured in the Feb. 16 bombing in
which police said 800 kilograms (1,760 pounds) to 1,000
kilograms of explosives were used to target a congested
commercial neighborhood. Among the dead were 17 children and two
teachers who were at school near the explosion, the ARY channel
said. As many as 22 women were killed, the Geo television
channel said.  At least 400 Shiites died from violence in 2012 in
Pakistan, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. More
than 120 were killed in Baluchistan, most of them Hazara.
Baluchistan, a region rich in natural resources including gas
assets, is also roiled by a separatist insurgency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  