-- Pakistan Orders Security Operation Amid Outrage Over Bombing
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-02-19T08:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/pakistan-orders-security-operation-amid-outrage-over-bombing-1-.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Raja Pervez Ashraf  ordered an immediate and targeted security
operation in the southwestern city of Quetta after a weekend
bombing killed 84 members of the Shiite Muslim minority.  The offensive will be “aimed at eliminating those
responsible for playing with lives of innocent civilians and
restoring peace and security in Quetta,” Shafqat Jalil,
Ashraf’s press secretary, said in a statement in Islamabad.  Jalil didn’t say whether the operation would be led by
paramilitary police or the army. The announcement came as
thousands of Shiites, including women and children, spent the
night surrounding the corpses of those killed Feb. 16 and as
anger over the sectarian attacks sparked protests in other
cities nationwide.  Relatives sat alongside coffins at the site of the blast in
the capital of Baluchistan province as temperatures hovered
around freezing point, refusing to bury victims of the latest
massacre of Shiites until the army is deployed to stem the
carnage. A bombing in the city killed at least 96 people a month
ago and forced the dismissal of the provincial administration.  “We will continue our protest till our demand for an army
takeover is met,” Muhammad Amin Shaheedi, deputy secretary
general of the Majlis Wahdat-e-Muslimeen Pakistan, said from
Quetta before the prime minister made his statement. “It’s been
three days of waiting with our dead.”  Shiites make up about 15 percent of the nation’s population
of 200 million people and are considered heretics by extreme
groups among the Sunni majority due to differences in religious
doctrine dating back to near the beginnings of Islam.  Hazara Target  A parliamentary delegation was set to meet Shiite leaders
in Quetta, who say paramilitary police deployed in sensitive
neighborhoods have failed to prevent attacks on the ethnic
Hazara community, which straddles the Pakistan-Afghan border.  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, or the Army of Jhang, a Sunni militant
group named after a city in Punjab province, has among others
claimed previous assaults on Shiites. While Lashkar’s violence
is driven by the historic schism that ruptured Islam centuries
ago, the Hazaras’ opposition to Sunni-led Taliban movements in
the region may help single them out as a target, said  Hasan- Askari Rizvi , a Lahore-based political analyst.  A separatist insurgency in Baluchistan means “law and
order” is weak, Rizvi said, making it “relatively easy for
extremist groups such as LeJ to function there.”  Karachi Shuts  Political and religious parties held protests in major
cities, including Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and the capital
Islamabad. In the commercial capital of Karachi, sit-ins blocked
two main highways. Trains and flights were disrupted and markets
closed in support of the protests. The area around Bilawal
House, President  Asif Ali Zardari ’s personal home, has been
fortified with shipping containers as has the official residence
of the chief minister of Sindh province.  The U.S. State Department in 2003 listed LeJ as a terrorist
group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda and was involved with the
2002 kidnapping and murder of Wall Street Journal correspondent
 Daniel Pearl  in Pakistan.  At least 225 people were injured in the Feb. 16 bombing in
which police said 800-1,000 kg of explosives were used to target
a congested commercial neighborhood. Among the dead were 17
children and two teachers who were at school near the explosion,
the ARY channel said. As many as 22 women were killed, the Geo
television channel said.  At least 400 Shiites died from violence in 2012 in
Pakistan, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. More
than 120 were killed in Baluchistan, most of them Hazara.
Baluchistan, a region rich in natural resources including gas
assets, is also roiled by a separatist insurgency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  