-- U.S. Reviewing Whether SEAL Divulged Secret Raid Details
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-19T21:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/pentagon-reviews-if-navy-seal-disclosed-classified-raid-detail.html
The Pentagon is reviewing whether a
retired Navy SEAL who claims to have killed al-Qaeda leader
 Osama bin Laden  disclosed classified details of the May 2011
raid that led to his death, according to a spokesman.  Esquire magazine and the Center for Investigative Reporting
published an  article  this month titled “The Shooter. The Man
Who Killed Osama bin Laden...Is Screwed.”  “We are taking a look at this article to see if any
classified information got spilled out,” spokesman Army
Lieutenant Colonel Steve Warren told reporters today.  In addition to providing what are said to be details of the
raid, the report also outlines health insurance benefit issues
the SEAL said he is encountering with the Department of Veterans
Affairs since retiring from the Navy after 16 years of service.
The SEAL wasn’t named.  The Pentagon review marks the second time in less than a
year a commando from the bin Laden operation has been
investigated for the possible disclosure of classified details
on the raid.  The Pentagon’s chief spokesman in September said a book
written by a former Navy SEAL who participated in the raid
contained classified information and violated non-disclosure
agreements. The Pentagon has yet to take legal action against
the author, Matt Bissonnette.  No Comment  The Center for Investigative Reporting has no comment on
the Pentagon review, executive director Robert Rosenthal said in
an e-mailed statement.  Asked how the center and magazine verified the SEAL was the
raider who actually fired the fatal shots, Rosenthal said the
story resulted from “a full year of in-depth reporting and
sourcing, which gives us great confidence that the shooter’s
account of the final minutes of bin Laden’s life is accurate.”  “Out of concern for the safety of our sources, and based
on our pre-publication agreements with them, we are not at
liberty to go into any more detail than that contained in the
story and related material, such as the web videos of
conversations with” the author, Phil Bronstein, he said.  U.S. Special Operations Command spokesman Colonel Tim Nye
said in an e-mailed statement that “prior to publication
neither the Center for Investigative Reporting nor Esquire
vetted the ‘Shooter’” article with the command or with “any of
our components.”  Naval Special Warfare Command spokesman Captain William
Fenick also said the news organizations did not contact his
organization to check on the SEAL’s credentials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  