-- Peru’s Sol Falls as Government Boosts Efforts to Offset Inflows
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-02-19T20:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/peru-s-sol-falls-as-government-boosts-efforts-to-offset-inflows.html
Peru’s sol touched the lowest level
in two weeks after the government said it’s ready to boost
dollar purchases to weaken Latin America’s best-performing
currency of the past year.  The sol dropped 0.2 percent to 2.5820 per U.S. dollar at
today’s close, extending its decline this year to 1.2 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier fell to
2.5850, the weakest intraday level since Feb. 1.  Finance Minister  Miguel Castilla  said yesterday the
government may expand a plan to sell soles to buy $4 billion in
the foreign exchange market. The sol advanced 5.4 percent last
year, the fastest pace since 2009, even after the central bank
bought a record $13.9 billion to offset inflows amid increased
demand for the government’s local currency bonds.  The authorities are “trying to remove the market’s one-
sided bets” against the dollar, said  Alejandro Cuadrado , the
head of Latin American currency strategy at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA in New York. “The more they can keep investors on
the sidelines, the more effective the policy can be.”  The sol’s 3.9 percent gain in the past year is the
strongest among the six most-traded Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Most of the dollars flowing into Peru’s $200 billion
economy stem from long-term investment projects and financing,
and the government is more concerned about short-term flows
causing “accelerated appreciation” in the sol, Castilla told
reporters yesterday.  The finance ministry will use $1.8 billion of the dollars
it buys to prepay multilateral loans, $1 billion to service debt
and $1.2 billion to boost the government’s contingency fund, he
said.  Castilla said the ministry decided against issuing bonds to
finance debt servicing this year and will draw on tax revenue
instead. The government doesn’t plan to buy back dollar-
denominated bonds because prices are too high, he said.  The central bank said on its website it bought $10 million
today. It’s bought $3.3 billion this year, boosting Peru’s
international reserves to a record $67.6 billion.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.75 percent at 2:30 p.m. in Lima,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price climbed
0.11 centimo to 126.34 centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  