-- Pimco Says Misguided Market Underestimates RBA: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-19T01:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/pimco-says-misguided-market-underestimates-rba-australia-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
says Australian debt markets are misguided to bet the central
bank is almost done cutting interest rates, as the economy will
struggle to cope as a resource investment boom fades.  “The big economic uncertainty arrives when the economy
transitions from an investment destination to a production and
export engine,” said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of
portfolio management at Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest
bond fund. “This transition will not be smooth.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will lower
the overnight cash rate target to 2.75 percent from 3 percent by
Dec. 31, according to the median forecast of 29 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Traders expect 31 basis points of
cuts over 12 months, down from 56 basis points seen on Jan. 28,
a Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows.  Pimco is investing in longer-dated swaps, state government
bonds and high-quality corporate notes as markets, which had
priced in an “unrealistic series” of rate cuts, are now
probably not pricing in enough, said Mead. The fund manager,
which oversees $2 trillion worldwide, expects the Australian
economy to struggle toward the end of 2013 and early next year
as growth moderates in China, the nation’s largest trading
partner. The RBA predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about
2.5 percent on Feb. 8, slowing from 3.5 percent last year.  Mining investment will likely peak this year and at a lower
level than previously expected, RBA Assistant Governor
Christopher Kent said Feb. 15. Chinese demand for commodities
will grow “strongly” for some time though at a slower pace, he
said.  Mining Transition  “We estimate transition somewhere between fourth quarter
2013 and second quarter 2014, depending on projects being on
time et cetera, so the growth uncertainty will increase over
this period and the market will start to anticipate this
uncertainty well in advance,” Mead said in response to e-mailed
questions.  The extra yield 10-year  swap rates  offer over similar-
maturity government debt was 52 basis points, compared with a 26
basis-point gap for three-year securities, Bloomberg data show.
Pimco isn’t buying Australian sovereign debt, Mead said.  “The offshore bid for Australian assets was predominantly
in Commonwealth Government bonds, so they became relatively
expensive versus other, high-quality alternatives,” he said.
“We are focused on the carry benefit of these assets in what we
expect to be a fairly benign credit market for high quality
borrowers,” Mead said with regard to swaps, state government
and corporate notes.  Smallest Declines  Australian sovereign bonds fell 0.9 percent this year, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That is the smallest loss
among the eight nations that hold a stable AAA rating from all
three of Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s. Securities issued by Australian states and territories
declined 0.4 percent while corporate bonds have returned 0.3
percent, according to Merrill Lynch data.  Australia’s economic prospects remain dependent on mining
with the RBA yet to see significant impact from its efforts to
spur household and corporate spending through 1.75 percentage
points of interest-rate cuts since November 2011.  Retail sales  declined in the final three months of 2012,
the longest stretch in 13 years, and home-loan and building
approvals fell in December. A gauge of manufacturing weakened to
a 3 1/2-year low in January and services contracted for a 12th
month, Australian Industry Group reports showed.  Growth Slowing  Consumers remain cautious as the nation’s employers reduced
 full-time positions  for a third month in January, the longest
period of cuts since 2009.  “The Australian economy continues to slow and we believe
Chinese growth will also moderate into the second half of
2013,” Mead said.  Australian growth will be about one percentage point slower
this year, according to RBA forecasts, the biggest decline among
Group of 10 currency nations after Japan. The world’s third-
largest economy will expand 0.9 percent this year, compared with
1.98 percent in 2012, while Chinese growth will quicken to 8.15
percent from 7.8 percent in the previous year, Bloomberg surveys
show.  RBA Minutes  There are indications that lower rates are starting to spur
the economy, the RBA said, according to minutes of its February
meeting released today. It reiterated that tame prices provide
scope to ease further if needed.  The central bank said its reductions have “brought the
average interest rate on outstanding housing loans to well below
its longer-run average and only a little above its 2009 low.”
Rates on small and large business loans were also close to their
2009 lows, it said.  A sentiment index for February jumped 7.7 percent to 108.3,
a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey taken
Feb. 4-8 of 1,200 adults showed last week. That was the
strongest reading since December 2010 and the fourth-straight
figure above the 100 level that indicates optimists outnumber
pessimists.  Rate Increase  “This adds further weight to our view that the soft patch
in the Australian economy may now be behind us,”  Paul Bloxham ,
chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA
official, wrote in a research report on Feb. 13. “We maintain
our non-consensus view that the RBA’s easing phase is done.”  Bloxham is the only economist among 29 polled by Bloomberg
this month to predict a rate increase this year.  Prospects for slower growth have led analysts to predict
Australia will be the only major developed economy where
 benchmark 10-year yields  will remain little changed by the end
of this year at 3.55 percent, from 3.59 percent today. Rates
will climb 31 basis points for Treasuries, 27 basis points for
bunds and 37 basis points for Japanese bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  gap  between Australian and U.S. 10-year yields narrowed
to 1.58 percentage points from an almost four-month high of 1.67
on Dec. 14. It will end the year at 1.23 percentage points,
should the consensus forecasts prove accurate.  Real Yields  “With the mining investment cycle passing its peak, plus
the elevated Australian dollar, there remains a limit in terms
of how high Australian yields can go, especially given the
retracement we have seen since fourth-quarter 2012,” Mead said.
“The starting level of real yields and the economic
fundamentals will eventually lead to outperformance of
Australian bonds versus other developed markets.”  The Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded currency,
declined 0.6 percent this year to $1.0329 as of 12:47 p.m. in
Sydney.  The gap between rates on Australian government bonds and
inflation-linked debt shows traders expect a 2.76 percent annual
advance in consumer prices over the next decade.  Governor Stevens left the nation’s benchmark rate unchanged
on Feb. 5 and said the inflation outlook created room to “ease
policy further.” Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the
year to June 2013, down from a previous forecast for 3.25
percent, the central bank said Feb. 8. Policy makers aim for
underlying average inflation of 2 to 3 percent a year.  “The RBA has not finished their cycle, unless of course we
see a significant drop in the Australian dollar or an
abandonment of fiscal discipline,” Mead said. 