-- Police Dog Alert Justifies Search of Car, High Court Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-19T16:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/police-dog-alert-justifies-search-of-car-high-court-says.html
Police officers can search someone’s
car after a trained dog outside the vehicle alerts to the
presence of drugs, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a victory for
law enforcement.  Dogs that have successfully completed a training program
are typically reliable enough to provide the legal basis for a
full-scale car search, Justice  Elena Kagan  wrote for a unanimous
court. She said criminal defendants would have the right to
challenge a particular dog’s reliability.  Police have “a strong incentive to use effective training
and certification programs, because only accurate drug-detection
dogs enable officers to locate contraband without incurring
unnecessary risks or wasting limited time and resources,” Kagan
wrote.  The ruling comes in one of two Florida dog-sniff cases
before the justices. The court will rule later this year on the
second case, concerning whether police can constitutionally
bring a dog to the door of a house in the hope the animal might
detect narcotics. Both cases concern the Fourth Amendment ban on
unreasonable searches.  In a separate decision today, a divided court limited the
authority of police officers who have a warrant to search a home
or other location. Previous Supreme Court cases have said that
officers executing a warrant can also search anyone found on the
premises.  Divided Court  In today’s 6-3 ruling, the court said police in Wyandanch,
New York, went too far after they followed two men who had just
left an apartment that officers were preparing to search.
Officers stopped the men, frisked them and discovered that one
carried a key to the apartment. The search team at the apartment
had already found a gun and illicit drugs.  The case produced an unusual lineup. Justice  Anthony Kennedy , a Republican appointee, wrote the court’s majority
opinion. Justice  Stephen Breyer , nominated by a Democratic
president, joined  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito , appointed by
Republicans, in dissenting.  The Florida vehicle case involved the use of a trained dog
after a police officer stopped Clayton Harris for driving his
pickup truck with an expired license plate. After the dog, named
Aldo, gave an alert at the driver’s-side door handle, the
officer concluded that he had the legal right to search the
truck.  The search produced ingredients for making methamphetamine,
and Harris later admitted that he had purchased the items to
make the drug. The Florida Supreme Court struck down Harris’s
conviction, saying the government didn’t do enough to show that
the dog could reliably detect illegal drugs.  The cases are Florida v. Harris, 11-817, and Bailey v.
United States, 11-770.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  