-- Polish Industry Unexpectedly Expands, Backing Rate-Cut Calls
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-02-19T13:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/polish-industry-unexpectedly-expands-backing-rate-cut-calls-1-.html
Polish  industrial output 
unepxectedly rose in January, adding to arguments for the
central bank to continue cutting interest rates.  Production rose 0.3 percent in January from a year earlier
after decreasing 10.6 percent in December, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The median estimate of
26 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3 percent
contraction. Output rose 5.4 percent from the previous month.  The central bank is maintaining its easing bias, meaning a
fifth straight quarter-point cut or unchanged rates are
“equally probably” when the Monetary Policy Council meets next
month, Governor  Marek Belka  said Feb. 6. While policy maker  Adam Glapinski  called last week to halt the rate cuts, today’s
better-than-forecast data will probably lead to an interest-rate
reduction next month, according to  Bank Pekao SA .  “The underlying situation in industry is more or less
stable,”  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank Pekao, said by
phone yesterday. “The Monetary Policy Council will cut in March
because the data are weak and there’s still work to be done as
they started too late and haven’t cut enough so far.”  The zloty traded at 4.1673 per euro at 2:13 p.m. in Warsaw
from 4.1865 yesterday. It has strengthened 3.3 percent in the
past three months, the sixth-best performance among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Euro Crisis  Poland relies on the euro area, whose recession deepened in
the fourth quarter, to buy more than half of its exports.
Economic growth in the European Union’s biggest eastern economy
slowed to 2 percent last year from 4.3 percent in 2011.  The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski in May became the
only EU central bank to raise interest rates last year. It began
its monetary easing cycle in November, a year after the European
Central Bank.  Corporate employment  fell 0.8 percent on the year in
January, the biggest drop since Feb. 2010, the statistics office
said yesterday. Average wages grew 0.4 percent on the year in
January, the weakest nominal increase since May 2003, it said in
a separate release yesterday.  Producer prices  fell 1.2 percent in January from a year
earlier, the statistics office said today in a separate report.
That compared with a median estimate for a 1.1 percent decline
in a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists. Producer prices rose 0.1
percent from December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  