-- Pratt Stays in Market for Biggest Jet Engines
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-19T18:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/pratt-stays-in-market-for-biggest-jet-engines.html
United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt &
Whitney unit said it remains committed to developing a version
of its newest engine for wide-body jets even after opting not to
compete on  Boeing Co. ’s latest 777 model.  While Pratt & Whitney skips the so-called 777X to focus on
outfitting single-aisle planes, building a geared turbofan
engine to go on some of the industry’s largest aircraft remains
a priority, Vice President Bob Saia said in an interview.  “One should not walk away saying Pratt has focused on
being only a single-aisle manufacturer,” said Saia, who
oversees Pratt & Whitney’s next-generation products. “We are
heavily investing in technology for the wide-body thrust class
and we continue to be very positive on taking a geared turbofan
architecture up to 100,000 pounds of thrust.”  Such an engine would need to be as much as eight times more
powerful than the Pratt & Whitney units producing 13,000 pounds
of thrust to be used on  Embraer SA ’s revamped regional jets.
 General Electric Co .’s GE90 is the world’s biggest commercial
jet engine, with as much as 115,000 pounds of thrust.  Pratt & Whitney is the world’s second-largest maker of
aircraft engines by sales, after GE and ahead of  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc . The East Hartford, Connecticut-based company
hasn’t introduced a new engine design for wide-body jets since
the PW4000, which entered service in 1987 and is used on some
Boeing 747s and 767s and Airbus SAS A330s. Wide-body planes are
typically used for long-haul international flights.  Different Speeds  The geared turbofan engine uses a gearbox to let the fan in
front and turbine in the rear spin at different speeds, which
the company says boosts fuel efficiency and cuts noise. Embraer
chose the engines last month over GE and Rolls-Royce offerings
to upgrade its E-Jets family.  Different versions of the engine will also power planes
under development at Japan’s  Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. , Canada’s
 Bombardier Inc . and Russia’s  Irkut Corp . The most powerful
current version will be used by Airbus’s A320neo and Irkut’s
MS-21, providing up to 33,000 pounds of thrust.  Boeing hasn’t decided to go ahead with an overhauled
version of the 777. The current version of the plane uses the
GE90, which is 135 inches (343 centimeters) in diameter.  “The decision that we made on the 777X is that it didn’t
meet our base criteria for us to be able to go forward and be
able to submit a proposal,” Saia said. “That’s not to say that
if something changed, or if another wide-body application were
to come up with the right timing, that Pratt would take the same
position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 