-- Qatar Holding to Seek Credit Rating, Didn’t Have Debt Last Year
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-02-19T18:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/qatar-holding-to-seek-credit-rating-didn-t-have-debt-last-year.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the foreign
investment arm of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, plans to
seek a credit rating from Standard & Poor’s and  Moody’s Corp  in
the “next few months” and had zero corporate debt on its
balance sheet at the end of last year, the fund’s chief
executive officer said.  “We have never been highly leveraged,” Ahmad Mohamed 
Al-Sayed, the fund’s chief executive officer, said in a phone
interview with reporters. “In 2012, the balance sheet had zero
corporate debt.”  Qatar Holdings only had project finance debt for real
estate investments, Al Sayed said. He declined to comment on the
balance sheet for 2010 or 2011.  U.K. regulators are looking into allegations  Barclays Plc 
lent Qatar cash to invest in the bank’s own shares during the
financial crisis in 2008, the Financial Times reported Feb. 1,
citing two people familiar with the matter it didn’t identify.
Qatar Holding does “few deals” without a loan to pay for
acquisitions, the  FT reported Feb. 10 , citing bankers it didn’t
identify who are familiar with the fund’s operations.  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, invests petroleum revenues in companies around the world to
diversify the economy.  Qatar Holding earned a 17 percent return on its investments
last year, Hussain Al Abdulla, a board member for the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, the Qatar Investment Authority, said
today. The fund owns stakes in companies including Barclays Plc,
Volkswagen AG, Xstrata Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG. The fund
bought Harrods Department Store Co in London in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  