-- Qatar Sets Up $12 Billion Fund for Distressed Foreign Assets
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-19T18:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/qatar-starts-12-billion-fund-to-buy-distressed-assets-overseas.html
Qatar, home to the world’s third-
largest gas reserves, said it’s creating a $12 billion
investment fund to buy distressed assets overseas and will seek
to sell shares in the new entity to investors within weeks.  Qatar Holding LLC, a unit of the Persian Gulf emirate’s
sovereign-wealth fund, will contribute $3 billion from its
assets to the new company, called Doha Global Investment. The
new fund will seek to raise $3 billion in a share sale to Qatari
nationals,  Aladdin Hangari , head of adviser Credit Suisse Group
AG in Qatar, said in Doha today. The aim is for the initial
public offering to happen in May or June,  Ahmad Mohamed Al-Sayed , 
Qatar Holding’s chief executive officer, said in a telephone 
interview with reporters.  “The main purpose of this company is to bring the Qatari
private sector the opportunity to enjoy the access that Qatar
Holding has,” Al Sayed said.  The Persian Gulf nation is snapping up assets across the
globe as it seeks to reduce its energy dependency. Qatar Holding
agreed with Credit Suisse in November to form asset manager
Aventicum Capital Management to boost investments in emerging
markets. The joint venture, overseen by Hangari, will operate
out of two hubs including a Doha-based unit focused on the
Middle East, Turkey and other emerging markets. The Zurich-based
bank is helping Qatar set up the new fund.  Range of Assets  The new company is being created “basically to allow the
private sector to participate in interesting investment
opportunities across the world,” Hangari said. “Its
independent and makes its own decisions. It doesn’t have to
follow Qatar Holding. Qatar Holding can show it opportunities
but the company will decide to invest or not to invest.”  The fund will invest in a range of assets including real
estate, bonds and equities and pay a dividend of at least 5
percent in its first year,  Hussain Al Abdulla , board member at
the sovereign wealth fund, the Qatar Investment Authority, said
at a press conference today.  The management of the company will be decided at a later
date, Al Sayed said in today’s phone call. While the public
offering will only be open to Qataris, Al Sayed said he didn’t
yet know if foreign investors would be allowed to invest in the
company later on the secondary market.  ‘Flexing Muscles’  “Qatar is increasingly flexing its muscles both in the
region and on the global stage,” Gus Chehayeb, research
director for the Middle East and North Africa at Exotix Ltd,
said today in e-mailed comments. The fund’s creation is “in
line with the country’s strategy of diversifying its assets from
energy and the Middle East, while at the same time extending its
influence and brand,” he said.  The fund is being created as economic growth picks up after
much of Europe fell into a recession last year and the Chinese
economy advanced at its slowest pace since 1999, according to
 International Monetary Fund data . World economic growth will be
4.1 percent this year, up from 3.6 percent last year, according
to the IMF.  Economic expansion and high oil prices are driving
prosperity in the Middle East, boosting demand for wealth and
asset management services.  Qatar Economy  Qatar’s economy, which has the highest per capita income in
the world, advanced at rates of more than 10 percent from 2009
to 2011 as it expanded liquefied gas exports, according to IMF
data. Growth slowed after the country started its 14th and final
gas liquefaction plant in 2011, with the economy set to expand
4.8 percent this year, down from 6.3 percent in 2012, according
to the country’s General Secretariat for Development Planning.  Qatar Holding, the foreign investment arm of the Qatar
Investment Authority, earned a 17 percent return on its
investments last year, Al Abdullah said today. The fund owns
stakes in companies including  Barclays P lc,  Volkswagen AG ,
 Xstrata Plc  and Credit Suisse. The fund bought Harrods
Department Store Co in London in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  