-- Transocean $1 Billion Gulf Oil-Spill Settlement Approved
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-19T19:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/transocean-1-billion-gulf-oil-spill-settlement-approved.html
Transocean Ltd.  won court approval
of its $1 billion settlement with the U.S. of pollution claims
stemming from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil-rig explosion that
triggered the biggest U.S. offshore spill.  Transocean said last month that it would pay $1.4 billion,
including a $400 million criminal penalty, to settle federal
claims it violated the U.S. Clean Water Act. U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is overseeing lawsuits stemming
from the spill, approved the $1 billion civil portion today.  A nonjury trial over fault for the disaster is scheduled to
begin in federal court in New Orleans Feb. 25. Barbier will also
determine whether any of the companies involved in drilling the
well acted with gross negligence or reckless indifference.  Transocean was the owner and operator of the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig, which burned and sank in April 2010 after  BP
Plc ’s Macondo well exploded. The U.S. sued Vernier, Switzerland-
based Transocean in 2010, alleging violations of pollution law.
Under an agreement with the U.S., Transocean must establish a
technology innovation group to focus on drilling safety,
devoting at least $10 million to the effort.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits
against BP, Transocean and Halliburton Co., which provided
cementing services for the project.  Guilty Plea  Transocean also agreed to plead guilty to one misdemeanor
count of violating the Clean Water Act and consented to pay
$400 million in criminal penalties. U.S. District Judge  Jane Triche Milazzo  last week gave final approval to the plea at a
hearing in federal court in New Orleans.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 charges, including 12 felonies,
agreeing to pay $4 billion in criminal fines and penalties, as
well as $525 million to settle a Securities and Exchange
Commission claim that it underestimated the size of the spill.
Civil U.S. pollution-law claims against London-based BP haven’t
been settled.  BP reached a settlement with most non-government plaintiffs
in March, agreeing to pay an estimated $8.5 billion.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Inc., 13-cr-001,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  