-- RBA Saw Signs Lower Rates Are Working, Retains Scope to Ease
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-19T03:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/rba-saw-signs-lower-rates-are-working-retains-scope-to-ease-1-.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia said
there are indications that lower  interest rates  are starting to
spur the economy and reiterated that tame prices provide scope
to ease further if needed.  “Interest rate sensitive parts of the economy had shown
some signs of responding to these lower rates, which were well
below their longer-run averages, and further effects could be
expected over time,”  minutes  of the Feb. 5 meeting released
today in Sydney showed. The inflation outlook gives “scope to
ease policy further, should that be necessary,” it said.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board, who kept the
benchmark rate unchanged this month, noted that the local
currency’s strength doesn’t reflect the significant decline in
the nation’s  terms of trade . At 3 percent, the overnight cash
rate target matches the level reached from April-October 2009
that was the lowest since 1960, as the central bank seeks to
spur industries outside mining to compensate for an expected
peak in resource investment this year.  “Thanks to inflation remaining well-contained, the RBA
will ease further if domestic-demand doesn’t keep improving,”
said  Katrina Ell , an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.
“But we are near the end of the easing cycle.”  The outlook for Australia’s biggest trading partner has
brightened, the RBA said today. China’s economy grew 7.9 percent
in the final three months of 2012 from the same period a year
earlier, halting a seven-quarter deceleration. The World Bank
forecasts economic growth will quicken to 8.4 percent this year,
more than four times the pace of the U.S.  China’s Economy  “A wide range of indicators showed that growth in the
Chinese economy had stabilized, underpinned by public spending
and somewhat stimulatory financial policies,” the RBA said.
“There had also been indicators of stronger growth of domestic
demand” in east Asia, excluding Japan, the minutes showed.  The Australian dollar bought $1.0317 as of 2:42 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0314 just before the minutes were released and
$1.0306 yesterday in New York. Traders are pricing in a 32
percent chance the central bank will lower borrowing costs by a
quarter percentage point to a record 2.75 percent next month,
according to interest-rate swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBA said that the international outlook had improved as
the U.S. managed a fiscal deal to avert tax increases and
spending cuts. Since the RBA’s December meeting, global economic
conditions had been “a little more positive and the downside
risks had abated somewhat.”  2009 Lows  The central bank today said its rate reductions have
“brought the average interest rate on outstanding housing loans
to well below its longer-run average and only a little above its
2009 low.” Rates on small and large business loans were also
close to their 2009 lows, it said.  Stevens is aiming to rebalance the two-speed economy, where
mining regions in the north and west thrive while manufacturers,
builders and retailers in the south and east struggle. The local
dollar’s 62 percent climb in the past four years has hurt
exporters, forcing them and other companies to adapt.  “More timely information pointed to growth in economic
activity having picked up in the December quarter, with a
significant contribution coming from exports,” the central bank
said. “On the other hand, housing finance remained relatively
subdued, and indicators suggested that non-mining business
investment would continue to be weak in the near-term.”  Australian  house prices  rose last quarter by the most since
June 2010 as lower rates lured buyers back into the market. The
nation’s benchmark stock index climbed 4.9 percent last month.  Growth Forecast  The RBA this month reduced its economic growth and
inflation forecasts as investment outside the mining industry
remains elusive, the labor market softens and the high local
currency contains prices.  In its quarterly statement released Feb. 8, the RBA
predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about 2.5 percent,
compared with around 2.75 percent forecast in November. Consumer
prices will rise 3 percent in the year to June 2013, compared
with the 3.25 percent increase it had forecast three months
earlier, the central bank said then.  “The slightly softer outlook for economic activity overall
was expected to affect the labor market,” the RBA said.
“Employment growth was forecast to remain modest over the
course of the next year, before rising gradually towards the end
of the forecast period.”  Weaker Retail  Since the RBA’s latest meeting, a government report showed
 retail sales  unexpectedly fell for a third month in December,
the longest stretch of declines in 13 years. A Feb. 7 report
showed employers added part-time jobs in January and fewer
people hunted for work, helping keep the unemployment rate
unchanged at 5.4 percent.  Prices of  iron ore , the nation’s most valuable commodity
export, have rebounded since reaching a three-year low on Sept.
5 after China announced spending on new subways and roads.  “Iron ore prices had run well ahead of Chinese steel
prices in recent months and it was widely expected that iron ore
prices would not be sustained at these high levels,” the RBA
said.  The RBA’s next scheduled meeting is on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  