-- Reyal Urbis Seeks Protection From Creditors Owed $4.8 Bln
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-02-19T10:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/reyal-urbis-seeks-protection-from-creditors-owed-4-8-bln.html
Reyal Urbis SA , a Spanish developer
struggling to cope with 3.6 billion euros ($4.8 billion) of
debt, sought protection from creditors in the second-largest
such filing ever in Spain.  “Reyal Urbis informed the regulator that it requested
protection from creditors after failing to reach a refinancing
agreement with lenders,” the company said today in an e-mailed
statement. The Madrid-based company said it will continue
operating and it’s confident of reaching a restructuring accord
based on the “goodwill” of its creditors.  Spanish real estate companies borrowed to buy competitors
during a decade-long property boom and then struggled to meet
sales targets when the market collapsed.  Martinsa-Fadesa SA 
sought protection from creditors in 2009 with 7.3 billion euros
in liabilities in Spain’s biggest filing. Reyal Urbis
renegotiated 4.6 billion euros of loans in 2010 and has been
trying to complete a second round of refinancing.  The company’s lenders include  Banco Santander SA , Banco
Popular SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Sareb, Spain’s so-called bad bank.  “After various debt restructurings the company has lost
the support of its banks,” said  Juan Jose Fernandez Figares ,
chief analyst at Link Securities in Madrid. “Weak residential
real estate demand, the fact that banks are now the main home
sellers in Spain and the creation of the bad bank are all
factors working against traditional real estate companies.”  Third-Quarter Loss  The company’s third-quarter net loss widened to 257 million
euros from 136.6 million euros a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing in September. Net debt was 3.6 billion euros
and total assets were valued at 4.19 billion euros at the end of
June, the company said today in the e-mailed statement.  More than half of Spain’s 67,000 developers can be
considered “zombies” that are kept propped up by creditors
unwilling to realize losses, real estate consulting firm R.R. de
Acuna & Asociados said in May. They have combined debt of 180
billion euros that will lead to 104 billion euros of losses that
hasn’t been fully provisioned for, Acuna estimates.  Reyal Urbis was suspended by Spain’s stock-market regulator
today before the market opened. The shares, which traded as high
as 10.99 euros in 2007, closed yesterday at 12 cents, giving the
company a market value of 36.2 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew
Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  