-- Rio’s $3 Billion Mozambique Coal Bid Held Up by Transport
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-20T05:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/rio-s-3-billion-mozambique-coal-bid-runs-off-the-rails-freight.html
Rio Tinto Group ’s foray into
Mozambique, which cost the world’s No. 2 mining company $3
billion, has highlighted a lack of rail and port capacity that
threatens to check a coal boom in the southeast African nation.  Rio bought coal producer  Riversdale Mining Ltd.  for A$3.9
billion ($4 billion) in 2011 to access some of the world’s best
untapped coking coal, in the Moatize basin in Mozambique’s
northwest Tete province. Now Rio is writing the value down by 70
percent and a person familiar with the matter says the London-
based company is considering selling them.  While finding coal in Mozambique has been a cinch,
exporting it hasn’t. Rio’s plans have been stymied by the
government’s refusal to allow it to barge coal down the Zambezi
River and by the cost of accessing or building rail lines to a
port on the east coast. The bottlenecks may scupper Mozambique’s
bid to become one of the world’s top five coking coal producers
and expand a mining industry that currently accounts for less
than 5 percent of gross domestic product.  “We see a lot of problems now with the big players who are
putting big money into Mozambique,”  Peter Major , head of mining
at Cape Town-based Cadiz Corporate Solutions, said in a Feb. 6
interview. “There are stockpiles of coal and they can’t get it
onto trains. Even if the trains get the coal to the port, the
port can’t handle it.”  Mozambique, which began commercial coal production in 2010,
boosted output to about 5 million metric tons last year from
600,000 tons in 2011, according to the International Monetary
Fund. About 280 million tons of coking coal, used in
steelmaking, are traded annually on the seaborne market.  Top Exporter  The  price  of the fuel has dropped 30 percent since the
start of last year to trade at $165 a ton Feb. 18. Mozambique
mostly produces coking coal, while thermal coal is used in power
plants.  “If they don’t resolve their transport problems and the
new supply is delayed, that could be supportive of prices,”
Bloomberg Industries analyst  Andrew Cosgrove  said in a phone
interview from Princeton, New Jersey. Mozambique has the
potential to become the world’s fifth-biggest exporter if it can
boost output to more than 20 million tons, he said.  Mozambique, which is bigger in size than France, has a
2,470-kilometer (1,535-mile) coastline, three major ports --
Nacala, Beira and Maputo -- and 4,787 kilometers of rail lines,
according to the CIA World Factbook. Much of the transport
system is in disrepair, a legacy of a 15-year-civil war that
ended in 1992.  Infrastructure Constraint  “Our main constraint is infrastructure,” Mineral
Resources Minister  Esperanca Bias  told a conference in Cape Town
on Feb. 6. “We have the resources but my problem is how to put
these resources into the market.” Mozambique has issued about
100 exploration licenses and is targeting coal output of 100
million tons by 2020, she said.  Rio started exports from its Benga mine in June using the
Sena rail line and Beira port, which currently limits its
shipments to 2 million tons annually. It planned to boost supply
to about 12 million tons by barging coal down the Zambezi and
transferring it to larger vessels offshore, while considering a
new rail line for larger-scale exports. The government rejected
the barging proposal in March last year.  Rio declined 1.6 percent to A$69.39 at the close of trading
in Sydney today. The key S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent.  Bias said the government had refused Rio permission because
the river wasn’t navigable. In a Jan. 17 stock-exchange filing,
Rio said the development of a transport system to export coal
had proved “more challenging” than anticipated and it is
working with the government to resolve the issue.  Not Navigable?  “Various studies have been done about the navigability of
the Zambezi river,” Bias told reporters. “The studies done
don’t recommend that the river be navigated. There are other
alternatives that should be explored. The alternative that’s
most efficient is rail.”  The impasse and a reduction in estimates of recoverable
coking coal prompted Rio to write down its assets and
contributed to the departures of Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  and strategy chief  Doug Ritchie , who led the
acquisition.  “Our priority now is to find a suitable infrastructure
solution through discussions with the government so that we can
move forward with the development of this asset,”  Alan Davies ,
CEO of Rio’s diamonds and minerals unit, told the Cape Town
conference on Feb. 5.  Rio hasn’t set a timetable for the review of its assets and
may sell all or part of them, according to the person familiar
with the matter, who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Vale Spending  Rival  Vale SA  is spending $4.4 billion on rail and port
facilities in Mozambique to export coal from its Moatize mine,
having exhausted existing capacity.  The government wants Rio to partner with Vale in extending
and upgrading a 912-kilometer rail line from Tete through Malawi
to the Nacala port. The line could add 11 million tons to coal
shipping capacity by mid-2016 and is expected to reach full
capacity of 18 million tons by 2017, according to the IMF.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, which has been operating in
Mozambique since 2004, currently exports 4.5 million tons of
coal a year using the Sena line and the Beira port,  Rafael Benke , head of corporate affairs, told the conference. It’s
spending $2 billion on a second phase of its Moatize mine that
will double capacity.  The IMF expects transport bottlenecks to ease as new rail
capacity comes on line, and projects coal production will reach
9 million tons this year. That should help boost economic growth
in Mozambique to 8.4 percent from about 7.5 percent last year,
the Washington-based lender said in a Jan. 3 report.  “Mozambique is rich in coal and they don’t need too many
of those projects to come on line to really benefit the
country,” Cadiz’s Major said. The big coal mines will ramp up
production “but it’s probably going to be at half the rate and
take double the time that we were all thinking three years
ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net 
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  