-- Robot Surgery for Hysterectomy Doesn’t Give More Benefit
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-02-20T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/robot-surgery-for-hysterectomy-doesn-t-give-more-benefit.html
Surgery to remove the uterus with a
$1.45 million robot from  Intuitive Surgical Inc.  costs thousands
of dollars more without reducing complications compared with
standard less-invasive surgery, a study found.  Researchers examined data from 264,758 women who had a
hysterectomy for benign conditions such as fibroids at 441 U.S.
hospitals from 2007 to 2010. The robot operations cost hospitals
$2,189 more per procedure than performing the same surgery
without the robot, according to the study released yesterday in
the  Journal of the American Medical Association.   The research illustrates how the adoption of expensive
medical technology can outpace data proving its benefits, said
 Jason Wright , a gynecologic oncologist at Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons and the study’s lead author.
Robot operations rose to 9.5 percent of hysterectomies in 2010
from 0.5 percent in 2007, the data showed. Yet there are few
large studies charting the benefits over conventional less
invasive operations, he said.  “The major concern is that the robotic procedure really
didn’t show a lower complication rate yet it was substantially
more expensive,” Wright said. Why the robot took off so fast
“is the million dollar question.”  With standard minimally invasive surgery, called
laparoscopy, surgeons manipulate instruments through several
tiny incisions in the abdomen while looking inside the patient
through a camera called a laparoscope.  Finer Control  Robotic surgery is similar, except that the surgeon sits at
a  console  a few feet away and maneuvers robotic arms while
looking into a high-definition display. Unlike the standard
equipment, the robotic instruments have wrists, potentially
enabling finer control and movement.  Hysterectomy is one of the most common operations, with
about 600,000 performed in the U.S. annually, mostly for benign
conditions, Wright said.  The study found complication rates were 5.5 percent for
robotic hysterectomy and 5.3 percent for laparoscopic surgery, a
difference that wasn’t statistically significant.  The costs of robot operations were higher even when the
fixed price of buying the robot was excluded, Wright said. How
hospitals make back the extra cost is unclear as most insurers
don’t pay a higher rate for robot operations, he said.  The study found one clear benefit: as use of the robot
increased, there was a decrease in the percentage of women who
received a traditional “open” hysterectomy, in which the
uterus is removed through a large incision in the abdomen.  Hospital Competition  Hospitals without a robot may have increased their use of
minimally invasive operations to compete with hospitals that had
a robot, Wright said.  “The message I get from this paper is with the advent of
robotics you are seeing more patients being done minimally
invasively and that is good,” said  Myriam Curet , chief medical
adviser for Sunnyvale, California-based Intuitive Surgical, said
in a telephone interview. “Robotics is clearly allowing more
patients to have a minimally invasive surgery.”  She said the Columbia cost analysis was limited because it
didn’t look at potential longer-term benefits of robot surgery,
such as whether it helps women recover and get back to work
sooner. The study also didn’t examine whether minimally invasive
surgeons need to convert less often to open surgeries when they
use the robot, as Intuitive’s analysis indicates, she said.  Different Uses  The robot was cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in 2000 and became popular among urologists
performing prostate cancer surgery, where minimally invasive
methods had been uncommon. The robot was approved for
gynecologic procedures in 2005.  For hysterectomies, multiple types of minimally invasive
surgery have been available for years, Wright said. In addition
to laparoscopic hysterectomy, doctors often can remove the
uterus through the vagina, the least invasive method, he said.  “Patients need to be aware there are a lot of different
options for hysterectomy,” Wright said. More studies need to be
performed to understand whether there are certain subgroups of
women who clearly benefit from using the robot over other
minimally invasive options.  Mario Leitao, a gynecologic oncologist at  Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center  in New York who uses the robot, said the
study results won’t change how often he uses the device.  “It is like asking a jet fighter pilot to go back to a
World War II airplane because it is cheaper,” said Leitao, who
has consulted for Intuitive. “The robot is here to stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  