-- Royal Phone Hoax Costs Southern Cross Media A$3.6 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-19T06:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/royal-phone-hoax-blamed-for-southern-cross-8-9-revenue-decline.html
Southern Cross Media Group Ltd. ,
owner of the Sydney radio station that made a hoax call to a
London hospital about the Duchess of Cambridge, said fallout
from the incident has cost it A$3.6 million ($3.7 million).  Advertising was pulled from 2Day FM after the nurse who
answered the phone was found dead, cutting A$2.2 million from
revenue, while the broadcaster set aside A$1.4 million for legal
costs and compensation, Chief Executive Officer  Rhys Holleran 
said on an investor call today.  Southern Cross suspended advertising on the station in
December after two presenters phoned a London hospital seeking
details about Kate Middleton, who had been admitted for acute
morning sickness. Jacintha Saldanha, who put the call through to
a duty nurse on Middleton’s ward, apparently hung herself and
left three suicide notes after the incident, the Guardian
newspaper  reported  Dec. 13, citing testimony at an inquest.  “We have had one of the most difficult 12 months in our
history,” Holleran said in a statement today.  Southern Cross  shares  rose 9.8 percent to A$1.35 at the
close in Sydney, the sharpest rise in 16 months, after the
Melbourne-based company said it expects full-year net income to
be between A$90 million and A$95 million, beating analyst
estimates of A$90 million for the period.  “On-air incidents” were responsible for an 8.9 percent
drop in trading revenue during the period, Holleran said in a
presentation accompanying the results, with radio advertising
revenue in Australia’s major cities down 7.5 percent during the
six months ended in December.  Telstra, Wesfarmers  Telstra Corp, Australia’s biggest phone company, and
Wesfarmers Ltd.’s Coles supermarket chain cut advertising on the
station, which has the largest share of audiences aged 25 to 39
years in Sydney.  Mel Greig and Michael Christian, the presenters who
impersonated Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles to ask
questions about Middleton’s health on the prank call, were
suspended from the station after the incident. Southern Cross
promised to dedicate remaining first-half profits from 2Day FM
to a fund nominated by Saldanha’s family.  Christian started presenting a new show at Southern Cross’s
Fox FM station in Melbourne  last week .  The fall in first half sales, the sharpest since the same
period of 2009, was also put down to declining audiences for the
programming of television station Ten Network Holdings Ltd.,
which it rebroadcasts in rural areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  