-- Russian Meteor Kicks Up Cloud of Mistrust
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-02-19T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/russian-meteor-kicks-up-cloud-of-mistrust.html
If I had to choose a single word to
describe the dominant attitude in Russian society, it would be
“mistrust.” The meteor, or possibly small asteroid, that
exploded over the Ural Mountains city of Chelyabinsk on Feb. 15
illustrated this as few other events could.  The world saw the meteor thanks to the dashboard cameras
that are so common in Russian cars. U.S. publications from the
 New Yorker  to  Wired  delighted in writing about the dash cam
phenomenon, unheard of in the U.S. or Europe. Russians use the
devices because they cannot trust police, judges, insurance
companies or witnesses in case of a fender bender. A camera
providing incontrovertible evidence pays for itself even if the
accident is relatively minor.  According  to the government-owned
newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta, in 2011 Russians bought 300,000
dash cams, and in 2012 the market probably more than doubled.  In the case of the meteor, however, the cameras were not
enough to overcome mistrust.  Liberal columnist Yulia Latynina was quick to publish a
 column  in Novaya Gazeta, strongly suggesting that the fiery
object in the sky was no celestial body but a misfired missile
from a nearby testing ground where a military exercise was
taking place. When the version failed to stand up, Latynina
asked Novaya Gazeta to remove the story from its site and issued
an  apology , admitting that the object was indeed a meteor.  “Paranoia tends to be logical, while life is not,” Latynina
explained.  Some remained unconvinced that no foul play was involved.
Former privatization minister  Alfred Kokh  wrote several status
updates on  Facebook  voicing suspicions of a cover-up. “Less than
24 hours after the fact nobody is searching for the object any
longer,” he wrote. “I don’t know about you, but I get the
feeling somebody is taking me for an idiot.”  At the other end of the political spectrum, ultra-
nationalist politician  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  suggested it was a
U.S. missile that blew up over Chelyabinsk, leaving about 3,000
buildings in the industrial city windowless, injuring about
1,000 people with flying glass and causing about $30 million
worth of damage.  “These are not meteors falling but Americans testing new
weapons,” Zhirinovsky said,  according  to the RIA Novosti news
agency. “Nothing in outer space just falls, it’s all done by
people, warmongers, provocateurs.” As with most of Zhirinovsky’s
outbursts, it was hard to tell how serious he was. Given many
Russians’ instinctive mistrust of Americans, the statement was
unlikely to lose him any votes.  Suspicions extended as far as the motives of victims in
Chelyabinsk. The state-controlled news agency RIA Novosti
 reported  that some were breaking their own windows, hoping to
take advantage of government aid. Regional governor Mikhail
Yurevich declared the report untrustworthy, a “canard.”  Even the agendas of astronomers could not be trusted. When
Lydia Rykhlova of the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Astronomy
Institute  announced  that Russia could protect itself from space
threats at a cost of 58 billion rubles, or almost $2 billion,
many commentators on social networks ridiculed the plan as a
device to steal taxpayers’ money.  “I am proud of Russia,” corruption-fighting blogger  Alexei Navalny   wrote  sarcastically. “It will be the first nation where
even a stone falling from the sky becomes the reason for a mega-
project aimed at stealing ten or twenty billion. Fix the roads
in Chelyabinsk instead: The pits in them cause more damage in a
year than 100 meteors.”  Why the trust deficit? Sociologist  Lev Gudkov  offered some
explanation in a scholarly  article . Trust is higher in societies
“with stable and open institutional systems,” and lower in
societies “with a high level of violence, aggression, an
authoritarian or totalitarian form of government.” In repressive
societies, “mistrust becomes an important strategic resource for
social survival, success and upward mobility.”  Gudkov cited research showing that in 2008, only 27 percent
of Russians agreed that people were generally to be trusted,
while 68 percent were in favor of caution. The situation was
reversed in Denmark, with 70 percent trusting and 29 percent not
so much. In the U.S., 42 percent trusted their fellow citizens
and 57 percent believed them relatively untrustworthy.  That said, maybe Americans should exercise some Russian-
style caution when it comes to the Chelyabinsk meteor. On eBay,
an American nicknamed ledlas is  asking  $999 for a brownish
stone, allegedly a piece of the Russian meteor. “My brother is a
news reporter in Russia. He managed to get one,” claims the
seller, who misspelled Chelyabinsk on the eBay page.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 