-- Russian Consumer Demand Probably Eased to 4.8% in January
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-19T10:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/russian-consumer-demand-probably-eased-to-4-8-in-january.html
Russian consumer demand probably
eased last month as inflation sapped household purchasing power.  Retail sales  advanced 4.8 percent in January compared with
a year earlier, slowing from 5 percent in December, according to
the median of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey . Real  wages 
rose 3.3 percent after the weakest increase in more than three
years a month earlier, a second survey showed. The Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow will publish the data after 4 p.m.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is counting on
the household spending that accounts for about half the economy
to maintain growth as Europe’s contraction hurts demand for
commodities. The government forecasts consumer-price growth will
accelerate again this month, threatening consumer optimism and
spending power and keeping pressure on the central bank not to
use lower borrowing costs to spur growth.  “We expect consumption to continue steadily trending
down,”  Elina Ribakova , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Moscow, said by e-mail. “In the first half of 2012, consumption
was boosted by pre-election spending, but since then growth has
been slowing.”  Carmakers including  Renault SA  are facing a slowdown in
demand in Russia, Europe’s No. 2 auto market after Germany.
 Carlsberg A/S , the Danish owner of Russia’s biggest brewer,
missed estimates for fourth-quarter earnings after the
government increased taxes and regulation on the industry,
including a ban on beer sales at kiosks from Jan. 1.  Weak Expansion  Gross domestic product grew 3.4 percent last year, the
weakest since a contraction in 2009. The pace probably slowed to
2.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg  survey .  That’s less than half the 5 percent pace Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  has said Russia will need to grow. The
government has called on Bank Rossii to lower borrowing costs as
investment falters, while monetary-policy makers including
central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexey Ulyukayev  have argued
that economic output is already near full potential.  Russia’s central bank may reduce interest rates once
inflation slows, though Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told reporters
last week he wouldn’t promise it.  Industrial output unexpectedly shrank in January for the
first time since 2009. The data on investment, retail sales and
wages will be “crucial” in determining whether the industrial
production figures were an anomaly,  Jacob Nell , chief economist
for Russia at Morgan Stanley in Moscow, said by e-mail.  Higher Investment  “Following Ignatiev’s words, rates can only come down when
inflation comes down, and inflation in February looks likely to
be higher than a year ago,” he said, adding that he expects no
rate change in March “unless there is a meltdown in growth.”  Fixed-capital investment  advanced 0.5 percent from a year
earlier after contracting 0.7 percent in December, according to
the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  The indicator is volatile in Russia because of swings in
spending by large state-run companies and the government itself,
 Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief economist at Moscow-based Otkritie
Financial Corp., said by phone.  “Given the investment growth of about 15 percent early
last year, there’s no reason to expect a big number in annual
terms now,” he said. “Most likely there will be stagnation,
and possibly even a drop after last year’s strong data.”  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned the Kremlin for a
third term last year, told the government to boost investment to
25 percent of GDP by 2015. The figure was 18 percent last year,
Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  said in an interview last week.  Jobless Jump  Unemployment probably climbed to 5.7 percent in January
from 5.3 percent a month earlier, according to another Bloomberg
survey. Disposable incomes probably grew 4.8 percent after a 4.9
percent advance in December.  “We are not expecting any positive turnaround soon because
of the higher base last year as well as the poor investment
climate,”  Juri Kren , an emerging-markets economist at
IDEAglobal in London, said by e-mail. “We do see the central
bank lowering all key interest rates by 25 basis points to
support growth and bowing to political pressure as soon as
inflation starts slowing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  