-- Russia Optimistic on Syrian Peace Talks Before Moscow Visit
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-19T14:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/russia-optimistic-on-syrian-peace-talks-before-moscow-visit-1-.html
Russia has “cautious optimism”
about the possibility of Syrian peace talks, Deputy Foreign
Minister  Gennady Gatilov  said, a week before a visit to Moscow
by the Middle Eastern country’s foreign minister.  “We hope that the opposition and the government will find
a way to sit down at the negotiating table,” Gatilov told
reporters in the Russian capital today. “A consolidated
position of outside powers” is among the conditions needed for
that to happen, he said.  Syrian Foreign Minister  Walid Al-Muallem  will meet his
Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov , on Feb. 25, in the first
such high-level meeting since opposition leader  Moaz al-Khatib 
reached out to President  Bashar al-Assad ’s allies Russia and
Iran by holding talks with foreign ministers of both countries
in Munich this month.  Al-Khatib, head of the main bloc of Syrian opposition
groups, will also travel to Moscow to discuss a solution to the
conflict that has wracked Syria for almost two years, though a
precise date hasn’t been fixed yet, according to Gatilov.  Assad has been fighting an insurgency that has left almost
70,000 people dead, according to the United Nations. The mainly
Sunni Syrian opposition, which had refused to negotiate with
Assad’s Alawite-led regime, is now considering dialog with the
authorities.  Assad’s government indicated last week that it’s ready to
meet with al-Khatib, who has called for talks to end the
violence.  Radicalized, Militarized  A UN panel found the conflict is becoming increasingly
sectarian, with both sides “significantly more radicalized and
militarized.” In its latest report, based on interviews with
445 people and released this week, the UN’s Independent
Commission of Inquiry on Syria said the human rights situation
has deteriorated since July amid an escalation in fighting.  Government forces and allied militiamen have committed
crimes against humanity, torture, rape, kidnappings, war crimes
and gross violations of human rights, the commission said. While
rebels have also committed war crimes including murder, torture
and hostage-taking, it said the government’s violations have
been worse.  Starting war-crime prosecutions in Syria would be neither
timely nor productive, Gatilov said. Proposals to ease the
European Union’s arms embargo against Syria to strengthen rebel
forces won’t contribute to a peaceful outcome, he said.  “The priority now is to end the violence, start a
political process and stabilize the situation in Syria,”
Gatilov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  