-- Russian Retail Sales Growth Eases to 35-Month Low
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-19T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/russian-retail-sales-growth-eases-to-35-month-low.html
Russian retail sales grew at the
slowest pace in almost three years in January as unemployment
surged and inflation sapped household purchasing power.  Retail sales  advanced 3.5 percent from a year earlier, down
from 5 percent in December, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said today. Economists forecast a 4.8 percent increase,
according to the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .
Unemployment jumped to 6 percent, the highest in 10 months, from
5.3 percent.  The world’s largest energy exporter is counting on the
household spending that accounts for about half the economy to
maintain growth as the euro area’s slump hurts demand for
commodities. The government forecasts inflation will accelerate
again this month, threatening consumer optimism and spending
power and keeping pressure on the central bank not to use lower
borrowing costs to spur growth.  “It further builds a case for more dovish central bank
stance,”  Dmitry Polevoy , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. However, “stubbornly
high headline inflation would still be a stumbling block on the
road to lower policy rates. So we keep a view of an on-hold
decision in the coming months with room for lower rates
appearing not earlier than in late second quarter.“  The Micex Index of 50 stocks rose for a second day to close
0.8 percent higher at 1,522.69 in Moscow. The ruble gained 0.1
percent to 30.1075 per dollar.  Weak Expansion  Carmakers including  Renault SA  are facing a slowdown in
demand in Russia, Europe’s No. 2 auto market after Germany.
 Carlsberg A/S , the Danish owner of Russia’s biggest brewer,
missed estimates for fourth-quarter earnings after the
government increased taxes and regulation on the industry,
including a ban on beer sales at kiosks from Jan. 1.  Gross domestic product grew 3.4 percent last year, the
weakest since a contraction in 2009. The pace probably slowed to
2.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg  survey .  That’s less than half the 5 percent pace Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  has said Russia will need to grow. The
government has called on Bank Rossii to lower borrowing costs as
investment falters, while monetary-policy makers including
central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexey Ulyukayev  have argued
that economic output is already near full potential.  Russia’s central bank may reduce interest rates once
inflation slows, though Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told reporters
last week he wouldn’t promise it.  Higher Investment  Industrial output unexpectedly shrank in January for the
first time since 2009. The data on investment, retail sales and
wages will be “crucial” in determining whether the industrial
production figures were an anomaly,  Jacob Nell , chief economist
for Russia at Morgan Stanley in Moscow, said by e-mail.  “Following Ignatiev’s words, rates can only come down when
inflation comes down, and inflation in February looks likely to
be higher than a year ago,” he said, adding that he predicts no
rate change in March “unless there is a meltdown in growth.”  Fixed-capital investment  advanced 1.1 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics service said. The median estimate of 19
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a gain of 0.5 percent.  Volatile Indicator  The indicator is volatile in Russia because of swings in
spending by large state-run companies and the government,
 Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief economist at Moscow-based Otkritie
Financial Corp., said by phone before today’s release.  “Given the investment growth of about 15 percent early
last year, there’s no reason to expect a big number in annual
terms now,” he said.  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the Kremlin for a
third term last year, told the government to boost investment to
25 percent of GDP by 2015. The figure was 18 percent last year,
Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  said in an interview last week.  Real wages grew faster than forecast, advancing 8 percent
compared with a year earlier. Economists polled by Bloomberg
projected a 3.3 percent gain. Real disposable incomes advanced
0.7 percent, missing the median estimate of 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  