-- Salt: Mineral of Tyrants, Explorers and Revolutionaries
-- B y   L e s l e y   J a c o b s   S o l m o n s o n
-- 2013-02-19T14:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/salt-mineral-of-tyrants-explorers-and-revolutionaries.html
Scientifically, salt is an innocuous
substance created when a sodium atom bonds with a chloride atom:
NaCl. This simple definition belies the influence of a mineral
that has substantially affected global economics, exploration
and politics for centuries.  Salt’s early use as a food preservative enabled the
establishment of humanity’s earliest trade routes, some of which
stretched across entire continents. As a result, salt quickly
became both a form of money and the basis of taxation. The
ancient Greeks used salt to buy slaves (and originated the
phrase “not worth his salt” to describe underperforming
chattel). The Romans used salt to pay soldiers their “salarium,”
resulting in our word “salary.”  The Chinese made the greatest use of salt in building their
economy. As far back as 2200 B.C., records suggest the emperor
Yu had established a tax on the mineral. In 300 B.C., the first
written text of a “salt administration,” the Guanzi, suggested
that fixing the price of salt would allow the government to
import and sell it at a profit. Salt taxes even contributed to
financing the Great Wall of China. A seventh-century B.C.
Chinese text aptly notes that “salt has the singularly important
power to maintain the basic economy of our state.”  ‘Vast Sum’  When  Marco Polo  of Venice (itself a city that drew its
wealth from the salt trade) traveled to China with his father
and uncle, he discovered that hardened cakes of salt stamped
with the likeness of the khan were used as money in Kain-du,
while salt provided a rich source of income in other provinces
and thus a reliable stream of revenue for the emperor.  With regard to the city of Kinsay and its environs,  Polo
said : “First there is the salt, which brings in a great revenue.
For it produces every year, in round numbers, fourscore tomans
of gold; and the toman is worth 70,000 saggi of gold, so that
the total value of the fourscore tomans will be five millions
and six hundred thousand saggi of gold, each saggio being worth
more than a gold florin or ducat; in sooth, a vast sum of
money!” Although many scholars have disputed that Polo actually
went to China, author Hans Ulrich Vogel argues in his book
“Marco Polo Was in China” that the explorer’s detailed accounts
of salt administration can be used to verify his travels there.  Europeans also made use of salt taxation. In 1259, the
French King Charles of Anjou issued a tax known as “la gabelle”
that equally taxed all citizens, rich and poor, for their salt
use. In his book “ Salt: A World History ,” Mark Kurlansky
describes industrious female smugglers who tried to avoid the
tax by creating “faux culs,” or “false rears,” in which to hide
salt, hoping they wouldn’t be searched in such an intimate area.  By the late 1700s, more than 3,000 French citizens had been
imprisoned for salt crimes. In 1789, the French people cried
foul over these and other injustices -- salt alone didn’t cause
the French Revolution, but it became a potent symbol of
government abuse.  Across the Atlantic, American colonists also recognized the
economic power of salt. When John Smith helped establish the
Jamestown settlement, in the Colony of  Virginia , he made certain
that salt works were in place to supply the settlers with the
ingredient needed to preserve cod and bring profit. Subsequent
settlements in New England and beyond relied heavily on the salt
trade, which raised a red flag for England, ever eager to keep
its colonies from seeking autonomy.  Desperate Shortages  During the American Revolution, British naval blockades
caused desperate salt shortages; worse, the British destroyed
American salt works. As a result, medical treatment was
compromised, gunpowder couldn’t be made and foods couldn’t be
preserved for travel. The soldiers suffered greatly.  After the war, Americans would often recall the dismal
effects of the salt shortage, which revisited them during the
War of 1812. Fears of future blockades were part of the impetus
for building the Erie Canal, which connected Lake Erie with the
Hudson River. Funded in large part by a 12 1/2 cents-per-bushel
salt tax, the canal became known as “the ditch that salt built,”
helping to make New York City the nation’s commercial capital.  The next time Americans fought over salt, however, it would
be with each other. As the Civil War broke out, President
 Abraham Lincoln  blockaded all Southern ports. With salt
production roughly one sixth that of the North, the Southern
states and their military struggled to make ends meet. The
critical battles in Saltville, Virginia, and the Northern
capture of the South’s crucial Florida salt works contributed to
the North’s victory four months later.  In 1930, the most memorable salt skirmish of modern times
occurred in India when a flat salt tax was levied against rich
and poor alike. The clear inequity of the act led  Mohandas Gandhi  to observe, “There is no article like salt, outside
water, by taxing which the state can reach even the starving
millions, the sick, the maimed and the utterly helpless. The tax
constitutes, therefore, the most inhuman poll tax that ingenuity
of man can devise.” In a nonviolent protest known as the Dandi
Salt March, Gandhi and his followers hiked to the Arabian Sea
where they boiled sea water to make their own salt. Gandhi’s
actions and the devotion of the people to his cause eventually
helped the country break free from British rule.  Gandhi was acting on an astute political insight that salt
offered more than monetary worth. Throughout human history, it
has translated into power and control.  ( Lesley Jacobs Solmonson  is the author of “Gin: A Global
History” and the co-founder of 12bottlebar.com. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Lesley Jacobs Solmonson at  ljsolmonson@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  