-- Santos Brasil Rally Defies Competition Threat: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-02-19T20:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/santos-brasil-rally-defies-competition-threat-corporate-brazil.html
Investors in Santos Brasil
Participacoes SA, Brazil’s biggest port operator, are shrugging
off concern a government push to boost competition will pare
profit margins that are twice the industry average.  The company has gained 5.2 percent since Brazil announced
Dec. 6 it would privatize terminals at 20 ports. That compares
with a 0.1 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa index and a
0.7 percent decline for Wilson Sons Ltd., Brazil’s only other
publicly traded operator. Santos Brasil slid 0.3 percent
yesterday to 31 reais as workers prepared a half-day strike over
the privatization. The stock closed unchanged at 31 reais today
in Sao Paulo.  Santos Brasil, which says it handles 20 percent of all
container shipments in and out of Brazil, will have an advantage
over rivals as President  Dilma Rousseff  makes an unprecedented
push to open the port industry to private investors, according
to  Henrique Kleine , an analyst at Magliano SA Corretora de
Cambio & Valores Mobiliarios. The government expects 54.2
billion reais ($27.6 billion) in port investments through 2017.  “Until the competition has the same scale, the same
technology, the same space, it will take time,” Kleine, who
rates the stock a buy, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Until this happens the preference for the market is who
is already working.”  Santos Port’s terminals will be among the first of 159
terminals slated for auction, the ports secretary said late
yesterday  in a statement  on its website.  Operating Profit  Santos Brasil, which runs more than half the terminals at
the publicly owned Santos Port about 80 kilometers (49 miles)
from Sao Paulo, earned $33 in  operating profit  for every $100 in
revenue in the 12 months through the third quarter. That’s about
twice the average 17 percent operating margin of 156 global
logistics peers with a market value above $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock trades at 14 times its estimated 2013 earnings,
less than the average of 21 for logistics companies worldwide.
Of the 16  analysts  who rate the company, eight say buy, seven
recommend holding and one rates it a sell.  Rousseff’s government last year pushed banks to cut rates
on loans, utilities to reduce power bills and phone companies to
charge less for wireless plans as she seeks to curtail inflation
and spur the economy. Santos Brasil plunged 14 percent in
September, its biggest monthly drop in a year, on concern the
plan to fuel competition and cut costs would be more severe.  Brazilian ports have some of the longest turnaround times
in the world, with shipping costs twice those of the U.S., said
 Sergio Mendes , head of the grain exporters’ association.  China, India Ports  China and India have invested billions of dollars expanding
and modernizing their ports, said Ed Sands, global practice
leader of logistics at Procurian, a procurement management firm
based in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.  “Brazil still today trails those competing economies,”
Sands said in a telephone interview. Brazilian ports rank 130th
out of 144 countries, according to the World Economic Forum.
“Having world class ports and channel depths is key to
success.”  Union workers at the Santos port will walk off the job for
six hours on Feb. 22, said  Paulo Pereira da Silva , federal
deputy and president of the Forca Sindical labor federation. A
work stoppage would cost Santos Brasil as much as 4 million
reais in lost revenue a day, said  Mauro Salgado , chief
commercial officer at Santos Brasil.  Government Concessions  Brazil’s government won’t accept changing rules that will
hurt the goal of introducing more port competition, Chief of
Staff Gleisi Hoffman said in a telephone interview on Feb. 14.
The ports special secretary for the president didn’t respond to
a telephone call or e-mail seeking comments yesterday.  The government “may make some concessions but they won’t
change the essence of what they are going to do,” said
 Jefferson Finch , an analyst at political risk consulting firm
Eurasia Group in New York. “Letting the infrastructure agenda
fail would be more detrimental to Dilma’s re-election chances
than labor in the ports.”  Santos Brasil will use ship workers to fill in for striking
stevedores if necessary, Salgado said in an interview in Sao
Paulo.  As the industry leader, Santos Brasil stands to lose the
most market share from government plans to privatize terminals
and ease bottlenecks that are stunting economic growth. Santos
Brasil’s contract for the port expires in 2022. There’s an
option to extend the concession for an additional 25 years.  Market Share  The plan “could lower prices and kill public ports and the
investments we made in those ports,” Salgado said, adding that
government regulations requiring public ports to hire only
unionized workers will put it at a disadvantage.  Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Company and AP Moeller
Maersk A/S, based in Copenhagen, are opening a terminal at
Santos Port this year, and are expected to take market share
from Santos Brasil,  Sami Karlik  and  Rodrigo Olivares , analysts
at Votorantim Corretora, said in a report late last year. They
estimated Santos Brasil’s 2014 volume could be 13 percent below
2013 figures. The Votorantim analysts didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  In the short term, the new framework isn’t likely to hurt
Santos Brasil, which has a head start over the competition, said
Magliano’s Kleine.  “They can start to take market share, but not
immediately,” he said. “For now, this advantage is still big
for Santos Brasil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  