-- HSBC to Sell Panama Unit to Bancolombia for $2.1 Billion
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/hsbc-to-sell-panama-unit-to-bancolombia-for-2-1-billion.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest
bank by market value, agreed to sell its Panama unit to
 Bancolombia SA  for $2.1 billion as Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  tries to revive profit by targeting fewer
markets.  The cash price for Panama’s second-biggest bank is three
times the unit’s net asset value of $700 million, HSBC said
yesterday in a statement. The London-based lender acquired most
of its Panamanian operations when it bought Grupo Banistmo SA
for $1.77 billion in 2006.  Gulliver , who became CEO in 2011, is focusing on Brazil,
Mexico and Argentina in Latin America as part of a strategy to
invest in economies where it has a greater market share as it
cuts costs and sells assets elsewhere. HSBC completed the sale
of its stake in Shenzhen, China-based Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co. this month for about $9.4 billion.  “The sale is in line with the declared strategy of the
bank of exiting non-core markets,” said Chirantan Barua, an
analyst at Bernstein Research in London.“The interesting
question for investors would be the use of the capital being
freed up around the world -- where does it get deployed and if
not, when does it return to shareholders?”  HSBC has announced 46 asset sales or closures since the
start of 2011, including operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador
and Honduras that it agreed to sell to Bogota-based Banco
Davivienda SA in January 2012. Gulliver pledged in 2011 to
increase return on equity, a measure of profitability, to at
least 12 percent and is seeking to cut costs by $2.5 billion to
$3.5 billion.  Latin America  The bank agreed in May to sell four units in Latin America
for about $400 million in cash to Colombia’s Banco GNB Sudameris
SA. The transaction included businesses in Colombia, Peru,
Uruguay and Paraguay, with a gross asset value of $4.4 billion
at the end of 2011, HSBC said.  HSBC rose 0.4 percent to close at 728.80 pence yesterday in
London, and has gained 13 percent this year, giving the bank a
market value of 134.7 billion pounds ($207.7 billion).  Bancolombia’s purchase of the HSBC assets comes two months
after the lender, Colombia’s biggest bank, said in December it
would pay $216 million for a stake in a Guatemalan bank through
Agromercantil Holding.  Colombian army victories over guerrillas in the past decade
have opened swaths of countryside to overseas investment in
mining and oil, which helped the country expand almost twice as
fast as the average for Latin America’s three larger economies
last year.  Stock Sale  Bancolombia said this month it would propose a preferred
stock sale at the Medellin-based lender’s annual meeting of
shareholders in March. The bank may seek to raise $1 billion to
meet stricter capital requirements and to fund acquisitions,
Banco Santander SA analysts  Boris Molina  and  Luis Guzman  wrote
in a report on Feb. 12.  HSBC Bank (Panama) SA had about $7.6 billion of assets,
$5.7 billion of loans and $5.8 billion of deposits as of Sept.
30, the bank said. The deal will be completed in the third
quarter of the year, HSBC said.  The lender on Dec. 11 agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle
U.S. probes of money laundering in the largest such accord,
topping the $619 million in penalties paid in June by the
Netherlands’ ING Groep NV.  UBS Investment Bank and Banca de Inversion Bancolombia
advised Bancolombia on the deal, according to an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  