-- Schindler Drops Profitability Target to Win Market Share
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-19T08:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/schindler-drops-profitability-target-to-win-market-share-in-asia.html
Schindler Holding AG  abandoned a
profitability target for its elevators and escalators business
to focus on winning market share in China and India.  “It is no longer strategically acceptable to focus
exclusively on the optimization of the operating margin,” the
Ebikon, Switzerland-based company said in a  statement  today,
adding that it has temporarily abandoned its 14 percent margin
target based on earnings before interest and taxes for the
elevators and escalators unit.  The company, which has already begun building new factories
in China, India and Slovakia, said it will continue with large
investments in new factories, research, and launching the new
Schindler 5500 and Schindler 3600 elevator lines. The elevator
maker said today strengthening its market position in growth
markets is key to preserve its long-term competitiveness.  Even as it pushes back the profitability target,
Schindler’s better-than expected order backlog “secures
business beyond 2013, giving Schindler high visibility and
justifies a premium over industrial stocks,”  Christoph Ladner ,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said in a note
to clients. Ladner has a hold rating on the stock.  Full-year net income attributed to shareholders reached 702
million Swiss francs ($760 million), in line with the estimate
of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 5.1 percent to
8.26 billion francs, missing the analyst estimate of 8.35
billion francs. Schindler said it will pay a dividend of 2.20
francs, missing the 2.25 franc analyst estimate.  New Board Members  Schindler shares dropped as much as 1.9 percent and traded
1.7 percent lower at 138.30 francs at 9:25 a.m. in Zurich. The
Schindler and Bonnard families, along with related parties, hold
70 percent of the voting rights in the elevator maker, which has
a market value of 16.1 billion francs.  The company also today said board member  Peter Athanas  a
former chief executive officer of Ernst & Young’s Swiss
business, will become senior executive vice president corporate
development, reporting directly to Schindler’s Chairman  Alfred Schindler .  The Swiss elevator maker, which competes with United
Technologies Corp.’s Otis Elevators and Finland’s Kone, predicts
revenue to increase by around 6 percent in local currencies in
2013 and expects a net profit of around 740 million to 790
million francs.  Schindler also said it will propose economics professor
 Monika Buetler , former Jardine Matheson Group CEO  Anthony Nightingale  and 5th generation Schindler-Bonnard family member
Carole Vischer to the board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  