-- SCMP Plunges as Acquisition Talks Dash Buyout Hopes
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-19T10:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/scmp-group-plunges-most-since-2009-on-takeover-talks.html
SCMP Group Ltd. , the newspaper
company that surged yesterday on buyout speculation, plunged the
most in more than a year after saying it was in talks to make an
acquisition itself.  The  publisher  of the South China Morning Post dropped 7.4
percent in Hong Kong trading, the most since September 2011, to
close at HK$1.99. The Hong Kong-based company has still gained
14 percent this week.  SCMP surged 23 percent yesterday before a trading halt on
speculation its controlling shareholder, Malaysian billionaire
 Robert Kuok , was planning to buy out minority investors. Instead,
the publisher disclosed talks about taking over a Hong Kong
media group, as its flagship newspaper struggles to compete with
free publications and online titles.  “Investors are taking a breath to rethink their
positions,” said Louis Tse, a Hong Kong-based director at VC
Brokerage Ltd. “Hong Kong’s media future isn’t bright.”  Sales at  SCMP  declined to HK$946 million in 2011 from
HK$2.4 billion in 1997. The company produces the Morning Post,
Hong Kong’s only paid-for daily English-language newspaper, as
well as recruitment publications and Chinese-language versions
of Cosmopolitan and Harper’s Bazaar magazines.  The publisher also faces a possible delisting because its
publicly traded shares are set to fall below an exchange-imposed
minimum. Kuok’s Kerry Media Ltd. is due to buy stock from three
banks, which will cut SCMP’s free float to about 11 percent.
SCMP has said its shares could be suspended Feb. 26 until the
proportion of  stock  held by minority investors returns to above
25 percent.  Rupert Murdoch  SCMP said yesterday it had reached a preliminary agreement
on a Hong Kong takeover. It didn’t elaborate on the target. The
company could buy a Chinese-language publisher or a TV
broadcaster, said Doug Young, a journalism professor at Fudan
University in Shanghai.  “Buying a broadcaster could generate synergy,” said Young,
the author of “The Party Line: How The Media Dictates Public
Opinion in Modern China.” “Advertisers like it if they can buy
deals in one place to get ads in print, online and on TV.”  Kuok, 89, bought a controlling stake in SCMP from  Rupert Murdoch  in 1993. He bought a further 30 percent for HK$1.1
billion ($142 million) in 2008 through Kerry Group Ltd.  Kuok is ranked 38th in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index
with a net worth of $18.8 billion. He also has interests in
property, hotels, palm oil and logistics.  The Morning Post, first published in 1903, has an audited
weekday circulation of 108,047, according to a  marketing
brochure  on its website. The newspaper’s main English-language
rival, the Standard, stopped charging readers in 2007 to boost
circulation after the government ended a requirement for
companies to publish stock-exchange announcements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  