-- Ex-Siemens Executive Wins End to SEC Argentine Bribe Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-19T23:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/sec-bribe-suit-against-ex-siemens-board-member-dismissed.html
A former  Siemens AG  executive won
dismissal of a U.S. regulator’s lawsuit over his alleged role in
an Argentine bribery scheme to land a $1 billion contract to
make national identity cards.  U.S. District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  in Manhattan today
dismissed the case brought by the Securities and Exchange
Commission against Herbert Steffen, a former chief executive
officer of Siemens SA Argentina, saying the court lacks
jurisdiction over him and that it’s unreasonable for Steffen to
have to defend himself in an American court.  The SEC sued Steffen, 75, and six others at Europe’s
largest engineering company in 2011, alleging that they had
orchestrated a scheme which paid about $100 million in bribes to
top Argentine government officials. A criminal case brought by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  is pending against
Steffen.  “Steffen’s lack of geographic ties to the United States,
his poor proficiency in English and the forum’s diminished
interest in adjudicating the matter all weigh against personal
jurisdiction,” Scheindlin said.  When the case was filed,  Robert Khuzami , then the director
of the SEC’s Division of Enforcement, called it the largest
action his agency had brought against people accused of bribing
foreign officials. The SEC alleged that Steffen helped “to
facilitate the payment of bribes” to officials in Argentina
through his longstanding connections there.  ‘Reviewing’ Decision  “We are reviewing the decision,”  John Nester , a spokesman
for the SEC, said in an e-mail.  Erich Schwartz, a lawyer for Steffen, said he was
“gratified with this result.”  “The court’s decision makes clear how remote Mr. Steffen’s
alleged conduct was from the United States,” Schwartz said in a
telephone interview. “We are also pleased that the court
recognized the unreasonableness, given the circumstances, of
compelling him to defend himself in the United States.”  Steffen was one of eight people charged by Bharara’s office
with conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
the wire-fraud statute, money laundering conspiracy and wire
fraud. The criminal case is still pending.  The defendants in the criminal case are  Uriel Sharef , a
former member of the managing board of Munich-based Siemens;
Steffen, Andres Truppel, Ulrich Bock, Eberhard Reichert, Stephan
Signer, Carlos Sergi and Miguel Czysch.  A ninth executive,  Bernd Regendantz , was named in a related
complaint filed by the SEC and not charged with a crime. Czysch
and Reichert, who were charged criminally, weren’t named as
defendants in the SEC complaint.  SEC Claim  The SEC claims that executives of Siemens and its Argentine
unit bribed officials in Argentina from 1996 to 2007.  None of those sued by the SEC or charged by Bharara’s
office are in U.S. custody. When the charges were announced in
December 2011, Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer  declined
to say whether the defendants would be extradited to the U.S.  In a letter to Scheindlin in August, the SEC said that
Steffen, Bock and Signer are German nationals living in Germany
while Sergi and Truppel are Argentine nationals living in that
country. A final judgment of $40,000 in favor of the SEC was
entered against Regendantz on Dec. 13, 2011, court records show.  Siemens pleaded guilty in 2008 to violating U.S. anti-
corruption laws and agreed to pay $1.6 billion to settle bribery
probes in the U.S. and Germany.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Sharef, 11-01056, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
civil case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sharef,
11-cv-9073, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  