-- Seinfeld on Rubio; ZZ Top on Pythons: Palm Beach Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/seinfeld-on-rubio-zz-top-on-pythons-palm-beach-scene.html
“I’ve seen ’em,” said  Paul Tudor Jones  of the pythons that eat mammals from rabbits to deer in
Everglades National Park.  “I’m not afraid,” ZZ Top’s Billy Gibbons added of the
reptile, which isn’t venomous.  The hedge-fund manager and the rocker talked snake at the
eighth annual  Everglades Foundation  benefit, held a few days
after a month-long python hunt organized by the Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission.  “The only thing scarier than pythons is letting thousands
of rednecks with guns go shoot the pythons -- and I say that as
a redneck,” said  Carl Hiaasen , whose next book, “Bad Monkey,”
comes out in June.  Pythons are the least of the Everglades’ troubles, Hiaasen
said. “The problem is pollution,” he said, “stuff coming off
the sugar fields for 60 years.”  “It’s us,” said singer  Jimmy Buffett .  The Feb. 15 event at the Breakers in Palm Beach raised more
than $2 million to restore “the heart of Florida’s ecosystem
and economy,” said Tudor Jones, the chairman and chief
executive officer of Tudor Investment Corp. in Greenwich,
Connecticut.  Among the 600 guests were  Peter Kiernan  of Kiernan Ventures
LLC, music executive  Tommy Mottola , and  Mario Gabelli , chief
executive officer of Gamco Investors Inc.  Asked if he ever had a stock like the python -- one he had
too much of and couldn’t eliminate -- Gabelli replied, “Too
many.”  Kevin McCluskey , managing director of investments at
Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management in Palm Beach, in a
vintage Lilly Pulitzer jacket, said he once shot a rattlesnake
and would be glad to hunt python, though he’s more of a sailor.  Gummy Gators  Ferns and gummy alligators in martini glasses were part of
the Everglades-themed decor. For event designer Jay Bell of
 DeJuan Stroud Inc. , the Spanish moss hanging from chandeliers
recalled the beards of ZZ Top’s front men.  The Texas musicians performed after a dinner of mini-tacos,
“redneck” short ribs, and brownie sundaes served in chocolate
guitar cases. The band also inspired the suggested attire,
“cheap sunglasses and legs.”  Highbridge Capital Management LLC co-founder  Glenn Dubin 
kicked up a denim-clad thigh for a photograph. More ZZ Top-ready
limbs belonged to his wife, Eva Dubin, and Kim Havlicek, wife of
JPMorgan Private Wealth managing director and Palm Beach market
manager Chris Havlicek.  Barbara Nicklaus had the funkiest sunglasses, with oval
lenses decorated like pineapples. Her husband,  Jack Nicklaus ,
the golfer and course designer, serves on the board of the
Everglades Foundation with Tudor Jones, its chairman.  “He is unbelievably energetic,” Jack Nicklaus said.
“When he believes in something, get out of the way.”  Seinfeld’s Moron  Jerry Seinfeld  did 17 minutes of stand-up for the
Everglades. In between riffs on the U.S. Post Office and Pop
Tarts, he took aim at Florida’s Republican senator.  “ Marco Rubio , that’s funny. What a moron,” the comedian
said of the senator’s water grab during a speech after the State
of the Union address.  “I’m sure he’s a fine man and a wonderful statesman and a
brilliant mind,” Seinfeld said, “but just get the water
afterwards. You know, it was the little water, that’s what was
sad about it. It was the Poland Spring that big. How about a
glass of chardonnay? Look like you don’t give a damn.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine.  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Burke ,  Manuela Hoelterhoff .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 