-- Serbia’s JAT Contacts Etihad Airways, Plans to Lease Aircraft
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-02-19T15:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/serbia-s-jat-contacts-etihad-airways-plans-to-lease-aircraft.html
JAT Airways, Serbia’s flag carrier,
is in contact with Etihad Airways PJSC on a possible cooperation
as the Balkan country’s unprofitable airline seeks investors and
new aircraft for its aging fleet.  Belgrade-based JAT and Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways may
soon decide on a form of cooperation “depending on Etihad’s
plans for southeastern Europe,” JAT General Manager Vladimir
Ognjenovic told reporters in Belgrade today. JAT also seeks
offers from aircraft leasing companies, including  International
Lease Finance Corp. , Nordic Aviation Capital A/S and CIT
Aerospace International, for four jets and two turboprops to
renew the  fleet , whose average age is 23 years, he said.  “It’s high time for us to get new aircraft with better
fuel efficiency” as the company aims to break even in 2013
after years of losses. The four jets would seat 140 to 180 each,
he said.  State-owned JAT’s debt is now at 170 million euros ($227
million), including 70 million euros in state-backed loans. The
carrier owes more than 40 million euros to suppliers, including
 Naftna Industrija Srbije AD  for fuel, and to Belgrade airport
Nikola Tesla for services.  The debt to the  OAO Gazprom Neft -owned oil and gas company
will be repaid as of May when JAT expects a seasonal increase in
cash flow, Ognjenovic said.  Some of JAT’s liabilities will probably be assumed by the
state under a restructuring plan the government will complete by
the end of March, Transportation Minister Milutin Mrkonjic said.  The plan includes reducing JAT’s workforce of 1,300 by
“several hundred” through voluntary severance, Ognjenovic
said. Mrkonjic ruled out turning JAT into a low-cost carrier,
though some of its current planes may be taken over by Belgrade-
based  Aviogenex  airline for offering chartered and low-cost
flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  