-- Seven West Media Posts First-Half Loss on Writedown
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-20T06:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/seven-west-media-posts-first-half-loss-on-writedown.html
Seven West Media Ltd. , Australia’s
most watched television broadcaster, reported a first-half loss
after making A$261 million ($270 million) of charges including
writing down its magazines and online venture with  Yahoo! Inc.   The net loss was A$109 million in the six months ended
December, compared with net income of A$163 million a year
earlier, Perth, Australia-based Seven said in a statement today.
Excluding one-time items, first-half profit declined 13 percent
to A$142 million. The shares fell the most since June, dropping
7.1 percent to close at A$2.34 in Sydney.  Stalling advertising is crimping  earnings  even as the
company tops television ratings with programs including
Australian Football League matches and the soap opera Revenge.
The loss was the first reported by the company since the 2011
combination of billionaire  Kerry Stokes ’s Seven television
network assets with West Australian Newspaper Holdings Ltd.,
publisher of Perth’s sole daily.  “Advertising markets remain subdued,” Macquarie Group
Ltd. analysts wrote in Feb. 5 note to clients.  Seven West stock has gained 43 percent this year compared
with a 9.7 percent advance for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Stokes is chairman of Seven West as well as its biggest
shareholder Seven Group Holdings Ltd.  The advertising market will “continue to trend below
previous year in the near term,” the company said in a
presentation. Television will post “flat to single-digit
growth,” it said.  First-half earnings before interest and tax from TV fell 12
percent to A$186 million.  ‘Challenging Market’  Seven’s evening news program, cooking show My Kitchen Rules
and drama Revenge were among the top five most-watched programs
in the latest ratings report by industry monitor OZTam. Seven’s
three free-to-air channels had about a 35 percent share of the
Australian television audience.  “Our businesses are performing well in what is a
challenging market,” Chief Executive Officer  Don Voelte  said in
the statement.  Newspaper earnings dropped 27 percent to A$49 million while
profit at the magazine unit declined 25 percent to A$17 million.  The company took a A$195 million writedown of brand values,
licenses and goodwill to the unit, whose titles include Home &
Lifestyle and Fashion. Another A$60 million impairment was made
to its joint-venture Internet portal with Yahoo.  Seven reduced its net debt to A$1.26 billion in the period
after raising A$432 million in cash by issuing new stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  