-- Sherlock Holmes, Zynga, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-02-19T13:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/sherlock-holmes-electronic-arts-intellectual-property.html
For Jonathan Kirsch, a Los Angeles
attorney, it’s elementary: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s literary
works published before 1923 are in the public domain.  Kirsch and Scott Gilbert of Chicago’s Hinshaw & Culbertson
LLP are seeking to have the federal court in Chicago declare
that most of Doyle’s books and stories involving his most famous
creation -- Sherlock Holmes -- are no longer protected by
copyright law.  The attorneys represent Leslie Klinger, an author who has
written extensively on Holmes. Most recently, Klinger co-edited
“A Study in Sherlock,” a Random House-published “collection
of new and original short stories by prominent contemporary
authors, all of which were inspired by” the Doyle stories,
according to the complaint. He and his co-editor, Laurie King,
are working on a sequel that is, according to the complaint, to
be published by Pegasus Books and distributed by W.W. Norton.  The complaint alleges that while Random House agreed to a
licensing agreement with the agent of the Conan Doyle estate,
Pegasus Books hasn’t, spurring Klinger to file suit to clarify
the copyright question.  “Part of the reason we’re litigating the question is
because Sherlock Holmes has entered popular western culture in a
fundamental way. Filmmakers and authors have a stock of material
that they can innovate on -- like the Bible and Shakespeare. We
believe that Sherlock Holmes has also entered that stock of
public domain material that anyone can innovate on,” Kirsch
said in a telephone interview on Feb. 15.  Benjamin Allison, an attorney with Sutin Thayer & Browne
APC in Santa Fe, New Mexico, represents the Conan Doyle Estate.
Allison didn’t respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Klinger v. Conan Doyle Estate, Ltd, 1:13-
cv-01226, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Zynga, Electronic Arts Agree to Settle Copyright Suit Claims  Electronic Arts Inc.  and  Zynga Inc.  agreed to settle claims
that Zynga’s “The Ville” game copied “The Sims Social,” an
EA game that runs on  Facebook.   “EA and Zynga have resolved their respective claims and
have reached a settlement of their litigation in the Northern
District of California,” Zynga spokeswoman Kelly Kunz and  John Reseburg , an EA spokesman, said in separate e-mailed statements.  Electronic Arts, the second-biggest U.S. video-game
publisher, had originally sued Zynga in August, claiming in a
suit filed in federal court in San Francisco that senior
executives who left for Zynga had details about “The Sims
Social” strategy and development.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on Facebook,
had countersued, seeking to bar Electronic Arts from threatening
litigation or interfering with its hiring. It called the
copyright claims meritless and said Electronic Arts’ suit
breached the terms of an earlier settlement.  The settlement was first disclosed in a court filing in the
lawsuit. Neither company would provide details of the accord.  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, 12-4099, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Megaupload Trying to Avoid Criminal Procedures, Prosecutors Say  Megaupload.com, the file-sharing website closed by the
U.S., is trying to circumvent criminal procedure rules with
claims including an accusation the government lied to get search
warrants, prosecutors said.  The website’s claims are unfounded, they said in a filing
Feb. 14 in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. The U.S.
accused Megaupload of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files when it shut the site last year.  The U.S. and Megaupload are in dispute over the file-
sharing site’s request to be allowed to take part in a civil
lawsuit, filed by a U.S. man seeking to recover the data he
stored on the website. Megaupload claims the U.S. misled the
courts in obtaining warrants to shut down its websites, while
the prosecutors argue the file-sharing site is seeking to
illegally get information to defend itself in the criminal case.  “Megaupload has supplied nothing but a conspiracy
theory,” in an attempt to be included in the civil lawsuit, the
U.S. said in its filing. “Megaupload should not be able to use
its participation in civil litigation as a sword to circumvent
criminal discovery rules.”  Kyle Goodwin, who had started a business reporting on local
high school sporting events in Ohio and stored videos on
Megaupload, sued the U.S. to recover those files. The judge
ruled he couldn’t make a decision without an evidentiary
hearing.  Megaupload sought to intervene in the case, arguing it has
relevant facts and is in the best position to retrieve Goodwin’s
data. It said the issues of data preservation and consumer
access are linked to its criminal defense.  Kim Dotcom, 39, the founder of Megaupload, was indicted in
what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a “mega conspiracy.” If
convicted, he faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of
the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  The U.S. shut down Megaupload without notice after charges
against seven individuals, including Dotcom, were unsealed in
court in January, 2012.  Megaupload’s lawyer  Ira Rothken  said in an e-mail Feb. 15
that the U.S. is trying to concoct a way out of taking
responsibility for injuring millions of consumers.  The case is USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
extradition case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General, Civ
2012-404-1928, High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Apple, Samsung Name Allegedly Infringing Smartphones and Tablets  Apple Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics Co.  identified products
they allege infringe their patents for smartphones and tablet
computers as part of a lawsuit in federal court in San Jose,
California.  The filings Feb. 15 were made in a newer of two related
patent cases. The lawsuit, scheduled for  trial  in March 2014,
was filed last year and covers technology in newer smartphones
made by both companies, including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and
Apple’s iPhone 5.  In its filing, Cupertino, California-based Apple identified
Samsung’s Galaxy Note smartphones and tablet computer. Samsung
claimed “all generations” of Apple’s iPhone and iPads infringe
at least three of its patents, according to its filing.  U.S. District Judge  Lucy H. Koh  last month rejected Apple’s
request to add additional damages to the first patent
infringement case between the two companies in San Jose. In that
case, a jury awarded Apple $1.05 billion, finding the Suwon,
South Korea-based company infringed six of the iPhone maker’s
mobile-device patents.  Koh said last week she is considering freezing the more
recent smartphone patent dispute scheduled for trial next year
while an appeals court reviews the August verdict.  Last year’s case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Intel Wins X2Y Patent Case Said to Imperil Chipmaker’s U.S. Jobs  Intel Corp.  won a patent-infringement case some U.S.
lawmakers said could have threatened jobs at the chipmaker’s
U.S. manufacturing plants.  The U.S. International Trade Commission upheld, with
modifications, trade Judge  David Shaw ’s findings that Intel
didn’t violate the patent rights of closely held X2Y Attenuators
LLC. Hewlett-Packard Co. and Apple Inc., which use Intel chips,
were also named in the ITC complaint.  Notice  of the decision was
posted Feb. 15 on the agency’s website.  X2Y asked the trade agency to block Intel’s chips using its
technology from entering the U.S. The case drew the attention of
lawmakers from both political parties who said a loss for Intel
could harm U.S. jobs, because Intel does initial manufacturing
work in the U.S. and final assembly in other countries.  The X2Y patents cover ways to overcome electromagnetic
interference that can damage electronics. The company, which
develops methods for improving the performance of circuits,
licenses its inventions to Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
biggest maker of computer-memory chips. It doesn’t make any
chips of its own.  Shaw said Intel didn’t infringe the three patents and two
are invalid. The commission altered the judge’s interpretation
of some patent terms without changing his underlying finding.
The commission said it would more fully explain its reasoning in
an opinion to be issued later.  “We’re gratified they upheld the judge’s opinion and now
we can focus on defending ourselves in federal court in
Pennsylvania,” said  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara,
California-based Intel.  Anne Standley of Edelman, a spokeswoman for X2Y’s law firm
Alston & Bird, said the firm and company had no immediate
comment.  The case is In the Matter of Microprocessors, Components
Thereof, and Products Containing Same, 337-781, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Internet  Facebook Wins Ruling in Jurisdiction Fight With German Regulator  Facebook Inc. scored a court victory in Germany in a
dispute with a local data regulator over which nation’s laws
apply to its European operations.  The administrative court for Schleswig-Holstein suspended
enforcement of an order saying Facebook must let users register
under a pseudonym. The order is most likely illegal and
shouldn’t apply while Facebook fights it, the court said on a
 statement  on its website Feb. 15.  “The regulator wrongfully based its order on German data
protection law,” the judges said. “Irish data protection law
exclusively applies,” because Facebook handles the data in
Ireland.  Facebook has been fighting orders from German regulators,
arguing it’s only subject to Irish law which is generally less
strict then German privacy rules. Facebook Ireland, in Dublin,
is responsible for all the Palo Alto, California-based company’s
users outside the U.S. and Canada.  Thilo Weichert, the state regulator who issued the
pseudonym order, said he will appeal the ruling. German law
clearly backs his order, he said in a  statement  on his website.
Companies shouldn’t be allowed to withdraw to a European member
state with “low data protection standard,” according to his
statement.  European rules say German law doesn’t apply if the data is
processed by a branch in another EU member state, the court
said. Facebook’s German unit only works in marketing and sales
and thus can’t trigger the application of German data protection
law, the judges said.  Google May See Fine After Failing to Answer Privacy Concerns  Google Inc. may be fined by European Union data-protection
agencies after failing to meet a deadline to say how it will
bring its privacy policy in line with EU rules.  Google hasn’t provided “any precise and effective”
responses to EU data-protection regulators’ recommendations,
France’s National Commission for Computing and Civil Liberties,
or CNIL, said in a  statement  yesterday.  EU regulators “are determined to act and continue their
investigations” and take “repressive action” by summer, CNIL
said, without defining what that may entail. CNIL led the probe
on behalf of the other EU privacy agencies.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine,
faces privacy investigations by authorities around the world as
it debuts new services and steps up competition with  Facebook
Inc.  for users and advertisers. Google changed its system to
create a uniform set of policies for more than 60 products last
year, unleashing criticism from regulators and consumer
advocates concerned it isn’t protecting data it collects.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Mountain View,
California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“We have engaged fully with the CNIL throughout this process
and we’ll continue to do so going forward.”  Google also said it responded to the October letter on Jan.
8, listing changes already made to improve the privacy
protections, and sought a meeting to discuss their findings. It
said it hasn’t heard back.  CNIL spokeswomen didn’t immediately return calls and e-
mails about Google’s response.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Macy’s, Martha Stewart Living Head to Court Over Sales Agreement  Macy’s Inc. , the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, will go to court in New York today to try to persuade a
judge to permanently block Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc.’s pact with  J.C. Penney Co.   Macy’s sued Martha Stewart Living in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan in January 2012 to stop it from proceeding
with an agreement announced with J.C. Penney the previous month.
Macy’s claims it has an exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-
branded products in categories such as bedding and cookware.  A nonjury trial in the case is set to start this morning
before state Supreme Court Justice  Jeffrey K. Oing  in Manhattan,
who in July granted Cincinnati-based Macy’s a preliminary
injunction blocking Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps
with J.C. Penney on products in the exclusive categories.  In August, Macy’s sued J.C. Penney in the same court,
seeking to block it from proceeding with the Martha Stewart
Living agreement. Oing denied Macy’s request in that case,
saying that the company hadn’t proved it was likely to succeed
on claims that J.C. Penney had engaged in tortious interference
and unfair competition.  Macy’s said  J.C. Penney  and Martha Stewart Living “made a
conscious business decision” not to disclose their talks to
Macy’s until the contract was signed so it could avoid the risk
of a restraining order that would bar the agreement.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
on the agreement because of the breach.  For more, click here.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).
The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.,
650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 