-- Shinzo Abe Is Brave, But Is He Wise?
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-02-19T23:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/shinzo-abe-is-brave-but-is-he-wise-.html
Japan’s new prime minister,  Shinzo Abe , is proposing a bold departure for his country’s economy.
He’s mostly right. Japan continues to underperform, and bad
macroeconomic policy has been the main reason. Abenomics isn’t
riskless or easy, however. The government will have to be wise
as well as brave.  Abe advocates what he calls a “three arrows” approach to
expansionary policy: monetary, fiscal and structural. On two of
the three, change is under way. He has pressured the Bank of
Japan to end deflation by adopting a new inflation target and
forthright quantitative easing. He has announced a supplementary
budget that will further increase the government deficit. As
yet, the supply-side part of the program is vague.  Last month the BOJ answered Abe’s demands by adopting a 2
percent inflation target in place of its de facto  target  of 1
percent. It also promised to buy assets more aggressively. For
the moment, attention has shifted to the appointment of the next
governor of the central bank. A nominee could be announced next
week. Abe should bolster the policy shift by putting a like-
minded radical in the job.  The prime minister also favors renewed fiscal stimulus. The
supplementary budget may be just the start. Japan’s gross public
debt stands at about 220 percent of gross domestic product. Net
of government holdings, the figure is about 130 percent.  Low Yield  That’s high, however you measure it. Yet the yield on
Japanese government bonds remains low, suggesting no investor
anxiety about the government’s solvency. Less than 10 percent of
the debt is held by foreigners, Japan has a high savings rate,
and by international standards, taxes and government spending
are modest (leaving untapped fiscal space for servicing debt).
For all these reasons, there’s little risk of a sudden fiscal
calamity.  Even so, Abe would be wise to keep the emphasis on monetary
stimulus.  A skeptic might ask, hasn’t Japanese monetary policy been
loose for some time already? Looking at  nominal interest rates ,
you would think so. And the central bank has bought assets, too.
How can monetary policy be to blame if these measures have
failed to stimulate demand? The problem must lie elsewhere.  Not necessarily. With prices falling, real interest rates
have been higher than nominal rates. Also, the BOJ’s efforts
have been timid. Its  quantitative easing  has been confined to
short-term assets, which are almost equivalent to cash.
Switching them for actual cash (bigger balances held at the
central bank) doesn’t do much. To work, easing has to involve
longer-term assets, as has been the case with such programs in
the U.S. and the U.K.  The BOJ’s commentaries on its actions have been self-
defeating. Its  inflation  target was too low, and it compounded
that mistake by saying that objective would probably be
undershot. Add the reliance on an impotent form of QE, and it’s
unsurprising that the strategy hasn’t worked.  Abe’s right. The  BOJ  needed, first, a higher inflation
target and, second, a perceived determination to hit it,
whatever it takes. Despite the apparent realignment of the
central bank’s policy with Abe’s, this new approach won’t be
fully in place until the next BOJ governor supports it
wholeheartedly -- and acts on his words.  A different objection to stronger monetary stimulus is that
it constitutes a declaration of currency war. Too much is made
of this, though, admittedly, Abe is partly to blame. Monetary
stimulus does tend to depreciate the currency. In Japan’s case,
this is a desirable side effect -- but a side effect
nonetheless.  Domestic Demand  If the primary goal is to increase domestic demand, the
policy isn’t unneighborly. Faster Japanese  growth  is in
everyone’s interest. If domestic demand is growing, other
countries can take a change in the currency in stride. A policy
that makes depreciating the currency its primary goal is
different. That invites retaliation, and can start a cycle that
descends into beggar-thy-neighbor competitive devaluation,
leaving everybody worse off.  Abe is muddled on this vital distinction. His party’s
election manifesto said weakening the yen was a top priority in
its own right. At a meeting in Moscow this past weekend, Japan’s
finance minister told his Group of Seven counterparts that he
would clear up such misunderstandings. Good idea.  Sensitivity on the currency war point, you might think,
argues for greater reliance on fiscal policy. Not a good idea.  As  Adam Posen , the president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, has argued, most recently at a seminar
last week, that fiscal stimulus is no longer such an attractive
option for Japan.  The danger isn’t imminent fiscal meltdown -- that’s
unlikely for the reasons mentioned above. It’s that years of
heavy public borrowing have stuffed Japan’s banks with public
debt, which is squeezing out lending to the private sector.
Another problem is the mounting cost of debt service, despite
low interest rates, which is serving to crowd out public
investment, too. Fiscal stimulus, Posen argues, shouldn’t be
deployed indefinitely. Japan needs a plan to contain and reduce
its public debt.  No such reservations apply to supply-side economic reforms
-- Abe’s third arrow. This approach ought to be pursued with as
much enthusiasm as effective monetary stimulus. Abe has an early
opportunity to advance this goal. This week he will meet U.S.
President  Barack Obama  in Washington. One item on their agenda
will be Japan’s participation in the proposed Trans-Pacific
Partnership. The trade pact plans to include 11 nations; it
would have 13 if Japan and South Korea decide to join.  There’s strong resistance to the idea in Japan, because it
might require economic reforms in sensitive areas, especially
rice farming. The need to build momentum for those reforms is
exactly why Japan should commit to take part in the  pact  as soon
as possible. Let’s see how much of a radical Abe really is.  ( Clive Crook  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Clive Crook  at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 