-- Silver Lake Said to Revise Global Blue LBO Loan Repricing Plan
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-02-19T13:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/silver-lake-said-to-revise-global-blue-lbo-loan-repricing-plan.html
Silver Lake Partners LP  and  Partners
Group AG  are said to have improved terms on a proposal to cut
the interest rates paid by Global Blue, a tax-free shopping
services provider they acquired last year.  The company is offering to pay lenders 101 percent of face
value on the 463 million-euro ($618 million) loans if it
refinances the debt within a year, according to two people, who
asked not to be identified because the deal is private. It will
also limit leverage at 3.5 times debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization compared with a
cap of 3.75 times proposed last week, the people said.  The Nyon, Switzerland-based company originally set a Feb.
15 deadline for lenders to respond to its request for better
debt terms, which include a 100 basis-point cut on interest
margins on the leveraged loans, a person said. It’s seeking to
reduce the margin on its term loan A and revolving credit
facility to 425 basis points more than benchmarks, while the
term loan B margin would be cut to 475 basis points. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Gemma Hart, a New York-based spokeswoman for Silver Lake,
didn’t return a call and an e-mail seeking comment outside of
business hours.  Lenders are beginning to resist pressure from borrowers to
re-price loans to take advantage of improving credit markets
after requesting lower margins on at least $3.4 billion of
European leveraged loans this year. Iceland Foods Ltd., the U.K.
grocery chain, improved a proposal earlier this month to cut
rates on about $1.4 billion of loans, a person said.  The request to improve Global Blue’s debt terms, which is
being arranged by Royal Bank of Canada, also includes a
requirement for its owners to use half of any proceeds from
asset sales to repay the company’s debt, said the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  