-- Simpson-Bowles II and the Cost of Deficit Inaction
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-19T19:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/simpson-bowles-ii-and-the-cost-of-deficit-inaction.html
With Congress in no hurry to
prevent across-the-board  spending cuts  starting next week,
President Barack Obama again  urged  lawmakers to cobble
together a smaller package of tax and spending changes
to avert the first $85 billion in reductions.  “Not to kick the can down the road,” Obama said at the
White House, but to give Congress “time to work together on a
plan that finishes the job of deficit reduction in a sensible
way.”  Yet a new  proposal  out today from deficit hawks Alan
Simpson and Erskine Bowles shows how Washington’s affinity for
small deals that tackle the deficit incrementally are deepening
the nation’s fiscal hole.  Simpson and Bowles are calling for an additional $2.4
trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade -- on top of
the $2.7 trillion that’s already been achieved through various
legislative efforts such as the 2011 Budget Control Act and 2012
American Taxpayer Relief Act. All told, that amounts to $5.1
trillion in deficit reduction -- about $1.1 trillion more than
what the Simpson-Bowles fiscal  commission  called for in 2010.  Back then, Simpson-Bowles said $4 trillion in deficit
reduction would be enough to put the U.S. on a sustainable
fiscal path and get its debt below 70 percent of gross domestic
product -- the level most economists believe necessary. Now, the
deficit duo has upped the ante -- far outpacing the roughly $1.5
trillion in trimming Obama has said he will seek over the next
decade.  The plan -- which is actually just an outline -- doesn’t
exactly explain why the tab has swelled but the answer
undoubtedly stems from failure to tackle entitlement programs
such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Outlays for
those are already beginning to outpace dedicated revenue and the
rate of growth will only increase, courtesy of an aging
population and a declining ratio of workers to retirees.  As Simpson told MSNBC, when he was in college (in the
1950s) there were 16 workers paying into Social Security for
every retiree. Today there are three workers for every retiree
and that will  fall  even further, to about 2-to-1 by 2030.  Net outlays for Medicare  slowed  last year, growing by just
3 percent in 2012 -- the slowest rate of growth since 2000. But
that trajectory won’t last. The Congressional Budget Office said
earlier this month that spending for major health-care programs
will equal almost 5 percent of GDP in 2013 and grow to 6.2
percent in 2023.  It’s a fair bet that any plan to curb entitlement spending
won’t affect current retirees, or even those near retirement
age. What’s more, the fiscal burden has only grown over the past
two years -- and will grow more until serious reforms are
enacted.  The new Simpson-Bowles plan is light on details but
identifies about $600 billion in health-care spending reductions
and calls for changing how the government measures inflation
when calculating Social Security benefits, which will reduce
costs.  At his press conference, Obama repeated his pledge to
tackle entitlement reform and said he’s outlined changes that
“can achieve the same amount of health care savings by the
beginning of the next decade as the reforms that were proposed
by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission.”  Given that Republicans also want entitlement reform -- and
view it as the crux of any deficit reduction deal -- an
agreement should be within reach.  Yet the problem is larger than entitlements and
discretionary spending -- something Simpson, Bowles and Obama
again acknowledged today. To fix the debt, taxes must also
factor into the mix -- in particular, ending certain  tax breaks 
for wealthier individuals and businesses.  Republicans are so far resisting any additional revenue,
saying the tax increases they allowed during the fiscal-cliff
deal are as far as they’re willing to go. Obama tried to shame
the GOP away from that position today, telling the American
public that Republicans are willing to compromise education,
health care and national security “just to protect a few special
interest tax loopholes that benefit only the wealthiest
Americans and biggest corporations.”  Whether such rhetoric will do anything other than help the
White House deflect blame if damaging spending cuts go into
effect is hard to say. What is clear is that the cost of
inaction is making an already bleak fiscal picture even
gloomier.  As Simpson and Bowles  write  in Politico today it’s possible
to reach a deal “if both sides are willing to go beyond their
comfort zones and come to a principled compromise.” Before
lawmakers rule that out, they should look at today’s numbers and
realize that failure to reach a deal now will only make the task
that much harder -- and more expensive -- in the future.  (Deborah Solomon is a member of the Bloomberg View
editorial board. Follow her on  Twitter .)
 