-- Singapore’s Fourth LNG Tank May Have Space for Four A380 Jets
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-02-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/singapore-s-fourth-lng-tank-may-have-space-for-four-a380-jets.html
Singapore LNG Corp.’s fourth gas
storage tank may have 260,000 cubic meters of capacity, enough
to fit four A380 jumbo jets, the company’s chief executive
officer said.  The fourth storage tank is being considered to lower
storage costs and hold cargoes from a 266,000 cubic-meter Q-Max
LNG ship, the largest vessels in operation, CEO  Neil McGregor 
said in an interview yesterday. For comparison purposes, he said
the proposed LNG tank could enclose four of the double-deck
Airbus jets, the largest commercial passenger plane in service,
stacked on top of each other.  “The fourth tank can either be the same size as what we
have now, at 180,000 cubic meters, or a 260,000 cubic meter
tank, which is one of the largest tanks in the world,” McGregor
said.  The company awarded an engineering design contract to
 WorleyParsons Pte  in November to study the terminal’s expansion
plans. A final decision on whether to build the fourth LNG tank
is expected by year end, and construction could be completed by
2017, McGregor said.  The fourth unit may cost around S$500 million ($403.7
million),  S. Iswaran , Singapore’s second trade minister, said in
October.  “At this point, S$500 million is just a very broad
ballpark figure,” McGregor said. “It’s pretty difficult to put
a figure on the cost, because as soon as I do, you’re signaling
to the market what sort of size and capacity of expansion you’re
talking about, and the government has not fixed that yet.”  Future LPG  WorleyParsons’s study covers the feasibility of building a
liquefied petroleum gas terminal, the McGregor said.  “The reason we’re studying it now is that we can get a
handle on what the cost of a LPG terminal is,” he said.  The Jurong Island terminal’s secondary jetty is currently
set to accept LNG and LPG ships in the range of 80,000 to
260,000 cubic meters. The secondary berth is not installed with
LPG equipment, and that may change when Singapore LNG decides to
enter the market, he said.  The site of the terminal has land for two LPG tanks, which
may be built if “the business case underpins the investment,”
McGregor said.  An LPG facility at the terminal can be used to increase the
energy content of LNG cargoes and decrease methane to produce
the so-called rich natural gas preferred by North Asian LNG
buyers, McGregor said.  More Tanks  The master plan for the Singapore terminal calls for as
many as seven storage tanks and a peak capacity of 20 million
metric tons, McGregor said.  The site will receive its initial cargo from Qatar in the
first quarter to facilitate a start up in the second quarter.
The Energy Market Authority, Singapore’s regulator, agreed in
2008 to import LNG from  BG Group Plc  over 10 years.  “As the aggregator of LNG demand for Singapore, we are
looking forward to the first cargo arriving into the terminal,”
Damien Bird, BG’s Singapore-based spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. Bird declined to discuss the source of the LNG or its
arrival date.  BG’s first LNG cargo to Singapore may come from Trinidad &
Tobago or Africa, McGregor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  