-- SIX Group Would Look at Euronext’s Markets, CEO Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-19T09:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/six-group-would-look-at-euronext-s-markets-ceo-says.html
SIX Group, operator of the Swiss
stock exchange, said it will consider NYSE Euronext’s European
markets if they are offered for sale.  “We will take a look, everyone will take a look,”  Urs Rueegsegger , chief executive officer of SIX, said in an
interview in Zurich yesterday. “If Euronext attracts many
potential buyers and they get the valuation they want, then that
will be the next step in the consolidation process and encourage
others. Euronext is about twice our size in trading volume,
which means there will be significant synergy potential.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc., the 12-year-old energy and
commodity futures bourse, agreed on Dec. 21 to acquire New York-
based NYSE Euronext for cash and stock worth $8.2 billion. NYSE
Euronext and ICE said in December they plan to explore an
initial public offering for the Euronext division, which
operates exchanges in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam.  Rueegsegger joins Deutsche Boerse AG Chairman Joachim Faber
and Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s CEO, in expressing
interest in the unit. NYSE Chief Executive Officer Duncan
Niederauer has said Euronext is not for sale.  “If there’s an IPO it would be a step on the way to a
sale,” said Rueegsegger, who leads the largest of Europe’s
exchanges to remain closely held. “It would be more attractive
for an industry partner, for an exchange already in cash-equity
trading and one who would benefit from both trading and the flow
into post-trade.”  Shrinking Profits  Exchanges have sought to merge amid shrinking profits from
securities trading. European regulators blocked Deutsche
Boerse’s attempt to acquire NYSE Euronext in February 2012 amid
concern it would damage competition in derivatives. The Swiss
exchange, home to Nestle SA and UBS AG, rebuffed a takeover bid
from the Frankfurt-based company in 2004.  Average daily volume for stocks listed on U.S. exchanges
has declined every year since 2009, falling 18 percent in 2012
to a low of 6.42 billion shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 9.77 billion in 2009.  “The industry is in flux at the moment, so the talks will
continue,” Rueegsegger said, adding that SIX isn’t for sale.
“For the next 24 months, I don’t really expect the situation on
volumes to improve. We’ll see a lot of cost cutting and
attempted consolidation.”  SIX Group, owned by about 150 brokers and banks that are
also users, was formed in a  three-way merger  at the start of
2008. It offers securities trading, post-trade services,
financial information and data and payment transactions.  “While we will not change our own ownership structure, we
can certainly take a look at others,” Rueegsegger said. “We
have about 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.08 billion) on our balance
sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in Zurich at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  