-- Slovenia Bank Assets Fall $4.1 Billion on Debt Payments, Rating
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-19T15:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/slovenia-bank-assets-fall-4-1-billion-on-debt-payments-rating.html
Slovenian bank assets fell 3.1
billion euros ($4.1 billion) in 2012 as lenders repaid debt
while a cut in the country’s credit rating limited funding
sources, the central bank said.  Banks paid back 3.6 billion euros of debt on international
markets, which accounted for 10 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product, Banka Slovenije said in an e-mailed statement
today. The industry’s total assets were 46.7 billion euros in
November, according to the latest data from the central bank.  “The possibility of debt refinancing was sharply reduced
by the uncertain economic and political situation as well as due
to investors mistrust toward Slovenian long-term debt,” the
central bank said.  Slovenian banks’ combined pretax loss was 664 million euros
last year, according to the central bank, as the second
recession in three years pushed companies into bankruptcy,
forcing lenders to set aside bad-loan reserves. The nation’s
economy shrank an annual 3.3 percent in the third quarter on
lower exports and falling domestic demand.  Slovenia had its credit rating cut to A- by Standard &
Poor’s on Feb. 12, the fourth lowest investment grade. Fitch
Ratings rates the country as A- and Moody’s Investors Service
Baa2, its second lowest investment grade.  The Adriatic country was plunged into political turmoil
last month over corruption allegations against Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa , prompting two of his coalition partners to abandon
the government and increasing the risk of early elections.  Reduced sources of funding were also caused by shrinking
state deposits at commercial banks, the central bank said.  Asset writedowns and bad-loan provisions last year surged
23 percent to 1.5 billion euros, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  