-- Soccer Body Opens Bids for Goal-Line Technology at World Cup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-19T11:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/soccer-body-opens-bids-for-goal-line-technology-at-world-cup.html
FIFA, global soccer’s governing
body, opened the bidding for companies to supply goalline
technology for next year’s World Cup and this year’s warmup
competition.  The technology, also known as GLT, helps referees judge
whether the ball has crossed the goalline. It was used in
December at the Club World Cup, and FIFA wants to avoid
controversial mistakes that have occurred in previous
competitions.  “The aim is to use GLT in order to support the match
officials and to install a system in all stadia, pending the
successful installation, and pre-match referee tests,” the
governing body said today in an e-mailed  statement . “With
different technologies on the market, FIFA has launched a tender
today, setting out the technical requirements for the two
forthcoming competitions in Brazil.”  The systems should be up and running in time for this
year’s Confederations Cup, which allows the host country to
check its preparations for the World Cup.  In July, the International Football Association Board
unanimously approved systems made by Hawk-Eye and GoalRef, which
use technology to tell whether the ball has crossed the goal
line. The systems will aid officials, who will still base their
rulings on what they see on the field.  Referee Mistakes  The IFAB sets the rules for the game, with the U.K.’s four
so-called home nations -- England, Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland -- each having a vote, while the sport’s governing body,
FIFA, has four.  A disallowed goal by England’s  Frank Lampard  against
Germany at the 2010 World Cup pushed FIFA President  Sepp Blatter 
to re-examine the issue, two years after the sport’s rule makers
decided not to pursue the technology. FIFA had been criticized
by fans, players and match officials over its failure to adopt
video or computerized ways of monitoring the ball’s flight.  Blatter increased his support for the new technology after
Ukraine was denied a goal against England last year in their
European Championship group match.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  