-- Soybeans Climb on Increased Demand From China; Wheat, Corn Drop
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-19T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/soybeans-climb-on-increased-demand-from-china-wheat-corn-drop.html
Soybean futures rose the most in
more than a month on signs of improved demand from China and
mounting concern that rains missed crops in the driest parts of
Argentina. Corn and wheat prices fell.  U.S. exporters sold 120,000 metric tons of soybeans to
China, the world’s largest buyer, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said today. Rain and thunderstorms in Argentina, the
world’s largest exporter after the U.S. and Brazil, probably
missed north-central and northwest Buenos Aires, forecaster
Telvent DTN said in a report today.  “Traders are optimistic we’re going to see a surge in
soybean sales,” with China resuming purchases after the
weeklong New Year holiday,  Dewey Strickler , the president of Ag
Watch Market Advisers in Franklin, Kentucky, said by telephone.
“There were some rains in Argentina, but traders were
disappointed with the coverage.”  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 3 percent to settle
at $14.5725 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the biggest advance for a most-active contract since Jan. 14.
Trading was about double the 100-day average, according to
figures compiled by Bloomberg. The market was closed yesterday
for the Presidents Day holiday.  Farmers in Argentina are delaying sales on expectations
that the depreciation of the peso against the dollar will
accelerate, boosting revenue for exporters, Argentine newspaper
Clarin reported yesterday. Farmers have sold 35 percent fewer
soybeans from the coming harvest than they did at this time last
year, Clarin said, citing Agriculture Ministry data.  Corn futures for May delivery fell 0.7 percent to $6.92 a
bushel in Chicago, the 11th decline in 12 sessions. The price is
down 6.5 percent since the end of January.  Soybean’s premium to corn has jumped to $7.6525 a bushel
after falling as low as $7.1325 on Feb. 12. The spread widened
to $7.76 a bushel on Feb. 7.  Wheat futures for May delivery declined 1.3 percent to
$7.3875 a bushel in Chicago. The most-active contract is down 5
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net , or
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  