-- Supreme Court to Review Aggregate Campaign Donation Limit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-19T19:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/supreme-court-to-review-aggregate-campaign-donation-limit.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will consider
a Republican challenge to federal limits on the total amount of
money individuals can give to candidates, political parties and
political committees every two years.  The justices said today they will hear an appeal from the
Republican National Committee and an Alabama voter, Shaun
McCutcheon, who says he would like to contribute more than the
$123,200 allowed under federal law.  A court ruling for the RNC and McCutcheon could overturn
limits on campaign contributions dating to 1971 and upheld by
the justices in their 1976 Buckley v. Valeo decision. The
justices three years ago threw out other campaign finance limits
passed by Congress, relaxing limits on corporate and union
political spending in the Citizens United case.  “It has become readily apparent that there are a number of
justices who are willing to usurp Congress’s role as legislator
when it comes to matter of campaign finance,” said  Tara Malloy ,
senior counsel with the Campaign Legal Center. The Washington-
based group, which supports limits on political giving, filed a
court brief in this case.  The case before the court doesn’t affect the maximum amount
donors can give to individual candidates, party committees or
PACs. Instead, it concerns the amount people can contribute to
those entities in total every two years.  Three-Judge Court  A three-judge U.S. District Court panel in Washington
 dismissed the case  in September after being urged to by the
Justice Department. The decision, written by Circuit Judge
 Janice Rogers Brown , said the court “cannot ignore the ability
of aggregate limits to prevent evasion” of caps on donations to
candidates.  Individual donors in 2013-14 can give a maximum of $123,200
during the two-year period, including a maximum of $48,600 to
federal candidates and $74,600 to political parties and
political action committees. The amounts are indexed every two
years for inflation.  Those limits are separate from the individual donation caps
of $2,600 per election to a candidate, $5,000 per year to a PAC
and $32,400 to a political party committee.  A high court decision overturning the aggregate limit would
allow individuals to contribute more than $3.5 million every two
years -- the maximum donation to each candidate and party,
according to the Campaign Legal Center.  Today’s case was filed by  James Bopp Jr ., the same lawyer
who filed the Citizens United case. He said that because
individuals can give unlimited donations to super-PACs and
nonprofit groups, there shouldn’t be a limit on the total amount
they can give to candidates and parties.  ‘Transparent Entities’  “The most accountable and most transparent entities, the
ones who should have the principal role in campaigns --
candidates and parties -- are the ones who are limited,” Bopp
said in an interview today. “We really crossed the Rubicon on
whether people can spend large sums of money on politics.”  Fred Wertheimer , president of Democracy 21, a Washington
advocacy group that supports limits on donations, said removing
the aggregate limits would make it easier for donors to evade
limits on how much they can give to each individual candidate.
Candidates who have enough campaign money often donate some of
theirs to colleagues.  That “would do extraordinary damage to the nation’s
ability to prevent the corruption of federal officeholders and
government decisions,” Wertheimer said.  David Keating, president of the Center for Competitive
Politics, an Alexandria, Virginia-based group that opposes
restrictions on campaign contributions, said he disagreed.  “The idea that candidates are going to be soliciting for
every candidate and their party is ridiculous,” Keating said.
“Candidates are looking out for themselves, not for everyone
else.”  Bopp said removing the limits would make it easier to hold
politicians accountable.  “You can’t vote against a super-PAC,” he said. “But if
money was going to candidates or political parties, if the
people didn’t like it, they could do something about it.”  The case is McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission,
12-536.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  