-- Sweden Averts Deflation in Sign Economy Weathers Euro Recession
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-19T08:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/sweden-averts-deflation-in-sign-economy-weathers-euro-recession.html
Sweden  escaped deflation  and the
jobless rate was unchanged in January, showing the biggest
Nordic economy may be weathering the demand slump in Europe, its
main trade partner.  Consumer prices were unchanged in the year after falling
0.1 percent the previous month,  Statistics Sweden  said today.
Economists estimated prices to remain unchanged, according to a
Bloomberg survey with 11 responses. Prices fell 0.8 percent  on
the month .  Adjusted for mortgage costs , the inflation rate was
unchanged at an annual 1 percent and prices fell 0.7 percent on
the  month  compared with an 0.3 percent increase in the prior
period.  Sweden’s $500 billion economy is vulnerable to the debt
crisis in Europe where countries are cutting spending to reduce
debt. Its exports, which account for about half of its output,
are primarily sold in Europe.  The unemployment rate, adjusted for seasonal variations,
was unchanged at 8 percent last month. Starting in January,
Statistics Sweden has  changed the way  it calculates the jobless
rate to improve accuracy and assure compatibility over time, it
said on Feb. 14.  Sweden’s central bank last week said it will keep its main
lending rate at 1 percent for about a year to speed up inflation
subdued by weak demand for the country’s sales abroad.  The Riksbank, after cutting rates in December for a fourth
time in a year, predicted underlying inflation will accelerate
gradually to “close to” 2 percent by the middle of next year.  Rate Forecast  “We still expect the Riksbank to cut rates to 0.75 percent
in April as unemployment continues rise and the krona continues
to strengthen,”  Elisabet Kopelman , an analyst at SEB AB in
Stockholm, said before the data was published. “It’s a very
close call given the Riksbank’s prediction that it will keep
rates unchanged.”  Sweden’s economy will grow 1.2 percent this year after an
0.9 percent expansion in 2012, according to the central bank’s
forecast.  “The Swedish economy is still being affected by the
economic crisis in the euro area,” the bank said in a
statement. “Unemployment is expected to rise slightly over the
year” as “resource utilization in the economy is now expected
to be lower than normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  