-- Swiss Stocks Advance to Highest Level Since June 2008
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-02-19T16:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/swiss-stocks-rise-before-german-economic-sentiment-report.html
Swiss stocks  climbed to their
highest level since June 2008 as a gauge of German economic
sentiment rose more than forecast.  Roche Holding AG posted the second-biggest contribution to
the benchmark  Swiss Market Index ’s advance. Schindler Holding AG
slid the most in four months after abandoning the profitability
target for its elevators and escalators business. Nobel Biocare
Holding AG lost 3.2 percent after Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Laube  said that its market will remain difficult in the
short term.  The SMI increased 1.1 percent to 7,579.5 at the close of
trading in Zurich. The gauge has rallied  11 percent  this year as
the Swiss franc depreciated against the euro. The broader Swiss
Performance Index gained 1 percent today.  “Economic sentiment is on the rebound,” said  Daniel Weston , chief investment officer at Aimed Capital Management LLC
in Munich, in e-mailed comments. “Investors are pleased with
the positive start to the year as equity markets have continued
to build momentum. Economic data is surprising on the upside and
volatility is low.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
index of German  investor and analyst expectations , which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
48.2 in February from 31.5 in January. Economists had forecast
the measure would climb to 35, according to the  median of 38
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Roche, Schindler  Roche gained 1.8 percent to 210.80 francs as the National
Institutes of Health in the U.S. said it plans to map the
brain’s activity to better understand how disorders affect the
organ. Roche is among the drugmakers developing treatments for
conditions such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and autism.  Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company which accounts
for 23 percent of  the SMI , added 1.6 percent to 64.10 francs.  Schindler Holding fell 1.4 percent to 138.70 francs after
saying it will no longer use its 14 percent margin target based
on earnings before interest and taxes. The company said its
elevators and escalators business will instead focus on winning
market share in China and India.  Nobel Biocare lost 32 centimes to 9.61 francs after saying,
“the company targets to modestly build market share and deliver
modest revenue growth.”  The world’s second-biggest maker of dental implants
reported  fourth-quarter net income  of 11.2 million euros ($15
million), beating the  average analyst estimate  of 9.55 million
euros as the company cut costs in Europe.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 36 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  