-- Sydney Dumpster Divers Find Data Outside Banks, Law Firms
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-19T04:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/sydney-dumpster-divers-find-data-outside-banks-law-firms.html
A dossier on a worker lawsuit,
detailing mental health and compensation demands, lay in a trash
bin outside a Sydney law office reflecting the risk to personal
information, a group focused on data destruction said.  The document was just one example of dozens of confidential
records found during a survey of 80 trash bins in Sydney earlier
this year, Robert Johnson, chief executive officer at the
Phoenix-based  National Association for Information Destruction ,
said in Sydney today.  About 40 percent of bank trash bins surveyed contained
sensitive financial records, according to the group. A quarter
of the containers at doctors’ offices had personal medical data
and a fifth of the receptacles at lawyers’ offices held some
private legal information. The industry-funded group said
companies must better manage data destruction and new laws would
do little to dissuade those focused on identify theft.  “We’re talking about people,” Johnson said at a press
conference. “Laws don’t stop that kind of behavior.”  Overall, 11 percent of the bins surveyed in Sydney had some
private or confidential information, according to the group. The
largest Australian city fared better than London, Toronto and
Madrid where NAID surveys found 40 percent of the sampled trash
contained sensitive data.  Credit Limits  Investigators were curtailed by Australian law, which
prohibits removal of the trash, unlike in Canada where people
give up ownership of anything put in a waste bin, Johnson said.  Outside doctors’ offices the survey found pap smear
results, blood tests and documents that were torn in half
showing workers knew they should have been destroyed, Johnson
said.  Bank waste bins contained information on individual
accounts, with numbers, account balances and credit limits,
making it easy for anyone who wanted to steal someone else’s
identity, according to the group.  The group didn’t identify any of the companies or firms
surveyed as that would put the focus on them, rather than the
behavior in the sectors, according to Johnson.  NAID is an international trade association for companies
providing information destruction services, with chapters in
Australia/New Zealand, Canada and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  