-- MTU Beats Earnings Targets as Plane Engines Help Forecast
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-19T11:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/mtu-beats-earnings-targets-as-civil-engine-sales-boost-outlook.html
MTU Aero Engines Holding AG ,
Germany’s largest aircraft-engine maker, said operating profit
beat its goals last year amid a jump in deliveries by plane
producers, and the company forecast more growth in 2013.  Adjusted operating profit totaled 374.3 million euros ($500
million), exceeding a target of about 370 million euros, the
Munich-based company said today in a statement. Sales rose 15
percent to 3.38 billion euros, matching analysts’ estimates.  MTU has benefited from rising production of  Airbus SAS ’s
single-aisle A320 airliners, through its involvement in the
International Aero Engines joint venture, and of  Boeing Co. ’s
777 model, for which the German company is a supplier in
partnership with  General Electric Co . Military activities also
came in above expectations as the German air force supported
forces in Afghanistan, MTU said today.  “We revised all of our forecasts upwards in the course of
the year and met all these ambitious targets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Egon Behle  said in a statement. “This gratifying result
has taken us one big set closer to realizing our goal of 6
billion euros in revenue by 2020.”  MTU  rose  as much as 5.1 percent to 72.55 euros, the biggest
intraday jump since April 25, and was trading up 3 percent at
12:16 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained 3.4 percent this
year, valuing MTU at about 3.7 billion euros.  ‘Positive’ Industry  “The market environment remains very positive,”  Markus Turnwald , a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank, said in a note
to clients. “Given the conservative track record of the
management, we see room for outlook upgrade within this year.”  Revenue, adjusted earnings and net income will probably all
rise 10 percent to 12 percent this year, MTU said. Commercial-
aircraft engine sales are expected to increase 20 percent to 25
percent, or in the “mid-teens” excluding acquisitions or
disposals, it said. Spare parts sales will grow about 15
percent, with military sales stable.  Engine revenue will increase as MTU delivers more V2500
engines powering Airbus A320s, GEnx engines used on Boeing 787s
and 747-8s, and GP7200s for A380s, Chief Financial Officer
 Reiner Winkler  said in a statement.  MTU expects to ship parts for 200 GEnx engines this year,
even with the grounding of Boeing 787 Dreamliners, Behle said.
The flight stoppage, which began Jan. 16 because of electrical
faults that remain unresolved, hasn’t affected the German engine
maker, which has a 6.9 work share on the turbine, Behle said at
a Munich press conference.  Dreamliner Engines  Production of the GEnx continues as  Boeing  is still
building the 787 Dreamliner, Behle said, with the engine maker’s
forecast assuming all turbines will be handed over. A halt in
manufacturing of the twin-aisle plane would probably be followed
by a stoppage on the engine side, he said.  Deliveries of Airbus Military A400M transport planes,
delayed partly because of faults with the TP400D engine built by
a group that also includes  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc  and  Safran
SA , will no longer be affected by difficulties with the turbo-
propeller, Behle said. France is the lead customer and due to
receive the first aircraft before mid-year.  Engines for the first three A400Ms will need to be upgraded
to introduce a gear-box fix developed last year, Behle said. The
modification became necessary because of a combination of
factors, including a material flaw and by strain placed on the
gearbox by the massive, eight-bladed propeller, he said.  MTU’s order backlog last year rose 8.9 percent a record
11.5 billion euros “despite the fact that it does not yet
include a certain number of orders,” Behle said.  Many of the deals are linked to sales of geared turbofans
being developed by  United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt & Whitney
for applications such as the  Bombardier Inc . CSeries, where
engine certification is imminent, and the A320neo. Sales of the
turbine type exceed 3,000 units and are beating expectations,
Behle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Munich at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  