-- U.K. Power Regulator Warns Bills Will Rise as Plants Shut
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-02-19T12:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/u-k-power-regulator-warns-bills-will-rise-as-plants-shut.html
U.K. household energy bills are set
to rise, with the share of generating capacity from gas doubling
as aging oil and coal-fired stations close, the regulator said.  About 10 percent of capacity will retire through April,
forcing the U.K. to shift from coal and oil to gas, Ofgem Chief
Executive Officer  Alistair Buchanan  said. Britain will have to
raise the proportion of power it gets from gas to 60 percent
over the next five years from 30 percent now, he said.  “Things are going to be very tight in three years’ time,”
Buchanan said today on a conference call. “People have been
asking me, ‘Well, where’s the new nuclear, where’s the new clean
coal, where’s the new carbon capture?’ It’s not there, and it
won’t be there this side of 2020,” he said.  Buchanan’s comments lend urgency to government efforts to
push energy market changes through Parliament, boost household
efficiency measures such as insulation and complete talks with
 Electricite de France SA  on a price for new nuclear plants. The
Energy Bill seeks to stimulate 110 billion pounds ($170 billion)
of investment that the government estimates is needed to replace
aging power stations and upgrade the electricity grid by 2020.  Iberdrola SA Chairman  Ignacio Galan  said last week the U.K.
risks blackouts this decade if it doesn’t hurry through measures
to spur a capacity market intended to pay generators to make
plants available at times of peak demand. That’s a view backed
by  Lakis Athanasiou , an independent equity analyst in London.  Shortages  “The government has destroyed the free market for new
build capacity and there won’t be any new plants until there is
a decision on the capacity mechanism,” he said. “If there’s a
cold winter in continental Europe and low nuclear availability,
there could be shortages as early as next winter.”  While blackouts and brownouts aren’t likely, the margin of
reserve power will drop to below 5 percent in three years from
15 percent now, Buchanan said. That’s happening at a time when
world markets for liquefied natural gas face growing demand and
slower development of supply than anticipated, he said.  “We’re going to have to go shopping around the world for
our gas, and there’s going to be a period when global LNG is
going to be quite tight,” Buchanan said. “It’s horrendous
serendipity that just at the time we have a squeeze on our power
station capacity and turn to gas, the global markets may have a
squeeze on their LNG.”  Financial Crisis  Buchanan didn’t blame government for the squeeze, saying
the financial crisis had “walloped” the country after it had
already decided to close aging coal and oil-fired plants for
environmental reasons, and while it was pursuing new or untested
technologies such as offshore wind power and new nuclear plants.  “The reforms we are introducing to the electricity market
through the Energy Bill are aimed at plugging this gap in order
to keep the lights on,” the Department of Energy and Climate
Change said today in an e-mailed statement. “Around one-fifth
of our aging power stations are due to close over the next
decade, so as Ofgem highlights, we cannot afford to be
complacent and may face a looming energy gap.”  Brian Potskowski , a power analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, estimates about 5 gigawatts of capacity will shut by
April. A similar level closed last year. While that has been
expected since European Union emissions rules were enforced in
2008, shutdowns have accelerated as producers used up generating
hours they were allocated by burning cheap coal to boost profit.  “While the removal of this capacity will cause the market
to tighten, persistent weakness in power consumption along with
the continued growth of renewables means that we do not have to
fear power shortages this year,” Potskowski said by e-mail.  While renewables, especially wind, are doing “an orderly
job,” it’s difficult to get to the 33 gigawatts of capacity the
government is targeting by 2020, Buchanan said. “Gas shale is
an interesting story, but it’s one for the 2020s and beyond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  