-- U.S. Insurers Resist Push to Make Gun Owners Get Coverage
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-02-19T17:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/u-s-insurers-resist-push-to-make-gun-owners-get-coverage.html
U.S. insurers are resisting a push
by state legislators to mandate that gun owners buy coverage
tied to the weapons’ risk, saying such laws may encourage
irresponsible behavior.  Requiring the policies would be impractical and could fail
to limit gun violence, the  American Insurance Association , a
property-casualty trade group, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It could have the opposite of its intended effect,” the
AIA said in a statement. The laws may lead to reckless actions
by gun owners who “will not have their own assets, property or
income at stake,” the group said. “It would be a sad irony if
the outcome of such a mandate was more gun violence.”  Lawmakers are seeking to limit damage caused by guns after
the massacre of 20 students and six educators at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in December. A gun-
control bill in Massachusetts would fine firearms owners who
don’t purchase coverage, and a California legislator has
supported a  measure  that he said would require the insurance.
Lawmakers behind the proposals said they wouldn’t make insurers
liable for damages from criminal acts.  “I’m really looking at people who are injured as a result
of somebody’s negligence in the way that they store a gun or the
way that they handle a gun,” Democratic state Representative
 David Linsky , who proposed the bill in Massachusetts, said in a
phone interview. Insurers should set rates that reflect the
types and number of weapons owned by a policyholder and how the
guns are stored, he said.  Gun Questions  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co., the biggest seller of U.S. residential coverage, is among
carriers that don’t ask about firearms in their standard
homeowner’s policy application.  “State Farm does not know whether its customers own
guns,” Arlene Lester, a spokeswoman for the Bloomington,
Illinois-based insurer, said in an e-mail. “We would become
aware that a customer owns firearms if they asked us to cover a
high-value gun or collection.”  A typical homeowner’s policy will provide coverage for
negligence such as an accidental gun discharge, the AIA said.  “Property and casualty insurance does not and cannot cover
gun crimes,” AIA said in the statement. The group represents
approximately 300 insurers that write more than $117 billion in
premiums each year.  Even if states mandate that gun owners purchase liability
protection, they can’t require companies to offer that coverage,
said  Bob Hartwig , president of the Insurance Information
Institute, an industry group.  “Insurers will not insure illegal acts,” Hartwig said.  Illegal Acts  Democrat Assemblyman  Phil Ting , a co-sponsor of the
California legislation, said the bill wouldn’t force insurers to
provide coverage for illegal or intentional acts.  The National Rifle Association, an opponent of gun-control
laws that says it has more than 4 million individuals as
members, offers liability coverage through Lockton Affinity LLC,
an affiliate of closely held Lockton Cos. Lockton declined to
comment on its underwriting practices.  The NRA’s policies range from collector’s insurance to
coverage for hunting or shooting-range accidents, according to
the group’s website. The NRA didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Tad Montross , chief executive officer of reinsurer General
Re, a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said in
a January  report , that insurers can promote the use of trigger
locks and safety training.  “The insurance industry can’t change the number of guns in
existence,” Montross wrote. “We can influence how they are
stored and encourage training so they are used safely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net  