-- Tudor Alumnus McMillan Said to Hire Amy Lee for Firm
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-02-19T10:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/tudor-alumnus-mcmillan-said-to-hire-amy-lee-for-firm.html
Andrew McMillan , who ran a commodity
team at Tudor Investment Corp., hired Singapore lawyer  Amy Lee 
to help run the investment firm he plans to start this year,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Lee, currently head of Hogan Lovells Lee & Lee, will become
chief executive officer of Stewart Asia Investment Ltd., said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The Singapore-based firm will initially
run a commodity hedge fund and plans to add other Asia-focused
strategies, they said. McMillan and Lee declined to comment.  McMillan is starting his firm as the Asian hedge fund
industry seeks to recover from $3 billion in withdrawals last
year, according to an estimate by Singapore-based Eurekahedge
Pte. The number of new funds starting out of Asia fell 28
percent in 2012 even as regional managers beat global peers.  “Appetite for Asia funds is now starting to increase again
as the prospect of a hard landing in China diminishes,” said
 Ronen Schwartzman , founder of Ten Capital Advisors LLC, a New
York-based firm that advises clients on hedge fund investment.  Lee, 53, runs a joint venture between Singapore-based law
firm Lee & Lee and Hogan Lovells, according to the firm’s
website. Lee Kim Yew, her father, co-founded Lee & Lee with his
brother  Lee Kuan Yew , the first prime minister of Singapore, and
Kwa Geok Choo, the late wife of Lee Kuan Yew, the  website  says.  McMillan’s Team  McMillan, 47, ran a team of eight people at Tudor and left
the hedge fund at the end of December after about a decade, said
one of the people. About half of his team may join his new
venture, the person said.  Craig Mitchell , 44, a former senior vice president at Los
Angeles-based The Capital Group Companies, Inc., will also join
Stewart Asia to run a strategy investing in Asian equities,
according to one of the people.  Tudor, the $11.6 billion hedge fund run by billionaire  Paul Tudor Jones , will be an investor in McMillan’s new firm, a
person familiar with his departure said last month.  New Zealand-born McMillan joined Tudor in 2002 from Morgan
Stanley where he was the head of European gas and power trading
in London. He previously worked at Barclays Plc. McMillan
graduated from New Zealand’s Lincoln University with a
bachelor’s degree in agriculture.  Lee graduated with a bachelor’s degree in law from the
National University of Singapore in 1982, according to her
biography on the  website  of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd., where she
is a non-executive director.  Commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials rose  4.5  percent in January, the
biggest monthly increase since August. The gauge has increased
4.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  