-- Humana Falls in Early Trading on Medicare Advantage Rates
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-19T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/humana-falls-in-early-trading-on-medicare-advantage-rates.html
Humana Inc. , the second-biggest
private Medicare insurer, declined the most in three months
after saying the U.S. government’s preliminary Medicare
Advantage payment rates were less than the company expected.  Humana  dropped  6.4 percent to $73.01 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day drop since Nov. 7. The Louisville,
Kentucky-based company said it is “closely analyzing all
operational avenues” under the new rate proposal after earlier
this month predicting it could boost revenue from Medicare
membership next year.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services said Feb. 15
that proposed Medicare Advantage rates will fall by more than 2
percent in 2014. Humana said in a  corporate filing  today that it
may see a “mid-single-digit” decline after expecting a “flat
to slightly down” drop. The rate cuts won’t be made final until
April 1, leaving room for insurers to push for changes, said
 Jennifer Lynch , an analyst with BMO Capital Markets.  “There is some language in the advanced notice that leaves
the door open for improvements to the final rate,” Lynch said
in a note to clients. “Many changes are scheduled to take place
in 2014, and we believe it is in the best interest of the CMS to
limit program disruption in such a transformative year.”  Medicare Advantage is a program sold by commercial insurers
that covers and helps coordinate medical services, physician
fees and hospitalizations.  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  is the
largest Medicare Advantage provider.  The proposed rates also sent other insurers’ shares down.
UnitedHealth Group Inc., the largest U.S. health insurance
provider, fell 1.2 percent to $56.66 and Cigna Corp. declined
1.1 percent to $60.43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  