-- Hungarian Yields Drop Most in Two Weeks as Rate-Cut Bets Rise
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-19T16:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/hungarian-yields-slump-to-5-week-low-as-rate-cut-bets-increase.html
Hungary’s bond yields fell the most
in more than two weeks and borrowing costs  plunged  at a
Treasury-bill auction on speculation the central bank will cut
interest rates next week to counter the deepening recession.  Traders added to bets on monetary easing and yields
declined since reports showed on Feb. 14 gross domestic product
slumped the most in three years in the fourth quarter and
inflation slowed in January. The central bank, which cut rates
to a two-year low in December, will be more willing to ease once
Andras Simor’s term as president ends next month, analysts at
Barclays Plc said after talking with officials in Budapest.  “Our main take-away from the meetings was a more dovish
than previously expected view on monetary policy,”  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based economist at Barclays, wrote in an e-
mailed report today.  Yields on the government’s 10-year forint bonds slid 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.22 percent, the
biggest drop since Jan 31. The forint gained 0.3 percent to
290.79 per euro by 4:43 p.m. in Budapest, climbing for a second
day.  The government sold 65 billion forint ($223 million) in
three-month Treasury bills at today’s sale, 15 billion forint
more than planned. The average yield was 5.17 percent, the
lowest since May 2010, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency on Bloomberg.  Simor Successor  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has lowered the benchmark rate by a
cumulative 1.5 percentage points since August to 5.5 percent,
the lowest level since 2010. The Monetary Council will deliver a
25 basis-point cut on Feb. 26, according to all 10 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Rate-setters will continue with 25 basis-
point cuts until 4 percent, Hewitt said.  Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy, who has urged the central
bank to better help the government boost growth, is “likely”
to succeed Simor at the central bank, Hewitt said. Four rate-
setters appointed by Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s ruling party
have outvoted Simor and his two deputies, who opposed easing, in
each month since August.  Emerging-market stocks gained today as improved German
economic sentiment lifted demand for riskier assets.  Hungarian forward-rate agreements fixing interest in 12
months slid seven basis points to 4.16 percent, the lowest level
on a closing basis since May 2008. The FRA contracts traded 128
basis points below the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, the
widest spread since Jan. 3.  “The GDP and CPI data strengthened rate cut expectations,
which helps bonds,”  Sandor Jobbagy , a Budapest-based analyst at
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit, said in e-mailed comments
to Bloomberg today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  