-- Tunisia Premier Jbeli Quits After Failing to Form New Government
-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-20T05:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/tunisia-downgraded-by-s-p-as-political-tensions-hamper-growth.html
Tunisian Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli 
announced his resignation last night after failing to form a
technocratic government to ease political tensions after the
assassination of an opposition leader.  Jbeli announced his plan to step down at the presidential
palace in Tunis in a speech carried live. He had promised to
quit if his plan didn’t work, and said the decision was in
“fulfillment of my oath before our citizens.”  The premier sought to form an above-party government after
the Feb. 6 killing of Chukri Beleid in an effort to stabilize
Tunisia, where the wave of Arab unrest began with the overthrow
of  Zine El Abidine Ben Ali  in January 2011. Jbeli’s own party,
the Islamist Ennahda movement, resisted the move. Thousands of
its supporters rallied earlier this week against the proposal.  Standard & Poor’s pushed Tunisia’s sovereign credit rating
deeper into junk status earlier in the day, citing increased
political risks after the death of Beleid. It lowered long-term
foreign and local-currency ratings by one level to BB-, three
steps below investment grade, with a negative outlook signaling
further reductions.  The murder of Democratic Patriots party leader Beleid,
which his wife blamed on Ennahda, sparked clashes between
thousands of protesters and the security forces. The unrest
marked the most serious crisis in Tunisia since protests more
than two years ago began the so-called Arab Spring uprisings.  Transition Risks  The cut was the third by the ratings company since Ben
Ali’s ouster. The Tunisian economy, which relies on agriculture,
exports, tourism and mining, is struggling to recover from its
first contraction in at least two decades. The budget deficit
widened to a 12-year high 6.4 percent of economic output last
year, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  “Risks to Tunisia’s transition to democracy have increased
markedly in recent weeks,” S&P analyst Patrick Raleigh wrote in
a report. Disputes over the technocrat government plan have
highlighted deep divisions within the coalition that impaired
its ability to “take corrective measures against a weakening
economic and financial backdrop.”  The nation, which is set to hold elections in June, is
seeking to sign a 1.78 billion Tunisian-dinar ($1.2 billion)
financing arrangement, the International Monetary Fund said Feb.
5. That follows loans of $500 million each from the World Bank
and the African Development Bank in 2012. Tunisia’s 46 percent
ratio of debt to gross domestic product compares with 68.5
percent for Spain.  The country was the only Middle Eastern nation to witness
an advance in credit risk last year. Five-year credit default
swaps jumped 87 basis points to 355, in contrast with a regional
average decline of 62 basis points to 267, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Tunisia’s CDSs were at 350 on Jan. 4.  Still, Tunisia has no foreign currency liabilities maturing
until 2017 other than the $330 million of euro-bonds due this
year, for which the government has cash to pay, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  