-- Turkey Central Bank Decision of Monetary Policy Committee (Text)
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2013-02-19T14:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/turkey-central-bank-decision-of-monetary-policy-committee-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the Turkish central bank’s monetary policy decision today. The
statement was released on the central bank’s website.  Meeting Date: February 19, 2013
Participating Committee Members Erdem Başçı (Governor), Ahmet
Faruk Aysan, Murat Çetinkaya, Turalay Kenç, Necati Şahin,
Abdullah Yavaş, Mehmet Yörükoğlu.  The Monetary Policy Committee (the Committee) has decided
to adjust the short term interest rates as follows:
a) One-week repo rate (the policy rate) has been kept at 5.5
percent.  b) Overnight Interest Rates: Borrowing rate has been cut from
4.75 percent to 4.50 percent while lending rate has been cut
from 8.75 percent to 8.50 percent. Interest rate on borrowing
facilities provided for primary dealers via repo transactions
has been cut from 8.25 percent to 8 percent.  c) Late Liquidity Window Interest Rates (between 4:00 p.m. -
5:00 p.m.): Borrowing rate has been kept at 0 percent while
lending rate has been cut from 11.75 percent to 11.50 percent.  Recent data confirm that the rebalancing between the
domestic and external demand continues as envisaged. Domestic
demand follows a moderate pace while exports continue to
increase despite weak global activity. Overall, current account
deficit continues to decline gradually.  The Committee has indicated that credit growth displays a
significant acceleration amid strong capital inflows. In order
to contain the risks on financial stability, the proper policy
would be to keep interest rates at low levels while continuing
with macroprudential measures. Accordingly, it was deemed
appropriate to implement a measured tightening through reserve
requirements, while delivering a limited downward shift in the
interest rate corridor.  Ongoing uncertainties regarding the global economy
necessitate the monetary policy to remain flexible in both
directions. Therefore, the impact of the measures undertaken on
credit, domestic demand, and inflation expectations will be
monitored closely and the funding amount will be adjusted in
either direction, as needed.  The Committee has indicated that inflation will continue to
fall despite the recent increase in oil prices. Core inflation
indicators are also expected to follow a mild course. In the
meantime, the impact of increases in administered prices on the
pricing behavior will be monitored closely.  It should be emphasized that any new data or information
may lead the Committee to revise its stance.  The summary of the Monetary Policy Committee Meeting will
be released within five working days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  