-- Mursi Draws Salafi Ire Ahead of Egyptian Parliament Vote
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-19T15:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/mursi-draws-salafi-ire-ahead-of-egyptian-parliament-vote.html
Egyptian President  Mohamed Mursi 
sought to placate Islamist allies and denied he planned to fire
his army chief, as a third day of strikes in a key Suez Canal
city added to strains on his government.  Mursi moved to repair fraying ties with the Salafi Nour
party, adherents of an ultra-orthodox form of Islam who finished
second behind the Muslim Brotherhood’s party in the last
parliamentary election. One Nour official had reacted angrily
yesterday to being fired as a Mursi adviser, and another quit as
aide to the president in sympathy.  Mursi spokesman  Yasser Ali  stressed the president’s
“respect and appreciation” for parties including Al Nour,
which he said is “at the heart” of Egypt’s political life. The
president’s office also dismissed unspecified media reports that
he was about to remove Defense Minister  Abdelfatah Al-Seesi , and
praised his “patriotic and exceptional leadership role.”  The Salafi row risks depriving Mursi of an ally amid
opposition pressure to form a unity government and amend the
Islamist-drafted constitution. Speculation over the army chief
was a reminder of another factor Mursi must weigh as he
struggles to stabilize Egypt and revive its economy.  Protests in Port Said, where violence last month led Al-
Seesi to warn of the “collapse of the state,” were joined by
20,000 workers as factories shut down, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported today. The demonstrators are demanding
justice for those killed during the clashes.  Unity Government  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index  declined for a fifth day, and
the pound was little changed from yesterday’s record low. The
country’s foreign reserves fell to $13.6 billion last month,
more than 60 percent down since the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , and a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan has
been repeatedly delayed.  Mursi has rejected calls for a unity government and said
parliamentary elections due in the coming months will help
restore stability. That prospect receded yesterday when the
constitutional court ordered changes to a draft election law.  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood “is going for broke” in the
election, and can’t take the support of Salafis for granted,
said  Shadi Hamid , research director at the Brookings Doha
Center.  “The Salafis have always been concerned about Brotherhood
domination,” he said. “If the liberals were smart, they’d find
a way to create a wedge” between the two.  Alam El-Din, Mursi’s former Salafi adviser, denied any
wrongdoing in his post and said his firing was a political move.  Twitter War  His departure sparked a Twitter war between Brotherhood and
Nour supporters. Nour Spokesman Nader Bakkar said that if the
president is going to dismiss people based on “suspicions,”
then he too should resign based on “suspicions of the
involvement of some of his employees in the willful killing of
demonstrators.”  Before the statement by the presidency, the army’s
spokesman, Ahmed Mohamed Ali, had slammed reports that his chief
al-Seesi would be dismissed, and urged the media to avoid
inaccurate reports about the military that could “jeopardize
national security.”  The army, which ran the country after Mubarak’s fall, has
stayed on the sidelines since handing power to Mursi. It has
stepped in only to protect state installations amid an explosion
of violence directed at Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood in the
past month. Aside from that, it has avoided getting drawn into
street clashes, and did nothing to enforce a curfew Mursi
ordered in three Suez Canal provinces.  “It’s definitely in the military’s interest to moderate
the Brotherhood’s behavior and be a kind of internal check on
how far they go,” Hamid said. “I think they probably see that
as a potential role.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  