-- Usiminas Gains After CEO Says in Talks to Sell Unit: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-19T17:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/usiminas-gains-after-ceo-says-in-talks-to-sell-unit-rio-mover.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the Brazilian steelmaker that posted losses in every quarter
of 2012, gained after saying it’s in talks to sell its
automotive unit.  Usiminas, as the Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based company is
known,  rose  1.3 percent to 9.93 reais at 1:51 p.m. in Sao Paulo,
reversing a fall earlier of as much as 1.5 percent. The stock
traded at 69 percent of the three-month daily average volume,
according to Bloomberg data.  The company is aiming to reach an agreement to sell its
Automotiva Usiminas unit, which produces stamped steel parts for
the auto industry, in the first half of the year, Chief
Executive Officer  Julian Eguren  told investors during a
conference call today.  “We have an ongoing process,” he said. “The management
expects to realize the sale of some of the non-core assets in
the first half.”  Usiminas, which boosted steel prices to distributors by an
average 5 percent in January, is working to extend the increases
to its industrial customers by April, Sergio Leite, the
company’s commercial vice president, said today during the same
call. That would be the second steel price increase for the
company’s clients since July, he said.  Usiminas posted late yesterday a fourth-quarter net loss of
323.8 million reais ($165.5 million), more than twice the loss
estimate excluding some items of 122.8 million reais, the
average of six analysts in a Bloomberg  survey . The quarterly
loss was the fourth consecutive for the company and the biggest
annual since at least 1990, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  