-- Venezuela Celebrates Chavez Return, Plans Economic Policy
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-19T18:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/venezuela-celebrates-chavez-return-as-measures-readied.html
Venezuelans prayed and set off
fireworks yesterday after President  Hugo Chavez  returned to
Caracas after two months of cancer treatment in Cuba.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  and government ministers held
hands in a prayer service broadcast on state television late
yesterday and said new measures would be announced today against
speculators. The government seeks to fight black-market currency
trading that has driven the unofficial exchange rate to more
than 23 bolivars per dollar, according to Lechugaverde.com, a
website that tracks the country’s currency in the black market.
The government on Feb. 8 devalued the regulated rate 32 percent
from 4.3 bolivars per dollar to 6.3 bolivars.  “The corrupt right wing wants to damage the republic by
attacking its currency,” Maduro said, without providing further
details. He said Chavez was being held in a military hospital
“like just another man of the people.”  The former paratrooper arrived in Caracas at 2:30 a.m.
local time yesterday and was immediately taken to the hospital
near the capital’s downtown to continue treatment, government
officials said. Supporters massed outside the hospital to
celebrate the leader’s arrival. His surprise return touched off
speculation he’ll soon step down and hand power to Maduro.  Political Uncertainty  Officials have been struggling to run affairs in South
America’s biggest oil exporter since Chavez missed a scheduled
Jan. 10 swearing-in ceremony, plunging the nation into a period
of legal and political uncertainty. Chavez is now likely to take
the oath in a private ceremony, clearing the way for him to hand
power to Maduro while elections are organized within 30 days, as
mandated by the constitution, said Margarita Lopez Maya, a
historian at Central University in Caracas.  “It’s possible this return will be the beginning of a
transition process,” she said yesterday in a phone interview.
“From the photos it’s clear that he isn’t in a condition to
govern.”  Chavez’s return “significantly increases the possibility
of elections,”  Diego Moya-Ocampos , a political risk analyst at
IHS Global Insight and a former top aide in the attorney
general’s office under Chavez in 2000, said in a phone interview
from London yesterday. “Elections are a given this year.”  About 100 people gathered across the street from the
military hospital in Caracas to celebrate Chavez’s return with
chants and vuvuzelas. Hundreds of supporters also gathered in
Caracas’s Plaza Bolivar central square.  Photos, Twitter  Apart from photos released last week and yesterday’s
Twitter messages in which he proclaimed he was returning to the
“Venezuelan fatherland” and “clinging to Christ,” Chavez
hasn’t been seen or heard from since traveling to Cuba Dec. 10
for his fourth surgery in 20 months.  “We wanted him back so bad,” Susana Velasco, a 56-year-
old radiology student, said outside the military hospital
yesterday as she waved a Venezuelan flag. “The opposition
wanted him to return in a coffin, but here he is. We haven’t
seen him but we know he’s back.”  Asked if the government would provide new images of Chavez,
Information Minister  Ernesto Villegas  said photos and news have
so far been criticized by the political opposition.  “First they’d ask for the photo, then you present the
photo and it’s false. If you present a video, they’ll say it’s
old or false,” Villegas, who said he hadn’t seen Chavez yet,
said in an interview yesterday on Union Radio. “If you bring
Chavez, they’ll say it’s not Chavez. They’ll say it’s a clone,
they’ll ask for the finger print or a blood test to verify if
it’s Chavez.”  Difficult Recovery  Questioned on plans to swear in Chavez for his new term,
Villegas said the government is focused on celebrating the
return of Chavez, whose recovery continues to be “complex” and
“difficult.”  “I want him to hit the streets and put people on alert,
let them get to work,” said Fanny Gutierrez, a 57-year-old
former store owner, who wore a Chavez pin on a necklace around
her neck. “If he hasn’t died, then he’s going forward. If God
sent him again, it’s for a reason. He came here because he’s
getting better.”  Maduro Support  Maduro had 50 percent support compared with 36 percent for
opposition Governor  Henrique Capriles Radonski , according to a
survey by Caracas-based polling company Hinterlaces published
yesterday on the front-page of state-run newspaper Correo del
Orinoco.  The poll, whose margin of error is 2.9 percentage points,
was taken Jan. 30 to Feb. 9. That’s mostly before the Feb. 8
devaluation of the bolivar. While the currency measure seeks to
close a budget deficit larger than that of the U.S., it also
entails risks for Maduro as he tries to solidify support with
Chavez’s base among the poor. Economists expect the devaluation
to pressure inflation, already running at 22 percent, and worsen
shortages of goods from toilet paper to cars.  The yield on the government’s benchmark dollar bonds due
2027 fell one basis points to 8.92 percent at 12:55 p.m. in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price
rose 0.07 cent to 102.67 cents on the dollar. Markets in the
U.S. were closed yesterday for the Presidents’ Day holiday.  “The return of Chavez is a non-event,”  Victor Sierra ,
managing partner and head of sales and trading for emerging
market fixed income at Torino Capital LLC in New York, said
today in an e-mailed response response to questions. “We still
don’t have any further information on his health or transition
process.”  Bonds Gain  Chavez’s absence and deteriorating health triggered a 35.4
percent rally on Venezuelan dollar bonds over the past year as
investors boosted bets he’ll be unable to complete another term,
opening the door for a new regime that will introduce more
market-friendly policies.  Venezuela’s bonds had the third-best performance among
emerging markets in the past 12 months, after the Ivory Coast
and Belize, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index.  “It’s hard to know what’s next,” David Smilde, a
sociologist at the University of Georgia who wrote a book about
Chavez’s rule, said in a phone interview. “Chavez supporters
may think it’s a new stage in his recovery while the other side
may think that Chavez has come back for his last weeks.”  Before flying to Cuba, Chavez urged Venezuelans to vote for
Maduro, a 50-year-old former bus driver and union leader, should
he die or step down because of ill health.  Maduro has been running affairs in Chavez’s absence amid
charges by the opposition that the government is riding
roughshod over the constitution, which it says requires National
Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  to serve as a caretaker
until Chavez is able to resume his duties.  ‘Disingenuous’  “It would be disingenuous to think that Chavez is in a
full recovery because he came back to Caracas,” Nicmer Evans, a
self-professed socialist and political scientist at Central
University, said in an interview broadcast on Union Radio
yesterday. “His health continues to be delicate.”  The government on Feb. 15 released pictures of Chavez in a
hospital reading the Cuban Communist party Granma newspaper with
two of his daughters. Villegas said on the same day that Chavez
is suffering from a “delicate” respiratory infection that has
left him speechless and requires the use of a tracheal tube.  Unlike the government’s procedure after past medical visits
to Cuba, no images of Chavez’s return to Venezuela have been
released or broadcast.  The president is in communication with Cabinet members by
writing and made the decision to devalue the currency this
month, Technology Minister  Jorge Arreaza , who is also his son-
in-law, said Feb. 15.  “Hopefully the president’s return means that Mr. Maduro
and his ministers can get to work,” Capriles wrote in a Twitter
message yesterday. “There are thousands of problems to
resolve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  