-- Wells Fargo Hires MetLife’s Leopold for Health Push
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-19T20:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/wells-fargo-hires-metlife-s-leopold-for-health-push.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  hired Dr.  Ronald Leopold  from MetLife Inc. to oversee a medical-benefits push as
the largest U.S. home lender expands amid President Barack
Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Leopold, who was national medical director at MetLife, will
run the newly created Health & Productivity National Practice,
which helps the bank’s customers find medical plans for
employees that may be less expensive and encourages workers to
adopt healthy habits, according to a statement today from San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo. He’ll be based in Atlanta.  Wells Fargo is seeking to expand its insurance brokerage,
the world’s fifth-largest, by helping companies navigate the new
law. Leopold, 54, said in an interview that he’ll help clients
design programs to improve the health of workers and cushion
cost increases stemming from the Affordable Care Act, designed
to extend coverage to millions of Americans through exchanges
run by states and the federal government.  “What the industry is reckoning with is what seems to be
an inevitable jump up in the required costs,” Leopold said.
“Employers are going to need to focus a whole lot more on
getting their populations a lot healthier.”  Wells Fargo  was little changed at $35.18 as of 2:45 p.m. in
New York. It has gained 2.9 percent this year.  Companies may encourage employees to eat foods that are
more healthful and to exercise, and they may also provide
medical screenings, Leopold said.  Leopold, who has a medical degree from Jefferson Medical
College and an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School of Business, said healthier employees can be more
productive. They are less likely to miss work for illnesses or
to become disabled, he said.  “The sicker a workforce, the greater the rates of
absenteeism from sickness and short- and long-term disability,”
he said. “As we look at a population that’s getting older and
also faces challenges like obesity, employers are also looking
at a real productivity challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  