-- Two Ex-Xinhua Finance Board Members Admit to Tax Crime
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-19T18:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/two-ex-xinhua-finance-board-members-admit-to-tax-crime.html
Two former board members of Xinhua
Finance Ltd. pleaded guilty to a charge of conspiring to
obstruct the U.S. Internal Revenue Service as part of a deal
with prosecutors to drop insider-trading allegations.  Shelly Singhal , 45, admitted today in federal court in
Washington that he conspired to hide about $3.5 million in
forgiven debt from the IRS for  Dennis Pelino , a fellow board
member, and  Loretta Fredy Bush , the company’s former chief
executive officer.  Pelino, 65, pleaded guilty to the same conspiracy charge on
Feb. 15 as Bush did two days earlier. All three face as much as
five years in prison when sentenced April 29.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three defendants were indicted on May 10, 2011, for
allegedly using various entities to disguise the sale of shares
in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and investors, and to engage in insider
trading. They were also accused of manipulating the company’s
balance sheet to avoid taking so-called impairment charges.  Mail Fraud  Under the indictment, all three defendants faced four
charges of mail fraud, each of which carried a maximum penalty
of 20 years in prison. In 2011, the three pleaded not guilty to
the charges.  As part of the plea agreements, prosecutors said they’ll
drop charges of conspiracy, mail fraud and making false
statements.  Bush, 54, co-founded Xinhua Finance with Pelino in 1999.
She was the company’s chief executive officer and vice chairman
of its board of directors until January 2009, according to the
indictment. She lives in San Francisco, prosecutors said.  Pelino, of Miami Beach, Florida, was chairman of the
compensation committee and a member of the audit and investment
committees, according to the indictment, and Singhal, of Newport
Beach, California, was chairman of Xinhua Finance’s audit
committee and a member of its compensation and investment
committees.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 