-- Won Rebounds on Stock Inflows Amid Currency Conflict; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-19T02:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/won-rebounds-on-stock-inflows-amid-currency-conflict-bonds-gain.html
South Korea’s won rebounded from
yesterday’s biggest decline in a week after foreign investors
pumped money into local stocks even as the central bank flagged
risks to the economy from a weaker yen.  Overseas funds bought $30 million Korean shares than they
sold yesterday, taking inflows this month to $560 million,
exchange data show. They pulled $1.7 billion from local equities
in January. Almost 58 percent of respondents to the Bank of
Korea’s bi-annual survey published yesterday said currency
conflict was a risk to the economy.  Equity outflows “appear to have reversed with around $500
million inflows month to date,”  Mitul Kotecha , global head of
foreign-exchange strategy in Hong Kong at Credit Agricole CIB,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The won climbed 0.1 percent to 1,081.53 per dollar as of
11:11 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell 0.4 percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 8.
It gained 1.6 percent last week, the biggest five-day advance
since the period ended Dec. 2, 2011.  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.3 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Officials from Japan, China and South Korea will hold
preparatory talks for free-trade agreements on Feb. 20-21,
Japan’s foreign ministry said. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong
Soo said the monetary authority will closely monitor the impact
of Japan’s policy stimulus and hopes Japan isn’t deliberately
weakening the yen, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  Falling Yen  Korean companies including Hyundai Motors Group and Samsung
Electronics Co. compete against Japanese auto and phone makers
in international markets. The yen has dropped 8.3 percent
against the dollar this year.  “The currency war will be an issue for Korea-Japan trade,
especially if the yen weakness persists,” said  Park Sang Hyun ,
chief economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“This could continue at least through the first half of this
year” before Japan’s upper-house election in July, he said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.82
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seyoon Kim  in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  