-- Woodside’s Annual Profit Almost Doubles on Pluto LNG Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-20T05:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/woodside-annual-profit-almost-doubles-on-pluto-lng-project-gains.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer, said full-year profit
almost doubled, driven by the A$15 billion ($15.5 billion) Pluto
liquefied natural gas project.  Net income rose to a record $2.98 billion in the 12 months
ended Dec. 31 from $1.51 billion a year earlier as the company
also gained from the sale of a stake in the proposed Browse LNG
venture in Australia, Woodside said today in a statement. That
exceeded the $2.90 billion median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Excluding one-time items, profit
increased 25 percent to $2.06 billion.  The Pluto development in Western Australia has boosted
Perth-based Woodside’s sales and output since beginning in
April, generating cash to expand in countries from Israel to
Myanmar as the Australian LNG industry copes with rising costs.
Woodside’s sales climbed 30 percent to $6.22 billion, with Pluto
operating at 89 percent capacity, compared with its forecast of
65 percent, according to the statement.  “The fact that Pluto is producing strongly above the
internal plan is terrific,”  Andrew Williams , a Melbourne-based
analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said today by phone. “It
doesn’t matter what it cost to get it there, we’re now in the
cash-flow phase. It has not quite been transformational, but it
certainly has taken the company to another level.”  Woodside, led by Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman ,
plans to develop the Browse LNG project in Western Australia,
estimated by Deutsche Bank AG to cost A$44 billion, and the
Sunrise floating LNG venture in the Timor Sea. Woodside last
year put a proposed Pluto expansion on hold after saying in
August that its drilling campaign failed to find enough gas.  Woodside’s shares rose 3.1 percent to A$39.07 in Sydney
trading, the most in seven months, compared with a 0.3 percent
gain for Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Israel, Myanmar  Woodside and its partners in the proposed Browse venture,
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , expect to decide by mid-2013
whether to go ahead with a new development in the Kimberley
wilderness region in Australia’s northwest.  The Browse partners probably will determine the proposal
for a new processing hub on the coast isn’t viable and opt
instead to process the gas on a floating LNG vessel offshore,
according to a Feb. 4 report from Goldman Sachs Australia Pty
Ltd. That change in plans may lead to delays, Goldman Sydney-
based analysts  Mark Wiseman  and Anthony Ta wrote.  Woodside reached a deal last year to sell a 14.7 percent
stake in Browse to Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co. for $2
billion.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Australia’s largest oil and gas
producer, agreed in December to sell its stake in Browse to
PetroChina Co. for $1.63 billion.  Woodside, which has studied expansion options in the
Eastern Mediterranean, Southeast Asia and the Americas, agreed
in December to pay as much as $2.3 billion for a stake in
Israel’s largest natural gas field, Leviathan. The company also
reached two exploration agreements last year off Myanmar.  “Woodside is not all about two or three major Australian
LNG projects that consume our time and resources,” Coleman said
today on a call with analysts. “We have a good spread of
options to generate value. Having said that, we know that we
have to continue to grow our portfolio.”  Woodside plans to invest $2.6 billion in 2013, more than
previously forecast because of additional spending on Leviathan
and Myanmar, the company said.  Woodside had $2.4 billion in cash and $1.7 billion in
undrawn debt at the end of last year, the company said today.
The oil and gas producer in 2012 recorded an expense of $17
million for the cost of emissions following the start of
Australia’s carbon price, according to the statement.  The company’s final dividend rose 18 percent to 65 cents,
Woodside said. The board decided to suspend the dividend
reinvestment plan for the 2012 final dividend, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  