-- WTI Pares Losses to Gain; BofA Sees Brent Cap at $140 This Year
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-02-19T14:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/wti-drops-a-second-day-iea-says-prices-high-for-global-economy.html
West Texas Intermediate rebounded
after its biggest daily decline in two weeks, while Brent was
little changed. The North Sea crude may be capped at $140 a
barrel this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Futures gained 0.1 percent after losing as much as 0.6
percent earlier today following a 1.5 percent drop on Feb. 15,
the largest decrease since Feb. 4. Floor trading in New York was
closed yesterday because of a holiday in the U.S. Brent will
trade in a range of $100 to $130 a barrel through to 2015,
according to  Francisco Blanch , head of commodities research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. A technical indicator signaled
price declines may accelerate.  “We are kind of at an inflection point, with sentiment
that has been strong up till now this year but now more wary of
where to go,” Filip Petersson, Stockholm-based commodities
strategist at SEB AB, said today in a telephone interview.
“It’s not impossible that the positive sentiment will remain
for a while unless there is something that could affect the
market negatively.”  WTI for March delivery, which expires tomorrow, slid as
much as 61 cents to $95.25 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, before paring losses and trading
13 cents higher at $95.99 at 2:04 p.m. London time. The more-
active April contract gained 9 cents to $96.50. Yesterday’s
transactions will be booked with today’s trades for settlement.  Brent Premium  Brent for April settlement declined 11 cents to $117.27 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading
volume stood 23 percent below the 100-day average. The front-
month European benchmark grade was at a premium of $20.82 to WTI
futures. The gap expanded to $23.18 on Feb. 8, the widest since
Nov. 26.  “The market is trying to decide whether we are just
testing support or whether we are facing what many are saying is
a long-overdue correction,” said  Ole Hansen , the head of
commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “We have
been losing momentum in most of the other commodities sectors
over the last two weeks. The agriculture sector has been losing
momentum, we saw a sell-off in metals yesterday, so the question
is whether the energy sector can remain an island of calm in
this kind of environment.”  Bullish Bets  Energy supply is “slightly exceeding expectations,” John
Browne, a partner at Riverstone Holdings LLC and former chief
executive officer of BP Plc, said today at the International
Petroleum Week conference in London. He said he sees
“slightly” more downside for crude prices than upside because
“demand is not growing very strongly.”  Money managers reduced bullish bets on Brent for the first
time in a month, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.
Speculative bets that prices will rise outnumbered short
positions by 192,154 lots in the week ended Feb. 12, the
exchange said yesterday. While that’s little changed from
192,195 a week earlier, the reduction of 41 lots is the first
drop since Jan. 15.  “From a technical analysis point of view, we have a
distinct potential double-top formation in West Texas, which is
a classic bearish indicator,” said  Ric Spooner , a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “A break below $94.90 would
be seen as a sign of weakness in WTI.”  WTI’s double-top was formed after futures halted advances
near $98 a barrel on Jan. 31 and Feb. 13, creating two peaks
with a trough in between at about $95, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The lower price signals an area where buy
orders may be clustered, and losses tend to accelerate with a
breach of the double-top’s support level.  Adjusting Prices  Platts, which publishes global oil price assessments,
proposed changes to its benchmark North Sea crude pricing
formula less than two weeks after Royal Dutch Shell Plc changed
its own trading contract.  The price of the Ekofisk and Oseberg North Sea grades would
be adjusted to account for their superior quality,  Jorge Montepeque , global director of markets and pricing at the unit
of McGraw-Hill Cos., said yesterday. The grades, together with
Brent and Forties, comprise the Dated Brent marker used to price
more than half the world’s oil.  A unification of the Platts and Shell initiatives is in the
best interest of the market, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  “Two competing systems could split the liquidity of the
BFOE market, which would not be in anybody’s favor,” the
Vienna-based researcher said in a note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  