-- Yandex Sees 2013 Growth Slowdown as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-19T16:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/yandex-sees-2013-growth-slowdown-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
Yandex NV , Russia’s largest search
engine, fell the most in more than a year after reporting
fourth-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates and said
sales growth will slow in its domestic market.  The company, which leads Google Inc in Russia with a more
than 60 percent market share, fell as much as 14 percent in New
York trading, the biggest intraday drop since November 2011. It
was down 11 percent at $22.77 at 10.50 a.m., a more than three
week low.  Net income was 2.69 billion rubles ($89 million) in the
three months through December, compared with 2.12 billion rubles
a year earlier, Yandex said in a statement today. That missed
the 2.96 billion-ruble average estimate of three analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Net income adjusted for employee options was
2.97 billion rubles, Yandex said.  Yandex forecast revenue growth may slow to 28 percent to 32
percent this year from 44 percent in 2012. “This reflects our
expectation for online text-based advertising in Russia,” Chief
Financial Officer  Alexander Shulgin  told reporters. “The market
has matured, and it’s impossible to grow at 60 or 44 percent a
year anymore.”  The 2013 sales guidance is below an analyst consensus for
33 percent growth and “suggests that Internet advertising
market growth is slowing fairly sharply,” David Ferguson, an
analyst at Moscow-based Renaissance Capital, wrote in a note.  Yandex raised $1.3 billion in a 2011 initial public
offering that priced above its target range as investors saught
to cash in on Internet market growth in Russia.  Challenge Google  Internet advertising rose 35 percent in Russia last year to
the equivalent of $1.87 billion, while growth was only 24
percent in the fourth quarter, according to Russia’s Association
of Communications Agencies, or  AKAR .  Yandex is defending its Russian market share against Google
Inc. and is trying to expand in foreign markets such as Turkey.
Last year, the company introduced a browser to challenge
Google’s Chrome and got its maps added to  Apple Inc.’s  operating
system for Russia.  CERN, the institute which runs a particle collider near
Geneva, may announce some scientific discoveries made with
Yandex’s technology within two or three months, Yandex Chief
Executive Officer  Arkady Volozh  said.  Yandex had $895 million of cash and cash equivalents on its
balance sheet as of Dec. 31.  “We live in such a turbulent environment that we prefer to
have a cash cushion available,” Volozh said when asked whether
the company may pay special dividends. The company doesn’t
exclude a share buyback, he said.  Yandex said its margin for adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 48 percent in
the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  