-- Yen Rises After Aso Rules Out Japan’s Foreign-Debt Buying
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-19T22:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/yen-rises-after-aso-rules-out-japan-s-foreign-debt-buying.html
The yen strengthened for the first
time in three days against the dollar and euro as Japanese
finance minister Taro Aso said the government doesn’t intend to
buy foreign bonds to end deflation by weakening the currency.  The yen rose from almost the weakest since May 2010 versus
the U.S. currency as Aso’s comments countered those of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, who said yesterday purchasing overseas
bonds “exists as one idea.” South Africa’s rand gained even as
clashes between labor unions at a mine spurred concern of a
repeat of violence that curbed production last year. Australia’s
dollar strengthened as the central bank said an improved global
outlook boosted commodity prices.  “Japan’s prime minister and the finance chief appear to
somewhat be at odds over the future course for policy,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co., said by telephone from Washington.
“That uncertainty is helping slow the yen’s recent descent.”  The yen gained 0.4 percent to 93.58 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York after sliding to 94.46 on Feb. 11, the weakest level
since May 5, 2010. Japan’s currency advanced 0.2 percent to
125.27 per euro. The euro gained 0.3 percent to $1.3388.  Peso, Rand  Chile’s peso weakened for a fourth day, the longest losing
streak in three months, as prices fell for copper, the country’s
principal export. The peso depreciated as much as  0.2 percent
to 472.90 per U.S. dollar, the weakest since Feb. 12.  The rand gained against most of its 16 major counterparts
as clashes between labor groups at  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. ’s Siphumelele mine in South Africa disrupted operations and
caused one serious injury. Twelve workers were shot with rubber
bullets and three security guards were hurt in the fighting at
the mine in Rustenburg yesterday.  The rand added 0.4 percent to 8.8525 per dollar after
sliding 0.4 percent yesterday.  The Aussie gained for a second day versus the U.S. currency
after minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Feb. 5 meeting
published today said prices of many metals, coal and crude oil,
have benefited from the better global outlook.  Governor Glenn Stevens and his board, who kept the
benchmark rate unchanged this month, said the local currency’s
strength doesn’t reflect the significant decline in the nation’s
terms of trade.  The Australian dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to $1.0356
and rose against all of its major counterparts except the yen
and Swedish krona.  End Deflation  Japanese officials have toned down calls for a weaker yen
to help exporters after trade partners complained the nation
risked setting off a currency war. Since Abe called for
unlimited money printing by the central bank when he was
opposition leader on Nov. 15, the yen has slid 13 percent
against the dollar, the biggest drop among the major currencies.  In last year’s election campaign, Abe’s Liberal Democratic
Party proposed a joint fund operated by the BOJ, the Ministry of
Finance and private investors that would buy foreign bonds as a
means to  end deflation  and curb yen strength. The debt fund
“exists as an idea,” Abe told parliament yesterday.  “We don’t intend to buy foreign bonds,” Aso said to
reporters today in Tokyo, adding the government isn’t
considering any immediate change to the law governing the BOJ.
Aso later said that the yen’s unexpected decline had been a
result of policies.  ‘Further Easing’  “The dollar-yen is under pressure,”  Sireen Harajli , a
foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Credit Agricole SA,
said of Aso’s interview with reporters. “We think that a lot
has already been priced in in dollar-yen. We see it struggling
to move above the 94 level -- the price already reflects a lot
of policy expectations at this point.”  The yen has slumped 15 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
dropped 1 percent and the euro gained 3.9 percent.  Group of 20 finance ministers and central-bank governors
said in a statement after Feb. 15-16 meetings in Moscow that
monetary policy should be directed at domestic price stability
and nations will refrain from “competitive devaluation.”  Minutes of the BOJ’s Jan. 21-22 meeting released today
showed a few members said extending the maturity of bond
purchases to five years is an option. The central bank doubled
its inflation target to 2 percent at the gathering and pledged
open-ended asset purchases to begin next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  