-- Yen Making Luxury Hotels Cheaper Boosts Pressure for Easing
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-02-20T01:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/yen-making-luxury-hotels-cheaper-adds-pressure-for-abe-results.html
The yen’s slide may ripple through
Japanese companies beyond exporters, underscoring pressure on
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  to prevent the currency rebounding
from close to the lowest since 2010.  Softbank Corp. and advertising agency Dentsu Inc. stand to
reap higher earnings from abroad after taking part in the
nation’s record $113 billion of overseas acquisitions last year.
Hotels and theme parks are set to benefit from increased
tourism, with a 40,000-yen ($430) room at Tokyo’s Imperial
Hotel about $70 cheaper compared with three months ago.  The widening benefits and the Feb. 16 decision by the Group
of 20 nations not to criticize Japan over its currency may help
Abe to maintain a market rally and public support ahead of
upper-house elections this summer. Nomura Holdings Inc. sees a
10 percent fall in the yen against the dollar boosting growth by
as much as 0.3 percentage point, moves that may depend on
whether the next Bank of Japan governor, due to be nominated
next week, enacts aggressive monetary easing.  “Abe needs to maintain the impression that the economy is
improving,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo and a former central bank official.
“He needs a governor who’ll carry out more aggressive monetary
easing to help prevent a rebound in the yen.’  The benefits of a weaker currency are shown in the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average ’s 25 percent rise in the past three months,
with the benchmark gaining 0.9 percent at 10:32 a.m. in Tokyo.
The yen was 0.1 percent lower, extending its 13 percent fall
since Nov. 20.  Import Bill  The costs of a weaker currency were highlighted by data
today showing a record trade deficit in January due to a rising
import bill.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc says higher profits from
overseas at firms such as Dentsu, which last year paid $5
billion for the U.K.’s Aegis Plc, may filter into domestic wages
through higher bonuses. Almost seven in 10 voters have positive
expectations for Abe’s economic policies, according to a
newspaper poll published Feb 4.  The currency will be at 92 per dollar this quarter and 95
by the end of the year, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That may help to spur
economic growth after three quarters of contraction through
December, with a separate survey showing that gross domestic
product will probably rise 1.4 percent this quarter.  Still, Westpac Banking Corp., the most-accurate foreign-
exchange forecaster in the fourth quarter, is betting that the
yen will be at 80 per dollar by the end of this year as it sees
the central bank struggling to satisfy investors.  Rising Expectations  ‘‘Expectations are rising that the BOJ governor will
deliver something more aggressive,” said  Masamichi Adachi ,
senior economist at JP Morgan Securities Asia in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official. “International investors need to be
convinced that the regime has really changed.”  The Aegis deal means Dentsu will more than double the share
of its revenue from overseas, according to research by Bloomberg
Industries, while the weaker yen helps to boost the value of
income earned abroad. The company expects its  net income to rise
by nearly a fifth  in the fiscal year that starts in April on a
12 percent increase in revenue.  Shares in Softbank, which agreed to pay $20 billion for
control of Sprint Nextel Corp. last year -- the biggest-ever
foreign acquisition by a Japanese company -- gained the most in
nearly four months on Feb. 12 after Sprint’s revenue topped
forecasts.  Earnings Impact  “The impact on earnings of these acquisitions will appear
this year and may accelerate after that.” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at Japan’s third-largest trading
company Itochu Corp., which agreed to pay $1.69 billion for two
units of Dole Food Co. in September. “Abe’s timing was good.”  Confidence in the economic outlook rose in January to the
highest since 2006, according to the Cabinet Office’s  Economy
Watcher survey  of merchants including retailers, taxi drivers
and others who deal directly with consumers.  In the latest survey, a tourist hotel in Japan’s northern
island of Hokkaido reported that foreign visitors had increased.
A department store in western Japan said that inquiries about
imported brand items have risen as shoppers expect prices to
climb.  South Korean visitors to Japan rose 35 percent in January
from a year earlier, while those from Thailand rose 33 percent,
according to figures released yesterday by the Japan National
Tourism Organization. The Thai baht has risen more than 18
percent against the yen in the past three months, the most among
Asian currencies, while the won has gained 15 percent.  Tokyo Disneyland  Oriental Land Co., operator of Tokyo’s Disneyland and
DisneySea parks, said its third quarter earnings exceeded
forecasts on visitor numbers. The company  expects an 11 percent
rise  in net income next fiscal year.  The prime minister will decide his nominee for a successor
to BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  next week after a trip to
Washington, Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshihide Suga  told
reporters yesterday.  Potential candidates cited by analysts and local media
reflect a range of policy outcomes. Asian Development Bank
President  Haruhiko Kuroda  and former BOJ Deputy Governor
 Kazumasa Iwata  have urged more expansive easing.  Toshiro Muto 
warned of the dangers of prolonged loose policy when he was
deputy governor five years ago even as he now says his views
have changed.  The Yomiuri newspaper reported today that Muto may be
removed from the government’s list of candidates, without citing
where it got the information.  Energy Prices  While the weaker currency will be a boon for parts of the
economy, it is pushing up import costs. Japan relies on other
nations for almost all of its oil and gas and about 60 percent
of its food on a calorie basis, according to government figures.
The shutdown of nuclear plants after the 2011 earthquake adds to
the nation’s reliance on imported fossil fuels.  Japan’s trade deficit swelled to a record 1.63 trillion yen
in January as imports increased 7.3 percent, the Finance
Ministry said today.  Officials have highlighted the economic risks of a yen that
weakens too far. Deputy Economy Minister  Yasutoshi Nishimura 
signaled in an interview last month that the government may
prefer a yen stronger than 110 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  