-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Rises Above 2% Before Fed Minutes
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-19T22:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/yield-forecasts-fall-as-bank-of-america-s-harris-cuts.html
Treasury 10-year yields rose above 2
percent for a fourth day amid speculation minutes of the Federal
Reserve’s latest policy meeting will provide more detail on the
timing of a withdrawal of stimulus.  U.S. government securities extended last week the worst
start of a year for benchmark 10-year notes since 2011 amid
signs America’s economic recovery is gaining momentum. The Fed
bought $1.45 billion in bonds today, including 30-year
securities the U.S. sold last week, as part of its program to
spur the economy. Treasuries, which were little changed earlier
today, fell as risk appetite increased and stocks climbed.  “Investors are waiting for something to give them
direction, but until then we’ve settled around these levels,”
said  Larry Milstein , managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “We’ve seen a
little risk-on trading with equities and risk sentiment
improving that has taken safe-haven buying out of the market.
The market is very boring today.”  Ten-year note  yields  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.03 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yields, which
reached a 10-month high of 2.06 percent on Feb. 14,  fell  as much
as two basis points earlier today. The price of the 2 percent
notes due in February 2023 decreased 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 3/4. Treasuries trading resumed today after
being closed worldwide yesterday for a U.S. holiday.  The yields have climbed 27 basis points since Dec. 31. They
are trading below the 10-year average of 3.63 percent. Yields
added five basis points last week.  Long Bonds  Thirty-year  bond yields increased three basis points to
3.21 percent after rising one basis point last week.  Treasury trading  volume  fell to $221 billion today, the
lowest level since Feb. 11, according to ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt. Daily volume
averaged $246 billion over the past year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index increased 0.7 percent to
1,530.94, its highest level in more than five years.  U.S. 10-year notes have lost 1.9 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. Treasuries
overall have dropped 0.9 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has returned 6.9 percent including reinvested dividends.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s January meeting are due tomorrow. The
December meeting’s minutes, released Jan. 3, showed policy
makers were divided on whether to end bond purchases in the
middle or end of this year. Ten-year yields climbed to an eight-
month high the next day.  The central bank said in a statement after its January
meeting that it’s committed to buying about $85 billion of
government and mortgage securities a month to support growth in
the world’s biggest economy. It bought securities today maturing
from February 2036 to February 2043.  “We already know there’s been a lot of talk by the hawkish
folks,”  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “If anything, the risk is the doves might have calmed
down some of the hawks over the course of the last six weeks.”  While the inflation hawks may want to reduce purchases to
keep the Fed from overextending its balance sheet, Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke and Vice Chairman Janet Yellen believe “it’s too
early to make that call, and there’s a chance they’ve gotten
that across at this meeting, and that’s something that might be
in the minutes,” Goncalves said.  Temporary Package  President Barack Obama urged Congress today to find a way
to avert $1.2 trillion of automatic spending cuts scheduled to
start taking effect March 1, saying that if it doesn’t, the U.S.
risks losing hundreds of thousands of jobs.  Lawmakers “at minimum” should pass a temporary, smaller
package that provides more time for negotiations, Obama said in
Washington. Officials agreed to the spending cuts, to be spread
over nine years, as part of a 2011 deficit-reduction deal to
raise the debt limit. The reductions were supposed to be so
onerous that Congress and the president would never let them
occur and would find a plan to replace them.  Volatility in Treasuries dropped Feb. 14 to the lowest
level since Jan. 24 and stayed there the next day. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings
of U.S. government securities based on options, was 59.1 basis
points after rising to 66.4 basis points on Jan. 30, the most
since Nov. 6.  Government Forecasts  While Treasury yields are rising, the increase may not be
enough to justify government forecasts for economic growth.  The  Office of Management and Budget  predicts yields on 10-
year notes will average 4.1 percent in 2015 and 4.9 percent in
2017 as the economy expands at about a 4 percent rate in the
second half of President Obama’s term. Bond prices suggest the
yield will average below 3 percent two years from now, implying
that gross domestic product will fall short of OMB projections,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasury borrowing costs just above last year’s record lows
mean easy credit for consumers and companies as well as
sustained demand for riskier assets such as stocks. The record-
low 10-year rate was 1.38 percent set in July.  The U.S. sold $72 billion in coupon-bearing debt last week,
including $32 billion in three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-
year notes and $16 billion in 30-year bonds.  The Treasury will auction $9 billion of 30-year inflation-
indexed debt on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  