-- Zain Iraq Plans IPO by July After $1.3 Billion Asiacell Sale
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-02-19T13:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-19/zain-iraq-plans-first-half-ipo-after-1-3-billion-asiacell-sale.html
Zain Iraq plans to sell shares by
the end of the first half as the nation’s biggest mobile-phone
operator follows a $1.3 billion initial public offering by  Qatar
Telecom QSC’s  Iraqi unit.  Zain Iraq, a unit of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications
Co., will list 25 percent of its shares on the  Iraq Stock
Exchange  by the end of June, Chief Financial Officer  Wael Ghanayem  said in an interview in Baghdad yesterday. “There will
be a big demand for our shares and it will be very attractive.”  The share sale plan follows Asiacell Communications PJSC,
majority owned by Qatar Telecom, which started trading in
Baghdad this month after the largest IPO in the Middle East
since 2008. Zain Iraq has hired Citigroup Inc.,  National Bank of
Kuwait  and  BNP Paribas SA  as advisers for the offering, said
Ghanayem, who is also the company’s chief operating officer.  Asiacell’s share sale was fully subscribed and doubled the
market value of the country’s stock exchange from $4.66 billion
last year, according to  Taha Ahmed Abdul-Salam al-Rubaye , the
bourse chief executive officer. Korek Telecom, part-owned by
 France Telecom SA,  must also sell 25 percent of its shares on
the bourse to comply with it license requirement.  Zain Iraq is in the final stages to convert into a
shareholding company, Ghanayem said. The company’s profit
climbed 6 percent in 2012 to $369 million and it expects
“double-digit” growth this year, he said.  Procedural Hurdles  Ahmed al-Omari, trustee board member of Iraq’s
Communication and Media Commission, said in a Feb. 12 interview
that Zain Iraq’s listing won’t happen before the second half of
the year due to delays in registering the company in Iraq.  “A more realistic estimate is Zain will be positioned to
list about six months after they convert to a joint stock
company,”  Geoffrey Batt , managing director of the $44 million
 Euphrates Iraq  Fund, said by phone. “At the moment, they need
to overcome too many procedural hurdles to list by June 30.”  Iraq, which overtook Iran in June as the largest producer
behind Saudi Arabia in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, is starting to attract investments nine years after
the U.S.-led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein . Still, bouts
of violence and sectarian tension have hindered the recovery.  The stock exchange opened in 2004 after suspending
operations during the invasion, and prices were updated manually
on a white board before electronic trading started in 2009.
Banks have the largest market value among 73 listed companies,
according to the  latest data  from the bourse.  Attractive Market  A successful IPO for Zain Iraq would increase the Iraq
Stock Exchange’s market capitalization by at least $5 billion
and make it a “difficult market for institutional investors to
ignore,” Batt said.  The telecommunications industry in Iraq will continue to
grow, albeit at a slower pace, after registering a rate of 12
percent last year compared with 17 percent in 2009, Ghanayem
said. The mobile-phone penetration rate in Iraq is at about 80
percent compared with neighboring countries where it ranges from
90 percent to 130 percent, he said.  Zain Iraq has 50 percent market share after subscribers
grew 10 percent to 13.7 million last year, Ghanayem said. The
company plans to invest 15 percent of its 2013 revenue on
expanding and modernizing its network, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  