-- 
‘Potter’ Magic Gives Warner Shot to Retain Box Office Crown for Fifth Year

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/-potter-box-office-magic-gives-warner-shot-to-retain-crown-for-fifth-year.html
“Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows, Part 2” may collect as much as $400 million in U.S.
ticket sales, positioning  Warner Bros . to come from behind and
take the 2011 box office crown from current leader  Paramount
Pictures .  With a record $169.2 million sales in the U.S. and  Canada 
last weekend, the eighth and final movie based on J.K. Rowling’s
books may help  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s film studio retain the annual
top spot for a fifth straight year.  “We’re going to overtake them,” Dan Fellman, president of
domestic theatrical distribution for Burbank, California-based
Warner Bros., said in an interview. “We’re going to give them a
run for the money.”  Warner Bros., second in 2011 ticket sales in the U.S. and
Canada behind Viacom Inc.’s Paramount, has 10 more releases this
year, according to  Box Office Mojo . Those include ‘Happy Feet
2,” a 3-D sequel to a 2006 animated film that grossed $384.3
million globally, and a “Sherlock Holmes” sequel with Robert Downey Jr. Paramount has eight, including “Captain America,”
“Mission: Impossible” and  Steven Spielberg ’s “Tintin”  Warner Bros. has held the domestic lead for four years,
including revenue from New Line Cinema, which once operated
separately. The studio had collected $960.8 million in U.S.
ticket sales as of July 17, second to Los Angeles-based
Paramount’s $1.19 billion, according to Box Office Mojo. The
studio will draw on characters such as Batman and Superman from
its DC Comics library to fill the gap as “Harry Potter” ends.  Paramount already has had a noteworthy 2011 considering
that domestic ticket sales are down 7.2 percent and attendance
is off 8.6 percent from a year earlier, according to data from
 Hollywood.com Box Office .  Paramount’s Slate  Paramount boasts the highest average sales for any major
studio since 2007 at $117 million per release. The company
expects to keep that lead this year, according to Katie Martin
Kelley, a spokeswoman.  The studio, led by Chairman Brad Grey, is vying for
leadership with a slate of 15 films, compared with 22 for Warner
Bros. The annual box-office tallies also include revenue from
movies that carried over from 2010.  “Definitely having ‘Potter’ out there allows Warner to
pull even with Paramount over the long haul,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , who tracks the box office for Hollywood.com. “By
the time we get to the end of the year with the strong lineups
those studios have, it’s going to be another horse race.”  Warner wins high marks for creating franchises from films
not based on books or other materials, said  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst with Wunderlich Securities in Denver who recommends both
Time Warner and Viacom shares.  “The Hangover” comedies, with a combined $1.03 billion in
worldwide sales, are one example, Harrigan said.  ‘Green Lantern’  Warner also has had misses this year. “Green Lantern,”
based on the DC Comics hero and made for about $200 million,
generated $146 million in worldwide sales, according to Box
Office Mojo. That raises questions about whether comic book
superheroes can be enduring box-office hits.  “Warner Bros. is hoping DC will take over after Potter,”
said  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia who also recommends both Time Warner and Viacom.
“The ‘ Green Lantern ’ may suggest there is more uncertainty over
the move,” he said in an e-mail.  Warner has had hits with its Christopher Nolan-directed Batman films, including “Batman Begins” and “The  Dark
Knight ,” which generated $1 billion in global ticket sales.
Other DC-based pictures in development include “The Flash,”
“Wonder Woman” and a new iteration of “Superman.”  Comic-Book Heroes  Paramount’s own comic-based superhero film, “Captain
America: The First Avenger,” opens July 22. The movie may
collect $57 million in the U.S. on its opening weekend and $160
million during its domestic run, based on the forecast of Box
Office Media LLC’s  Boxoffice.com.  The picture, based on a Marvel
comics character, cost $140 million to make, according to the
Internet Movie Database.  The eight “ Harry Potter ” movies rank as the most-
successful series. Since the first film in 2001, the movies have
generated more than $6.9 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
including $542.2 million for “Deathly Hallows, Part 2” after
one weekend.  The studio’s profit from all “Harry Potter” products,
including DVDs, video-on-demand, video games and consumer
products, before this weekend’s release was about $1 billion on
$19.7 billion in sales, according to a person familiar with the
situation.  Time Warner shares rose 65 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $35.45
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading and have
gained 10 percent this year. Viacom shares rose 90 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $50.31 and have increased 27 percent this year.  “Potter” products will continue to contribute for years
to come, Harrigan predicts.  “There will always be an evergreen ‘Harry Potter’
component to Warner earnings, but it will never be as strong
without an original movie,” Harrigan said. “It does beg the
question, how do you replace that?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  