-- 
A-Tec Is Searched by Austrian Police, Says Sale Unaffected

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-20T09:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/a-tec-is-searched-by-austrian-police-says-sale-unaffected-1-.html
A-Tec Industries AG (ATEC) ’s Vienna
headquarters and homes of some senior managers of the insolvent
engineering company were searched today by Austrian police, a
spokesman said.  Three members of A-Tec’s management board, including Chief
Executive Officer Mirko Kovats, had their homes searched early
this morning, Gerald Wechselauer, a company spokesman, said via
telephone. The searches don’t endanger the sale of A-Tec, he
said. The authorities acted on the request of a “private
person” who requested the search based on “personal grounds,”
Wechselauer said, without providing further details.  Executives and creditor trustees are assessing bids for A-
Tec’s assets. The engineering company became  Austria ’s third-
biggest insolvency case since World War II after it filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in October. A-Tec struck a deal with
creditors in December that would allow the company to
restructure if it attracted at least 250 million euros ($354
million) in capital, creditor committee spokesman Hans-Georg Kantner said at the time.  Austrian Justice Ministry spokesman Thomas Vecsey didn’t
immediately return calls to his office and mobile phones today.  A-Tec’s stock fell 0.4 percent to 2.198 euros at 11:24 a.m.
in Vienna trading. The shares have fallen 41 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 58 million euros.  A-Tec has more than 1 billion euros in debt, according to
Bloomberg data.  Bidders  Penta Investments Ltd., a central European private-equity
company, announced its intention to bid for A-Tec last month.  Kovats favored a joint bid by Wolong Electric Group Co. of
 China  and hedge fund Springwater Capital over offers by  Crompton
Greaves Ltd. (CRG)  and Penta, Die Presse reported this month, citing
unidentified people familiar with the bids.  The insolvency filing by A-Tec, which is majority owned by
Kovats, ranks in Austria’s postwar history behind those of
retail chain Konsum and construction company Maculan Holding AG,
according to the KSV creditors’ association.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 