-- 
Canadian Stocks Climb on Reports of Profits, Europe Debt Plan

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-21T20:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/aastra-technologies-encana-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a third day
as energy and financial shares rallied on better-than-forecast
U.S. and Canadian earnings and speculation that  Europe  is making
progress toward addressing the Greek debt crisis.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North America ’s fourth-biggest
insurer, advanced 1.4 percent as Greek bond yields plunged the
most in a month.  Savanna Energy Services Corp. (SVY)  surged 8.9
percent after an analyst raised his rating on the stock.
Pharmacy-benefits manager  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  rallied 4.7
percent after  Express Scripts  Inc. agreed to buy Medco Health
Solutions Inc. for $29.1 billion.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 93.47
points, or 0.7 percent, the most this month, to 13,434.30. The
index has returned 1.2 percent this year, including dividends.  “The TSX is only up a little bit for the year,” Blair Falconer, a Toronto-based portfolio manager for HSBC Holdings
Plc who manages C$800 million ($847 million), said in a
telephone interview. “Given the kind of strong earnings we’ve
had over the last little while, you’d expect the market to have
done a little bit better. We’re expecting to see better numbers
from the TSX.”  Since July 11, 86 percent of the S&P 500 companies
reporting earnings have beaten the average analyst estimate,
while six of the seven S&P/TSX companies to report have exceeded
forecasts.  Market’s Slide  The Canadian stock benchmark lost 4 percent in the three
months ended yesterday as investors speculated the European debt
crisis will spread beyond Greece and U.S. lawmakers failed to
reach a deal to raise the country’s debt ceiling. Oil futures
tumbled 12 percent during the period, leading the S&P/TSX Energy
Index to a 5.6 percent decline without dividends.  Bond yields in the most-heavily indebted countries that use
the euro fell today as officials said Euro-area leaders may
accept a temporary Greek default and widen the scope of their
rescue fund as they intensify efforts to resolve the 21-month
sovereign debt crisis.  Thirty-eight of 43 S&P/TSX financial companies gained.
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s second-largest lender by assets,
rose 1.3 percent to C$80.22. Manulife advanced 1.4 percent to
C$16.11.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , Canada’s largest
real-estate company, increased 1.5 percent to C$30.98.  Oil, Gas Producers  Energy companies climbed as oil futures rose.  Canadian
Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy
company by market value, gained 1.7 percent to C$41.36.
 Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. (ATH) , PetroChina Co.’s partner in oil-sands
development, advanced for a fifth day, rallying 2.4 percent to
C$15.83.  Savanna Energy Services Corp., which provides oil and gas
servicing in Canada and parts of the U.S., soared 8.9 percent to
C$10.05 for the biggest gain in the S&P/TSX. Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce raised the shares to “sector outperform” from
“sector perform.”  SXC surged 4.7 percent to C$61.01 after Express Scripts
agreed to buy Medco Health Solutions to create the largest U.S.
pharmacy-benefits manager. “Potential contract disruption”
from the acquisition may create business opportunities for SXC,
Arthur I. Henderson and Brian Tanquilut, analysts at Jefferies
Group Inc., said in a note to clients.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the country’s largest
railroad, climbed 2.1 percent to C$75.07 after Union Pacific,
the biggest U.S. rail carrier by revenue, reported sales and
adjusted earnings that surpassed the average analyst estimate.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  rose for the first
time in seven days, gaining 4.4 percent to C$26.36 after saying
the U.S. government has approved its PlayBook tablet for
official use. The shares fell to the lowest since August 2006
yesterday.  Exploration Orbite VSPA Inc. (ORT/A) , which is developing an
alumina project in Quebec and extraction technology, jumped 8.8
percent to C$3.57 after saying it extracted alumina from samples
of bauxite from Guinea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  