-- 
Abbott Says Humira Gained Market Share in Crohn’s, Psoriasis

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-07-20T20:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/abbott-s-freyman-says-humira-gained-market-share-in-crohn-s-psoriasis.html
Revenue from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’
top-selling drug, Humira, surged 25 percent after wresting sales
from rival treatments for psoriasis and Crohn’s disease, Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Freyman said.  “We’re seeing an acceleration of market growth for that
product and improved market share, particularly in the Crohn’s
disease and psoriasis areas,” Freyman said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve also made some progress in rheumatoid
arthritis.”  Humira, a treatment for autoimmune disorders that accounts
for about one-fifth of Abbott’s revenue, brought in $2 billion
in the second quarter. That contributed to a 9 percent gain in
the company’s sales from a year earlier. Earnings jumped 50
percent to $1.94 billion, helped by a one-time tax benefit of
$594 million, the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement.  Whether Abbott can maintain the current pace for Humira
“is the $64,000 question,” said Jeff Bagley, a portfolio
manager in Haverford Financial Services in Radnor,  Pennsylvania ,
which holds 1.2 million of the company’s shares. “The uptake of
this drug continues well beyond most analysts’ expectations.”  Abbott slipped 49 cents to $52.40 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 9.4
percent this year.  Stent Sales  The earnings gains may not have satisfied investors who had
already driven up the stock this year, said Damien Conover, a
Morningstar Inc. analyst in  Chicago , in a telephone interview.
Sales of artery-opening heart stents and diabetes supplies also
declined, after taking out gains for currency-exchange rates, he
said.  “Expectations may have been even higher than what they
delivered,” he said in a telephone interview. “In our view, it
was a very solid quarter.”  Abbott raised its forecast for full-year profit to $4.58 a
share to $4.68 a share, from as much as $4.64 a share.  Humira has been helped by expansion into countries outside
the U.S., as well as approvals to treat new conditions including
a form of juvenile arthritis in  Japan , said Larry Peepo,
Abbott’s investor-relations director, on a conference call with
analysts. New indications may add $1 billion to the treatment’s
peak sales, he said.  “Globally, we’re just seeing good market growth, good
share performance and very good execution,” Freyman, the CFO,
said on the call.  $6.55 Billion  Humira, which generated $6.55 billion in sales last year,
treats diseases that occur when the body’s immune system attacks
the skin, joints and digestive system.  The global market for treating rheumatoid arthritis reached
about $16 billion in 2010 while psoriasis and Crohn’s disease
combined for $6.6 billion, said Jerry Rosenblatt, a partner at
 Foster Rosenblatt , a Princeton, New Jersey-based consultant that
studies pharmaceutical sales.  The main threat to Humira may come from a class of
experimental drugs called JAK inhibitors, led by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
tofacitinib, Rosenblatt said by telephone.  Humira’s performance suggests Abbott is “going to compete
right to the end and they’re going to expand right to the end,”
Rosenblatt said by telephone. “That’s certainly what they’re
telling the market.”  Abbott saw prescriptions decline about 5 percent for the
heart medication Niaspan after a study in May questioned the
treatment’s benefit for patients, Peepo said.  Niaspan Study  The  National Institutes of Health  said on May 25 that it
had stopped the study after Niaspan failed to prevent heart
attacks and may have boosted stroke risks. It’s too soon to
gauge the long-term impact on the product, Peepo said.  Sales of Abbott’s nutritional supplements, led by the
Similac baby formula, grew 5.4 percent. Freyman declined to
comment on whether the company would be interested in bidding
for the baby food unit of New York-based Pfizer. Pfizer said
earlier this month that it was considering selling the division.  “In the M&A area, we’ve talked about more focus on
pharmaceutical licensing opportunities and more complementary
niches,” he said. “But we’re always open to anything that can
add  shareholder value .”  Earnings climbed to $1.23 a share from 83 cents a year
earlier, Abbott said in its statement. Excluding restructuring
and acquisition charges and the tax benefit, profit of $1.12 a
share topped by 1 cent the average estimate of 16 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Revenue rose to $9.62 billion, with about half the gain due
to the dollar’s slide in value against other currencies, the
company said. The dollar’s decline boosted the value of sales
earned outside the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  