-- 
Madoff Trustee May Have to Drop $2 Billion in Claims on UBS

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-20T19:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/madoff-trustee-withdraws-non-bankruptcy-claims-against-ubs-docket-says.html
The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm may have to drop about $2 billion in claims
against  UBS AG (UBSN)  after telling a district court judge he will stop
demanding damages from the Swiss bank, based on data from a
filing by UBS.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, seeking $2.6 billion
and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s fraud by
setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to look the
other way” at irregularities. He told U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in  Manhattan  this month he would ask UBS only to
return money taken from the  Ponzi scheme  before its 2008
collapse. He had sought “in excess of $2 billion” based on
accusations of wrongdoing, UBS said in the filing last month.  Madoff investors will get much less money if Picard drops
damage claims in other cases. His lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  asks for $19 billion in damages, equal to all money lost
in the fraud. A $1 billion suit against the  New York Mets ’
owners uses common-law claims to demand the return of
$700 million in principal.  “Picard may have made a tactical decision” to retreat
from bigger claims, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky , who
isn’t involved in Madoff litigation. The U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith case indicated that bankruptcy
courts will have smaller powers in the future, he said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said the trustee’s
decision to drop two common law causes of action against UBS and
its affiliates “has no impact either on the strength of our
case or on the amounts of recoveries and damages that the
trustee’s actions will seek for ultimate distribution” to
Madoff customers.  Giving Up $2 Billion  After reviewing Picard’s original suit against UBS, Bowles
said the trustee “will get large sums of money using garden
variety bankruptcy law, but he is giving up at least $2 billion
based on common and state law claims.”  UBS shares trading in  Switzerland  before U.S. markets
opened rose as much as 4.4 percent to 13.91 Swiss francs after
the withdrawal of Picard’s claims was reported. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, UBS rose 60 cents, or
3.7 percent, to $16.98 at 2:56 p.m.  Picard’s letter to the judge wasn’t filed in court.
McMahon, who is reviewing the case, noted the trustee’s
“amendment of right” and withdrawal of common law claims in a
letter to both sides’ lawyers filed yesterday in court.  She asked them to clarify by July 22 what claims remain and
what funds Picard is trying to recoup relying solely on “garden
variety bankruptcy” principles.  1,000 Lawsuits  Picard filed 1,000 suits to recover $100 billion for Madoff
investors. Instead of trying to recoup only money taken out of
the bankrupt firm, he mostly demanded damages, using common law
and other laws that banks say a liquidator isn’t entitled to
use.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to
dismiss a $9 billion suit against the U.K. bank and so-called
feeder funds, arguing that Picard went beyond his role as
liquidator of the Madoff firm.  Rakoff also is considering whether the trustee had a right
to use U.S. racketeering law to triple his demands in a $59
billion suit against UniCredit SpA; Bank Medici AG; its founder,
Sonja Kohn; and dozens of Italian and Austrian parties.  McMahon, the judge in Picard’s $19 billion suit against New
York-based JPMorgan, granted UBS’s request to review the case
this month, saying it raises similar issues to the JPMorgan suit
about whether Picard has a right to demand damages.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  