-- 
Adversaries in Gay Marriage Repeal Debate Cite Similar Values

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-07-20T21:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/adversaries-in-gay-marriage-repeal-debate-cite-similar-values.html
Supporters and opponents of gay
marriage cited similar values as they argued the merits of a
proposal to repeal the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act at a U.S.
Senate Judiciary Committee meeting today.  Both sides in the repeal debate cited equality, states’
rights, public opinion and the importance of marriage to support
their positions.  The proposed Respect for Marriage Act would let the federal
government extend benefits such as tax programs, Social Security
and health-insurance coverage to same-sex married couples,
ending the 15-year-old law’s ban on recognition of these unions.
The proposal wouldn’t require states to legalize same-sex
marriages.  Six states -- Iowa,  Vermont ,  New Hampshire ,  Massachusetts ,
Connecticut and  New York  -- and the District of Columbia have
decided to allow gay marriage since the 1996 federal law was
enacted during President Bill Clinton’s administration.  Andrew Sorbo, a retired teacher living in Connecticut, told
the committee that he had to move from a house to a condominium
after his husband died and he wasn’t granted Social Security
benefits.  “The Defense of Marriage Act stigmatizes by dividing
married couples at the state level into first-class marriages
and second-class marriages for those the federal government
doesn’t like,” said Evan Wolfson, founder and executive
director of Freedom to Marry, which supports gay marriage.  David Austin Nimocks, senior legal counsel for the  Alliance
Defense Fund , a religious-freedom group that opposes gay
marriage, said that children in same-sex households are less
likely to be healthy and well-adjusted.  Traditional Marriage  “Legislators who genuinely want to protect marriage should
defend traditional marriage, not undermine it,”  said  Edward
Whelan, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center in
 Washington , which supports retaining the Defense of Marriage
Act.  President Barack Obama, who has endorsed civil unions but
hasn’t backed same-sex marriages, supports the repeal, White
House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday during a
briefing. The Obama administration announced in February that it
wouldn’t continue to defend the 1996 law in court challenges.  The repeal legislation “would uphold the principle that the
federal government should not deny gay and lesbian couples the
same rights and legal protections as straight couples,” Carney
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 