-- 
Afghan Aid Tracking Suffers on Karzai, U.S. Failures, Audit Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-20T13:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/afghan-aid-tracking-suffers-on-karzai-u-s-failures-audit-says.html
The U.S. can’t properly track cash
aid to  Afghanistan  or help develop the country’s financial
sector in part because President  Hamid Karzai  and other
officials don’t fully cooperate, auditors said.  “The  United States  has poured billions of aid dollars into
a country plagued by corruption, insurgency and the narcotics
trade,”  Herbert Richardson , acting special inspector general
for Afghanistan reconstruction, said in a statement released
with a 42-page report today. “U.S. agencies have not done all
they can to safeguard U.S. funds, and the Afghan government has
not provided the cooperation needed to build a strong, secure
financial system.”  The auditors cited Karzai’s decision earlier this year to
bar U.S. advisers from the country’s central bank after the
 International Monetary Fund  suspended lending to Afghanistan in
the aftermath of the near-collapse of the commercial Kabul Bank.
Foreign donors also halted aid payments.  Afghan officials also have hampered attempts to fully
control cash ferried through Kabul International Airport, and
the country’s attorney general rarely prosecutes suspected
financial crimes, the auditors found. U.S. agencies bear some
blame, the inspector general’s office said, citing limited
coordination and a lack of sufficient controls to track
payments.  The findings reflect growing tensions between Karzai and
U.S. officials pressing the Afghan leader to curb government
corruption and improve public services. The 48-nation coalition
led by the U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is
counting on improvements in security forces and governing
capability to turn over lead responsibility to the Afghans by
the end of 2014.  $70 Billion in Aid  The gaps in financial security hamper the ability to
protect the part of U.S. aid that is converted to cash in the
Afghan economy, the auditors concluded. The money affected is
primarily in the form of payments to contractors and to Afghan
police and civil servants that are routed through the country’s
banking system.  It wasn’t possible to determine how much of the aid to
Afghanistan -- $70 billion since 2002 -- ends up in cash and
thus might be affected by the shortcomings, they said.  The auditors examined the ability of U.S. agencies to track
their own funds to prevent fraud as well as the effectiveness of
efforts to help Afghan government financial overseers regulate
the country’s 17 commercial banks.  The Afghan government took over Kabul Bank, the country’s
biggest commercial lender, in September, following a rush by
depositors to withdraw money after they learned of losses
stemming from potential fraud.  Fraudulent Loans  A U.S. review later found that the bank fraudulently lent
as much as $850 million to its own shareholders and other
company insiders, possibly 94 percent of the bank’s outstanding
loans.  The run on the bank has led to improved coordination among
U.S. agencies working to assist Afghanistan in developing its
financial sector to help build a viable market economy, the
auditors said. Prior to the crisis, officials from the  U.S.
Treasury , the Defense Department and the  U.S. Agency for
International Development  didn’t meet regularly to discuss their
assistance efforts.  The U.S. Treasury described working conditions for advisers
at the central bank as “hostile,” the inspector general’s
office said, and reported that the Afghan attorney general’s
office pursued prosecutions in only four of 21 leads forwarded
by an Afghan center that analyzes financial transactions for
possible fraud.  At Kabul International Airport, Afghan officials insist on
allowing VIPs to bypass the main security and customs screenings
and don’t verify their declared cash with currency counters. The
bulk counters are used only to count cash for regular passengers
and don’t scan serial numbers for reporting to the analysis
center, the auditors found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  