-- 
African Alliance Securities Delays Mauritian Plan on Low Trading Volumes

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-21T13:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/african-alliance-securities-delays-mauritian-plan-on-low-trading-volumes.html
African Alliance Securities, the
brokerage with offices in 10 countries on the continent, has
abandoned plans to open in  Mauritius  this year because of low-
trading volumes, Chief Executive Officer Patrick O’Flaherty
said.  African Alliance Securities, which is based in
Johannesburg, already has a trading license in Mauritius and the
office would have been a “small start up operation with three
or four people,” O’Flaherty said.  “Mauritius I’ve put on hold for now, I don’t think the
current liquidity in the market is suitable to sustain a stock
broking business,” O’Flaherty said in an interview from
Johannesburg on July 19. “If you look at some of the smaller
African markets they have been really impacted by the global
financial crisis and they really haven’t recovered.”  The total value of transactions on the exchange fell 23
percent between the first-half of 2007 and the same period this
year to 5.1 billion Mauritian rupees ($180 million), according
to central bank data.  Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB)  is the largest
company on the 38-member Stock Exchange of Mauritius by market
value.  The Indian Ocean island nation’s exchange is sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s fourth-biggest after those in  South Africa , Nigeria and
 Kenya . The Mauritius SEMDEX Index fell for a fourth day,
retreating 0.1 percent to 2,044.31 by the 1:30 p.m. close in
Port Louis, the lowest closing level since April 20.  Deferring Entry  Turnover on the Mauritian Stock Exchange in Port Louis was
$817,000 yesterday, according to  Renaissance Capital . That
compares with $9 million in Nigeria, $6.2 million in Kenya and
$2.5 million in  Zimbabwe .  “By no means are we saying that Mauritius is no longer on
our radar, we’re just saying we’re deferring our entry into
Mauritius until sometime as we believe the market can sustain an
operation there,” he said. “I would rather focus management
time on our existing markets and more specifically getting
 Nigeria  up and running.”  African Alliance Securities was issued a license last year
to operate in Nigeria and will appoint a CEO within “the next
few weeks” to head its Lagos office, which is expected to be
“up and running” by year-end in Africa’s largest oil producer,
said O’Flaherty.  The brokerage has offices in South Africa, Swaziland,
Botswana, Namibia, Zambia, Malawi, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and
 Ghana .  “Nigeria is probably the most significant market outside
of South Africa when you’re talking sub-Saharan Africa. So we
believe that’s a market where you can make a very significant
case for a business,” said O’Flaherty. “We have a long term
view that African financial markets will be exponentially bigger
than they are now in five to 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  