-- 
Agincourt to Invest Property Dim Sum Bond Funds by January

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-07-20T03:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/agincourt-plans-to-invest-533-million-in-australia-property-dim-sum-funds.html
Agincourt Capital , which last week
introduced the first yuan-denominated bond fund to buy
Australian real estate, said it plans to invest in A$500 million
($533 million) of properties by January.  The Hong-Kong based group expects to announce contracts on
two buildings in the next two weeks, to be settled by October,
and is seeking to spend the rest of the fund’s first capital by
the start of 2012, Chief Executive Officer Craig Turnbull said.  “In the last three or four years, there’s been a complete
lack of new supply of commercial property, not because there’s
no projects, but because the funding is tight,” Turnbull said
in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “In residential too
there are great projects that can’t be funded. There’s all sorts
of opportunities now.”  Agincourt introduced the fund on July 14, offering 3.5
billion yuan ($541 million) of five-year, 4 percent convertible
bonds to take advantage of record yuan deposits in  Hong Kong .
The manager expects to raise the first A$500 million by the end
of September, followed by a second A$500 million early next year,
Turnbull said.  Agincourt is focusing on investments in office, mixed-use,
and land developments, favoring office properties with leases of
more than 10 years to corporate or government tenants that offer
about 8 percent yield and average rental increases of 4 percent,
Turnbull said.  Strategy  The group is aiming to invest about A$350 million of the
first funds raised into “core” office properties that are
well-leased with stable returns, and the remaining A$150 million
into developments, he said.  “This allows us to go for smaller assets, A$30 million to
A$50 million, which offer us higher returns,” Turnbull said.
“We can blend that with a couple of larger assets and overall
our yield is higher and our chance for uplift is higher.”  Agincourt, with offices in Hong Kong,  London  and  Melbourne ,
charges a 2 percent management fee and will collect a 20 percent
performance bonus if the investment fund produces a minimum
return of 8 percent, Turnbull said on July 14 before a media
briefing on the introduction of the fund.  It is now in due diligence to buy a multistage development
in Queensland’s Gold Coast that was being developed by an
overseas company, and is in early talks with a Brisbane
developer on an apartment complex joint venture in the city,
Turnbull said. He declined to name the properties, citing non-
disclosure agreements the group has signed.  New Plans  Agincourt is also close to finalizing the purchase of a
building in Perth with a 15-year lease to the Western Australian
state government, and another with a 10-year lease to an
international oil and gas tenant, Turnbull said without naming
the properties.  Agincourt plans to triple its staff of four within a year,
with about a third in  Australia  and the rest in Hong Kong,
Turnbull said. It will introduce similar bond funds in  China  in
early 2012 and  Brazil  in 2012 or 2013, and will expand its staff
accordingly, he said.  This year’s sales of yuan-denominated bonds globally have
more than doubled from a year earlier to 85.3 billion yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thirty-two banks have
arranged dim sum bond deals at least once this year, compared
with 15 banks in 2010, data shows, and Deutsche Bank AG has
started an index tracking the bonds as trading volumes surge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  