-- 
Ahluwalia Sees Several Months to Bring India Inflation to Acceptable Level

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-20T04:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ahluwalia-sees-several-months-to-bring-india-inflation-to-acceptable-level.html
India  will take several months to
reduce inflation to “an acceptable level,” and the central
bank’s interest-rate increases haven’t hurt the economy, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s top economic aide said.  “We will bring inflation down in control but it will take
several months,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the deputy chairman of
India’s planning commission, said in an interview in New Delhi
late yesterday. “As of now, there has been no collateral damage
at all” to growth from rate rises, the economic adviser, 67,
said before next week’s central bank policy meeting.  India has persisted with the most aggressive monetary
tightening among  Asia ’s major economies even as regional
neighbors from  Malaysia  to the  Philippines  held rates in recent
weeks to protect growth. Indian policy makers need to worry
about the economic cost only if the expansion dips below 8
percent, versus the 8.25 percent pace estimated for the fiscal
year through March, Ahluwalia said.  “As inflation continues to be uncomfortably high, the
 Reserve Bank of India  looks set to hike rates next week,” said
 Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
 Singapore . “The government is very keen on winning the fight
against inflation and alarmed by the persistence of the near-10
percent rates of price increases.”  Subbarao’s Moves  India’s 10-year government bond yield rose two basis points
to 8.28 percent as of 9:07 a.m. today, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The yield has climbed 27 basis points
since April 1, the start of the fiscal year, as the  Reserve Bank 
extended its longest stretch of monetary tightening in a decade.
Suryanarayanan expects a 0.25 percentage-point boost in
benchmark  interest rates  on July 26.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, who has raised
borrowing costs 10 times since mid-March 2010, will elevate the
repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from 7.5 percent next week,
according to 13 out of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
with two predicting no change.  The nation’s benchmark wholesale price inflation
accelerated to 9.44 percent in June and has stayed above 8
percent since December 2009.  “Inflation in India at the moment is above an acceptable
level,” Ahluwalia said. “What the government has been doing
and what the RBI has been doing, slowly tightening on the
monetary front, is entirely the right thing to do.”  Budget Deficit  The planning commission’s view is that a “steady 5 percent
to 6 percent inflation rate” would be appropriate for India.
Prime Minister Singh has said restraining consumer prices is the
top agenda item for India’s policy makers as higher costs erode
spending power in a nation where the  World Bank  estimates more
than three-quarters of the people live on less than $2 a day.  The government is doing its part to defuse price pressures
by reducing the budget gap, and there’s no reason to believe
that it won’t be able to meet its deficit target this year, said
Ahluwalia, who has a masters in economics from Oxford University.  The South Asian nation will struggle to meet the fiscal-
year target of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product because of
slower growth, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the prime
minister’s economic advisory council, said last month. The
budget shortfall was 4.7 percent of GDP in the previous year.  The  finance ministry  last week advised officials to cut
spending on foreign travel, barred government purchases of new
vehicles and cut the budget for conferences by 10 percent, to
control expenditure.  Maruti Sales  India’s latest economic data show higher borrowing costs
may have begun to damp consumer demand. Industrial output growth
unexpectedly slowed in May, with production rising 5.6 percent
from a year earlier, the least since August 2010.  The $1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the three
months through March from a year before, the slowest pace since
2009, as manufacturing and services cooled. The benchmark  stock
index  has dropped more than 8 percent this year and companies
including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. have reported declining sales.  “ Monetary policy  is now beginning to have an impact on
growth,” said Joshi. “We need to wait for more data but in
some cases there has definitely been an impact.”  Singh aims to accelerate India’s economic expansion to as
much as 10 percent over two decades to cut poverty. He plans to
spend about 13 percent of India’s 12.6 trillion rupees ($283
billion) budget this year on welfare programs for the poor.  “The poor are the hardest hit by inflation,” Ahluwalia
said. “Bringing inflation down to 5 percent to 6 percent should
be the government’s priority. We now feel the downturn is there
and it will come down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  