-- 
Taiwan Financial Regulator to Ask Banks to Raise Loan Provisions

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-07-20T07:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/taiwan-financial-regulator-to-ask-banks-to-raise-loan-provisions.html
Taiwan ’s financial regulator said it
plans to ask banks to set aside more provisions for loans to
strengthen their risk management systems.  Lenders may be ordered to increase provision ratios on
corporate loans and syndicated loans, Kuei Hsien-nung, director-
general of the Financial Supervisory Commission’s banking bureau,
said in a telephone interview in Taipei today, reiterating
comments he made to the Economic Daily News and the Commercial
Times earlier.  Growth in Taiwan’s consumer and housing loans is slowing
after policy makers tightened mortgage lending rules to deter
real-estate speculation, prompting banks to rely on providing
credit to companies to boost earnings. The financial regulator
aims to increase lending costs after some banks offered low
interest rates to unprofitable companies, the Commercial Times
said today.  “Banks are swamped with excess liquidity,” said Chuang
Piyen, a bank analyst at Taipei-based Mega Securities Co. “The
warning comes after banks scrambled to compete for corporate
loans after growth in housing loans slowed.”  The island’s Cabinet in March approved a proposal to impose
a 15 percent tax on some residential homes sold within a year of
purchase, and a 10 percent levy on some sold within two years.
The tax was effective June 1. Central bank Governor Perng Fai- nan said last month the tax has “yielded results” in curbing
speculation.  Hsinchu-based  ProMOS Technologies Inc. (5387) , which has been
unprofitable since 2007, said this month it asked banks to lower
the interest rate on its loans to 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  