-- 
Ajiya, Bursa, Mitrajaya, Sapura, Star: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-20T00:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ajiya-bursa-mitrajaya-sapura-star-malaysia-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,555.64.  Ajiya Bhd. (AJY)  : The Malaysian building materials said
second-quarter net income rose 13 percent to 7.2 million ringgit
($2.4 million) from a year earlier, according to an exchange
filing. The stock gained 2.3 percent to 1.76 ringgit on July 18.  Bursa Malaysia Bhd. (BURSA)   The exchange operator may
extend derivatives trading hours as early as next year and
“liberalize” market access as it aims to attract new product
offerings, Chief Executive Officer Tajuddin Atan told reporters
in  Kuala Lumpur . Bursa was unchanged at 7.63 ringgit.  Mitrajaya Holdings Bhd. (MHB)  : The builder won a 13.5
million-ringgit contract to construct a freshwater laboratory
complex, according to an exchange filing. Its shares climbed 3.5
percent to 58.5 sen.        Sapura Resources Bhd. (SRB)  : The automotive retailer
agreed to build and develop an office tower, convention center
and retail podium in Kuala Lumpur with KLCC (Holdings) Sdn. The
agreement is part of Sapura’s plan to venture into property
development, the company said in a statement. The stock added
1.9 percent to 1.07 ringgit.  Star Publications Bhd. (STAR MK): The newspaper publisher
agreed to invest 35 million ringgit in  Hong Kong ’s Li TV, which
broadcasts an English-language lifestyle channel across  Asia .
This is the group’s first investment in television media space,
it said in a statement. The stock was unchanged at 3.41 ringgit.       V.S. Industry Bhd. (VSI MK): The electronics parts
manufacturer will receive proceeds of $9.9 million after selling
its stake in PT GY Plantation Indonesia, according to a company
statement. Its shares fell 1.3 percent to 1.56 ringgit.  Yinson Holdings Bhd. (YNS)  : The transport group fixed
the price of its private placement shares at 1.70 ringgit each,
according to an exchange filing. That’s a 6.1 percent discount
to the stock’s recent average market price, it said. Yinson fell
1.6 percent to 1.80 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  