-- 
Malawians Protest Against Government, Defying Court Order

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-20T17:52:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/malawi-protestors-defy-court-to-demonstrate-over-fuel-government-policies.html
Tens of thousands of Malawians
defied a court order and held protests in the biggest cities
against government policies and a fuel shortage, said Rafiq
Hajat, director of Malawi’s Institute of Policy Interaction.  “Today we have shown the world we can stand for our
rights,” Hajat, who helped organize the protests, said in an
interview today in Blantyre, the commercial capital. “We are
watching, and if government doesn’t respond, we will come
back.”  Police fired tear gas to disperse demonstrators who
protested in the city, Victor Mhango, a member of the Human
Rights Consultative Committee, said by phone. About 80,000
people wearing red clothing marched in Blantyre and organizers
handed over a list of demands for President Bingu wa Mutharika,
he said.  The  High Court  in Malawi, the world’s biggest producer of
burley tobacco, granted an injunction late yesterday to stop
planned protests in the capital, Lilongwe, and in Mzuzu and
Blantyre. Civil-society groups in the southern African nation,
including the Malawi Law Society and Malawi Council of Churches,
and opposition parties planned to lead today’s demonstrations
against state policies.  The U.K. has cut aid and is reviewing relations with the
country after the government deported its envoy for criticizing
Mutharika in a leaked cable, and the nation has suffered
recurrent fuel shortages due to a lack of foreign currency.  Carrying Machetes  Youths from Mutharika’s ruling  Democratic Progressive Party 
held separate demonstrations in support of the government.  “The DPP youths are carrying machetes and patrolling in
the city center, threatening anyone who criticizes them,”
Washington Banda, a Blantyre taxi driver, said in a telephone
interview.  In Mzuzu, Malawi’s third-largest city, anti-Mutharika
demonstrators set fire to at least two vehicles, Lapson Kapiti,
a tobacco worker, said by phone.  About 150 demonstrators were arrested in Mzuzu, a police
officer, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media, said by phone. The officer
denied a report by MIJ FM, an independent radio station, that
six people, including two policemen, were killed.  Police will issue a statement on the protests tomorrow,
spokesman Willie Mwaluka said by phone.  The demonstrations should be allowed to go ahead, Vice
President Joyce Banda told the country’s  Nation  newspaper July
15. Banda and Mutharika lead factions within the DPP.  Burning Cars  Masked youths in a DPP vehicle vandalized a van
transporting journalists from the independent Zodiak
Broadcasting Station on July 17, the Committee for the
Protection of Journalists  reported , citing local reporters.
Zodiak’s offices were raided and a car set alight in another
incident in Lilongwe, CPJ said.  The government will take over the importation of motor fuel
to help ease shortages, Mutharika said in a speech in Lilongwe
broadcast on national television. It will set up the state-owned
National Oil Company of Malawi to import fuel “because the
Petroleum Importers Ltd. has failed my government,” he said.  Petroleum Importers, or PIL, is a venture that includes the
local units of Total SA and Chevron Corp. as well as Puma Malawi
Ltd. and Petroda Malawi Ltd. Robert Mdeza, chief executive
officer of PIL, couldn’t be reached for comment because his
mobile phone was switched off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  