-- 
Afghan Taliban Denies Mullah Omar Has Died, Blames Hacking

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-07-20T07:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/taliban-deny-reports-that-mullah-omar-has-died-ap-reports-1-.html
Afghanistan ’s Taliban denied that
their leader Mullah Mohammed Omar had died, saying phone and
website messages announcing his death were the result of hacking.  Omar is “organizing operations throughout Afghanistan,”
Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahid  said by telephone today
from an undisclosed location after a text message was sent
claiming to be from him announcing the death. A Taliban website
saying Omar died of a heart illness on July 15 was hacked, he
said. Another spokesman for the Islamic militant movement, Qari Yousef Ahmadi, also denied the reports.  It was the second such report in two months. Afganistan’s
Tolo television network on May 23 cited unidentified domestic
intelligence sources as saying Omar had died, three weeks after
a U.S. commando raid killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in
Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  While there is no way to prove who is behind the reports,
Afghan and U.S. intelligence agencies have shut down Taliban
websites before in an effort to disrupt their activities, said
Haroun Mir director of the Kabul-based Afghanistan Center for
Research and Policy Studies.  “There are a lot of intelligence agencies working in our
country,” Mir said. “Whoever did the hacking will benefit by
this.”  Taliban Rule  Mullah Omar’s Taliban ruled Afghanistan from 1996 until it
was forced from power by U.S.-led forces following the Sept. 11,
2001 terrorist attacks. The decision to invade was sparked by
Omar’s refusal to hand over bin Laden, who was based in the
country. In the  10 years of fighting  that followed, 2,603
coalition soldiers have been killed, 1,672 of them Americans,
according to the iCasualties website which tracks the war.  A spokesman for Afghanistan’s spy agency, Lotfullah Mashal,
said officials had begun an investigation into the conflicting
statements. Courtney Beale, an acting spokeswoman at the U.S.
Embassy in Islamabad, said in a text message that it had “no
independent confirmation” of Omar’s death.  President  Barack Obama  said last month that the U.S. will
withdraw 10,000 troops from Afghanistan before the end of this
year and an additional 23,000 by September 2012. Other nations
have announced their own troop reduction plans. The U.S.-led
coalition force in Afghanistan this week began transferring
security in seven areas to Afghan forces.  Underscoring the challenges as U.S. troops leave, Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai ’s younger half brother was shot dead at
his home in the southern province of Kandahar July 12. That
killing was followed days later by the shooting to death of a
senior Karzai aide in Kabul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  