-- 
All Blacks Pick Hoeata, Slade for First Test Starts in Rugby Season Opener

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-20T04:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/all-blacks-pick-hoeata-slade-for-first-test-starts-in-rugby-season-opener.html
New Zealand rugby selectors picked
Jarrad Hoeata and Colin Slade to make their starting debuts in
the All Blacks’ season-opening Test against Fiji in two days.  Hoeata, who was the only uncapped player chosen in the 30-
man squad on July 10, was named in the second row alongside Ali Williams, who returns to the national team for the first time
since November 2008.  Slade, who twice broke his jaw during the Super Rugby
competition, will make his first Test start as backup to first-
choice No. 10 Dan Carterhaving previously come off the bench
against  Australia  last year. The match in Dunedin is the first
of five for the All Blacks before they open the Rugby World Cup
on Sept. 9 against Tonga in Auckland.  “This is an important Test for us as we kick off this
year’s season,” All Blacks Coach Graham Henry said in a
statement. “We have got some real competition for places and
it’s exciting for those players picked and they will keen to put
their best foot forward.”  The All Blacks have played Fiji four times since 1987,
winning 91-0 when the teams last met six years ago in Auckland.  ALL BLACKS: Wyatt Crockett, Andrew Hore, Ben Franks, Jarrad
Hoeata, Ali Williams, Adam Thomson, Richie McCaw (captain),  Liam
Messam , Jimmy Cowan, Colin Slade, Sitiveni Sivivatu, Ma’a Nonu,
Conrad Smith, Zac Guildford, Mils Muliaina.  Reserves:  Corey Flynn ,  John Afoa , Samuel Whitelock, Jerome
Kaino,  Piri Weepu , Daniel Carter,  Ben Smith .  FIJI: Iliesa Keresoni, Timoci Naqusa, Albert Vulivuli,
Ravai Fatiaki, Naipolioni Nalag, Seremaia Bai, Nemia Serelevu,
Sakiusa Matadigo, Akapusi Qera, Dominiko Waqaniburotu, Rupeni
Nasiga, Sekonaia Kalou, Deacon Manu (captain), Sunia Koto,
Campese Ma’afu.  Reserves: Viliame Veikoso, Setefano Somoca, Josefa
Domolailai, Malakai Ravulo, Vitori Buatava, Taniela Rawaqa,
Vereniki Goneva.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  