-- 
Taller Women Have 16% Higher Cancer Risk, U.K. Researchers Find

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-20T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/taller-women-have-16-higher-cancer-risk-u-k-researchers-find.html
Taller women may be at higher risk
of developing at least 16 different types of cancer including
leukemia and breast tumors, according to a U.K. study that may
shed light on possible triggers for the disease.  Every 10-centimeter (4-inch) bump in height corresponded to
a 16 percent greater chance of getting cancer, according to
research published today in the medical journal  The Lancet .
Scientists studying the link between stature and abnormal cell
growth observed the greatest increase in the risk of kidney
cancer and malignant melanoma, the deadliest form of skin
cancer.  The scientists also evaluated other research into height
and tumor development. An analysis of 11 studies showed a 10
percent increase in cancer risk in men for every 10 centimeters
of growth, they said. Height may amplify the risk of cancer
because taller people generally have higher levels of growth
hormones, causing cells to multiply faster, said Jane Green, an
epidemiologist at the University of Oxford and lead author of
the study. They also have a greater number of cells that could
divide.  “This gives us a possible insight into the basic mechanism
of cancer,” Green said by phone. “Each of those things would
give a higher chance of a mutation occurring.”  The researchers studied more than 1 million women in the
U.K. who reported an average height of 161 centimeters to the
state-run  National Health Service  between 1996 and 2001. They
found more than 97,000 incidents of cancer by June 2008. Every
10 centimeters of height translated to an 17 percent increase
for incidents of  breast cancer , which comprised more than a
third of all the observed malignancies, according to the Lancet.  Tallest Women  “Our study shows how consistent it is across different
types of cancers,” Green said.  The tallest group of women studied by the scientists, with
an average height of 174 centimeters, had a 37 percent greater
chance of facing a tumor compared with women who reached an
average height of 153 centimeters. Taller women, who are
generally healthier in other areas, shouldn’t worry or look to
treatments to stunt growth, Green said.  In the future, researchers should study childhood
development for things that may affect cancer rates and height,
such as nutrition, illness and psychological stress, rather than
final adult height, wrote Andrew Renehan of the  University of
Manchester  in an accompanying editorial.  The study was funded by Cancer Research UK, a London-based
charity, and the U.K. Medical Research Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  