-- 
AllianceBernstein Stops Bets Against Dollar, Starts Shorting Euro, Pound

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-20T07:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/alliancebernstein-stops-betting-against-dollar-shorts-euro-and-u-k-pound.html
AllianceBernstein LP, a  New York- 
based  fund manager  with $460 billion in assets, said it ended
its bets against the dollar as the debt crisis in the euro
region deteriorates.  The U.S. unit of French insurer  Axa SA (CS)  has moved to a so-
called neutral position on the dollar, according to Anthony Chung, its London-based director of research and currency
strategies. That means its holdings match the weight suggested
by indexes used to benchmark performance. AllianceBernstein is
also betting on a weaker euro and British pound, as well as
strength for Scandinavian currencies and the Swiss franc.  “The dollar is cheap at the current level, as a lot of bad
news has been discounted,” Chung said in an interview. “We are
slightly more positive on the dollar now. We were a bit short
three months ago. Another reason is that the debt problem in
 Europe  is getting worse.”  The dollar is up 2.3 percent against the euro this month,
heading toward its first quarterly gain in three. The currency
has declined 5.8 percent against the euro so far this year. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s measure
of purchasing power parity suggests the dollar is 8.3 percent
undervalued against the euro.  Portugal and Ireland followed  Greece  this month in having
their credit ratings cut below investment grade. European
leaders are struggling to convince investors that they will
agree on a second Greek bailout at a summit this week as the
crisis threatens to spill into Spain and  Italy .  ‘Ugly Contest’  Chung said he stopped short of betting on a dollar gain
given the U.S.’s own indebtedness and budgetary standoff.
AllianceBernstein also doesn’t expect an economic slowdown or
substantial unwinding of riskier trades, scenarios that would
boost the haven appeal of the dollar.  “Consistent with our view of slow and uncertain economic
recovery, we are cautiously bullish on the market,” said Chung,
who studied under Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  at  Stanford University . “Our dollar
positions have been fluctuating between slightly negative to
slightly positive. We find it difficult to have a long-term
positive proposition on the dollar.”  While both euro region and the U.S. are grappling with
their debt, the  European Central Bank ’s monetary policy posts a
greater challenge for the euro, he said.  “The difference between policy makers in Europe and in the
 United States  is that the ECB puts more emphasis on inflation
targeting,” said Chung. “That has created some kind of tension
in the euro area because not all economies are strong enough to
accommodate a tighter monetary policy.”  Overall, AllianceBernstein does not currently have “large
exposure” to the dollar, the Japanese yen or European
currencies, Chung said.  “When you look at some of these major currencies, you can
say it’s a contest of the ugly,” said Chung. “There is no good
way that you can really pick a currency and be confident enough
to sit on it for a long time. We have to actively manage our
portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ; 