-- 
Alstom April-June Order Rises 44%, Helped by Grid Purchase

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-07-20T06:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/alstom-april-june-order-rises-44-helped-by-grid-purchase.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, said quarterly orders rose 44 percent,
boosted by the acquisition of a power-transmission business and
greater demand for gas and coal turbines.  Orders in the April to June period climbed to 5.01 billion
euros ($7.07 billion) from 3.49 billion euros, the company,
based in Levallois-Perret near Paris, said in a statement today.
Revenue dropped 12 percent to 4.53 billion euros, missing
analysts estimates for 5.18 billion euros of sales.  “The satisfactory level of bookings over the first quarter
as well as the awards of orders not yet registered are
confirming the recovery in demand experienced in the second half
of last year,” Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said in a
statement. Sales, “impacted by the low level of orders taken
during the challenging times, should gradually recover over the
year.”  Alstom, which also makes rolling stock, is cutting jobs in
 Europe  and the U.S., where demand is struggling to recover from
the global financial crisis. Kron is investing and forging
partnerships in fast-growing countries such as  India ,  China  and
Russia to tap increased infrastructure needs.  Excluding the power grid unit bought from Areva SA in June
2010, orders rose 34 percent in the April-June period from a
year earlier, while sales dropped 23 percent, Alstom said today.  Orders for thermal-power equipment such as gas and steam
turbines rose 77 percent to 2.81 billion euros in the quarter,
and orders for renewable energy systems such as  wind turbines 
and hydroelectric dams fell 9 percent to 328 million euros.
Orders for trains, trams and metros totaled 980 million euros,
and orders for grid systems amounted to 891 million euros.  Margins Steady  Alstom’s operating margin, which narrowed to 7.5 percent in
the fiscal year ended March 2011 from 9.1 percent, will remain
in a range of 7 percent to 8 percent of revenue this year, Kron
reiterated today.  “The low volume of sales over the first half 2011/12 will
impact operational performance and free  cash flow ,” Alstom
said. “The financial situation remains strong.”  Alstom trails General Electric Co., based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut , and  Germany ’s Siemens AG in making power equipment.
The French company also competes with companies such as Siemens
and Canada’s Bombardier Inc. in train manufacturing, and with
Siemens and Switzerland’s ABB Ltd. on power transmission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 