-- 
Murdoch Garners a Vote of Confidence From News Corp. Shareholder Alwaleed

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T08:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/alwaleed-is-confident-in-murdochs-as-news-corp-besieged-by-hacking-case.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ,
facing the fallout from alleged phone-hacking at a London
newspaper, got a vote of confidence from Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud, one of the company’s largest shareholders.  Alwaleed remains “both supportive and confident in the
leadership of Rupert and  James Murdoch ,” he said in an e-mail
yesterday. The statement came a day after Rupert Murdoch and his
son James, who is deputy chief operating officer, were
questioned by U.K. lawmakers during a three-hour hearing on
alleged phone-hacking at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid.  The Murdochs answered “all questions” at the hearing with
“full honesty and integrity,” said Alwaleed, whose  Kingdom
Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  holds 7 percent of the voting stock in  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
the second-largest after the Murdoch family. He also said he
supports the inquiry as “part of a necessary process to address
the unacceptable practices that developed at the now closed News
of the World.”  Alwaleed’s support comes after governance experts who heard
Rupert Murdoch’s performance said he may not have done enough to
acknowledge his accountability. Jay Lorsch, a Harvard Business
School professor, said the company’s board may have to replace
him as chief executive officer after the appearance.  News Corp., owner of the Fox TV networks and the Wall
Street Journal, has fallen 12 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market
since allegations surfaced July 4 that Murdoch’s tabloid hacked
into the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl. The stock today
rose 1.6 percent to the equivalent of $16.59 in Australian
trading.  ‘Lousy Job’  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  During the questioning in Parliament, Murdoch, 80, denied
any knowledge of phone-hacking and payments to police at News of
the World. Both Murdochs said they didn’t know about employees
intercepting voicemails or paying police for stories.  “The News of the World is less than 1 percent of our
company,” Murdoch told Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport
Committee. He said he may have “lost sight” of the paper
because it was “so small in the general frame of the company.”  “If he didn’t know what was going on, he’s doing a lousy
job as CEO and the board should replace him,” said Harvard’s
Lorsch. “The board should be asking, ‘Where were you?’.”  Legal Fees  News Corp. yesterday also said it will immediately
terminate “any arrangement” to pay legal fees for  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator who went to jail for
intercepting phone messages left for supermodel  Elle Macpherson 
and members of the British royal family. The Murdochs had told
U.K. lawmakers during their testimony that they didn’t know if
News Corp. was still paying his legal fees.  News Corp. also authorized Harbottle & Lewis LLP, the  law
firm  it hired to review documents for evidence of phone hacking,
to answer questions from police and U.K. lawmakers.  Alwaleed’s support is significant as other shareholders
voice opposition to Murdoch. Christian Brothers Investment
Services in  New York  filed a petition with News Corp. on July 15
that seeks to permanently split the CEO and chairman positions,
said  Julie Tanner , assistant director of socially responsible
investing at the organization, which holds 30,755 Class B voting
shares on behalf of Catholic institutions.  Murdoch’s testimony that he isn’t responsible for the
scandal isn’t acceptable, Tanner said.  “He needs better policies in place and to have a better
grasp of what people in the company are doing,” Tanner said.  Dual-Class Criticism  News Corp.’s dual-share structure also was criticized by
Calpers, according to reports in the Financial Times and the
Guardian.  “The situation is very serious and we’re considering our
options,” Anne Simpson, a senior portfolio manager at the
pension fund for state workers, told the Financial Times in an
interview. “We don’t intend to be spectators - we’re owners.”  Calpers owns 4.87 million non-voting News Corp. shares and
1.49 million voting shares, according to Bloomberg data.  Alwaleed, in his statement, said that News Corp. is “a
valuable and long term investment”.  “I commend my friends and partners Rupert and James for
addressing these serious issues head on, cooperating fully with
the official inquiries and taking the appropriate steps to bring
ethical reform to News Corp,” he said.  Mario Gabelli , CEO of Gamco Investors Inc., also voiced
support for News Corp.  “These are great assets with great  cash flow  and not much
debt,” said Gabelli, whose firm held 6.7 million non-voting
shares as of March 31. “Nothing that’s happening right now
changes that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  