-- 
American Express Profit Climbs on Record Credit-Card Spending

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/american-express-boosts-profit-on-record-credit-card-spending.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, said profit increased as
spending by its customers climbed to a record and the firm
trimmed funds to cover bad loans.  Second-quarter net income from continuing operations
climbed 27 percent to $1.3 billion, or $1.07 per share, from
$1.02 billion, or 84 cents, in the same period a year earlier,
the New York-based lender said yesterday in a statement. The
average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 99
cents per share. Net income including discontinued operations
increased 31 percent to $1.33 billion.  “While loan growth has been hard to come by, spending has
picked up at most issuers over the past several quarters,
particularly at the high end of the market” where AmEx is the
industry leader, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by Ryan Nash wrote in a July 19 research note.  U.S. card issuers including AmEx,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are boosting profit as fewer borrowers
default, allowing banks to curb funds they set aside for future
loan losses. JPMorgan released $1 billion in loan-loss reserves
in the second quarter as card profit surged 166 percent to $911
million. Bank of America’s card income climbed 152 percent to
$2.04 billion as write-offs fell for a seventh straight period.  “Results for the quarter reflect the continuation of the
positive business trends evident during the last several
quarters,” American Express Chief Financial Officer Daniel Henry said in a conference call with analysts.  Affluent Clients  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault,
60, is expanding AmEx’s reach with a new Internet payments
system as the firm vies to attract more customers beyond its
base of affluent clients. The electronic wallet, called Serve,
may draw transactions to AmEx’s global network, the fourth
biggest after  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  China UnionPay Co.   “Cardmember spending was at an all-time high,” Chenault
said in the statement. “The underlying momentum across the
company once again gave us the flexibility to make substantial
investments in business-building initiatives.”  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 18
percent to $207.6 billion, AmEx said in an earnings  supplement .
Individuals spent an average of $3,767 during the quarter, an
increase of 11 percent from a year earlier, when AmEx had fewer
cards outstanding.  Total revenue increased 12 percent to $7.62 billion from a
year earlier, exceeding analysts’ estimates. U.S. card income
rose 29 percent to $665 million and international card income
climbed 4 percent to $161 million.  Shares Advance  American Express, the second-best performer this year in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , climbed 28 cents to $52.09 yesterday in  New
York . The stock has advanced 21 percent in 2011.  Write-offs for loans deemed uncollectible fell to 2.7
percent in June, from 3.2 percent in the previous month, AmEx
said in a July 15 regulatory filing. Accounts at least 30 days
overdue, a signal of future defaults, dropped to 1.5 percent,
the lowest of the six-biggest U.S. credit-card issuers.  Funds set aside to cover future loan losses dropped 45
percent to $357 million from the second quarter of 2010, AmEx
said in the statement.  Expenses surged 21 percent to $5.5 billion from $4.6
billion in the same period a year earlier as the company spent
more money on rewards programs and invested in new projects, the
lender said.  “We have a plan to slow the growth in operating expense as
we exit this year and into 2012,” Henry said during the
conference call.  AmEx handled 3.91 percent of 120.4 billion purchase
transactions worldwide last year as it was supplanted as the
third-biggest card network by Shanghai-based  UnionPay , which
boosted its market share to 4.03 percent, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. Visa, based in  San
Francisco , had 66.01 percent of the market, compared with 25.18
percent for Purchase, New York-based MasterCard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  