-- 
AT&T, F5 Networks, Lilly, Medco, PepsiCo, Travelers: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/american-express-ebay-intel-qualcomm-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading today. Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and prices are as of 6:07 p.m. in New York.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in September
fell 0.4 percent to 1,316.10.  American Express Co. (AXP)  : The biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases said second-quarter profit rose 27 percent,
exceeding the average analyst forecast, as credit-card spending
climbed to a record and the firm trimmed funds set aside to
cover bad loans.  E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC US): The online retail broker
said its second-quarter earnings met estimates of 16 cents a
share. Citadel LLC, E*Trade’s largest shareholder, called on the
online retail broker to hold a special meeting and remove two of
its directors, citing “catastrophic losses” for shareholders,
according to a filing earlier yesterday.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   fell 2 percent to $32.50. The world’s
largest online marketplace reported a drop in second-quarter
profit and forecast lower-than-anticipated earnings, a sign its
acquisition spree is weighing on profits.  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)   tumbled 7.6 percent to $103. The
software maker reported revenue for the third quarter ended June
30 that trailed some analysts’ estimates.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  : The world’s biggest chipmaker
forecast third-quarter sales that exceeded some analysts’
estimates, buoyed by corporate computer upgrades and first-time
purchases by consumers in emerging markets. Chief Executive
Officer Paul Otellini, speaking in an interview, said he doesn’t
see server chip demand abating.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   lost 2.5 percent to $57.30. The
biggest maker of mobile-phone chips forecast fourth-quarter
profit and sales that may exceed analysts’ estimates, citing
surging demand for phones that surf the Web.  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)   fell 14 percent to $14.66.
The world’s largest maker of computer disk drives said it
expects fiscal first-quarter earnings, excluding certain items,
of as much as 33 cents a share, below analysts’ estimates for 43
cents a share. It said it sees “significant uncertainties” in
the world economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Taylor in  New York  at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  