-- 
AMR Said to Plan Airbus-Boeing Split With Record 400 Jets

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-20T07:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/amr-said-to-plan-airbus-boeing-split-with-record-400-jet-order.html
American Airlines plans to split a
record order of about 400 jets between  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS
as the European planemaker widens its U.S. foothold and Boeing
shifts strategy, people familiar with the matter said.  Boeing’s proposal includes upgrading its 737 with new
engines to counter Airbus’s revamped A320neo, said four people
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly, after the company had
said for more than a year that it favored building an all-new
single-aisle jet instead. The deal may be announced today.  American’s decision signals that Chicago-based Boeing has
“lost the initiative in the narrow-body aircraft debate,” said
Kenneth Herbert, a Wedbush Securities analyst in  San Francisco .
 Fort Worth , Texas-based American flies an all-Boeing fleet and
hasn’t ordered Airbus jets since 1987.  Counting options and future purchase rights, the order may
reach 900 planes, two people said. Boeing and Toulouse, France-
based Airbus would help finance the acquisitions by leasing
about half of the jets to American, in effect keeping the
aircraft on their balance sheets, three people said.  Directors at American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  were considering
whether to approve the deal at a meeting that began yesterday
and was to resume today, one person said. The breakdown of the
order between the planemakers was under discussion, the people
said.  List Prices  American Airlines plans to order more than 250 Airbus A320
and A320NEO planes and about 150 re-engined Boeing 737s, the
Financial Times reported today, citing people familiar with the
matter. American may also be taking an option on a further 220
aircraft, the newspaper said.  The 400 planes may have a list value of about $37 billion,
based on average retail prices from which airlines negotiate
discounts. Taken together, the transaction would be the
industry’s biggest firm order, eclipsing  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ’s
agreement last month to buy 200 upgraded Airbus A320neos.  Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman at public-relations firm Weber
Shandwick for American, Boeing’s Mike Tull and Airbus’s Mary Anne Greczyn said the companies weren’t discussing the plans.
The airline tentatively scheduled a news conference at 10 a.m.
local time today at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.  Leap-X  American would use the Leap-X engine from  CFM
International , a  General Electric Co (GE) .- Safran SA (SAF)  joint venture,
exclusively on the upgraded planes, two people said. CFM
competes with  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit
on the A320neo and provides the only engine option for the 737.
Boeing’s board probably will make the Leap-X the only offering
on an upgraded plane for all airlines, the people said.  A CFM spokeswoman, Jamie Jewell, declined to comment.  With Boeing’s proposal to re-engine the 737, the planemaker
follows the lead of Airbus, which announced that step last year
for its A320 jet family. Boeing hasn’t said publicly whether it
would add the new engines, a less-expensive option, or wait
until later this decade to offer a new jet.  AMR rose 2 cents to $4.93 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday, snapping a string of six straight
declines, while Boeing gained 98 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
$70.53. Airbus parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.
added as much as 72 cents, or 3 percent, to 24.65 euros in Paris
today.  ‘Fleet Simplification’  New planes would help American refresh a fleet that in 2010
averaged 15 years of age, tied with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  for the
oldest among the six biggest U.S. carriers. Jet fuel and labor
are the largest expenses at airlines, so more-economical
aircraft would help AMR’s bid to return to profit after two
straight annual losses.  The trade-off is that adding Airbus planes ends American’s
strategy of holding down operating costs by flying only Boeing
jets, said  Robert Mann , owner of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. The
move also creates permanent scheduling inefficiencies, he said.  “They’ve been preaching fleet simplification for years,
and all of a sudden it doesn’t matter,” Mann said in an
interview from  Port Washington , New York. “It’s almost as if
the pricing is so attractive they think they can ignore the
complexity costs over the life of the airplanes.”  The 737 and A320 compete in the single-aisle segment that
makes up the biggest part of the global airline fleet.  New narrow-body planes would help American replace its 216
Boeing MD-80s, the most common model among the carrier’s 613
mainline jets. A workhorse on domestic routes, American’s MD-80s
average more than 20 years of age and went out of production in
1999.  Eagle’s Future  American began receiving deliveries two years ago on an
order of 130 737-800s that will be completed in 2013. Those
planes are 25 percent more fuel-efficient than the MD-80s. The
airline stopped flying Airbus jets in 2009.  American Airlines  signed an exclusivity agreement with
Boeing in 1996, dropping McDonnell Douglas Corp. as its main
supplier in favor of an order for 103 Boeing planes and purchase
rights for hundreds more.  AMR also is recommending that directors approve the spinoff
of regional carrier American Eagle, three people familiar with
the matter said. There is no guarantee that the board will vote
on Eagle’s future, the people said.  AMR and the Eagle pilots’ union negotiated an agreement for
ownership of the smaller airline’s planes to be transferred to
American, where they can be parceled out to other airlines to
provide regional flying, according to Tony Gutierrez, chairman
of the Air Line Pilots Association unit at Eagle.  In exchange, American agreed to terms that include offering
a future job to all 3,000 current Eagle pilots, putting them in
the queue first when the larger airline is hiring, Gutierrez
said in an e-mail to members.  AMR has studied options for Eagle for more than a year. A
spinoff would allow American to hire additional regional
carriers and let Eagle fly for other major airlines.  Tim Smith ,
an American spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  