-- 
Anglo, Xstrata Coal Miners in S.Africa Plan Strike Over Pay

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-21T14:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/anglo-bhp-coal-miners-in-south-africa-may-strike-over-pay-union-says.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
 Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  expect workers at their coal mines in
 South Africa  to start striking over pay on the night of July 24,
the Chamber of Mines said.  The National Union of Mineworkers, South Africa’s biggest,
is yet to serve notice of its intention to strike, Frans Barker,
the lead negotiator on behalf of the coal producers, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. An estimated 30,000 workers are
affected, he said.  The union is demanding a pay increase of 14 percent, while
coal companies are offering 7 percent, and 8.5 percent to entry-
level employees. Annual inflation in the country is currently 5
percent, the highest in 15 months.  The pay dispute is one of several affecting South Africa’s
mining and energy industries as workers push for above-inflation
wage gains that they say are needed to address the inequalities
caused by apartheid, a system of institutionalized racial
discrimination that ended in 1994. South Africa is the biggest
supplier of power-plant coal to some European countries and is
selling an increasing amount of the fuel to  India .  Gold miners at companies including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
may walk out if talks with employers scheduled for July 25 fail,
the NUM said, while miners at diamond producer De Beers plan to
start a strike tomorrow, and oil company workers have been on
strike for more than a week. Engineering workers ended a strike
after winning a pay rise of double the inflation rate.  Coal supplies  There’s no “immediate short-term danger” to coal exports
or supplies to national power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,
Barker said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Eskom’s stocks are relatively high and the companies
themselves also have stockpiles,” Barker said. Eskom is
involved in its own wage talks and the NUM has rejected a 5.5
percent pay rise offer made by the company, it said today.  Other coal companies involved in the talks are  Optimum Coal
Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., Kangra Coal Ltd. and Delmas Coal Ltd. Delmas
Coal, a closely held company, has made a lower offer of 7.5
percent for entry level workers and 6 percent for other miners.  Exxaro shares were little changed at 186.38 rand at 3:47
p.m. in Johannesburg trading while Optimum declined 1.9 percent
to 25.51 rand. In  London , Anglo was little changed at 2,979.5
pence while Xstrata dropped 1.2 percent to 1,348 pence.  Exxaro is based in Pretoria while Optimum has its
headquarters in Johannesburg. Xstrata is based in Zug,
 Switzerland , and Anglo is based in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in London at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  