-- 
Apple Shares Jump After Record IPhone, IPad Sales Let Profit Top Estimates

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-20T22:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/apple-shares-jump-after-record-iphone-ipad-sales-fuel-profit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s stock jumped to its
highest price ever, after record sales of iPhones and iPads
helped third-quarter profit blow past estimates.  Net income in the period more than doubled to $7.31
billion, or $7.79 a share, from $3.25 billion, or $3.51, a year
earlier, Apple said yesterday in a statement. Sales climbed 82
percent to $28.6 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $5.87
a share and revenue of $25 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  IPhone sales were buoyed by international demand,
particularly in  China , where total revenue jumped sixfold to
$3.8 billion. After overcoming supply shortages for the iPad 2
following its March debut, Apple saw sales of the tablet soar.
The device is now its second-biggest revenue source -- behind
the iPhone -- less than two years after first being introduced.  “They have the wind at their backs in a big way, and it’s
being reflected in these numbers,” said  Ryan Jacob , an Apple
investor at Jacob Asset Management. “They have a unique ability
to increase market share and introduce new products.”  Apple shares jumped 2.7 percent to $386.90 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The stock is up 20 percent this year.  ‘A Juggernaut’  The report eased investors’ concerns that sales would
suffer from the lack of a new iPhone, which isn’t expected until
September. The Cupertino, California-based company also has been
operating without the day-to-day attention of Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Jobs , who has been on medical leave since January.  “Apple is a juggernaut and they prove it every quarter,”
said Mike Binger, an Apple investor at Thrivent Asset Management
in Appleton,  Wisconsin , which has about $70 billion under
management.  Apple’s expansion into China and other fast-growing
economies helped make up for  slower growth  in the U.S. Sales in
China,  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong  have totaled $8.8 billion in the
first three quarters of the fiscal year, Apple said.  “China was very key to our results,” said Chief Operating
Officer  Tim Cook , who is handling day-to-day leadership during
Jobs’s medical leave. “This has been a substantial opportunity
for Apple, and I firmly believe that we’re just scratching the
surface right now.”  Fourth Quarter  Apple sold 20.3 million iPhones and 9.3 million iPads in
the third quarter, which ended June 25. Mac computer sales were
3.95 million, short of a record.  The company said profit in the fourth quarter would be
about $5.50 a share on sales of $25 billion. Analysts on average
predict $6.41 a share on sales of $27.7 billion for that period,
which ends in September.  Apple typically gives a lowball forecast, making it less
relevant to investors. The company had previously beaten the
average earning projection for at least 29 straight quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The forecast is meaningless,” said Thrivent’s Binger.  In the third quarter, gross profit margin, the percentage
of sales left after deducting production costs, was 41.7
percent, compared with 39.1 percent a year earlier.  Since Jobs went on leave, some members of Apple’s board
have discussed CEO succession with executive recruiters, the
Wall Street Journal  reported  yesterday, citing unnamed people
familiar with the matter. The talks included at least one head
of a high-profile technology company, the Journal said.  Jobs’s Health  The health of Jobs, who has struggled with a rare form of
cancer, is the only major concern for Apple, said Erick Maronak,
chief investment officer of Victory Capital Management Inc. in
 New York , which has about $2.5 billion under management.  “In the end, it’s really all going to circle back to Jobs
-- his health, his role,” Maronak said. Apple is his firm’s
largest holding, accounting for about 5 percent, he said.  Jobs’s health wasn’t discussed on Apple’s conference call
yesterday, and no analysts inquired about it.  Apple is expanding its retail operations by opening 30
locations in the September period, including in Hong Kong. The
chain of stores generated $3.5 billion last quarter.  The results reinforced the idea that tablets are taking
sales from traditional personal computers. Apple said 86 percent
of Fortune 500 companies are testing or deploying the iPad, and
that sales of the tablet topped those of the Mac computer among
primary and secondary schools.  “We sold every iPad we could make,”  Peter Oppenheimer ,
the company’s chief financial officer, said on the call.  Patent Fights  Apple also discussed its patent disputes, which involve
rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   “We have a very simple view here, and that view is we love
competition,” Cook said. “We think it’s great for us and for
everyone. But we want people to invent their own self, and we’re
going to make sure that we defend our portfolio.”  The iPod, meanwhile, fell short of projections. Apple sold
7.54 million units of the media player last quarter, compared
with the 8.5 million predicted by analysts. That product is the
oldest of Apple’s main mobile devices and faces cannibalization
from the iPhone and iPad, which also can play music.  It was the first time since 2008 that the third-quarter
results didn’t include the release of a new iPhone. The new
model slated for September has a faster chip for processing data
and an 8-megapixel camera, two people familiar with the matter
said last month.  The company also is introducing a new Mac operating system
called OS X Lion today, available as a download from the Mac App
Store for $29.99. A version of the MacBook Air using that
software will be in stores tomorrow, priced at $999 and higher,
Apple said today. An updated model of the Mac Mini will also be
in stores tomorrow, at a starting price of $599.  Later this year, it will release its iCloud service, which
let users store, synchronize and access music, pictures and
documents from different Apple devices.  “We are extremely pleased with the momentum of our
business,” Oppenheimer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 