-- 
Apple Analysts Ignore History Then Repeat It: Chart of the Day

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-07-20T19:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/apple-analysts-ignore-history-then-repeat-it-chart-of-the-day.html
What’s the best way to figure out
what  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will earn in a quarter? Assume analysts should
have raised their estimates five times more than they did.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Apple’s quarterly profit has
exceeded analysts’ average forecast from three months earlier by
30 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg since 2006.
Over the same period, Wall Street firms boosted their
projections by an average of 6 percent, the data show.  The reluctance of analysts to raise their estimates to
account for Apple’s history of beating its forecasts explains
why the Cupertino, California-based maker of iPhones and iPads
topped Wall Street’s projections every quarter since at least
2006. The company has surpassed its own guidance by an average
of 43 percent, the data show.  “Shame on the analysts for not doing more of their own
homework,” Keith Goddard, president of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Capital Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview today. His
firm oversees $919 million including 29,500 Apple shares.
“They’re obsessed with getting guidance from management about
what to build in to their spreadsheet instead of competitive
strategies, market share trends and new products,” he said.  Yesterday, Apple reported fiscal third-quarter profit of
$7.79 a share, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$5.87 at the time and $5.27 three months ago when the company
last reported results. Apple projected earnings this quarter of
$5.50, versus analysts at $6.41.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  