-- 
Harvard Squash Gets Championship Recruiting Tips From Princeton

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/harvard-squash-seeks-princeton-bump-in-recruiting-at-world-championships.html
Harvard University  is seeking to
turn its host role for the  Women’s World Junior Squash
Championships  into a recruiting bonanza rivaling the one
 Princeton University  got from staging the 1998 men’s tournament.  Egypt is seeking its third straight team championship in
the event for those 18 years and younger and the U.S. squad is
aiming for its first title in the tournament, which consists of
individual and team competition today through July 30.  Harvard, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based 2010 women’s
national college champion and runner-up to  New Haven ,
Connecticut-based  Yale University  this year, is presenting
itself both as the event host and an appealing destination for
any of the world’s best players who may be looking for a place
to further their education and keep playing the game at a high
level.  “They call it the ‘Princeton Bump’ or ‘World Championship
Bump,’ where after hosting the men’s junior tournament Princeton
developed an excellent program,” Kevin Klipstein, 42, the
tournament’s organizer and chief executive officer of  U.S.
Squash , said in a telephone interview. “I think Harvard hopes
to experience the same thing.”  The tournament was to be staged in Egypt before being moved
in March because of political unrest. Harvard, with tuition,
room, board and expenses coming to $50,723 a year according to
its website, then found itself in the same situation as
 Princeton University , which hosted the junior men’s championship
on its New Jersey campus in 1998, the only other time the U.S.
has held either world junior title event. The Tigers, with
international recruiting fostered by that event, won the  Ivy
League  title or national five-man championships in eight of the
next 11 years.  Recruiting Edge  “You’re going to have these young women coming from all
over the world and enjoying Cambridge and  Boston  for a few
weeks, and that doesn’t do us any harm whatsoever,” Mike Way,
57, who coaches the Crimson men’s and women’s teams, said in a
telephone interview. “From a recruiting point of view, there’s
an obvious advantage.”  Harvard was chosen for the relocation because of its
“world class facility,” which includes air conditioning, a
four-sided glass court and enough seating to host a tournament
of this size, Klipstein said. With roughly 100 players from 18
countries participating in Cambridge, the university has a great
opportunity to sell itself to the international squash community
on academics, sports program and location, he added.  “Players go there, they’ve never seen anything like it, a
14-court facility on a beautiful campus in an amazing city in
the U.S.,” Klipstein said. “It becomes hard to get out of your
mind.”  Harvard Advantage  Two of the four members of the U.S. team, 18-year-old
defending world junior champion Amanda Sobhy of Sea Cliff, New
York, and 17-year-old Haley Mendez of  Brooklyn , New York, will
attend Harvard this year.  Trinity College  in Hartford,  Connecticut , winner of 244
straight matches and the last 13 men’s national titles, changed
college squash with its international recruiting, Klipstein
said. Princeton, with $52,670 in tuition, room, board and
personal expenses listed on its website, has been runner-up to
the Bantams six times in that span, boosted by the attention
from hosting the men’s junior championships in 1998.  “It did expose interest from all over the world, from
players who were interested in continuing their education,” Bob
Callahan, Princeton’s coach for 30 years, said in a telephone
interview.  Callahan said his program drew interest from international
players and built relationships with international coaches. This
year Trinity had 10 players from outside the U.S.; Princeton had
six.  Tiger Lure  Yasser El Halaby skipped the 1998 tournament and still
wound up a Tiger. He was swayed to come to the Princeton,  New
Jersey , campus by Egyptian teammates and coaches who raved about
the site, Callahan said. El Halaby won the college individual
title all four years at Princeton, a first, and graduated in
2006 with a 54-6 collegiate record.  “The biggest impact and help to me over the long-term
regarding recruiting has been my ability to get in touch with
these international coaches directly and ask about players,”
Callahan said.  Way said that he has already enjoyed meeting with coaches
in town for the tournament, both sharing ideas and establishing
relationships.  “I’ve been spending some time with four or five of the top
coaches from around the world already, and we haven’t even
started the tournament,” he said.  Nour El Tayeb of  Egypt , the 18-year-old runner-up the past
two tournaments, is the top-ranked player this year, followed by
Sobhy, an American left-hander whose father is Egyptian. Nour El
Sherbini of Egypt, the third seed, was the youngest champion in
tournament history, at 13, in 2009. Olivia Blatchford of Wilton,
Connecticut, 18, is seeded fourth.  Professional Rules  Squash isn’t a National Collegiate Athletic Association
sport and has its own rules on professional participation.
Blatchford plans to continue playing professionally next year,
while Sobhy will join the Crimson. Sobhy, ranked No. 20 on the
pro tour, said she was impressed with Harvard’s coaching and the
diversity of the area.  “Education comes first,” Sobhy said in a telephone
interview. “If I am given an opportunity to go to the best
school in the world, why not take it?”  She said she also expects Harvard, already one of the
nation’s top teams, to get a recruiting advantage as tournament
host.  “Hopefully, we are just going to keep improving and then
in the next few years we are just going to get more
international players and develop from there,” Sobhy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  