-- 
Treasuries, U.S. Stocks Slump as Concerns Over Debt Talks Offset Earnings

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-07-20T20:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/asia-shares-won-rally-u-s-deficit-plans-improved-earnings-oil-advances.html
U.S. stocks and Treasuries retreated
as positive earnings reports were offset by concern that a
Senate plan to help the U.S. government avoid default faced
resistance from  House Republicans . Oil rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,325.84 at 4 p.m. in New York, a day after its biggest rally
since March. The drop in Treasuries sent the 10-year yield up
five basis points to 2.94 percent, erasing yesterday’s decrease.
Oil rose 0.7 percent, rebounding from earlier losses. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers, fell 0.6
percent to 74.81. Italian and Spanish bonds rallied before a
European debt-crisis summit.  “There have been a couple of companies that have had some
nice beats,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa Fe ,
New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which
oversees about $80 billion, said in a telephone interview. “But
the macro environment is weighing on things and people are still
worried about the U.S. debt situation.”  President  Barack Obama  plans to renew talks at the White
House this week with congressional leaders amid concern that
lawmakers are no closer to a compromise to cut the federal
deficit and increase the debt ceiling. European leaders are
meeting tomorrow to discuss steps to contain that region’s debt
crisis.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  led a pack of companies reporting higher-
than-estimated results.  Deficit Debate  The Treasury 30-year yield rose seven basis points to 4.26
percent. Yields decreasing 12 points yesterday after President
Barack Obama endorsed a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan from a
group of senators known as the Gang of Six. Lawmakers are under
pressure to reach a deal before an Aug. 2 deadline that
officials have set for lifting the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit.  House Republicans last night passed their debt-reduction
plan 234-190 -- legislation that stands little chance of passing
the Senate and that Obama has said he would veto if it did. The
measure would cut and cap  government spending  and allow the debt
ceiling to be raised by $2.4 trillion only if Congress approves
a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.  The Senate plan that emerged yesterday from the Gang of Six
combines spending cuts with a smaller amount of tax increases.
While House Republican leaders indicated a willingness to
consider the proposal, they and other members of their fiscally
conservative caucus continue to stress opposition to a debt
compromise that includes more taxes.  ’All Out’  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who helped
negotiate the $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan, said he wants
Congress to “go all-out” to solve the problem of cutting
spending and raising the U.S. debt limit.  “My preference would be that we go all-out to try to
accomplish this, to solve the problem,” Coburn said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television. He acknowledged the
resistance that the Gang of Six plan faces within his own party:
“We have made changes that some people cannot accept,” Coburn
said.  Apple, the world’s second-biggest company by market value,
rallied 2.7 percent after saying profit more than doubled last
quarter amid record sales of iPhones and iPads. BlackRock Inc.
and U.S. Bancorp also rose after earnings were higher than the
average analyst estimate.  Per-share profits have exceeded estimates at about 89
percent of the 61 companies in the  S&P 500  that released results
since July 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Technology Shares  S&P 500 technology stocks declined 0.4 percent, after
yesterday rising the most since July 2010. International
Business Machines erased 0.8 percent while Microsoft fell 1.7
percent. Financial stocks had the biggest gain out of 10 groups
in the S&P 500, rising 1.1 percent. Bank of America Corp.
rallied 2.9 percent after analysts said the lender probably
won’t need to raise capital.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  sank 1.8 percent for the biggest
decline in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after  Boeing Co. (BA) 
picked a competing jet-engine maker to upgrade its 737 model.
Boeing increased 2.2 percent after AMR Corp., the parent of
 American Airlines , agreed to buy 460 single-aisle jets from
Boeing and Airbus SAS in the industry’s biggest-ever order.  Takeover news also boosted equities. Clorox Co. rallied 2.4
percent after  Carl Icahn , the company’s largest investor,
increased his offer to buy the bleach maker. Nalco Holding Co.,
a water treatment services provider, surged 24 percent after
agreeing to be bought by Ecolab Inc., the largest maker of
cleaning chemicals for hotels and restaurants, for $5.4 billion.  Oil Rebounds  Oil rose 0.7 percent to $98.14, rising for a second day
after a report showed that U.S. supplies dropped as refineries
bolstered fuel output and on speculation that European leaders
will agree on steps to address the region’s debt crisis.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities rose 0.3 percent. Wheat
gained for a second day on concern hot temperatures may stress
plantings in parts of the U.S. Gold futures fell 0.3 percent to
$1,596.90, retreating from a record for a second day.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.3 percent as more than
five shares advanced for every one that declined. Banks led
gains, with Societe Generale SA, France’s second-biggest, and
UniCredit SpA of  Italy  jumping at least 5 percent.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  rose 1.7 percent as the world’s largest mining company
reported increased iron-ore output. ARM Holdings Plc, which
designs chips for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, rallied 4.9 percent.  European Summit  Italian 10-year bond yields decreased 13 basis points to
5.60 percent, while Spanish 10-year yields lost 11 points to
5.98 percent. Greece and Portugal 10-year yields lost more than
60 basis points each. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of swaps on 15 governments fell 14.4 basis points to
280.65.  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines, to contain the debt crisis, a person close to the talks
said. Other options up for discussion at tomorrow’s Brussels
summit include enabling the main 440 billion-euro rescue fund to
recapitalize banks, said the person, who declined to be named
because the talks are in progress.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.7 percent, adding
to yesterday’s 0.6 percent gain. Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 2.1
percent, the most since September, driven by companies supplying
Apple. Catcher Technology Co., a casing maker, jumped 4 percent,
and  Wintek Corp. (2384) , which supplies touch sensors for the iPad,
gained 4.8 percent. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., which
assembles iPhones, increased 4.6 percent. Simplo Technology Co.,
a maker of battery packs for Apple products including the iPad,
advanced 6.9 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index added 1.2 percent, while The
Sensitive Index fell 0.8 percent in Mumbai as  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the
nation’s third-biggest software services provider, plunged the
most in three months after its earnings report.  China ’s central bank set its daily fixing 0.14 percent
higher at 6.4592 per dollar, the strongest since July 21, 2005,
the day the nation ended a fixed  exchange rate  and said the yuan
would be allowed to fluctuate against a basket of currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  