-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on Gains in Global Stocks, U.S. Housing Data

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-20T09:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-gains-in-global-stocks-u-s-housing-data.html
South Korea ’s won and the Philippine
peso led gains in Asian currencies as better-than-expected U.S.
housing figures brightened the outlook for exports and a rally
in global stocks fanned demand for riskier assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched a 14-year
high and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares climbed by the
most in a week. Malaysia’s annual inflation accelerated to a
two-year high of 3.5 percent in June, while Taiwan’s export
orders rose for a 21st month in June, reports showed today. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.6 percent yesterday, the
most in four months, and futures tied to the U.S. stock gauge
were 0.3 percent higher as of 5 p.m. in  Hong Kong .  “Gains in stocks are improving risk sentiment and boosting
demand for Asia’s higher-yielding assets,” said Tohru Nishihama,
an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Asia has advantages from both a yield and growth
perspective.”  The won climbed 0.4 percent to close at 1,055.30 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso added 0.3
percent to 42.713, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.2 percent to
3.0010 and Thailand’s baht strengthened 0.1 percent to 29.90.  Central banks in  China ,  India , South Korea,  Indonesia ,
Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines all boosted
borrowing costs this year, while counterparts in the U.S. and
 Japan  kept benchmark rates at a maximum 0.25 percent. Developing
economies in  Asia  will expand 8.4 percent in 2011, outpacing
growth of 2.5 percent in the U.S. and 2 percent in countries
using the euro, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates released last month.  U.S. Housing Starts  The won traded near a three-year high of 1,054.10 per
dollar, reached last week, after data showing a pickup in U.S.
housing starts damped concern a recovery in the world’s largest
economy is losing steam. The currency was also buoyed by
speculation policy makers will favor appreciation to stem gains
in living costs. The government will announce measures to ease
inflation early next week, the nation’s presidential office said
in a statement today.  “Strength in the won is gathering pace now with some
positive news flow,” said Yu Won Jun , a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Korea Exchange Bank. “And the market isn’t as
vigilant about intervention after the presidential Blue House
expressed concern over inflation.”  U.S. Deficit Deal  The ringgit advanced to its highest level in a week after
U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday endorsed a $3.7 trillion
debt-cutting plan that would combine tax increases and spending
cuts, boosting global stock markets.  “Risk appetite has increased as people like the idea of
the budget cut in the U.S.,” said Akira Banno, a treasury
adviser in  Kuala Lumpur  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.
“The ringgit could stay firm against the greenback given the
rally in regional stock markets.”  Taiwan ’s dollar rose for a second day, gaining 0.2 percent
to NT$28.870. A report today showed export orders advanced 9.18
percent in June from a year earlier, after an increase of 11.5
percent the previous month.  Elsewhere,  Singapore ’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to
S$1.2144 against the greenback and the Indonesian rupiah
appreciated 0.1 percent to 8,541, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s yuan advanced 0.06 percent to 6.4595 and
India’s rupee was little changed at 44.495.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  