-- 
Asian New Hedge Funds Raised $2.86 Billion in First Half, AsiaHedge Says

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-07-20T02:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/asian-new-hedge-funds-raised-2-86-billion-in-first-half-asiahedge-says.html
Twenty-four new  hedge funds  in Asia
raised $2.86 billion in the first half of 2011, more than double
the preceding six months as the average startup size surged, an
AsiaHedge New Funds Survey showed.  The amount raised compares with $1.09 billion in the second
half of 2010 and 70 new funds that started in the first half of
last year, AsiaHedge said in an e-mailed survey dated yesterday.
The average new hedge fund size jumped to $119 million in 2011
compared with about $40 million in the first half of last year,
while multi-strategy funds attracted the most money for the
first time, luring $1.9 billion, it said.  Assets raised by new funds is  Asia  climbed to the highest
since the peak of $5.7 billion raised in the first half of 2007.
The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more than
450 funds, has lost 0.3 percent in the first six months of 2011,
underperforming the 0.4 percent return by the global benchmark.  “The Asian new fund landscape continues to be
reinvigorated, though the barriers of entry are the highest ever,
resulting in only a handful of high-quality new managers being
able to come to the market,” Aradhna Dayal, editor of AsiaHedge
in  Hong Kong  said in the statement. “These managers have to
display a combination of solid pedigree, experience in managing
a sizable chunk of assets and institutionalized platforms.”  `Healthy Pipeline'  There is a “healthy pipeline” of new funds in Asia in the
second half of 2011, the survey said. Among the biggest hedge-
funds that started this year is Azentus Capital Management Ltd.,
a Hong Kong-based hedge fund led by former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. proprietary trader Morgan Sze.  Benjamin Fuchs, who leads the Global Opportunities Group
proprietary trading desk at Nomura Holdings Inc., aims to start
his own Hong Kong-based hedge fund with at least $400 million,
said two people with knowledge of the plan.  Net asset flows for first half of 2011 stood at $116.2
billion globally, the strongest first six months on record, a
separate report by Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte showed. In
June, the Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index declined 1.2 percent, the
second-straight drop, amid concerns about the  U.S. economy  and
the European sovereign debt crisis, Eurekahedge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  