-- 
Massachusetts Suing RBC Capital Over Leveraged ETF Sale

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-20T18:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/massachusetts-suing-rbc-capital-agent-over-dishonest-leveraged-etf-sale.html
Massachusetts ’ top securities
regulator is suing  RBC Capital Markets  LLC over the sale of
leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds, saying they sold
them to clients who didn’t understand the investments.  Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin said RBC
Capital and Michael D. Zukowski, a former agent, used
“dishonest practices” in selling the funds, according to a
statement e-mailed today. The  lawsuit  seeks restitution to
Massachusetts investors, a cease and desist order, and an
administrative fine.  “The point of the complaint is not that the investors lost
money,” Galvin said in the statement. “The dishonesty here is
that the investors, and indeed the agent soliciting their
investment, did not understand the workings of these funds.”  Galvin opened a probe into leveraged and inverse ETFs in
July 2009, a month after the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  said that such products might not be a good fit for
long-term investors. Leveraged ETFs use swaps or derivatives to
amplify daily index returns, while the inverse funds are
designed to move in the opposite direction of their benchmark.  Kevin Foster , a spokesman for New York-based RBC Capital
Markets, said the firm was “disappointed” with Galvin’s
lawsuit.  “We have been cooperating fully on this matter which
involves the practices of an ex-employee,” Foster said in an e-
mailed statement, adding the firm has “in place extensive
policies and procedures and training requirements.”  Client Losses  Galvin said Zukowski, who worked in the firm’s Osterville
office, sold clients such “non-traditional” ETFs without
proper training or supervision. The lawsuit alleges RBC didn’t
have practices in place to prevent unsuitable sales until Dec.
22, 2009, six months after FINRA’s warning.  The complaint cited losses totaling $793,000 by 35 of
Zukowski’s clients. Brian McCabe, a spokesman for Galvin, said
the state’s investigation is continuing and that other investors
may have been affected.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission halted the
approval of new ETFs making significant use of derivatives in
March 2010 because it wanted to review the products more
closely. FINRA and the SEC have said the products could confuse
individual investors.  Leveraged and inverse ETFs in the U.S. hold about $33.9
billion in assets, according to Boston-based State Street Corp.  RBC Capital is a subsidiary of Toronto-based  Royal Bank of
Canada. (RY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  