-- 
Assassins, Girl Pope Enliven Papacy Book: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/assassins-pregnant-pope-animate-norwich-papacy-book-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
It’s hard to forget Pope Joan, who
makes a cameo appearance in  John Julius Norwich ’s marvelously
entertaining “ Absolute Monarchs: A History of the Papacy .”  “One day, while mounting her horse, she gave birth to a
child.”  What’s weirder? Being a girl pope or giving birth in such a
casual way?  Against a busy backdrop of anarchy, assassination, extreme
bloodshed and very nice art, Norwich presents a papal cavalcade,
starting with St. Peter on whose martyred bones rests the
immense structure of the Roman Catholic Church.  Over the next few hundred pages, vast numbers of people
murder each other, often to assert the primacy of the faith or
get themselves another pope. The “love thy neighbor” sermon
was apparently not heard by many.  Page 76 is a treasure trove of bad behavior in the year
882. That’s when John VIII became the first pope to be
assassinated, “and, worse still, by priests from his own
entourage,” notes Norwich, citing the Annals of the Abbey of
Fulda.  “(T)hey first gave him poison; then, when this failed to
act quickly enough, they hammered in his skull.”  Soon a naked widow is whipped along the streets, and
another pope is exhumed and subjected to a mock trial on the
next page.  Jailing Mother  Not much later, Norwich recalls the triumphs of the
ravishingly appalling Marozia, the lover, mother and grandmother
of popes, before concluding his summation with one of his
funnier lines: “She had forgotten another one of her sons.”  Bad! This was Alberic, the pope’s half-brother and a decent
sort who went on to rule  Rome  for 20 years -- after jailing
mother in 932.  Unbelievably complicated family lives are on constant
display. Norwich wears his learning lightly and adeptly works in
his sources. On Marozia’s trifecta, for instance, he provides
Gibbon’s acidly amusing comment: “a rare genealogy.”  Which brings me back to Pope Joan, who supposedly disguised
herself as a man sometime in the Middle Ages -- the accounts
vary according to which salivating monk was imagining her
transgressions and terrible end. Conceivably the real Marozia
spiced up a taste for a fake Pope Joan.  ‘Diaconal Grope’  Advocates of the popess like to point to a mysteriously
pierced porphyry seat in the Vatican supposedly used during
papal enthronements after the Joan confusion. A junior cleric
would crawl underneath and prove the pope-elect’s masculinity
with a cry of “He has testicles!”  Studying the seat -- whose back is angled at an
uncomfortable 45 degrees; perhaps it was a birthing chair? --
Norwich must reach a regrettable conclusion: “It cannot be
gainsaid ... that it is admirably designed for a diaconal grope;
and it is only with considerable reluctance that one turns the
idea aside.”  These darkly entertaining medieval times give way to the
Renaissance. More familiar names step into view, most
dramatically Julius II, the glowering patron of Michelangelo. Or
Paul III, the reformer, who gazes out from a Titian portrait
looking like the wise wizard he was.  As with the temporal princes, power begat greed, money and
overindulgence. “God has given us the papacy, now let us enjoy
it,” said Leo X, a cultivated homosexual, though his enjoyment
was darkened a lot by Martin Luther.  Michelangelo  They lived in a time when great wealth was expected to
express itself in great art and architecture -- hardly the case
for today’s Vicars of Christ or latter-day Medicis. And so we
are thankful that the venal Sixtus IV built himself the Sistine
Chapel, because Michelangelo got to paint the ceiling.  By contrast, the dubious Pius XII, who repeatedly refused
to speak out against the murder of the Jews during World War II,
leaves no significant monument (except perhaps the berobed
bronze in St. Peter’s Basilica, notable for its Harry Potter
spectacles). How astonishing that he’s being fast-tracked for
sainthood by Benedict XVI, whose performance in the child-abuse
scandals has been poor.  A self-described agnostic Protestant, Norwich writes with
evenhanded lightness and often with such exuberance that
important information must sink to the footnotes:  “It is somehow typical of her time that her sister
Galswintha, who had married Sigebert’s half brother Chilperic I,
King of the Western Franks, was subsequently murdered by her
husband at the instigation of his mistress.”  “Absolute Monarchs” is published by  Random House  in the
U.S. and by Chatto & Windus in the U.K. under the title “The
Popes” (512 pages, $30, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New
York  at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 