-- 
AstraZeneca Falls in London; FDA Panel Rebuffs Diabetes Drug

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-20T10:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/astrazeneca-falls-in-london-fda-panel-rebuffs-dapagliflozin-diabetes-drug.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, fell as much as 1.4 percent in London trading
after failing to win the backing of a U.S. panel to sell an
experimental diabetes treatment.  The effectiveness of the medicine, dapagliflozin, in
reducing blood sugar doesn’t outweigh risks of bladder and
breast cancer, advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  said
yesterday. London-based AstraZeneca and partner  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  will work closely with the FDA, which they expect
will decide whether to approve the drug by Oct. 28, the
companies said.  An FDA request for more research on cancer risk “could
delay the drug from reaching the market for several years,”
Jeffrey Holford of Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , wrote
today in a report. Such a study may be difficult to justify,
given the drug’s limited sales potential, he said.  Yesterday’s vote was the first of two FDA decisions that
AstraZeneca faces this week. Today, the agency rules on whether
the company can sell the potential blockbuster drug Brilinta.
The agency rejected the blood thinner in December and sought
more data on the treatment. Analysts predict Brilinta will have
sales of $1.4 billion in 2016, based on the average of six
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Drop  AstraZeneca declined 30 pence, or 1 percent, to 2,988.5
pence at 11:40 a.m. That pared the stock’s gain this year to 2.1
percent, valuing the manufacturer at 40.7 billion pounds ($65.8
billion.)  The FDA is likely to delay a decision on dapagliflozin
beyond Oct. 28 as the regulator seeks more data,  Tim Anderson ,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  New York , wrote in
a report.  The panel of outside advisers voted 9-6 yesterday in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland , to reject the drug. The companies said in June
that more bladder and breast cancers occurred in patients taking
dapagliflozin instead of a placebo in trials. FDA staff also
cited possible liver risks among “unexpected safety issues” in
a preliminary  review  on July 15.  Sales of the drug, if approved, may reach $616 million for
Bristol-Myers and $287 million for AstraZeneca in 2015,
Jefferies’ Holford said in notes to investors this week before
the vote. He has an “underperform” recommendation on
AstraZeneca’s stock.  Increased Pressure  Dapagliflozin would be the first in a new class of
treatments called SGLT2-inhibitors that work by letting patients
excrete excess blood sugar in their urine. Johnson & Johnson,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and Astellas Pharma
Inc. are among the companies pursuing similar drugs.  The vote yesterday increases the pressure on AstraZeneca to
succeed with Brilinta, said Navid Malik, an analyst with Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP in London. The company faces increasing
competition from generic medicines as patents on two of its
biggest-selling drugs, Nexium for ulcers and antipsychotic
medication Seroquel, will expire by 2014.  “At the moment it looks like there’s a heavy weight on
Brilinta’s shoulders,” said Malik, who forecasts the treatment
will have $1.5 billion of sales by 2015. “If it doesn’t get
approved, it would be catastrophic” in terms of confidence in
the company and its ability to deliver new blockbusters.  AstraZeneca also needs to make a “transforming deal” to
offset some of its generic exposure, said Malik, who has a
“reduce” rating on the stock.  The company has said it needs to generate between $4
billion and $6 billion in revenue by 2014 to meet its sales
target range of $28 billion to $34 billion. If approved,
dapagliflozin and Brilinta would account for $1.8 billion in
combined revenue in 2016, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “At a time when the company is facing significant
headwinds in its top line, there clearly is a need to deliver
products from its pipeline,” Alistair Campbell, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 