-- 
AstraZeneca Wins U.S. Approval to Market Blood Thinner as Rival to Plavix

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/astrazeneca-wins-fda-approval-for-blood-thinner-to-rival-plavix.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  won U.S. approval of
its heart drug Brilinta, a potential $1 billion seller that will
rival Plavix, the world’s second-best selling drug.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Brilinta for use
by patients with severe chest pain or heart attack history to
cut the risk of heart attacks, strokes and death, the agency
said yesterday in a  statement . Brilinta’s label must include a
boxed warning, the agency’s strictest caution, about a risk of
bleeding and a reduction in the drug’s effectiveness if taken
with more than 100 milligrams of aspirin a day.  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, needs new
products as patents expire in the next four years on the
heartburn drug Nexium and the antipsychotic Seroquel, which
generated a combined $10.3 billion in revenue last year.
Brilinta sales may reach $1.14 billion by 2014, according to the
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “In clinical trials, Brilinta was more effective than
Plavix in preventing heart attacks and death, but that advantage
was seen with aspirin maintenance doses of 75 to 100 milligrams
once daily,” Norman Stockbridge, director of the FDA’s Division
of Cardiovascular and Renal Products, said in the statement.  The FDA delayed a decision in December, asking for more
analysis of the London-based AstraZeneca’s Plato study comparing
Brilinta, also known as ticagrelor, with Plavix, made by New
York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Paris-based Sanofi.  Approved in Europe  Brilinta won approval from the European Union in December
under the name Brilique.  AstraZeneca gained 14 pence, or less than 1 percent, to
3,032.5 pence yesterday in London trading. The drugmaker has
returned 3.8 percent this year, compared with 6.7 percent for
the 17-stock Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  Acute coronary syndrome affects more than 1 million people
in the U.S. each year,  David Brennan , AstraZeneca’s chief
executive officer, said in yesterday’s statement.  “The fact that physicians have a new and more effective
treatment option” than Plavix “to help reduce the rate of
heart attack and cardiovascular death in these patients is an
important advance,” Brennan said.  The twice-daily Brilinta pill won a 7-1 recommendation from
an FDA advisory panel on July 28, 2010, as committee members
expressed concern that study participants in the U.S. and  Canada 
fared worse on Brilinta than people in other parts of the world.
The agency’s advisers said the findings may be the result of
chance and could be examined in a new trial after approval.  While FDA staff last July rejected AstraZeneca’s suggestion
that higher U.S. aspirin use contributed to the outcome, the
agency said yesterday that aspirin can reduce Brilinta’s
efficacy.  Brand Image  AstraZeneca may “strengthen the image of the brand” by
voluntarily conducting studies to clarify Brilinta’s
effectiveness in U.S. patients, even though the FDA didn’t call
for postmarketing trials, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  “Without putting this issue to rest, and with the label
warning as it currently reads, we believe payers in the U.S.
will have ammunition to disadvantage Brilinta, especially
knowing that U.S. generic Plavix will launch in May 2012,”
Anderson said yesterday in a note to investors.  The agency is requiring AstraZeneca to conduct an
“educational outreach” to notify physicians of Brilinta’s
reduced efficacy in patients who take more than 100 milligrams
of aspirin a day. That may give doctors “one more reason to
stick to the gold-standard Plavix,” Anderson said.  “The current treatment paradigm in the U.S. is to use
high-dose aspirin more often than low-dose aspirin,” he said.
“What AstraZeneca will effectively be trying to do is change
this entrenched behavior, and this could be difficult.”  Plavix Sales  Bristol-Myers had sales of $6.67 billion from Plavix in
2010, while partner Sanofi had 2.08 billion euros ($2.94
billion) from the drug. Brilinta will also compete with Effient,
from Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , approved in July 2009
with a warning on bleeding risk. Lilly reported global sales of
$115 million last year with partner Daiichi Sankyo Co. of  Tokyo .  All three drugs are pills designed to prevent platelets in
the blood from clumping together to form clots, which can cause
heart attacks and strokes.  Plavix and Effient are taken daily and remain effective for
one week after treatment is halted. Brilinta wears off more
quickly, so it may pose a lower risk of bleeding for surgery
patients.  In AstraZeneca’s key study of 18,624 people, 9.8 percent of
patients on Brilinta for a year had a heart attack, stroke or
died from cardiovascular disease, compared with 11.7 percent of
those on Plavix. A related study also showed AstraZeneca’s drug
was effective regardless of the patients’ genetic makeup, unlike
Plavix, which doesn’t work in patients with a certain genetic
variation.  Lipitor, a cholesterol pill made by New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) , is the world’s best-selling drug with 2010 revenue of
$10.73 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  