-- 
Tata Consultancy Seeks Alliances to Lift Sales in Japan

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-07-20T10:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tata-consultancy-seeks-alliances-to-lift-sales-in-japan.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software exporter, is seeking alliances with
companies in  Japan  as it aims to increase sales in the world’s
third-largest economy 20-fold to $1 billion.  The software provider is talking to potential partners and
building relationships with customers in a market where joint
ventures are preferred, Vish Iyer, head of Asia Pacific at Tata
Consultancy, said in a phone interview yesterday. It also plans
to hire more Japanese nationals and win clients in industries
including financial services and automobiles, he said.  Tata Consultancy and smaller Indian rivals are grappling
with increased rejection of visa applications in the U.S., where
the company gets more than half its sales. The software company
expects to sustain 20 percent sales growth for the foreseeable
future and is looking to add more business in markets such as
Japan, according to Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam.  “Japan as a market is a bit more insular,” said Ankur Rudra, an analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai. “A joint
venture might be a route to accelerate the process.”  Japan , the largest market for information technology goods
and services after the U.S., accounts for about 2 percent of
India’s total software and outsourcing exports, the New Delhi-
based National Association of Software & Service Companies said
in March.  India’s software exporters have found it harder to win
customers in Japan because of language and cultural barriers,
Ambit Capital’s Rudra said.  ‘Low Penetration’  Still, companies such as  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  are trying
to add business in Japan lured by the market’s size. Information
technology spending by Japanese government and businesses will
grow 6 percent to $136 billion in 2011, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  “The attractiveness of Japan is that penetration is low,”
Iyer said. “As a market they were not open to outsourcing as we
understand it. Usually it’s been done through a subsidiary run
by a former chief information officer, a joint venture with
another company, where they hold a majority.”  Japan contributed about $50 million in annual sales and the
company aims to boost that to $1 billion, Mahalingam said in an
interview on July 15, without giving a timeframe. The Mumbai-
based company, which opened an office in Japan two decades ago,
now has 10 major clients in the country, he said.  “If in the U.K. I’m making $1.3 billion or 800 million
pounds, there’s no reason why it should be less in Japan,” said
Mahalingam. “It cannot be a different world altogether.”  Tata Consultancy fell 0.7 percent to 1,132.45 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai trading after smaller rival  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) 
forecast revenue at its main information technology business
would grow as little as 2 percent this quarter, dragging Indian
software exporters lower. Wipro declined 3.9 percent while
India’s benchmark Sensitive Index dropped 0.8 percent.  Local Teams  Tata Consultancy has more than 300 employees in Japan,
based in Yokohama, Osaka and  Tokyo . The software developer has
tried to bridge the language barrier in Japan,  Germany  and
 France  by building local sales teams, said Mahalingam.  “It’s a Japanese organization that we run there--we’ve
created a good front-facing capability,” he said.  Tata Consultancy set up a Japanese-language capability
center in Kolkata, India about eight years ago to work for
customers in Japan, Mahalingam said. Now, it has 1,300 engineers
in Pune, Kolkata and Chennai serving Japanese clients.  The  software developer  is betting that companies in Japan
will step up outsourcing to cut costs and boost productivity.  “There increasingly is a mindset change,” said
Mahalingam. “When you have an aging population and therefore
when you want to increase the efficiency of performance,
outsourcing adds to that efficiency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  