-- 
Latvia Targets Oligarchs as It Pursues 2014 Euro Goal, Dombrovskis Says

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/latvia-targets-oligarchs-as-it-pursues-2014-euro-goal-dombrovskis-says.html
Latvia ’s referendum on dissolving
parliament will curb the political and economic influence of
local oligarchs, Prime MinisterValdis Dombrovskis said as he
reaffirmed plans to join the euro in 2014.  The vote will probably succeed, setting up a general
election on Sept. 17, Dombrovskis said in an interview. The
referendum, scheduled for July 23, was called by former
President Valdis Zatlers after parliament refused to lift the
immunity of a member who was under investigation for corruption.  “A main goal of the elections will be to ensure that
oligarchs, and the parties supporting oligarchs, do not control
a majority in the next parliament,” the 39-year-old prime
minister said yesterday at Bloomberg’s offices in  New York .  Dombrovskis’ government plans to strengthen the economy by
selling state banks, diversifying sources of energy and cutting
the budget deficit to meet the criteria for joining the euro,
Dombrovskis said yesterday. Neither the referendum nor Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will alter the national consensus for
adopting the single currency, he said.  “We are sticking to our target of joining the euro zone,”
Dombrovskis said. “The target date is Jan. 1, 2014.”  Zatlers called the Baltic nation’s first referendum to
dismiss parliament on May 28, warning of attempts to “privatize
democracy.” The nation’s oligarchs, who acquired state assets
after the collapse of the  Soviet Union , influence policy and may
secretly control companies, he said May 29. Four days later,
parliament rejected Zatlers’ bid for re-election.  Deficit Cuts  The government plans next year to bring the  budget deficit 
“substantially below” 3 percent of gross domestic product, a
key criteria for euro membership, from 7.6 percent in 2010.  Latvia, which joined the European Union in 2004,
implemented austerity measures equal to 16 percent of GDP after
turning to the EU and International Monetary Fund for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) bailout in 2008. Temporary social
programs and agreements with labor unions prevented protests
like those in Greece, Dombrovskis said  The country’s currency, the lat, is pegged to the euro, and
adopting the single currency would lower transaction costs for
business and boost investor confidence, Dombrovskis said.
Neighboring Estonia joined the euro on Jan. 1.  “We already have all the disadvantages of a fixed  exchange
rate  and none of the advantages,” Dombrovskis said.  Euro-area finance ministers meet today in Brussels to work
out plans to stop the region’s debt crisis from spreading and
undermining the single currency.  ‘Biggest Worry’  Latvia’s “biggest worry” is inflation as the country
recovers from a recession that saw the economy shrink almost 25
percent during the global financial crisis, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The government has implemented a
range of measures to spur growth, including public works
projects and social programs that serve more than 100,000 people
in the nation of 2.2 million.  The economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, after
returning to growth in the third quarter of 2010, according to
the fund. Consumer prices may rise 3.3 percent this year, after
falling 1.2 percent in 2010,  IMF  estimates show.  “Once growth picks up, inflation picks up,” Dombrovskis
said.  Citadele Banka AS, known as Parex Banka before the
government rescued Latvia’s second-biggest lender in 2008,
should be sold in the first half of next year, he said. The
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development owns 25 percent
of Citadele, with the rest in the hands of the state.  Seeking U.S. Buyer  With  Sweden ’s  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken
AB (SEBA)  controlling most of Latvia’s banking industry and  Russia 
among the largest sources of capital in the country, Dombrovskis
said he’d like to see a U.S. lender buy Citadele.  “Ideally, it wouldn’t be Russian and it wouldn’t be
Swedish,” he said.  To further cut the country’s dependence on Russia, which
annexed Latvia after World War II and ruled it until 1991, the
government plans to diversify its energy sources by building a
liquefied natural gas port in  Riga  and installing offshore wind
farms with the capacity to generate 200 megawatts of power.  Dombrovskis said he spoke with U.S. officials in  Washington 
this week about exploring for shale gas in Latvia. Ecological
risks of shale gas extraction, or fracking, will be considered,
he said.  Adopting  Europe ’s single currency will help stabilize
Latvia’s economy, and mechanisms being introduced to sanction EU
members that break fiscal rules should prevent a recurrence of
the debt crisis, he said.  “I wouldn’t say it’s so much of a European crisis,”
Dombrovskis said. “It’s a crisis in some EU countries that are
not following basic economic rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  