-- 
Australian Lawmakers Urge Probe Into Steel Share Trades Before Carbon Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-21T03:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/australia-lawmakers-say-share-moves-before-carbon-tax-need-probe.html
Australian regulators should probe
trading in steelmakers’ shares in the week before the
announcement of a carbon-tax plan that gives $300 million ($322
million) in concessions to the industry, say two lawmakers who
sat on the committee that helped design the policy.  The biggest jump by  OneSteel Ltd. (OST)  shares in two years and a
6.2 percent surge by  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  on July 6 should be
investigated by the Australian Securities & Investments
Commission, said lawmakers  Rob Oakeshott  and  Christine Milne .
The price movements may point to leaks in the days before Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  announced the plan on July 10, they said.  “There appears to be some evidence that there were people
who had information from which there was a commercial benefit,”
Milne, deputy leader of the  Greens  party, which holds the
balance of power in  Australia ’s upper house, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “I support calls for an ASIC investigation.
I was surprised and frustrated about the amount of information
that was leaked from the package in the final week. It was an
avalanche.”  The government was so concerned about the sensitivity of
the package that Oakeshott, Milne and other members of the
advisory committee had to sign secrecy agreements. The  report 
was released in a media lockup in Parliament House in Canberra
on Sunday, July 10. Still, details leaked, Oakeshott said.  ASIC Chairman Greg Medcraft declined to comment on the
matter when asked at a speaking engagement in Sydney yesterday.  ‘Hundreds Knew’  “In the week before the announcement, other parties became
involved, and it was in that final week it became increasingly
clear leaks were occurring,” Oakeshott, an independent member
of parliament who supports Gillard’s minority  Labor Party 
government, said in an interview. “In terms of an investigation,
I would fully support that to determine who knew what and why.”  “Every member of the advisory  committee  was fully aware of
the market sensitivity of the information,” he said. “Hundreds
of people knew about the details of this policy in the final
week and it was impossible the government could keep a lid on
it.”  OneSteel and BlueScope shares rose more than 6 percent on
July 6, adding about A$310 million to their combined market
value. Details of the plan, including the starting price of A$23
per ton for carbon, appeared in newspapers through the week
before the official release. The first details of help for the
 steel industry  appeared in the Australian Financial Review on
July 8.  ‘Level Playing Field’  Steve Ashe, a spokesman for OneSteel, said the company
doesn’t comment on its share price or on speculation. BlueScope
has a policy of not commenting on market rumors or speculation,
said Michael Reay, a spokesman for the company.  “It’s crucial to ensure a level playing field,” said
Jason Teh, who helps manage about $3 billion at Investors Mutual
Ltd. in Sydney. “Any abnormal price action should be
investigated.”  Vas Kolesnikoff, chief executive of the Australian
Shareholders’ Association, a 7000-member organization that
represents smaller investors, today joined calls for a probe.  “There are obviously grounds here for an investigation,”
he told Bloomberg News by telephone today. “Where there is an
unusual price movement, there is always a potential that a few
people knew price-sensitive information.”  Warning Letter  Oakeshott and other advisory committee members were warned
about the confidentiality of the carbon plan in a letter from
Cabinet Secretary Mark Dreyfus.  “Details of the carbon-price plan were market sensitive,”
Dreyfus said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “I
felt it appropriate to reinforce the sensitivity and
confidentiality of the information before the committee.”  The committee members were Oakeshott, Milne, independent
lawmaker  Tony Windsor , Greens party leader  Bob Brown , Climate
Change Minister Greg Combet, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Prime
Minister Gillard.  Stocks in OneSteel and BlueScope pared gains through the
following week after the Greens party said it hadn’t agreed to
the assistance for steelmakers. The government will need the
support of the Greens in the  Senate  to enact the plan.  Under Australia’s carbon reduction plan, the government
will provide A$9.2 billion in the form of free carbon permits
over three years to assist the biggest-polluting businesses such
as aluminum smelters, steelmakers and manufacturers.  Cabinet Confidentiality  BlueScope said in a statement on July 10 it would receive
about 60 percent of the A$300 million in steel-industry
assistance. The rest would go to OneSteel.  Mark Davis, a spokesman for Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said the government developed the policy over nine months
and had made statements about what would be considered in the
final package.  “The climate committee and Cabinet discussions involved
normal Cabinet confidentiality processes,” Davis said in an e-
mailed statement, referring to the government’s most senior
policy-making body.  ASIC  was not able to comment on specific price movements,
spokesman Matthew Abbott said in an e-mail. Market integrity is
the regulator’s priority and it’s watchful for examples of
potential insider trading or manipulation, he said.  ASIC chief Medcraft vowed last month to “crack down” on
unfair disclosures, including media leaks, that cause sudden
moves in stock prices. ASIC took over direct supervision of the
nation’s financial markets from Australia’s main bourse operator,
 ASX Ltd. (ASX) , last August.  “This is an important and necessary opportunity for
regulators to send the appropriate message to all concerned, and
thus these instances should be investigated quickly and
thoroughly,” said  Mark Tinker , global equity portfolio manager
who helps manage $50 billion in  London  for Axa Framlington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at   gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 