-- 
Avoiding Brazil-Like Inflation Triggers Delay in Rate Bets: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-20T21:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/avoiding-brazil-like-inflation-triggers-delay-in-rate-bets-mexico-credit.html
Traders are delaying forecasts for
interest-rate increases in  Mexico  for the tenth time this year
as slumping U.S. growth and declining food prices restrain
inflation.  Yields on 28-day interbank rate futures due in April, known
as TIIE, fell 16 basis points this week to 5.01 percent,
indicating traders are betting the central bank will wait until
that month to increase the key rate from a record low of 4.5
percent. In Brazil, traders are betting the central bank will
raise its key rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point,
to 12.50 percent today, the fifth increase this year.  Mexican policy makers have kept borrowing costs unchanged
for 20 straight meetings, the only Latin American country to
leave  interest rates  on hold in the past 12 months. Inflation in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy fell to an almost five-
year low in June as demand from the U.S., the destination for 80
percent of Mexico’s exports, weakened and fruit and vegetable
prices tumbled.  “The factors that could set off inflationary pressures and
push the bank to raise rates are dormant,” Eduardo Avila, an
economist with Monex Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “Our recovery, which is tied to
that of the U.S., is coming quite slowly.”  Yields on the Mexican government’s peso bonds due in 2024
have tumbled 81 basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, since
the end of March, to 7.02 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Benign Picture’  Annual inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.28 percent in June
and touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March. In  Brazil ,
Latin America’s biggest economy, consumer prices rose at an
annual rate of 6.71 percent in June, a six-year high.  The costs of food items from peaches to tomatoes in Mexico
fell 6.4 percent last month, the most in six years.  “It’s just been a very benign picture,” Alejandro Urbina,
who helps manage about $800 million at Silva Capital Management
LLC, said in a telephone interview from  Chicago . “What’s
surprising in the data is how the prices of food have been lower
than expected.”  A pickup in Mexico’s economic expansion may spark
inflation, according to Benito Berber, a strategist at Nomura
Securities Inc. in New York. He estimates the central bank will
raise rates as soon as the first quarter of 2012.  Growth in the U.S. will accelerate in the second half of
the year as the world’s largest economy shakes off the temporary
effects of the run-up in fuel costs and the disaster in  Japan ,
according to  Lou Crandall , chief economist of Wrightson ICAP LLC
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and the top forecaster in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Crandall forecasts U.S. gross domestic product expanded at
a 1.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter and will grow at
an average 3.6 percent pace from July through December.  Inflation Outlook  Industrial production in Mexico rose 4.6 percent in May
from a year earlier, more than the median estimate for a gain of
3.7 percent from 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “All of the good news in terms of low inflation has been
priced in,” Berber said in a telephone interview. “We are now
rebounding in terms of manufacturing production.”  The yield gap between Mexican inflation-linked debt due in
2012 and similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, expanded to 464 basis points
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 7 basis points
to 138 at 5:34 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 114, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 11.6509 per  U.S. dollar .  Mexican central bankers led by Governor Agustin Carstens
said in a July 8  statement  following their rate decision there
was a “favorable evolution” of inflation and that the economy
is expanding at a moderate pace.  The economy may grow as much as 5 percent this year after a
5.4 percent expansion in 2010 that was the fastest in a decade,
according to the central bank.  “The bank has had a very dovish tone in its statements,”
said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos
($3.44 billion) at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City. “Inflation has been very controlled here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  