-- 
Bahrain, Oman Ratings Removed From CreditWatch Negative by S&P

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-07-20T17:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bahrain-oman-ratings-removed-from-creditwatch-negative-by-s-p.html
Bahrain and Oman were removed from
CreditWatch negative by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services,
which cited measures to ease political tensions in both Persian
Gulf nations.  Bahrain’s long- and short-term local and foreign currency
sovereign credit ratings were affirmed at ‘BBB/A-3’ with
negative implications, S&P said in an e-mailed statement today.
Oman’s ‘A/A-1’ long-term and short-term local and foreign
currency ratings were affirmed, S&P said in a separate
statement.  S&P cited “the diminished near-term political tensions and
our expectation that increased public spending will lift
economic growth next year,” in its statement on Bahrain. Oman
benefits from “political pressures easing,” S&P said.  Both nations had been placed on CreditWatch negative in
March.  Protesters in Oman and Bahrain held popular movements
earlier this year demanding free elections and more housing and
jobs, echoing uprisings that have swept the region and unseated
rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt . At least two people have died in
clashes between demonstrators and security forces in Oman, while
at least 30 people have been killed in Bahrain, the  Associated
Press  reported. The Gulf Cooperation Council states said March
10 that they would provide Oman and Bahrain with $10 billion
each over a decade for the development of infrastructure and
housing.  The Central Bank of Bahrain, Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding
Co., the sovereign wealth fund, and Oman Power and Water
Procurement Co. SAOC were also removed from credit watch
negative, S&P said. The outlook is negative for the three.  Bahrain’s real gross domestic product will expand 1.4
percent this year, down from a previous estimate of 4.3 percent,
 Barclays Capital  said in April. Oman’s economic growth estimate
was downgraded to 4.5 percent from 5.2 percent, the bank said.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 