-- 
Bank of Canada July Monetary Policy Report Summary (Text)

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-20T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bank-of-canada-july-monetary-policy-report-summary-text-.html
Following is the text of the summary
of the Bank of  Canada ’s Monetary Policy Report, released today in
Ottawa.  The global economic expansion is proceeding broadly as
projected in April, with modest growth in major advanced
economies and robust expansions in emerging economies. The  U.S.
economy  has grown at a slower pace than expected and continues to
be restrained by the consolidation of household balance sheets
and slow growth in employment. While growth in core Europe has
been stronger than expected, necessary fiscal austerity measures
in a number of countries will restrain growth over the projection
horizon. The Japanese economy has begun to recover from the
disasters that struck in March, although the level of economic
activity in that country will remain below previous expectations.
In contrast, growth in emerging-market economies, particularly
 China , remains very strong. As a consequence, commodity prices
are expected to remain at elevated levels, following recent
declines. These high prices, combined with persistent excess
demand in major emerging-market economies, are contributing to
broader global inflationary pressures. Widespread concerns over
sovereign debt have increased  risk aversion  and volatility in
financial markets.  In Canada, the economic expansion is proceeding largely as
projected, although the expected rotation of demand is somewhat
slower than had been anticipated. Household spending remains
solid and business investment robust. Net exports remain weak,
reflecting modest U.S. demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, particularly the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar. Despite increased global risk aversion, financial
conditions in Canada remain very stimulative and private credit
growth is strong.  Following an anticipated slowdown in growth during the
second quarter due to temporary supply-chain disruptions and the
impact of higher energy prices on consumption, the Bank expects
growth in Canada to re-accelerate in the second half of 2011.
Over the projection horizon, business investment is expected to
remain strong, household spending to grow more in line with
disposable income and net exports to become more supportive of
growth. Relative to the April projection, growth in household
spending is now projected to be slightly firmer, reflecting
higher  household income , and net exports to be slightly weaker,
reflecting more subdued U.S. activity. Overall, the Bank projects
the economy will expand by 2.8 per cent in 2011, 2.6 per cent in
2012 and 2.1 per cent in 2013, returning to capacity in the
middle of 2012.  Total CPI inflation is expected to remain above 3 per cent
in the near term, largely reflecting temporary factors such as
significantly higher food and energy prices.  Core inflation  is
slightly firmer than anticipated, owing to temporary factors and
to more persistent strength in the prices of some services. Core
inflation is now expected to remain around 2 per cent over the
projection horizon. Total CPI inflation is expected to return to
the 2 per cent target by the middle of 2012 as temporary factors
unwind, excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed,
labour compensation growth stays modest, productivity recovers
and inflation expectations remain well anchored.  The Bank’s projection assumes that authorities are able to
contain the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis, although
there are clear risks around this outcome.  More broadly, there are a number of risks to the outlook for
inflation in Canada. The three main upside risks to inflation in
Canada relate to the possibility of higher-than-projected
commodity prices and global inflation, stronger momentum in
Canadian household spending, and the possibility that there is
less excess capacity in the Canadian economy.  The three main downside risks to inflation in Canada relate
to sovereign debt concerns in  Europe , headwinds from the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar, and the possibility
that growth in Canadian household spending could be weaker than
projected.  Overall, the Bank judges that the risks to the inflation
outlook in Canada are roughly balanced over the projection
horizon.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 19 July, the Bank
maintained the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. To
the extent that the expansion continues and the current material
excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some of the
considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in place will be
withdrawn, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation
target. Such reduction would need to be carefully considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  