-- 
Bank of America Climbs as Analysts Say Moynihan Unlikely to Raise Capital

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-20T20:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bank-of-america-climbs-as-analysts-say-moynihan-unlikely-to-raise-capital.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  gained the
most in three weeks of New York trading as analysts from  Wells
Fargo & Co .,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Nomura Holdings Inc. wrote that
the biggest U.S. lender probably won’t need to raise capital.  The bank rose 28 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $9.85 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Bank of America
has dropped 26 percent this year as costs from defective
mortgages sapped capital and investors became concerned that the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm would need to sell stock to
conform to new international rules.  “A capital raise still seems unlikely to us, and is overly
discounted by the market in our view,” Matthew Burnell of Wells
Fargo wrote in a note today. Bank of America may reach minimum
levels required by regulators in late 2014 by retaining earnings
and reducing assets penalized under the rules, he wrote.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, was
questioned about the firm’s capital during a conference call
yesterday with analysts after posting a record $8.83 billion
second-quarter loss. The bank, which faces more mortgage
expenses amid state and federal probes on foreclosures, has
several years to reach the required capital levels as higher
requirements under the Basel 3 rules phase in, the CEO said.  “The phase-in periods for Basel 3 are generous, which
should enable them to build capital over time,”  Keith Horowitz 
of Citigroup wrote yesterday in a research note. Horowitz
advises investors to buy the stock.  Analyst Recommendations  Twenty analysts recommend investors accumulate shares of
Bank of America, 18 say “hold” and none advise selling the
stock, according to Bloomberg data.  Under rules prepared by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , Moynihan has to achieve a 9.5 percent ratio of
capital to risk-weighted assets between 2013 and 2019. That’s
based on a 7 percent minimum and a 2.5 percent surcharge imposed
on the largest companies whose collapse would pose a threat to
the banking system. Analysts Richard Staite of Atlantic Equities
LLC and  Jason Goldberg  of  Barclays Capital  have said it may take
$50 billion to close the capital gap.  The bank projects it will have a ratio of  6.75 percent  to 7
percent by the beginning of 2013, down from a forecast of 8
percent in April. Bank of America has said it can close the gap
through earnings from its operations, including its retail
branches, the Merrill Lynch brokerage and the corporate and
investment banking units. It can also trim assets considered
riskier that require capital held against potential losses.  ‘Underestimating’ the Bank  “Many are underestimating the bank’s ability to mitigate
risk-weighted asset inflation and adapt to the changing
environment,” wrote  Glenn Schorr  of Nomura. He has a
“neutral” rating on the bank.  Bank of America plans to scale back private-equity
investments, run off a loan portfolio and may sell mortgage-
servicing rights to reduce so-called risk-weighted assets
monitored by regulators. The company projects it will lower the
holdings by as much as $250 billion to achieve its goal of $1.8
trillion in the assets by the end of 2012.  The bank is weighing the sale of at least part of its $21
billion stake in China Construction Bank Corp., three people
briefed on the plans said last month. The sale would
simultaneously raise cash and reduce assets that are penalized
under the Basel standards.  Bank of America wouldn’t need more capital unless there was
“material weakness in the  U.S. economy  or lower  home prices 
from current levels,” wrote Burnell, who has an “outperform”
rating on the shares.  Michael Mayo, the Credit Agricole Securities USA analyst
who challenged Moynihan yesterday about the bank’s ability to
withstand a ratings downgrade or losses on European bets, said
today that he doesn’t foresee a capital raise in his “base
case.” He said the stock will probably trade at $11 a share in
12 months, compared with his previous estimate of $14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  