-- 
Berkshire Partners Said to Raise More as Big Buyout Firms Settle for Less

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/berkshire-partners-said-to-get-more-as-big-funds-settle-for-less.html
Berkshire Partners LLC, the buyout
firm that manages money for Harvard, Yale and Stanford, raised
50 percent more for its new fund than for its predecessor as
investors shift money to midsize firms.  Berkshire, which has invested in more than 100 companies on
behalf of endowments and pension funds, closed the $4.5 billion
fund yesterday, said two people with knowledge of matter, who
asked not to be named because the information is private. The
Boston-based firm, whose previous seven funds gathered a
combined $6.5 billion, has posted an annual internal rate of
return of 30 percent after fees since opening in 1984.  New private-equity commitments were $127.6 billion in the
first half, down 5.4 percent from the same period a year earlier
and 63 percent less than in 2007, according to researcher Preqin
Ltd. About half of midsize firms exceeded their fundraising
targets, compared with about a quarter of their smaller and
larger peers, according to the London-based firm, which
categorizes mid-market managers as those focused on transactions
ranging from $250 million to $1 billion.  “Big companies have less risk, but there’s less upside as
well,” said William Atwood, executive director of the Illinois
State Board of Investment, which manages $11.6 billion in
pension assets for state lawmakers, judges and employees.
Private-equity investors “are being more selective about who
they re-up with,” he said.  Private-equity funds combine debt with money from
endowments, foundations, pensions and wealthy individuals to buy
stakes in companies or acquire them. The firms usually take fees
equal to about 2 percent of fund assets and 20 percent of
investment profits.  Investors Get Selective  Mid-market firms such as Berkshire, American Securities LLC
and Abry Partners LLC are attracting money more quickly than
their larger and smaller counterparts. It took an average of 17
months for midsize managers to complete fundraising from 2009
through March 2011, compared with more than 20 months for small
and large firms, Preqin data show.  Private-equity investors, known as limited partners, began
committing fewer dollars to the largest funds and culling the
number of managers they do business with after the buyout boom
ended in mid-2007 and profit distributions dried up. LPs are
also allocating more money to firms that focus on smaller
transactions and faster-growing emerging markets.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, has gathered about $16 billion for its new fund, compared
with the $21.7 billion it raised in 2007. KKR & Co., whose 2006
buyout pool totaled $17.6 billion, is seeking $10 billion from
investors this year. Cerberus Capital Management LP is targeting
$4 billion, almost half the size of its previous fund.  ‘Hated Segment’  “In today’s market, the hated segment is the mega-
buyout,” said Mario Giannini, chief executive officer of
Hamilton Lane Advisors, a  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based firm
that advises clients on private-equity investments. “Investors
look at that part of the market and look to the margins and
think, ‘If there are economies of scale, why are the fees only
10 percent lower than the rest of the market?’ There’s a feeling
that the mega-buyout fund managers aren’t investors. They’re
money managers.”  Mega-buyouts are typically deals valued at more than $1
billion, according to Preqin.  Berkshire was co-founded by a group including Brad Bloom
and Richard Lubin, who previously worked at Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP in  Boston . The firm has invested in more than 100
companies, focusing on the consumer and retail industries, as
well as business services, transportation, energy, industrial
manufacturing and communications. Its deals have included
 Carter’s Inc. (CRI) , a maker of apparel for babies and children, and
cosmetics brand Bare Escentuals Inc.  55% Return  The firm’s best-performing fund was its third, which was
started in 1992 with $168 million and generated an internal rate
of return of 55 percent as of September, the people familiar
with the performance said. Its $1.7 billion sixth fund has
returned 24 percent annually since 2002. Jennifer Boyce, a
spokeswoman for the firm, declined to comment.  American Securities, which is targeting $3 billion, may
raise as much as $4 billion for its sixth fund, up from the $2.3
billion gathered in 2008, according to two people familiar with
the firm. Started in 1947 as the family office of William
Rosenwald, an heir to Sears Roebuck & Co. fortune,  New York- 
based American Securities took on outside investors in the late
1980s, according to its website.  The firm has generated returns of 23 percent a year after
fees since it formally began its private-equity program in 1994,
a person familiar with the matter said. Anne Board, a
spokeswoman for American Securities, declined to comment.  Niche Markets  Abry Partners, a Boston private-equity manager that invests
in media and communications firms, raised $1.6 billion earlier
this year, after completing a $1.35 billion fund in 2008. Five
out of the company’s six funds have generated returns of more
than 20 percent, with the first fund exceeding 60 percent,
according to an investor document obtained by Bloomberg.  Sideth Stegmeier, a spokeswoman for Abry, declined to
comment.  “When you look at firms like Abry, they’ve played in a
number of niches that have been productive over time,” said
Ashbel Williams, chief investment officer of the State Board of
Administration of  Florida  in Tallahassee, which oversees a $128
billion pension system and has invested in Berkshire and Abry.
“They’ve got various areas, either credit or equity, they’ve
focused on. They’ve stayed with it. They haven’t strayed.
They’re in markets that are not oversaturated with suppliers of
capital.”  More Disclosure Sought  Investors are looking for fuller disclosure and more access
to general partners, a trend that favors middle-market firms,
said Tim Friedman, a spokesman for Preqin. About half of
investors recently interviewed by the researcher said the best
buyout opportunities are being offered by small to mid-market
funds and they plan to invest in that segment over the next
year.  “With the best mid-market funds versus the name-brand
mega-funds, mid-market will come out on top,” Friedman said.
“What we saw from mid-market firms is they weren’t as
overexposed to the very highly leveraged deals that were done in
the 2006, 2007, 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  