-- 
BHP Increases Resources at Escondida Copper Mine in Chile

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C r a z e
-- 
2011-07-20T15:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bhp-boosts-resources-at-its-escondida-copper-mine-in-chile.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  increased mineral
resources at its Escondida complex in northern Chile after a
four-year $381 million exploration program, ensuring it will be
the world’s largest copper mine “for decades to come.”  Resources more than doubled to about 19 billion metric tons
of ore after two new deposits were included, Melbourne-based BHP
said today in a  report . The estimated resource at the main
Escondida deposit increased 40 percent, the company said.  “The resource could potentially support further
expansions” beyond current plans and boost annual copper
production to more than 1.8 million tons, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts said today in an e-mailed report.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, and competitors
such as  Chile ’s Codelco are seeking to add reserves amid a
global copper shortage that has seen prices of the metal jump
more than fourfold since 2003, exacerbated by surging Chinese
demand.  Production at Escondida fell 8 percent in the fiscal year
that ended June 30 because of falling ore quality, the company
said in a separate quarterly report. Output will remain at
current levels for the next 12 months, and a 2012 project to
relocate a crusher at the mine will boost production the
following year, BHP said.  BHP owns 57.5 percent of the mine and its share of output
in the year through June was 390,500 tons, it said. Rio Tinto
Group owns 30 percent.  BHP also reported increased resources at the Pampa
Escondida and Pinta Verde prospects that neighbor the mine.
Estimated resources at the Antamina mine in  Peru  rose 32 percent
to about 1.9 billion tons of ore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 