-- 
Biggest Profit Gains Lure Allianz to U.K. Stocks

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-07-21T07:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/biggest-profit-gains-lure-allianz-to-u-k-stocks-on-valuations.html
U.K. stocks are beating European
equities by the widest margin in more than two years, luring
investors who say the fastest profit growth in the developed
world will prolong the advantage as the debt crisis worsens.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has climbed 4.9 percent since its 2011
low, bringing its gain since the  bull market  began 28 months ago
to 65 percent, or 16 percentage points more than the Euro Stoxx
50 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts estimate
earnings will rise 44 percent over the next 12 months for
companies in the U.K. gauge, the most among the world’s 10
largest economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies trading in London get about 30 percent of sales
from outside Europe, limiting the effect of the region’s credit
crisis and holding the average loss to less than a third of the
Euro Stoxx 50’s 12 percent retreat from its 2011 high. Merrill
Lynch and Allianz Global Investors are buying after the U.K.
gauge fell to 10.3 times forecast earnings, near the cheapest in
more than two years.  “It stands out as being good value from a price-earnings
perspective and is at a historically cheap level relative to
other equity markets,” said  Bill O’Neill , chief investment
officer for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in London, where
he helps manage $1.5 trillion. “It is also attractive in terms
of earnings expectations,” he said. Merrill is “overweight”
U.K. stocks in its global funds.  Bank Losses  The FTSE 100 has fallen 3.6 percent from this year’s high
in February, compared with the 12 percent slump in the Euro
Stoxx 50. The euro-area benchmark, which excludes London-listed
stocks, has been dragged lower by banks from Italy to  Spain  amid
concern they may face losses from investments in European
government debt. The FTSE 100 slipped 1.86, or less than 0.1
percent, to 5,851.96 at 8:35 a.m. in  London  today.  The U.K. gauge is trading for 10.3 times the estimated
earnings of its companies, near the cheapest since March 2009
and less than the average ratio of 11.5 over the past five
years, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with 11 times
projected profit for the Euro Stoxx 50 in the past five years
and a valuation of 14.6 for the  S&P 500  during the same period,
the data show.  Analysts have boosted earnings estimates for FTSE 100
companies by 1.2 percent in the past four weeks, the fastest
among the 20 biggest developed markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Results at London-based  Burberry Group
Plc (BRBY)  and  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , which get the majority of revenue from
abroad, have topped forecasts, pushing the stocks to the best
performance in the FTSE 100 this year.  ‘Still Cheap’  “There is a global spread of companies” in the U.K., said
 Neil Dwane , chief investment officer at Allianz Global
Investors’ RCM unit in  Frankfurt , who helps oversee about $80
billion of equities. “These equities are still cheap. Earnings
growth has been outpacing gains in the stock market.”  Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, reported a
62 percent jump in sales to the Asia-Pacific region, 23 percent
in  Europe  and 16 percent in the Americas, it said July 13. ARM’s
fourth-quarter earnings climbed 72 percent as the U.K. chip
designer received royalties from processors used in Cupertino,
California-based Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer.  FTSE 100 companies get 30 percent of sales from outside
Europe and 70 percent outside the U.K., according to data from
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Non-European revenue is about
20 percent more than for Euro Stoxx 50 members.  ‘Growth Holding Up’  “The domestic economic outlook is a concern but, with 70
percent of sales being sourced overseas, the health of the
global economy is more relevant,” said Peter Sullivan, an
equity strategist at HSBC in London. “There we see growth
holding up well.”  The U.K. economy has recovered less than half of the output
lost during the recession and banks are vulnerable to writedowns
if the debt crisis keeps spreading, according to  Andrew Milligan , who helps oversee $262 billion as Edinburgh-based head
of global strategy at Standard Life Investments Ltd. He’s
maintaining a “neutral” position on U.K. equities.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, compared with 1.5 percent growth in  Germany  and 0.9
percent in  France , the largest euro-region nations. Ernst &
Young LLP’s Item Club cut its U.K. growth forecast for the
second time this year in a July 18 report, predicting GDP will
increase 1.4 percent in 2011.  Strains, Stresses  “The U.K. is a classic example of a lot of the strains and
stresses that we are seeing,” Milligan said in a phone
interview from Edinburgh. “The European sovereign crisis is
hitting our banking center and we’re affected by the trials and
tribulations of our largest trading partner. The debt issues
have to be put to bed.”  U.K. stocks are out of favor among professional investors,
according to yesterday’s Merrill Lynch survey of money managers
that invest $828 billion for clients. A net 13 percent of
respondents had an “underweight” position on British shares,
meaning they hold fewer stocks than are represented in global
benchmark indexes.  Britain has faced labor strikes and protests on the streets
of London against an austerity program set out by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  in May 2010. The government is
planning about 80 billion pounds ($129 billion) of spending cuts
and 30 billion pounds of tax increases over the next four years.  The  Bank of England  has maintained interest rates at a
record low even as the  European Central Bank  boosts the cost of
borrowing to tame inflation. The disparity in interest rates has
helped push the pound 2.5 percent lower against the euro this
year, Bloomberg data show.  Monetary Policy   Britain’s ability to control its own monetary policy gives
it an advantage over euro-area nations that are tied to the
ECB’s rates, RCM’s Dwane said. The BOE has kept its benchmark
interest rate at 0.5 percent since March 2009 while the ECB
raised borrowing costs by a quarter point for the second time
this year on July 7.  “The currency is one pressure valve that we have,” he
said. “We have our own currency to take some of the strain of
austerity that Greece or  Italy  cannot take.”  For HSBC’s Sullivan, U.K. shares will catch up with the
growth in company profits as earnings in other developed markets
lag behind. He is recommending clients to hold more British
shares than are represented in global benchmarks.  “We favor the U.K. because of its strong dynamics,” he
said. “Investors are optimistic, but this optimism is not
reflected in the valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  