-- 
Billionaire Chandler Lifts Sino-Forest Stake as Block Prompts Paulson Exit

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-21T05:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/billionaire-chandler-boosts-sino-forest-stake-to-11-following-share-drop.html
Billionaire Richard Chandler, who
became one of New Zealand’s richest men by pushing for reforms
at  South Korea ’s  SK Group , disclosed he’s one of the biggest
shareholders in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese company targeted
by short-seller Carson Block.  Chandler’s Mandolin Fund Pte owns 26.7 million shares of
the Chinese tree-plantation owner, with the latest purchase made
on July 19, the  investment company  said yesterday in a statement.
The 10.85 percent stake makes Chandler’s group the third-largest
shareholder in Sino-Forest after Davis Selected Advisers LP and
Wellington Management Co., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The investment means that Sino-Forest’s management,
grappling with allegations of overstating timber holdings, may
now answer to an investor who helped spearhead a two-year
campaign against SK’s chairman on grounds his fraud conviction
made him unfit to run Korea’s largest oil refiner. By the time
Chandler and his brother sold out in 2005, shares in his target
had jumped five-fold.  “He took a targeted approach to mismanaged assets and
while he was unsuccessful in forcing management change in terms
of personnel, he was successful in forcing some initiatives and
did make money in that process,” said  Shaun Cochran , head of
Korea research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. “It would be
logical for him to repeat that strategy.”  Richard Barton, a Hong Kong-based external spokesman for
Richard Chandler Corp., declined to comment beyond the statement.
Joseph Lo and Siobhan Zheng of Brunswick Group LLC, hired by
Sino-Forest to handle public relations, couldn’t be reached for
comment immediately.  Share Plunge  Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest’s
shares plunged 83 percent last month after Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC published a June 2 report alleging it overstated timber
holdings in  China . Sino-Forest has denied the allegations and
commissioned an independent investigation into the claims.  Chandler, estimated by  Forbes  magazine last year to have a
net worth of $3.1 billion, and Wellington bought shares after
the Muddy Waters report. By comparison, hedge fund Paulson & Co.
last month sold its entire 12.5 percent stake. Paulson, which
had been Sino-Forest’s largest shareholder, said in a June
letter to clients it lost C$462 million ($487 million) since May
31 on the investment.  Sino-Forest rose 31 cents, or 7.2 percent, to C$4.59
yesterday in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Chandler paid an
average of C$4.06 for the shares it bought on July 19, according
to the statement.  BMO Coverage  In 1986, Chandler and his brother Christopher founded
emerging-markets investment firm Sovereign Global, which grew to
hold $5 billion in assets, according to Institutional Investor.
They parted ways amicably and closed Sovereign. Richard started
Singapore-based investment firm Orient Global in 2006.  In July 2005, Sovereign sold its entire 14.8 percent stake
in SK Corp., as it was known at the time. The investment helped
make the Chandler brothers top the Forbes list of  New Zealand 
billionaires the following year. The sale ended a dispute where
Sovereign failed at two shareholder meetings to oust Chey Tae
Won as chairman, arguing he was unfit to run the refiner because
of his role in the accounting fraud at an affiliate then known
as SK Global.  SK Global, later renamed SK Networks, misstated 2001
earnings by 1.5 trillion won, leading to the conviction of Chey
and nine other group executives, driving SK Corp.’s shares to a
record low in March 2003.  Research Suspended  Bank of Montreal said July 19 it suspended research
coverage of Sino-Forest Corp., leaving the timber company with
one analyst rating, according to a Bloomberg survey. Stephen Atkinson, an analyst at the bank, withdrew his recommendation
pending the result of the independent probe, David Suma, a
spokesman for BMO, said in a telephone interview.  Only Andrew Kuske, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Toronto, still rates the company according to Bloomberg data. He
has a “neutral” recommendation.  Analysts at Raymond James Financial Inc., Toronto-Dominion
Bank, Royal Bank of  Canada  and Bank of Nova Scotia have
withdrawn their ratings on Sino-Forest or put them under review.
Richard Kelertas, an analyst at Dundee Securities, suspended
coverage on June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net .
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  