-- 
Billionaire Lebedev Interested in Remaking News of the World

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-07-20T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/billionaire-lebedev-interested-in-remaking-news-of-the-world.html
Alexander Lebedev , owner of the
 London  Evening Standard newspaper, said he may be interested in
remaking fellow billionaire Rupert Murdoch’s News of the World
if the Russian investor is able to sell some assets.  “I wish, but I don’t think my pocket is deep enough at the
moment, but if I’m able to sell any of my businesses, be it
Aeroflot or banking, then I’m really very much interested,”
Lebedev said in an interview in his office in Moscow. “Half-
jokingly, I would say I wish I could remake the News of the
World under a different brand: World News.”  Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWS)  was forced to close News of the World
and abandon its bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  this
month after rival newspapers reported that journalists working
for the tabloid hacked the phones of victims of violence,
including a missing schoolgirl who was later found murdered.  London’s Metropolitan Police is investigating the hacking
and allegations that  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British newspaper unit, News
International, paid officers to get stories. Murdoch, 80, denied
any knowledge of phone hacking and payments to police at News of
the World, blaming “people I trusted” during three hours of
questioning by British lawmakers yesterday.  A former lawmaker in Russia’s lower house of parliament and
a KGB officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy in London during
the  Cold War , Lebedev now has a fortune valued by Forbes
magazine at $2.1 billion. His National Reserve Corp.’s holdings
include a stake in  Russia ’s flagship airline OAO Aeroflot and in
banking, construction, property, agriculture and media
companies.  ‘Funny Suggestion’  Lebedev, 51, said he would use a remade version of the
defunct newspaper to raise interest in stories about corruption
and wrongdoing by rich and powerful people. Murdoch’s newspapers
worked in the public interest, aside from “playing on the least
attractive strings of human nature,” he said.  “Let me just make a funny suggestion: so I decide tomorrow
to re-launch News of the World, but calling it Worlds News,” he
said. “I will be focusing not on interfering with a killed girl,
phone hacking, but would need the journalists to really
investigate -- and during investigations you have to observe the
laws.”  Lebedev said in May he would quit business in Russia,
citing pressure from the Federal Security Service, or FSB, the
main successor to the Soviet KGB.  Personal ‘Mission’  In November, he asked Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to
intervene after law enforcement officials raided his National
Reserve Bank. The raid was retribution for allegations of
corruption printed in  Novaya Gazeta , the Moscow weekly newspaper
he owns with  Mikhail Gorbachev , he said.  Being a newspaper owner in Russia and Britain is now a
personal “mission” rather than a purely commercial endeavor,
Lebedev said in the interview.  Novaya Gazeta is seeking permission from Moscow Mayor
 Sergei Sobyanin  to start distributing a daily version of the
publication in Moscow subway stations, a venture Lebedev said
will cost about $10 million. Lebedev, who also owns the
Independent daily in the U.K., started a weekly tabloid in
London called “i.”  “I would be the happiest person to actually get rid of
everything, sell it, and just go into publishing and
investigative journalism,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at  