-- 
Biogen, Bayer MS Drugs Aren’t Cost Effective, Study Says

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-07-20T20:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/biogen-bayer-ms-drugs-aren-t-cost-effective-in-u-s-study-says.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  would
have to cut the price of their multiple sclerosis drugs by at
least two-thirds in the U.S. to make them cost effective at
boosting quality of life, a study found.  Disease-modifying drugs for MS like Avonex from Weston,
Massachusetts-based Biogen, and Betaseron, sold by Leverkusen,
Germany-based Bayer, are at least eight times costlier than what
researchers consider reasonable when putting a price on quality-
of-life improvement, according to the study published today in
the journal  Neurology . The study also found that prescribing the
drugs in earlier stages of MS improved cost effectiveness.  Multiple sclerosis affects about 400,000 people in the
U.S., and 2.1 million worldwide, according to the  National
Multiple Sclerosis Society . The chronic disease attacks the
central nervous system and can cause paralysis, numbness in
limbs and vision loss. The disease-modifying drugs, which delay
progression and reduce relapse of MS, can cost about $34,000 a
year in the U.S., compared with about 8,000 pounds ($12,920) in
the U.K., the study said.  “Simply reducing the price of these drugs to a level for
what they’re sold in the U.K. and  Europe  will bring the number
to a much more acceptable level,”  Katia Noyes , lead author of
the study and chief of the Division of Health Policy and
Outcomes Research at the University of Rochester School of
Medicine in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  QALY Measure  Researchers generally accept $100,000 per quality-adjusted
life year, or QALY, as a “reasonable” threshold, Noyes said.
The metric incorporates the effect of treatment on duration and
quality of life. For the MS drugs examined in the study, the
measure exceeded $800,000 per QALY.  In addition to Biogen and Bayer’s medicines, the
researchers looked at Copaxone, which is sold by  Petah Tikva ,
Israel-based  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , and Rebif,
from Darmstadt, Germany-based  Merck KGaA. (MRK)   The study also found prescribing medicines at earlier
stages of the disease improved their cost effectiveness. For
Biogen’s Avonex, the cost per QALY when starting the drug at
stage 2 of the disease, when most patients start to show
symptoms, falls to about $730,000 compared with $898,000 for
stage 3, Noyes said.  “As soon as they’re diagnosed, if they go on this
medication, that will have observable benefit,” she said. “You
can see why people may not do it. They say, ‘This is so
expensive, I want to save it as my last resort.’”  First-Line Use  That’s not as effective as using the medicines as first-
line therapies, Noyes said. About half of MS patients don’t use
any disease-modifying drugs, “probably because cost is a
barrier,” she said.  Avonex’s “pricing is consistent with the real world value
it delivers to patients with MS,” Jeff Boyle, a spokesman for
Biogen, wrote in an e-mail today. “Avonex remains the least
expensive option for those looking to slow the progression of
their MS.”  Biogen has a “significant commitment” to patient access,
Boyle wrote. “If there is a patient in need, we will find a way
to help.”  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, said the study’s
“short timeframe” was a “data limitation.”  “Multiple sclerosis is a lifelong disease, and when longer
timelines that are consistent with the disease are used, the
cost per QALY is similar to those in other high-burden
illnesses,” Bradley wrote in an e-mail.  Renee Connolly, a spokeswoman for EMD Serono Inc., a unit
of Merck KGaA, said her company has “comprehensive patient-
assistance programs.”  “The overall clinical benefit of disease-modifying
therapies, including Rebif, or interferon beta-1a, have been
established in well-controlled Phase 3 clinical studies,”
Connolly said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 