-- 
BlackRock Second-Quarter Profit Rises 43%

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-20T11:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/blackrock-second-quarter-profit-rises-43-as-assets-advance.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said second-quarter profit increased 43 percent
as market gains offset the sixth straight quarter of client
redemptions, mostly from lower-fee products.  Net income increased to $619 million, or $3.21 a share,
from $432 million, or $2.21, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding certain one-time
items, BlackRock earned $3 a share, compared with the $2.89
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said clients
pulled out of stock funds amid increasing concern over the
European sovereign-debt crisis and the debate over the U.S. debt
ceiling, contributing to a net $15.5 billion in withdrawals
during the quarter. BlackRock said redemptions stemming from the
takeover of  Barclays Global Investors  in December 2009 have
ended after $9.9 billion in withdrawals booked in the second
quarter.  “One positive to the quarter was that the merger-related
outflows are largely over,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst at Rye,
New York-based Gabelli & Co., said in a telephone interview
before the results were announced.  Assets under management rose 0.3 percent to $3.66 trillion,
helped by $12.1 billion in market gains, mostly from fixed-
income investments, and $14.2 billion in foreign-exchange gains.
Redemptions included $14.1 billion from advisory portfolios as
assignments ended, according to the statement.  Europe Crisis  BlackRock said excluding redemptions from the BGI deal,
advisory portfolios and lower-fee cash funds, it had net long-
term deposits of $18.4 billion. Multi-asset funds, which can
invest across a range of asset classes, attracted $20.7 billion
in the quarter.  “As the quarter progressed, investors grew increasingly
concerned about uncertainties in the market, including the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe , political stalemate on the U.S.
debt ceiling and prospects of slower economic growth,” Fink
said in today’s statement. “The money-market industry continued
to contract, as rates moved even lower.”  BlackRock’s investment fees rose 17 percent to $2.1 billion
as long-term assets, which exclude cash funds and advisory
products, rose by 21 percent to $3.3 trillion in the year ended
June 30.  ‘Difficult Markets’  Money managers, who earn fees on the assets they oversee
for customers, benefited “despite difficult equity markets” in
the second quarter because of investor deposits into bonds,
global and hedge-fund-like strategies, Robert Lee, an analyst
with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in  New York , wrote in a July 1
note to clients. Lee, who rates BlackRock “outperform,”
expected the  money manager  to earn $2.81 in the second-quarter,
excluding certain one-time costs and gains.  “We do expect that organic growth should improve as the
overhang from BGI merger-related redemptions may have finally
run its course,” Lee wrote in the note.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 2.7 percent
since reaching a high on April 29 this year on concern that the
economic recovery is at risk and as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis intensified. The MSCI AC World Index has declined 5.6
percent since its May 2 high for the year.  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has built the firm
through a series of acquisitions, including the 2006 purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the
hedge fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The
company created a renewable-power unit in February to expand the
alternatives division, which manages  hedge funds , real estate
funds and private-equity strategies.  BlackRock announced results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The shares are down 3.6 percent this year,
compared with the 9.2 percent decline in the 18-member S&P index
of asset managers and custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  