-- 
Voeckler Keeps Tour de France’s Yellow Jersey Even After Veering Off Road

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-20T22:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/boasson-hagen-wins-tour-de-france-stage-17-as-voeckler-holds-yellow-jersey.html
Tour de France leader  Thomas Voeckler  managed to hang onto the yellow jersey, even if he
couldn’t stay on the road.  The French rider made a mistake yesterday on a hairpin bend
on a descent near the end of stage 17, veering off onto a
concrete driveway. Team Sky’s Edvald Boasson Hagen won the stage
after a 111-mile ride in the Alps from Gap to Pinerolo,  Italy .  “I closed my eyes when I went onto the concrete and when I
opened them I was still on my bike,” Voeckler told reporters.  Voeckler, who rides for the Europcar team, lost 27 seconds
to second-placed  Cadel Evans  of BMC Racing because of the error.
He now leads the Australian by  1 minute, 18 seconds . There are
two more mountain stages and a time trial before the final-day
leg to Paris on July 24.  Defending champion  Alberto Contador , who made up more than
a minute on two-time runnerup  Andy Schleck  on the final climb
two days ago, tried and failed to pull away from him and his
older brother Frank yesterday. The trio finished together in the
same group as Evans and Euskaltel’s  Samuel Sanchez .  The Leopard-Trek team’s Schlecks are third and fourth
overall. Frank remains four seconds behind Evans, while Andy is
2:36 off the lead. Sanchez is fifth, 23 seconds further back.  Contador of the Saxo Bank team remains sixth overall. He’s
3:15 behind Voeckler, who is seeking to become  France ’s first
Tour de France winner since Bernard Hinault in 1985.  “It’s a pity,” Voeckler, who wobbled on his bike earlier
on the descent, said of his errors. “If I’d taken fewer risks I
would have finished with them.”  Col de Galibier  Voeckler has led the race for more than a week, although he
has said he won’t match the other contenders in the hardest Alps
stages the next two days.  Riders will today scale three out-of-category climbs -- the
most difficult ascents -- with a  mountain-top finish  at the
2,645-meter high Col de Galibier. Tomorrow’s stage ends atop the
Alpe d’Huez.  Boasson Hagen took his second stage win after missing out
to countryman  Thor Hushovd  on stage 16.  “I was disappointed yesterday not to win and really wanted
to win today,” Boasson Hagen said. “I got some extra power
from that and all the Norwegian fans around the course.”  He broke away to be the first rider over the final summit
and cruised smoothly to victory, 40 seconds ahead. Dutch rider
Bauke Mollema of the Rabobank team was second, with Sandy Casar
of Francaise des Jeux third.  “It’s going to come to really hard stages now,” Boasson
Hagen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  