-- 
BOE Voted 7-2 to Hold Rate as Majority Said Need for Increase Had Receded

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-20T09:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/boe-voted-to-keep-rate-steady-as-dale-weale-sought-quarter-point-increase.html
Bank of England  officials voted 7-2
to keep the benchmark interest rate on hold this month as a
majority of policy makers said recent developments meant there
was less need for a near-term tightening.  “It was likely that the current weakness in activity would
persist for longer than previously thought,” the majority of
the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee said, according to the
minutes of the July 6-7 meeting published today in London.
“That weakness, together with the continued subdued behavior of
earnings, reinforced the case that inflation was likely to fall
back once the temporary impact of the factors pushing up on it
had waned.”  At the meeting this month, there was a “range of views”
among the majority of the MPC on the outlook for inflation.
“Overall, however, recent developments had reduced the
likelihood that a tightening in policy would be warranted in the
near term,” the minutes said.  Investors have pushed back bets on when the central bank
may increase interest rates as the economic recovery shows signs
of slowing and Governor  Mervyn King  sticks to his line that the
current bout of above-target inflation is temporary. Ernst &
Young LLP’s Item Club cut its forecast for 2011 U.K. economic
growth this week to 1.4 percent from 1.8 percent as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and weak  consumer spending  weigh on the economy.  Bond Purchases  While King and six other officials voted to keep the
benchmark at a record low of 0.5 percent this month, the minutes
showed, Chief Economist Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale  kept up
their push to raise the rate by a quarter point, saying the
argument for tighter policy “remained strong.”  Adam Posen 
continued his call for more bond purchases.  In contrast to the June meeting, there was no mention of
other policy makers favoring more bond purchases this month. In
June, some officials said it was “possible” further asset
purchases might become warranted.  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
minutes were published. It traded at $1.6116 as of 9:59 a.m. in
 London , little changed from yesterday. It had earlier fallen to
as low as $1.6069.  “Interestingly, there seemed to be no substantial
discussion of more quantitative easing,” said  Hetal Mehta , an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in London.  “With
inflation still more than double the 2 percent target, it may be
difficult for the focus of the MPC to turn to further
stimulus.”  She added that the bank is “now likely to keep rates on
hold for a long time to come -- not just this year, but through
next year too.”  Europe Crisis  While U.K. inflation eased to 4.2 percent in June, that’s
still more than twice the central bank’s goal. The bank said
today that its was “likely” that price growth would exceed 5
percent in the coming months and the peak would be “a little
higher and come sooner than the committee had previously
expected.”  Policy makers also warned that the risks “posed by an
intensification of the sovereign debt and banking problems
within the euro area to the prospects for economic activity and
the financial system at home had remained substantial.”  European leaders will meet tomorrow in Brussels to discuss
the region’s financial stability and revamp a strategy to
contain a debt crisis that threatens to undo Spain and  Italy .
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said July 17 he was
“incredibly worried” about the turmoil and that the U.K. was
not immune to its effects.  Economic Outlook  While the U.K. economy grew 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, it shrank by that amount in the previous three months.
Growth may have slowed in the second quarter, with Markit
Economics saying this month that its surveys of manufacturing
and services point to gross-domestic-product growth of 0.3
percent “at best.”  “Indicators had pointed toward continued modest underlying
U.K. GDP growth in the second quarter and, more tentatively, to
some softening in the outlook for the third quarter,” the
minutes said.  “Overall, the balance between the upside and the downside
risks to inflation in the medium term had not changed
sufficiently over the month for the MPC members to change their
views of the appropriate setting for monetary policy,” the
minutes said. “The risks to inflation in the medium term
remained substantial in both directions.”  Investors have pushed back expectations for the next rate
increase to beyond June 2012, according to forward contracts on
the sterling overnight interbank average. At the start of last
month, they were betting on a February 2012 increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Scott Hamilton} in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  