-- 
Boeing Averts ‘Heart-Attack’ Loss as Airbus Courts American

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/boeing-averts-heart-attack-order-loss-as-airbus-breaks-grip-on-american.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is taking a page from
Airbus SAS’s playbook seven months after the European aircraft
maker began reaping record sales by upgrading its workhorse jet.  The U.S. planemaker won an order for 200 single-aisle jets
yesterday from  American Airlines , with half of its jets updated
variants of its latest 737 airliner to follow Airbus down the
route of new engines. Airbus took home 260 orders, in the
biggest-ever industry deal.  Boeing’s decision ends months of speculation about whether
it would upgrade its 737 or pick the more expensive option of a
complete redesign that can cost more than $10 billion. Airbus
unveiled its A320neo in December, and has won more than 1,000
orders or commitments to make it the fastest selling jet ever.  “This could have been a catastrophe for Boeing,” said
 Richard Aboulafia , vice president of the Teal Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based aviation consulting firm. “Boeing recognized
this as the heart-attack moment that it was.”  The A320neo is slated for delivery in 2015. Boeing said its
re-engined jet will enter service in “mid-decade” and reach
American in 2018. Directors will vote on the matter next month,
and sales will start “this fall,” Boeing said.  Like the current 737, the new variant will have one engine
option only, the Leap-X power plant built by  CFM International ,
a joint venture between  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  of
 France . The neo, which stands for “new engine option,” offers
an alternative engine made by  Pratt & Whitney .  Stock Surges  Boeing rose 82 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $72.89 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., the parent of Airbus, gained 8
cents to 24.87 euros in Paris, the highest since February 2007.  With American poised to rejuvenate its fleet, Chicago-based
Boeing managed to avert an upset by a carrier that had bought
only U.S. jets since 1987.  Boeing decided to revamp the 737 after hitting a
“stumbling block” in the effort to build an all-new jet, its
preferred choice,  Jim Albaugh , the commercial airplanes chief,
said yesterday in an interview. While the technology for a new
jet is available, it wasn’t clear that Boeing could achieve
high-volume output to permit the 2020 launch that carriers were
demanding, he said.  “It came down to talking to customers, and when we talked
to them about the prospect of a new airplane pushing out to the
right, it became pretty apparent there was a bias to do
something now, to do the new engine,” Albaugh said.  As recently as last month, Albaugh said at the  Paris Air
Show  that customers were willing to wait for “something more
revolutionary.”  Boeing had plenty of time to decide, Albaugh said at the
time, echoing repeated comments by executives that they favored
an all-new jet ready by decade’s end. He said yesterday that the
new plane now will shift “well into the next decade.”  ‘We Love Competition’  Airbus also spent months studying the feasibility of re-
engining. Both companies have struggled to maintain multiple
programs, with Airbus still working to improve output of its
A380 superjumbo and keeping its A350 wide-body jet on target for
a 2013 introduction. Boeing is more than three years late on its
787 Dreamliner, and its latest 747 is also behind schedule.  “We love competition, and the fact that we have the neo on
the market and they have their re-engining means that the
competition will continue without dramatic differences,” Airbus
sales chief,  John Leahy , said in a telephone interview. “An
all-new plane offer would not be stabilizing.”  Airbus has said it doesn’t expect to have the technology
for an all-new narrow-body jet until the middle of next decade.  Fan Size  Boeing’s overhaul concept had earlier envisioned engines
with 70-inch fans, up from 61 inches on the newest 737, and
would have forced the planemaker to raise the landing gear and
strengthen the wing. Engineers went back to work with engine
makers to study 65- to 66-inch fans that would be more efficient
and prompt fewer changes to the plane. The A320 sits further off
the ground, making larger engines easier to fit.  Success in the single-aisle market is essential for both
manufacturers because the segment represents the largest portion
of the civil aviation industry.  Boeing estimates that narrow-body planes, which typically
seat between 110 and 200 passengers, will make up as much as 70
percent of the market in two decades. Airbus introduced its A320
in the late 1980s and built its success on the jet, becoming
industry leader in 2003.  Both companies are increasing production of single-aisle
jets to meet demand, and Airbus and Boeing are sold out for
several years. The 737 costs about $80 million, and an A320 is
about $5 million more, though customers typically get discounts.  Old Fleet  American’s order will help retire some of the oldest jets
in U.S. fleets. In 2010, its planes averaged 15 years of age,
tied with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  for the oldest among the six
biggest U.S. carriers. The new jets would be 45 percent more
fuel efficient than Boeing’s MD-80s for each seat flown a mile,
American said. The MD-80s average more than 20 years of age.  “To the great credit of both of these manufacturers, when
we approached them about not doing a split deal, but both deals,
they both saw the merits in it and were extremely cooperative,
great partners in getting it done,” said Vasu Raja, American’s
managing director for corporate planning.  The appeal of new engines that promise efficiency gains of
as much as 15 percent became evident at the Paris Air Show, the
world’s biggest industry exhibition. Airbus won more than 600
orders or commitments for its A320neo, all from existing buyers.
The order inflow eclipsed Boeing, which managed to sign up only
a fraction of that number for its 737.  ‘Neo Dominance’  “What is regrettable is that it took an established Boeing
customer to convince them that a response to the neo was needed
in the near term,” said Michel Merluzeau, managing partner at
Seattle-based consultant G2 Solutions. “Boeing might have been
able to put a dent in the neo dominance in the first half of
this year had it committed to a competing solution.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. is shopping for as many as 200 more
fuel-efficient aircraft to replace its aging fleet. United
Continental Holdings Inc. may also be looking for new jets.  “This will help Boeing get the momentum back as the
battleground opens for these mega-U.S. airline orders,” said
Paul Sheridan, head of risk analysis at London-based aviation
consultant Ascend. “It’s great for airlines. They can negotiate
pretty good deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  