-- 
BOJ Deputy Pledges ‘Decisive’ Policy Action Possible as Europe Woes Grow

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-07-20T06:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/boj-to-take-decisive-policy-action-if-needed-deputy-says-1-.html
Bank of  Japan  Deputy Governor
Hirohide Yamaguchi pledged “decisive” policy action when
needed as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis poses greater risks to
the global economy.  The BOJ will “take appropriate policy actions in a
flexible and decisive manner” if necessary, Yamaguchi said
today in a speech in Nagano, central Japan. “The bank is aware
that uncertainties at home and abroad are significant.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday recommended that
the BOJ support the economy by increasing its asset purchases,
its main policy tool. Yamaguchi’s comments signal the BOJ may
act even after Governor Masaaki Shirakawa expressed increased
optimism about the nation’s recovery from the March 11
earthquake, according to analyst Mari Iwashita.  “This is a pretty dramatic change given that Shirakawa
provided a relatively sanguine view on the economy just a week
ago,” said Iwashita, chief market economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “I don’t think the BOJ is considering
taking action now but the comments indicate the BOJ will take
action when the European debt crisis begins to take a
significant toll on Japan’s stocks and the yen.”  Yamaguchi said there’s “high uncertainty” in the outlook
of the U.S., Europe and emerging economies, regions that are
important to Japan’s recovery. Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
will likely be a “destabilizing factor” for some time for the
global economy, and it could affect Japan, he said.  Timely and Decisive  “To implement policies in a timely and decisive manner has
always been our intention,” the deputy governor said at a press
conference today. “I think acting timely and decisively means
there is no change in our basic stance.”  The yen traded at 79.06 per dollar at 3:20 p.m. in Tokyo.
It rose to a four-month high of 78.47 against the dollar last
week on concern Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread and
its advance is threatening to erode exporters’ profits. The
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.2 percent on optimism U.S.
lawmakers will reach an agreement that will help the government
avoid defaulting on debt.  “We should be careful in that once any disruption occurs
in Europe, Japan’s economy, seemingly distant, might also be
involved in turmoil through a plunge in stock prices and
appreciation of the yen,” the deputy governor said.  Shirakawa and his policy board left the benchmark lending
rate between zero and 0.1 percent at a meeting last week. They
also kept unchanged a 10 trillion yen ($126 billion) fund to buy
assets such as corporate bonds and exchange-traded funds.  More Stimulus  A Bloomberg survey of 14 economists last month showed that
all but one expect the BOJ’s next move would be to provide more
stimulus and four expect the BOJ to expand the asset fund around
August.  The uncertainty surrounding the Japanese economy’s outlook
is “unusually large,” with risks including delays in
rebuilding electricity capacity and a slowdown in advanced
economies, the IMF statement said. It forecast that Japan’s
gross domestic product will shrink 0.7 percent this year and
grow 2.9 percent in 2012. It also warned that government
borrowing costs could “spike” if the government fails to
control its debt load, without specifying when that may happen.  Yamaguchi reiterated the central bank’s view that the
Japanese economy is expected to return to a moderate recovery
path in the second half of the fiscal year ending March 2012, as
demand recovers after plunging in the aftermath of the March 11
temblor and tsunami in northeastern Japan.  Production Rebound  The  Bank of Japan  raised its economic assessment for a
second month in July after companies ramped up production at the
fastest pace in more than 50 years.  Japan’s economy contracted at an annualized 3.5 percent
pace in the three months through March, the second straight
quarter of shrinkage, as the quake disrupted production and
pushed down consumer expenditures.  Underlying inflation excluding food and energy costs will
likely remain negative, the IMF forecast, while the BOJ
“cautioned against paying too much attention” to those
measures if commodity prices continue rising, the report said.
Yamaguchi today said consumer prices will probably be flat after
the government revises the basket of goods used in the index
next month. Core prices rose 0.6 percent in May.  Japanese companies’ desire for bank loans fell in July from
three months earlier as sales and capital spending decreased
after the March quake, a central bank  survey  showed today. An
index of demand for loans to businesses was at minus 5 compared
with 8 in April, the Bank of Japan said in a quarterly survey of
loan officers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Nagano at  tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  