-- 
Bolton May Bid $8 Million for Barcelona Winger Jeffren: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-20T10:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bolton-may-bid-8-million-for-barcelona-winger-jeffren-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Bolton Wants Barcelona Star  Bolton may bid 5 million pounds ($8 million) for Barcelona
winger Jeffren, the  Daily Mirror  reported. The player, who
helped  Spain  win the European Under-21 championship last month,
probably won’t make the first team and Barcelona sporting
director Andoni Zubizarreta has said he’s free to go.  Mexico Teen on Liverpool Trial  Liverpool has asked Mexican teenager Marco Bueno to come
for a 10-day trial, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Reds may sign the Pachuca striker on a five-year deal.
Bueno earlier this month won the Under-17 World Cup with Mexico.  McLeish Orders Birmingham Move  New Aston Villa manager  Alex McLeish  wants the club’s
northern-based players to move to Birmingham, the  Daily Mirror 
reported. That would include new signing Shay Given, who joined
this week from Manchester City.  McLeish’s predecessor,  Gerard Houllier , upset some of the
squad last year with the same request.  “We are asking the lads to relocate to Birmingham and
that’s the plan, to bring all the players to the city on their
working days,” the paper quoted McLeish as saying.  Swansea Made to Wait  Swansea has been made to wait to see if Wayne Routledge
joins the club, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Although a 1.8 million-pound bid for the winger was
accepted by Newcastle at the start of the week, the 26-year-old
won’t be able to discuss personal terms until chairman Huw
Jenkins returns from holiday tomorrow. The paper said Nottingham
Forest is also interested in Routledge.  Terry for Manager?  Chelsea’s  John Terry  would like to become manager of the
club once his playing days are over, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  “Obviously that’s my overall aim, to become manager,” the
paper quoted 30-year-old Terry as saying.  He said he had confidence in new manager Andre Villas- Boas, 33, and hoped he’d “be around for a long time.''  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 