-- 
BP Lawsuit Judge Denies Demand for White House E-Mails on Gulf Oil Spill

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-20T19:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/bp-lawsuit-judge-denies-bid-to-order-u-s-to-produce-e-mails.html
BP Plc (BP/) , trying to counter claims
that the company underestimated the size of last year’s  Gulf of
Mexico   oil spill , lost its bid for a court order directing the
Obama administration to turn over e-mails from four officials.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan in New Orleans, who is
handling evidence rulings in lawsuits over the spill, refused to
order the U.S. to produce e-mails from officials including  Carol Browner , former assistant to the president for energy and
climate change. BP said the officials were involved in the
government’s post-spill response including estimates of the flow
of oil from the doomed well.  “BP has not made a sufficient demonstration of need for
the documents,” Shushan said in a one-page ruling today,
denying the request. BP can renew its bid for the e-mails if
documents produced in the future “demonstrate a need for
discovery,” or additional evidence, from the White House, she
said.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the explosion that
followed killed 11 workers. The accident and spill led to
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners and
contractors, including a suit brought by the U.S. under federal
pollution laws.  Most of the lawsuits are combined before U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. BP’s letter, sent July 7, was
filed in the court docket today.  BP argued that the e-mails were essential because the
government “has alleged that BP may be liable for billions of
dollars of penalties premised on the volume of discharged oil.”  ‘Falsified Estimates’  “Other litigants have alleged that BP misstated or
falsified estimates of the rate at which the oil was flowing
from the Macondo well,” BP said in the letter.  Evidence on the oil spill size is “especially important to
BP’s defense of the many claims in this MDL that assert that BP
improperly falsified estimates of how fast the oil was flowing,
while it was still flowing,” the company said in the letter.  BP is also seeking e-mails from Jerry Miller, assistant
director for ocean sciences at the White House Office of Science
and Technology Policy; Kathryn Moran, a senior policy analyst at
that office; and Heather Zichal, deputy assistant to the
president for energy and climate change.  White House  The White House said it would provide limited access to e-
mails from Miller and Moran, “in return for an agreement not to
seek any further discovery of any other custodians or
information directly from the Executive Office of the
President.” The White House made this offer in a July 15
letter, also posted today in federal court in  New Orleans .  BP’s request for Browner’s and Zichal’s e-mails
“mischaracterizes relevant case law and cites irrelevant
authority in support of its broad access to the e-mail of
presidential advisors,” Justice Department lawyer Sarah
Himmelhoch said in the letter.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  