-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Rise on Labor Data Before Bank Meeting

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-07-20T21:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/brazil-rate-futures-rise-on-labor-data-before-bank-meeting.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts rose as data showing the economy continued to
add jobs in June spurs traders to increase bets on how much the
central bank will raise  interest rates  this year.  Yields on the futures contract due in January rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.49 percent at 5
p.m. in New York.  Brazil’s economy created 215,393 government-registered jobs
last month, the Labor Ministry said yesterday, while the
 unemployment rate  fell to 6.2 percent, the lowest ever for June.
The labor market is prompting bets the central bank will
continue to raise borrowing costs after today’s monetary policy
meeting, said  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets at
RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  “We’ve got a tight labor market with the unemployment rate
remaining near historic lows,” Chamie said in a telephone
interview. “There’s little indication that overheating
pressures in  Brazil  are easing on the domestic front,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Traders are betting policy makers will raise the benchmark
Selic rate for the fifth time in 2011 today to cool demand and
slow the fastest inflation in six years, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest-rate futures contracts. They
anticipate a quarter-point increase to 12.5 percent, the
contracts show.  Annual inflation quickened to 6.75 percent in the 12 months
through mid-July, remaining above the upper end of the central
bank’s target range for the third consecutive month. The central
bank targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  The real declined 0.1 percent to 1.5653 per dollar, from
1.5636 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  