-- 
Brazil Signals Fifth Rate Increase May Be Last as Global Outlook Worsens

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-21T18:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/brazil-increases-key-interest-rate-to-12-50-as-inflation-outlook-worsens.html
Brazil ’s central bank signaled that
a fifth straight increase in borrowing costs may be enough to
contain inflation running at a six-year high.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini, increased the Selic rate by a quarter point to 12.50
percent yesterday. In a one-sentence statement accompanying the
decision, which was expected by all 57 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, policy makers withdrew a commitment made in April and
June to raise rates for a “sufficiently long” period.  Whether policy makers raise rates again this year depends
on whether the global economy deteriorates further, helping ease
price pressures in  Latin America ’s biggest economy, analysts
from Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. Economists
doubt Tombini will succeed in bringing price increases to the
4.5 percent target next year even if he raises the benchmark
rate again in August, according to the most-recent bank survey.  “Traders will price in a huge chance that the central bank
won’t raise rates in August,” said Marcelo Salomon, chief
Brazil economist for Barclays Plc in  New York . “If the global
situation worsens, this may have been the last increase.”  Salomon expects one more quarter-point rate increase in
August, and forecasts consumer prices will rise 5.6 percent next
year.  Traders, who correctly predicted yesterday’s move, this
morning increased bets that policy makers will hold rates next
month. The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing
in January 2012 fell 0.02 percentage point to 12.47 percent at
2:46 p.m. in New York.  ‘Complexity’  The central bank “removed the language suggesting a
prolonged period of rate adjustments, so in a way they are
signaling that they could interrupt the cycle in the near
term,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York. “They are increasingly attuned to global
risk.”  Tombini has repeatedly cited the “complexity” of the
global economy as a reason why policy makers need to proceed
with caution.  Consumer prices rose 0.10 percent in mid-July, the slowest
pace in 11 months, led by declines in food and gasoline costs,
the national statistics agency said yesterday. The report
surprised analysts, who had forecast a 0.15 percent rise,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  The lower-than-expected increase could make the central
bank feel “more comfortable” about keeping rates unchanged at
12.50 percent, said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo .  Policy Balance  Still, annual inflation quickened to 6.75 percent in the
year through mid-July. Tombini expects annual price rises to
start slowing after August. The central bank targets inflation
of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  A higher Selic rate may attract more foreign investment,
which President Dilma Rousseff’s government blames for a rally
in the currency that’s hurting manufacturers.  The real rose to its strongest level since 1999 this month.
The currency’s 49 percent advance against the U.S. dollar since
the end of 2008 is the best performance among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.5549 per  U.S. dollar 
at 2.47 p.m. New York time.  Response  Rousseff’s administration is relying on a combination of
higher  interest rates , budget cuts and curbs on  consumer credit 
to cool demand. The central bank is “very likely” to impose
more measures to slow credit expansion, said Enestor Dos Santos,
senior Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid .  Total outstanding credit grew 20 percent in May from a year
earlier, led by a 50 percent surge in mortgage credit. In June,
the central bank raised its forecast for 2011 credit growth to
15 percent, from its previous forecast of 13 percent.  In December, the central bank raised banks’ reserve
requirements to slow credit growth, and in April Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled to 3 percent the so-called IOF
tax on consumer credit.  The measures taken so far haven’t convinced analysts the
government has done enough to meet its target for consumer
prices.  Inflation expectations for 2012 rose to 5.2 percent,
according to a July 15 central bank survey of economists, from
4.5 percent at the start of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  