-- 
Gilts Drop as Haven Appeal Wanes and BOE Is Less Pessimistic Than Expected

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-20T16:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/british-pound-falls-versus-most-major-peers-before-bank-of-england-minutes.html
Gilts fell as minutes from the  Bank
of England ’s last meeting signaled policy makers are less
pessimistic about the economy than some investors had
anticipated, making further bond purchases unlikely.  Ten-year yields reached the highest this week as waning
concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis lessened the haven appeal of
British fixed-income assets. Officials voted 7-2 to keep the key
interest rate on hold, the same split as in June, according to
minutes of the July 6-7 meeting published today in  London . In
contrast to the June meeting, there was no mention of more
policy makers favoring bond purchases. The pound advanced
against the dollar after the minutes.  “The market was maybe looking for an 8-1 split and that
didn’t happen,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.
“Gilts have had a reason to come under pressure as a result of
the minutes, but it does tie in with the wider picture in the
euro zone where  risk aversion  has eased off a bit.”  The 10-year gilt yield rose three basis points to 3.07
percent at 4:50 p.m. in London. The 3.75 percent security
maturing in September 2020 lost 0.21, or 2.10 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,614) face amount, to 105.365. The two-year yield
increased two basis points to 0.71 percent.  Rate Push  While central bank governor  Mervyn King  and six other
officials voted to keep rates at a record low 0.5 percent this
month, Chief Economist Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale  kept up
their push for a quarter-point increase, saying the argument for
tighter policy “remained strong.”  Adam Posen  continued his
call for more bond purchases.  The pound was 0.2 percent stronger at $1.6147, after losing
0.3 percent earlier. It was 0.2 percent weaker at 87.94 pence
against the euro after depreciating by as much as 0.6 percent.  Britain’s currency has dropped 7 percent in the past 12
months against nine developed-market peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, the second biggest
decline after the dollar fell 13 percent.  Gilts have handed investors a 4 percent return this year,
while Spanish securities have lost 0.3 percent and their Italian
counterparts declined 3 percent, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds returned 2.3 percent.  U.K. bonds have outperformed their European counterparts
this year as the euro-region debt crisis worsened. Gilts have
also been lifted as the Bank of England kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low while the  European Central Bank 
lifted its key rate twice to 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  