-- 
Brockman ‘Well Positioned’ for Iron Ore Consolidation, CEO Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-20T07:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/brockman-well-positioned-for-iron-ore-consolidation-ceo-says.html
Brockman Resources Ltd. (BRM) , developing
a A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) iron ore mine, said it’s well-
positioned to be part of takeovers in the Pilbara region of
 Australia , the biggest exporter of the steelmaking material.  “We have one of the largest standalone projects in the
Pilbara, outside of the majors,” Wayne Richards, managing
director of Perth-based Brockman said in an interview with
openbriefing.com, released on the Australian stock exchange.
“We’re well positioned in the consolidation scenario.”  Atlas Iron Ltd. bought Giralia Resources NL for A$984
million in stock this year as iron ore developers seek to add
scale and port allocations. Global steel production may rise 7
percent this year, spurred by demand in China and  India , Ernst &
Young LLP said in a May report.  Brockman fell 3 percent to A$3.20 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading. The stock has fallen 35 percent since the start
of the year.  Brockman, which is majority-owned by  Wah Nam International
Holdings Ltd. (159) , is considering getting project financing from
banks as well as choosing a joint venture project partner to
help pay for construction costs. Brockman will update the market
during the third quarter on these costs, Richards said.  “If we decide to go for a traditional combination of
equity and debt, we’ll be looking to Wah Nam in  Hong Kong , and
its connections into the Asian financing markets and experience
as corporate bankers, to support us,” Richards said. Funding
should be completed by the second quarter next year, he said.  A record number of minerals and energy projects in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore, coal and
alumina, are at an advanced stage of development, leading to
wage and construction materials inflation that have led to cost
blowouts for projects.  Brockman has a port allocation of 18.5 million metric tons
at  Port Hedland  in Western Australia and talks for rail access
are “well advanced,” Richards said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  