-- 
Budget Calculations Slay the ’Starve the Beast’ Mythology: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-20T00:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/budget-calculations-slay-the-starve-the-beast-mythology-view.html
For more than 30 years, since the
election of  Ronald Reagan  in 1980, some Republicans have pursued
a theory called “Starve the Beast.”  STB holds that you don’t cut government spending in order
to lower taxes; you lower taxes in order to cut government
spending. The deprivation of revenue will force the government
to get smaller. How this is supposed to happen has always been a
bit of a mystery. Sages across the political spectrum have noted
that both parties have consistently shown a willingness to spend
money the Treasury doesn’t have.  At first, this strategy was considered a scandalous secret.
Democrats -- most notably the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of  New York  -- asserted that this was what the
Republicans were up to. Republicans denied it, insisting
publicly that they were merely following the prescriptions of
supply-side economics: Painful spending cuts are unnecessary
because tax cuts will pay for themselves in new revenue. STB
considers, by contrast, that tax cuts will pay for themselves by
forcing spending cuts. Gradually, this theory became something
Republicans would openly brag about.  Now, it appears that shrinking the government has become
the focus of  House Republicans . They claim to be concerned about
reducing the national debt, but they’re actually using that
issue as a way to force cuts in  government spending . The deficit
and the accumulated debt are almost considered good things, in a
way, because they will force the government to get smaller.  Cut, Cap, Balance  The STB ethos inspired the “Cut, Cap and Balance” proposal
that was passed by the Republican-controlled House yesterday. It
conditions a $2.4 trillion debt-ceiling increase on cutting
spending next year by more than $100 billion, capping future
spending as a percentage of the economy and passing a balanced-
budget amendment to the Constitution.  The measure is symbolic, unlikely to pass the Senate, and
subject to a White House veto, in any case. But it helps show
why negotiations have been so difficult. If your shared goal is
a smaller deficit, there’s an obvious split-the-difference
compromise: a dash of tax increases and a sprinkling of spending
cuts. If one side’s purpose is only or overwhelmingly to reduce
the size of government, then, from its point of view, any tax
increase is a step backward, making compromise much more
difficult.  The argument about  supply-side economics , we suppose, will
never end, because the devotion of believers is more-or-less
evidence-proof. Before the dogma of Starve the Beast also
hardens into an article of faith, let’s consider its sheer
mathematical improbability.  Compound Interest  The problem in a nutshell is that when you cut taxes, and
do nothing else, the first thing that happens is that government
spending goes up -- it now includes interest on the added debt.
Any STB effect must first overcome this additional expense
before it starts paying off. (This, of course, assumes that
smaller government and less government spending are the same
thing -- and that both are desirable. But STB theory itself
makes the same assumptions.)  Attached is a simple spreadsheet illustrating the point,
and explaining the underlying formulas and assumptions.
Government spending in Year Zero is set at 100 and other inputs
are set roughly proportionate to reality. (For example, gross
domestic product is 400 because current government spending is
one-fourth of GDP.) But you can change the starting levels of
almost any input (the yellow cells) and get a similar result:
STB doesn’t decrease government spending, it increases it.  Try at Home  The attached chart offers three examples. The STB effect is
the fraction of every dollar of a  tax cut  that leads (somehow)
to a spending cut. Example 1 assumes a $10 tax cut in Year Zero
that takes effect in Year 1. Revenue drops from an assumed $85
to $75. The STB effect drives government noninterest spending
down by half that amount, $5 (from an assumed $85 to $80), and
the additional interest because of added debt is only 75 cents.
Government spending as a share of GDP drops a little more than 1
percent.  So far so good. But as compound interest does its devilish
work, the situation changes. By Year 10 the government is
spending $107, up from $100, which is 27 percent of GDP, up from
25 percent. Example 2 tries a very low STB factor of 0.5
percent, and Example 3 tries 95 percent, meaning that every
dollar of revenue cut automatically forces almost a full dollar
of spending cut. This is the absolute limit of plausibility.
Even so, government spending drops sharply for two years. But by
Year 10 it’s back to $100.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 