-- 
Buy Dividend Stocks to Prepare for Slow Growth, TD’s Cooper Says

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/buy-dividend-stocks-to-prepare-for-slow-growth-td-s-cooper-says.html
Large companies that pay dividends
will lead North American stock markets over the next three to
five years as government austerity limits economic growth, said
Bruce Cooper, head of equities at TD Asset Management.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ,
PepsiCo Inc. and Canadian  Oil Sands  Ltd. are among the best bets
to outperform estimated returns of about 5 percent a year from
the U.S. and Canadian stock markets, said Cooper, a vice
chairman at the unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank that manages about
C$190 billion ($200 billion).  “We could be in a low-growth environment for several
years,” Cooper said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “If
you can buy stocks that have dividend yields of 3, 4, 5, 6
percent and can deliver dividend growth, we think that’s a solid
way for investors to protect themselves.”  The  S&P 500  slid 0.8 percent in the two weeks through
yesterday, while the S&P/TSX Composite Index fell 0.7 percent,
as the European debt crisis intensified and U.S. lawmakers
failed to reach an agreement to raise the country’s debt
ceiling. The median forecast for 2012 gross domestic product
growth in the U.S. has declined to 3 percent from 3.3 percent in
February, while the median estimate for Canadian economic growth
next year has slipped to 2.6 percent from 2.8 percent in March.  Economic growth in developed markets will remain slower
than before the recession as governments in the U.S. and  Europe 
cut spending to address their budget deficits, Cooper said.  Long Process  “Fiscal retrenchment, that’s not something that’s going to
take place in 12 months,” he said. “That’s going to take years
to accomplish.”  When the economy isn’t growing quickly and bond yields are
at historical lows, investors must seek out dividend-paying
stocks, he said. From the end of 2007 to yesterday, the S&P 500
Dividend Aristocrats Index of companies that have consistently
increased payouts for at least 25 years has returned 25 percent
including dividends, while the S&P 500 as a whole has returned
minus 3.8 percent.  Canadian Oil Sands -- the Calgary-based largest owner of
the Syncrude project -- Kraft and PepsiCo have dividend yields
above those of their country’s benchmark stock index. IBM has
increased its quarterly payout to 75 cents from 30 cents over
the past five years.  Investors should also hedge against the risk of an economic
slowdown in developed markets by buying shares of companies that
do business in emerging markets, Cooper said. Kraft, based in
Northfield,  Illinois , derived 28 percent of its income from
outside  North America  and Europe last year, while 12 percent of
Armonk, New York-based IBM’s sales came from Asian countries
other than  Japan .  Shares of IBM, which reported quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ average estimate on July 18, surged 26 percent in
price this year through yesterday, while those of Kraft jumped
12 percent. Canadian Oil Sands rose 4.4 percent while the
S&P/TSX Energy Index dropped 1.6 percent. PepsiCo, based in
Purchase,  New York , climbed 4.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  