-- 
Cameron Pledges ‘Profound Apology’ If Coulson Lied Over Hacking

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-20T15:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/cameron-says-hiring-coulson-was-a-mistake-defends-dealings-with-murdoch.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
used an emergency session of Parliament to defend his record on
dealings with  Rupert Murdoch , saying that with hindsight it was
a mistake to hire ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson .  Coulson resigned from the News Corp. newspaper at the start
of 2007 after one of his reporters was jailed for phone-hacking.
He denied any knowledge of illegality and Cameron hired him a
few months later as communications chief. Coulson quit that job
in January of this year and was arrested July 8.  “If it turns out I’ve been lied to, that will be a moment
for a profound apology, and in that moment, I can assure you I
will not fall short,” Cameron told lawmakers at the start of a
daylong House of Commons debate in  London  today on the phone-
hacking crisis. “With 20-20 hindsight and all that has followed
I would not have offered him the job and I expect he would not
have taken it.”  The revelations of widespread phone-hacking at the News of
the World have led to a scandal that has shuttered the
newspaper, led to 10 arrests, caused two senior policemen to
resign and engulfed the political arena. Cameron, who’s set up a
judicial inquiry following the affair, cut short a visit to
Africa this week and ordered that Parliament sit for an extra
day to allow his statement.  Pie Attack  Murdoch, the 80-year-old chairman of News Corp., made his
own apology to a panel of lawmakers yesterday, denying any
knowledge of phone-hacking and payments to police, and blaming
“people I trusted” during three hours of questioning that was
interrupted by a protester attacking him with a foam pie. He
made some comments that Cameron highlighted today, including the
statement he had been closer to the last prime minister,  Gordon Brown .  Asked about his relationship with former News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, Cameron referred to her
visits to Brown’s country residence. “I’ve never held a slumber
party or seen her in her pajamas,” he said.  “You don’t make decisions in hindsight; you make them in
the present,” the prime minister said of his decision to hire
Coulson. “You live and you learn and believe me I have
learned.”  ‘Breathing Space’  Cameron has “bought himself some breathing space -- and a
little more distance from Andy Coulson,” Tim Bale, professor of
politics at the  University of Sussex  and author of “The
 Conservative Party  From Thatcher to Cameron,” said in an
interview. “It’s not sorted but it’ll probably do for now. My
sense is people are tiring slightly of the whole thing.”  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said Cameron had
made every effort not to hear warnings about Coulson. He pointed
to newspaper stories in the Guardian and the New York Times in
2009 and 2010 that suggested hacking had been widespread at the
News of the World and that Coulson had instructed reporters to
do it.  “This cannot be put down to incompetence, it was a
deliberate attempt to hide from the facts about Mr. Coulson,”
Miliband said in reply to Cameron’s statement. “He was warned
and he chose to ignore the warnings.”  Miliband told Cameron that “these questions are not going
to go away,” even though Parliament won’t meet again until
Sept. 5.  Cameron said that if Coulson’s denials turn out to be
untrue, he will face prosecution. “If it turns out he has lied,
he will have lied to a select committee, he will have lied to
the police, he will have lied to a court and he will have lied
to me,” he said.  Bad Timing  The timing of the scandal has been bad for Cameron, who was
in  Afghanistan  when the Guardian reported the News of the World
had hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in
2002, and on a plane to South  Africa  when Paul Stephenson, the
country’s most senior policeman, resigned.  Several times during his statement and the subsequent
questioning, Cameron reminded lawmakers that “people do want us
to get on with other issues,” including bringing growth back to
the economy. He said the hacking scandal had to be dealt with.
“Until we do so, it will not be possible to get on with the
issues they care about even more.”  In an effort to deal with what he called a “firestorm,”
Cameron announced a judicial inquiry last week into the media,
its behavior, and its links with the police and politicians.  He gave more details of that inquiry today, saying that
Judge Brian Leveson will be joined by six other panel members,
including Shami Chakrabarti, Britain’s leading civil-liberties
campaigner.  The other members are Paul Scott-Lee, the former chief
constable of the West Midlands Police, David Currie, the former
chairman of media regulator Ofcom, journalists Elinor Goodman
and George Jones and former Financial Times Chairman David Bell.
It will look at print, broadcast, online and social media.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 