-- 
Canada May Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-20T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/canada-may-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for May from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales increased 1.9% to $47.6 billion in May,
following a 0.1% decline in April. Virtually all of the
increase in May resulted from higher sales in the
agricultural supplies and the farm, lawn and garden
machinery and equipment industries.  In volume terms, wholesale sales increased 1.6% in May.  Agricultural supplies sales rebound  In May, five of the seven subsectors posted gains,
accounting for more than two-thirds of wholesale sales.  Almost all of the increase was attributable to an 11.8%
increase in the miscellaneous subsector, as sales in the
agricultural supplies industry bounced back from weather
related declines in April. Sales in the agricultural
supplies industry increased 27.8% in May, its highest
growth since May 2008.  The machinery, equipment and supplies subsector posted
the second highest increase (+2.9%), mainly as a result of
higher sales in the farm, lawn and garden machinery and
equipment industries (+26.1%). Sales in this industry were
also affected by wet weather in April.  The motor vehicle and parts subsector registered the
largest decline (-1.5%) in May, mainly as a result of a
2.8% decrease in the motor vehicle industry. This was this
industry's second consecutive decline. Sales may have been
affected by the supply disruptions stemming from the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  in March.  The building material and supplies subsector declined
0.6%. Increased sales (+1.6%) in the lumber, millwork,
hardware and other building supplies industry were offset
by lower sales in the other industries in this subsector.  Sales up in most provinces  Wholesale sales increased in eight provinces in May.  In dollar terms, Ontario (+1.0%) contributed the most
to the increase. Advances were observed in a number of
subsectors, particularly in the machinery, equipment and
supplies and the miscellaneous subsectors.  Quebec reported a 1.8% sales gain, its second
consecutive increase.  All of the Western provinces posted increases in May
after reporting declines in April, with Alberta (+4.2%)
contributing the most to the advance.  Saskatchewan posted a 7.3% increase, where gains were
largely attributable to the agricultural supplies and the
farm, lawn and garden machinery and equipment industries.  The two declines occurred in the Atlantic provinces,
with sales falling by 5.2% in Newfoundland and Labrador
and 1.7% in Nova Scotia.  Inventories up slightly  Inventories edged up 0.1% to $55.9 billion in May.  Increases were reported by wholesalers in 14 of the 25
industries, led by the construction, forestry, mining, and
industrial machinery, equipment and supplies industry
(+1.6%), the metal service centres industry (+2.8%) and
the food product industry (+1.8%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio declined for the first
time in five months, falling from 1.20 in April to 1.17 in
May.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  