-- 
Canada May Wholesale Sales Gain Most in 18 Months on Agricultural Supplies

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-20T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/canada-may-wholesale-sales-gain-most-in-18-months-on-agricultural-supplies.html
Canadian wholesale sales rose in May
at the fastest rate in 18 months as sales of agricultural
supplies and farm equipment surged,  Statistics Canada  said.  Sales increased 1.9 percent from April to C$47.6 billion
($50.0 billion), the Ottawa-based statistics agency said today,
compared with the 0.1 percent increase that was the median
forecast in a Bloomberg news survey with 15 responses. The sales
increase in May was the fastest since November 2009.  The surge in sales reflected higher sales of agricultural
supplies such as fertilizer, which gained 27.8 percent, as sales
bounced back from a weather-related drop in April when heavy
rains caused flooding. Sales of farm, lawn and garden machinery
and equipment jumped 26.1 percent in May.  Wholesale sales rose in eight provinces in May.
Saskatchewan, a farming province, posted a 7.3 percent gain.
Sales increased in all four Western provinces after declines in
April. Newfoundland and Labrador and Nova Scotia were the only
two provinces to register sales declines.  The wholesale sales category with the largest decrease was
motor vehicle and parts, which fell 1.5 percent. Sales may have
been hurt by supply disruptions resulting from the tsunami in
 Japan , the statistics agency said.  The volume of wholesale sales, which removes the impact of
price changes, rose 1.6 percent in May.  Wholesale inventories increased 0.1 percent to C$55.9
billion. The inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of how many
months it would take to deplete stocks at the current sales
pace, fell to 1.17 from 1.20 in April, the first decline in five
months.  The statistics agency maintained its estimate of April’s
drop in wholesale sales at 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 