-- 
Canadian Banks Not on Basel List of ‘Important’ Banks, OSFI Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-20T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/canadian-banks-not-on-basel-list-of-important-banks-osfi-says.html
Canadians banks, ranked the soundest
in the world, aren’t on a list of 28 lenders that could face
capital surcharges if too-big-to-fail rules were applied today,
the country’s banking regulator said.  “There are no Canadian banks currently on the list,”
Bryan Parker, a spokesman for the Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions, said late yesterday in an e-mailed
statement, adding the process is “dynamic.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  disclosed
yesterday how authorities will apply levies for the world’s most
systemically important banks, guiding investors in calculating
extra funds that the lenders must raise.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and BNP
Paribas SA may face the highest additional  capital requirements ,
Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note last month. Other lenders
that may be subject to the highest surcharge include Bank of
America, JPMorgan, Barclays Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, Morgan Stanley said.  Canada’s banks were ranked in September the world’s
soundest for the third straight year by the Geneva-based  World
Economic Forum , taking a fraction of the $1.54 trillion in
writedowns recorded by banks and brokers worldwide during the
financial crisis. Five Canadian lenders were among the world’s
20 strongest in a Bloomberg Markets Magazine ranking in May.  “Inputs such as size, substitutability, global activity
and complexity are constantly changing for all banks,” Parker
said. “So as the Basel Committee noted, that number will likely
evolve over time.”  Analysts including Sumit Malhotra at Macquarie Capital
Markets and Mario Mendonca at Canaccord Genuity have said  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest bank, was the likeliest
among Canadian banks to be found systemically important by the
Basel committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  