-- 
Canada’s Dollar at an Almost Three-Year High on Mark Carney’s Rate Stance

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-20T21:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/canada-dollar-at-almost-3-year-high-on-stocks-u-s-europe-debt-efforts.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced to the
highest since May 2 against its U.S. counterpart on speculation
the central bank will raise its benchmark rate from 1 percent as
soon as September amid quickening inflation.  The loonie, as the currency is also known, approached a
three and a half-year high, as optimism that policy makers in
 Europe  and the U.S. will address debt conflicts drove demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated in a statement today that monetary stimulus will be
withdrawn.  “The reality is that 1 percent is not a sustainable
rate,” Firas Askari, head currency trader at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital unit, said by phone from Toronto. “It’s an
emergency, accommodative rate, and Canada is not in a position
that it requires this any further. The inflation numbers are
concerning. In my mind there’s a high likelihood of a rate hike,
if not two, by the end of this calendar year.”  The Canadian currency gained 0.3 percent to 94.74 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 95.01 cents
yesterday. It touched 94.57, close to the 94.46 it reached on
April 29, the strongest since November 2007. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0546.  Less Stimulus  “To the extent that the expansion continues and the
current material excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed, some of the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will be withdrawn,” Carney said in opening
remarks to today’s press conference after the release of the
quarterly monetary policy report.  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds rose four
basis points to 1.52 percent. The securities yielded 114 basis
points more than equivalent-maturity Treasuries, from 106 basis
points at the end of last week. The spread was as wide this year
as 121 basis points in January.  Today’s statement echoed another made yesterday when the
central bank maintained its target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it’s been since
September. Previous statements had used the word “eventually”
to describe the timing of rate increases.  Rate Signal  “The market’s initial take on the bank announcement
yesterday was that the removal of the word eventually signaled
some sort of intent,”  Shane Enright , executive director at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “What the time frame on that is,
who knows, but obviously it was taken out for a reason.”  Enright predicted the Canadian dollar could appreciate
beyond the highs of 94.46 cents seen in April.  “With the perception of our shift on the bank’s monetary
policy outlook, I think the loonie can see 92 cents by the end
of the summer,” BMO’s Askari said.  Inflation will average 2.8 percent between July and
September and slow to 1.9 percent in the second quarter of next
year, the Ottawa-based central bank said in its Monetary Policy
report today. The so-called core rate, which excludes eight
volatile items, will peak at 2.1 percent in the first quarter of
2012.  “We still think early 2012 before the Bank of Canada
tightens,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, said in an e-mail. He predicted the Canadian
dollar will depreciate to parity by year-end.  Europe’s Bonds  Spanish and Italian bond yields fell a second day before a
summit tomorrow of European officials. The Dollar Index dropped
after President  Barack Obama  praised a bipartisan Senate
proposal yesterday for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan as U.S.
lawmakers intensify efforts for a compromise on  government
spending  less than two weeks before a threatened default.  “Even if we do have a few headlines which appease
investors and calm the bonds markets in the short term, then we
should see a bit of a risk rally,” said UBS’s Walker.  Canadian wholesale sales increased 1.9 percent to C$47.6
billion ($50 billion) in May, the fastest rate in 18 months as
sales of agricultural supplies and farm equipment surged,
 Statistics Canada  said. Economists predicted sales would rise
0.1 percent, the median of 15 responses compiled by Bloomberg
News.  “It was a big beat on wholesale sales in May and it should
add to the optimism,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada , said by phone from Toronto.
“Canada’s dollar is further supported by the global risk
backdrop, which is pointing decidedly higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  