-- 
Chicago Exchange Plans to Raise Daily Price Limits in Corn

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T15:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/chicago-exchange-plans-to-raise-daily-price-limits-in-corn-1-.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, is seeking to expand its daily price limits on
 Chicago  Board of Trade corn contracts by 33 percent after grain
markets surged and volatility increased.  The proposal calls for the daily trading limit to be
increased to 40 cents a bushel from 30 cents, the CME said in a
 notice  on its website. The company organized a meeting with corn
industry officials in Chicago yesterday to discuss the plan. The
exchange needs approval from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to raise daily limits.  “It’s a done deal and will be approved by the CFTC,” even
though some commercial traders opposed the change at yesterday’s
event,  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president at the Linn
Group in Chicago, said today in an e-mail. “It was a
contentious meeting.”  The National Grain and Feed Association, which represents
1,050 member companies, said in a  written comment  to the CFTC on
May 20 that a wider range for price changes and increased
volatility may lead to higher costs as companies are required to
post more capital to conduct normal price hedging.  “The trade will be forced to adjust having failed to
convince CME to maintain status quo,”  Richard Feltes , a vice
president of research at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in Chicago,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The Chicago Board of Trade originally submitted a proposal
to the CFTC in April seeking to raise the daily price limit to
50 cents. In May, the CBOT trimmed the increase to 40 cents and
extended the review period to Aug. 8.  Corn futures are up 76 percent in the past year, trading at
$6.825 a bushel as of 10:07 a.m. in Chicago. The 60-day
historical volatility has increased about 69 percent from a low
in February and is at the highest level since September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 