-- 
Chilean Stocks: Cencosud, Hites, Lan Airlines, Multiexport Foods

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 
2011-07-20T20:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/chilean-stocks-cencosud-lan-airlines-and-multiexport-foods.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Chilean trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:11 p.m.  New York  time.  The Ipsa index fell 1.2 percent to 4,604.43.  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD CC), the country’s biggest retailer
by sales, slid 2.6 percent to 3,128.1 pesos. The stock has lost
3.6 percent in the two days since announcing that Chief
Financial Officer Gerardo Molinaro will leave the company at the
end of the month.  Empresas Hites SA (HITES)  , the department-store
operator, fell 2.8 percent to 530 pesos. Prospects of tougher
consumer-lending rules may keep retail  stock trading  volatile,
analysts at Banco de Credito & Inversiones wrote in a client
note today. They commented after authorities filed a class-
action lawsuit against the credit-card unit of Walmart  Chile  SA
for maintaining clients on an overdue loan registry after debts
were restructured. The practice doesn’t constitute restructuring
and is legal, Claudio Hohmann, a spokesman for Walmart Chile,
said in images transmitted by television station TVN.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  ,  Latin America ’s biggest air
carrier by market value, retreated 1.5 percent to 13,205 pesos.
Oil advanced for a second day in New York, signaling higher fuel
costs for transport companies.  Multiexport Foods SA (MULTIFOO)  , the Puerto Montt-based
salmon farmer, rose for the first time in four sessions, gaining
0.5 percent to 187 pesos.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s
largest salmon farmer, said today in a statement that it’s
“somewhat concerned” over rising supply expected for the next
12 months. Volumes from Chile are forecast to show high growth,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  