-- 
China May Plan Ninefold Coal Gas Output Hike, Bernstein Says

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T10:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-may-plan-ninefold-increase-in-coal-seam-gas-output-bernstein-says.html
China may increase subsidies for
coal-seam gas production amid a plan to increase output ninefold
by 2015, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  The world’s biggest energy user may unveil a proposal to
extract natural gas from coal areas, possibly with an output
target of 9 billion cubic meters by 2015 from about 1 billion
cubic meters a year currently,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Bernstein, said in an e-mailed report today. The U.S.
currently produces more than 50 billion cubic meters of coal-
seam gas, also known as coal-bed methane, he said.  “We expect the new coalbed methane plan to be announced
shortly and a doubling of the wellhead subsidy for CBM to
encourage development and production,” Beveridge said. “Rapid
demand growth, significant reserves, plans to increase
production by an order of magnitude over the next five years and
a production cost which is below the cost of imported LNG or
pipeline gas all point towards a promising outlook for China
CBM.”  Supply is lagging behind demand as  China ’s energy
consumption rises. Total domestic gas production may almost
double to 170 billion cubic meters by 2015, according to a
Bernstein report on July 5, as China aims to double the use of
gas to 8 percent of energy use by 2015 to cut reliance on coal
and oil. Consumption may increase to 250 billion by 2015 from
100 billion and surge to 400 billion by 2020, Bernstein said in
today’s report.  The unit cost of coalbed production is 0.35 yuan (5 cents)
per cubic meter and producers are able to sell the gas to their
customers at 1.3 yuan before government subsidies, Bernstein
said. End-user prices may range from 1.7 to 3.2 yuan for
pipeline fuel, liquefied natural gas and compressed natural gas,
according to the report. The Chinese government currently offers
0.2 yuan as a subsidy on coalbed production.  “Central Asian pipeline gas is likely to require a price
of 3 yuan per cubic meter to be economic and LNG prices continue
to rise with oil,” Beveridge said. “The upshot of this is that
China should continue to place more emphasis on unconventional
gas.”  Output of gas from shale rock, another form of
unconventional gas, may climb to 3 billion cubic meters by 2015,
Bernstein said on July 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 