-- 
China Inflation Peaking to Bolster Stocks, JPMorgan Asset Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T00:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-inflation-peaking-to-bolster-stocks-jpmorgan-asset-says.html
Chinese government measures to curb
property-price gains and tame inflation are “at or close to the
peak,” bolstering the outlook for stocks, according to JPMorgan
Asset Management.  China ’s inflation will ease as the measures have been
“highly effective,” said  Howard Wang , the Hong Kong-based head
of the Greater China team at the JPMorgan unit, which oversees
$14 billion of assets in China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan . Wang said
he is adding some “very cheap’” property developers, materials
companies and technology shares to his holdings. His Greater
China Fund has returned 22 percent over the past year, beating
86 percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We think inflation is peaking now and that it will ease
off,” Wang said in an e-mailed response to questions. “All
things equal, that should make a better environment for Chinese
equities.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index tracking Chinese
stocks traded in  Hong Kong  has dropped 3.1 percent this year to
yesterday, lagging behind the 1.9 percent decline for the MSCI
Emerging-Markets Index, on concern measures to curb inflation
will slow economic growth and hurt corporate earnings. China’s
consumer prices jumped to a three-year high of 6.4 percent last
month on rising food costs. The central bank has boosted
 interest rates  five times and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratio
12 times since the start of 2010.  ‘Long’ Property  China’s inflation may peak in July as summer harvests boost
food stockpiles and money supply growth stabilizes, Chen Dongqi,
deputy head of the National Development and Reform Commission’s
macroeconomic research institute, was quoted as saying by the
21st Century Business Herald on July 12. Inflation in developing
nations may stop rising next month, allowing the central bank to
pause interest rate increases, Sakthi Siva, Credit Suisse Group
AG’s Asian equity strategist, said in an interview July 8.  Wang said he’s “long” Chinese property stocks, without
naming any companies.  “The government’s tightening policies are real and they
are highly effective,” Wang said. “However, the policies do
not exert an equal effect on all companies in this group and
valuations are, as a rule, very cheap and based on beatable
earnings estimates.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index trades at 10 times
estimated earnings, compared with 10.9 for the MSCI emerging-
markets gauge and 12.8 for China’s  Shanghai  Composite Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property Shares  China’s cabinet said last week it will expand measures to
rein in residential prices to smaller cities after limiting home
purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing and Shanghai.
Beijing new home prices rose 2.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, while in Shanghai they climbed 2.2 percent, the
statistics bureau said on its website July 17.  A gauge of property companies in the Shanghai Composite
Index has advanced 7.5 percent this year, the best performer
among five industry groups. Even with the rally, the gauge
trades at 12 times estimated earnings, compared with a four-year
average of 23.4, Bloomberg data showed.  The Greater China fund’s largest holding at the end of May
was  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. Chinese bank stocks are likely to track gains in broader
indexes amid concerns about fundraisings to strengthen balance
sheets, Wang said. China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s
sixth-largest lender, announced plans this week to raise as much
as 35 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) in a rights offer in China and
Hong Kong.  Construction Bank  “Bank fundamentals are solid,” he said. “We temper our
positive view with two caveats: banks are cheap everywhere in
the world and, closer to home, there are plenty of opportunities
to buy these stocks via placements. Performance is likely to
look index-like in the near term.”  China Construction Bank’s Hong Kong-traded shares have
dropped 13 percent in 2011, driving down the value of the
country’s second-biggest lender to 1.69 times net value of
assets, compared with the four-year average of 2.29, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are at or close to the peak in terms of government
tightening intensity so things should only get better from
here,” Wang said.  --Allen Wan. Editor: Richard Frost, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  