-- 
China’s Stocks Slump to One-Week Low on Interest-Rate Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T05:29:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-s-stocks-slump-to-one-week-low-on-interest-rate-concerns.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest in a week, after a legislator said
the central bank should keep raising interest rates and on the
prospect money-market rates will remain near record highs.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. and Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd. led declines among financial companies. Zijin Mining Group
Co., the nation’s biggest gold producer, slid 3.4 percent on
speculation President  Barack Obama ’s plan to cut the U.S.
deficit will reduce the bullion’s appeal.  “There are a lack of catalysts to support the rally and
everything positive such as expectations about policy easing
seems to be priced in,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief
investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which
manages about $120 million. “Inflation is still a big issue and
where it’s heading will affect stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 8.50 points, or 0.3 percent, to
2,788.48 as of 1:13 p.m. local time, set for the lowest close
since July 12. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.4 percent to 3,082.06.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 0.7 percent this year on
concern government’s effort to curb inflation will hurt economic
growth. The central bank has raised rates five times and the
reserve-requirement ratio 12 times since the start of 2010 to
stem inflation. Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June, the
fastest pace in three years, as food costs increased. China’s
one-year bank deposit savings rate is 3.5 percent.  Tighter Liquidity  China should raise borrowing costs to correct the current
situation in which real interest rates are negative, He Keng, a
vice chairman of the financial and economic affairs committee of
the National People’s Congress, said in Beijing today. The
government should adopt tighter fiscal policy to help curb
inflation, He said.  “The biggest risk in  Asia  is China’s banking system,”
Robert Horrocks, chief investment  officer at Matthews
International Capital Management LLC, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today from Hong Kong.  AgriBank, the nation’s fourth-largest by assets, slid 0.4
percent to 2.71 yuan. China Merchants Bank Co. dropped 0.3
percent to 12.76 yuan. Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest
developer by market value, fell 0.4 percent to 10.95 yuan.  China’s benchmark money-market rate will remain at about a
record high this quarter as the central bank drains cash from
the financial system to damp inflation, according to a survey of
bond analysts.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a measure of interbank
funding availability, will average 4.0 percent, based on the
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg poll. That’s almost double
the 2.1 percent recorded in the same period of 2010 and compares
with a second-quarter level of 4.2 percent that was the highest
in data going back to 2004.  Sell China Stocks  Record-high Chinese bank reserve requirement ratios and
three-month China Interbank Offered Rates that are above the
April 2008 peak signal “wider risk spreads, a dramatic
compression in the term structure of  interest rates  and slower
liquidity growth,” according to Michael Darda, chief market
strategist for MKM Partners LP.  Investors should be cautious on energy, material and
industrial stocks as the global economy has yet to “see the
full brunt” from China’s tightening measures, he said.  “The Shanghai Composite Equity Index has risen nearly 7
percent since late June, with a growing chorus expecting Chinese
equities (and industrial commodities) to continue rallying
during the second half of 2011,” he said in a report. “We are
happy to take the other side of this trade.”  Central bank adviser Xia Bin said consumer prices will
remain a significant issue in the long term and property-market
controls have not been very effective, the People’s Daily
reported. Real estate and local government debt problems may
lead to an economic crisis if not properly handled, he said.  Gold Producers  Zijin Mining slumped 3.4 percent to 5.63 yuan. The shares
tumbled as much as 8.4 percent in  Hong Kong  after a shareholder
offered a 5.6 percent stake for sale at a discount.  Six Zijin senior employees pleaded guilty to negligence
charges related to a dam collapse that killed 22 people in
 Guangdong province , Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing
court proceedings.  Zhongjin Gold Corp., the country’s second-largest bullion
producer by market value, lost 3.7 percent to 29.15 yuan.
Shandong Gold Mining Co., the third biggest, retreated 2.6
percent to 49.90 yuan.  President Barack Obama endorsed a $3.7 trillion debt-
cutting plan by a bipartisan group of senators that would
combine tax increases and spending cuts, saying it could end a
congressional deadlock over raising the U.S. borrowing limit.
The news spurred optimism that lawmakers will reach an agreement
that will help the nation avoid default.  Drugmakers Drop  A 21-member measure of health-care stocks fell 0.9 percent
today, the most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. It rose
to the highest in almost three months on July 15 after the
Shanghai Securities News said the government may announce a
biomedical development plan by the end of the month. Beijing
Tongrentang Co., a retailer of Chinese medicine, slid 2 percent
to 18.60 yuan.  Chinese measures to curb property-price gains and tame
inflation are “at or close to the peak,” bolstering the
outlook for stocks, said JPMorgan Asset Management’s  Howard Wang .  “We think inflation is peaking now and that it will ease
off,” Wang said. “All things equal, that should make a better
environment for Chinese equities.”  The Conference Board index rose 0.5 percent to 155 in May,
the group said on its website today, citing a preliminary
reading. The gauge is designed to capture prospects over the
coming six months. April’s index was revised to a 0.1 percent
gain from a previous 0.2 percent increase.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  