-- 
China Signals More Yuan Moves Before Anniversary of Currency Policy Shift

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T09:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-says-record-foreign-currency-reserves-unaffected-by-dollar-decline.html
China  said that it can allow more
yuan moves without jeopardizing its foreign-exchange reserves
after letting the currency rise today to a 17-year high against
the dollar.  “The changes in the yuan’s exchange rate against the  U.S.
dollar  causes changes in the paper value of the reserves when
valued in yuan,” the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said today. “This is not a real loss and will not affect the
real overseas purchasing power of the foreign-exchange
reserves.”  Today’s jump in the yuan and the statement from the
currency regulator came the day before the sixth anniversary of
the government scrapping a peg to the dollar. Royal Bank of
Canada said strength in exports and the need to tame inflation
may encourage more gains.  “Concerns about the impact of yuan appreciation on
foreign-exchange reserves is not going to be the determining
factor” in the currency’s movements, said  Brian Jackson , a
senior strategist at RBC in  Hong Kong . “More important is the
need to get inflation under control and rebalancing the economy
also points in the direction of a stronger currency.”  The Obama administration in May declined to brand China a
currency manipulator while saying the world’s fastest-growing
economy is making “insufficient” progress on letting the yuan
appreciate.  Protect Investors’ Interests  The currency rose 0.06 percent to 6.4595 per dollar at 4:29
p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The currency reached 6.4557 earlier, the strongest level
since China unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan
appreciated 0.11 percent to 6.4565.  Consumer prices in China, the world’s second-largest
economy, climbed 6.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the
fastest gain in three years.  The currency regulator, which manages the country’s $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, called on the U.S. to
protect the interests of investors in American debt.  “We hope the U.S. government takes concrete and
responsible policy measures to strengthen the confidence of
international financial markets, and respect and safeguard
investors’ interest,” SAFE said in a  statement  on its website
titled “Questions and Answers to Hot Issues Concerning Foreign-
Exchange Reserves.”  ‘Political Will’  The agency, which said it will issue its views in three
parts, published a similar series of statements in July last
year.  “China is maybe increasingly worried about its investments
in U.S. and European debt given uncertainty in the market,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. “Its calls may help the U.S. and  Europe  muster
political will to put their fiscal houses in order.”  China’s foreign-exchange reserves climbed 30 percent at the
end of June from a year earlier, boosted by the  trade surplus ,
foreign direct investment and capital inflows betting on yuan
appreciation.  The Asian nation remained the largest foreign holder of
U.S. Treasuries at the end of May, with $1.16 trillion, and
increased its holdings by $7.3 billion that month, according to
the Department of the Treasury.  Diversifying Reserves  China’s leaders including Premier  Wen Jiabao  have said they
are concerned about the value of the nation’s holdings of  U.S.
debt  and that the country needs to diversify the investment of
its reserves.  In its statement today, SAFE said its holdings of
Treasuries will be “dynamically adjusted” according to market
conditions and that increasing or reducing its holdings is
“normal investment practice.”  While diversification will continue to be one of the
principles for managing the nation’s reserves, the strategy
won’t be based on short-term market movements, according to the
statement.  Some economists in China have called on the government to
use its foreign-exchange reserves to buy commodities. SAFE said
today that any direct and large investments in goods such as
gold and oil may push up market prices, harming consumption and
economic development.  --Zheng Lifei, Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Jing Jin in
 Shanghai . Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  