-- 
Yao Ming Retires From NBA After Leg Injuries Cut Short Career

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T10:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-s-yao-ming-retires-from-nba-after-foot-ankle-injuries-1-.html
Yao Ming , the  Houston Rockets ’ All-
Star center and a national icon in China, retired from the
National Basketball Association today after foot and ankle
fractures limited him to five games the past two seasons.  The 7-foot-6-inch Yao, the No. 1 pick in the 2002 NBA draft,
told a news conference in Shanghai he had considered retirement
since fracturing his left ankle during the last game he played
in November against the  Washington Wizards . It was at least the
fifth fracture in his legs and feet since 2006, according to the
state-run  China Daily  newspaper.  “In the past half-year, I have gone through an agonizing
wait,” Yao, 30, said. “I have been thinking over and over.
Today, I’m making a personal decision to finish my career as a
basketball player and retire formally.”  Yao  averaged  19 points and 9.2 rebounds per game in the NBA
while anchoring the national team in China, where his image is
inescapable on billboards and he is nicknamed the “Little
Giant.” After signing sponsorship deals with companies
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  McDonald’s Corp (MCD) , he amassed an
estimated fortune of $150 million in 2010, according to the
 Hurun Rich List,  an annual compilation of China’s wealthiest
people.  ‘Global Icon’  Sports Illustrated  in June ranked him the fifth-highest
paid non-U.S. athlete in the world, with an annual income of $36
million.  Beyond basketball, he established the Yao Ming Foundation,
which donated $2 million to victims of China’s Sichuan province
earthquake in 2008, and advocated against AIDS discrimination in
China for the  United Nations .  “Yao Ming is absolutely a global icon,” David Shoemaker,
chief executive of NBA China, said in an interview. “Not just
an icon in China, but a global icon and ambassador for the game
who will be remembered in so many different ways.”  Yao said he will work with the  Shanghai  Sharks, the team he
played with early in his career and bought in 2009.  The news conference where Yao announced his retirement
demonstrated his popularity. More than 300 reporters were
accredited to attend the event, which was broadcast live as part
of a five-hour special about his career on  China Central
Television ’s sports channel, the state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported.  ‘Most Important Player’  Yao was an eight-time All-Star, even winning enough fan
votes in 2011 after being out the entire previous season.  After joining the Rockets, Yao became “a transformational
player and a testament to the globalization of our game,” NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  said in a statement. Yao was “an
extraordinary bridge between basketball fans in the  United
States  and  China ,” he said.  Yao never won an NBA title and had only one playoff series
victory, over the Portland Trailblazers, in 2009. The Chinese
national team could not field enough strong players to support
him, and it lost to  Lithuania  in the Olympic quarterfinals in
2004 and 2008.  He carried China’s flag in the Olympic opening ceremonies
in 2004 and 2008. The latter games were held in Beijing.  “He’s the most important player in the NBA,” Daryl Morey,
general manager of the Rockets, told CCTV before Yao’s
announcement. Yao’s role opening up the game to the world was
“unparalleled by anyone, ever,” he said.  Foot Fractures  Yao broke his left foot in February 2008, yet still played
in the Beijing games that August. He fractured it again in the
third game of the Rockets-Los Angeles Lakers Western Conference
semifinal in 2009. The Rockets lost in the seventh game, and he
missed the entire 2009-2010 season.  Yao’s obligations to both the Rockets and the national team
may have contributed to his injuries, said  Paul Swangard ,
managing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the
University of Oregon.  “I think the Chinese have struggled a bit with the
continued focus that national-team play has in their country and
comes at the expense of Yao’s health and success,” Swangard
said.  Yao was caught between “trying to serve two masters: the
masters of the U.S. team that he played for and the masters of
the Chinese government that had invested all that time, energy,
and effort into the player that he was,” Swangard said.  ‘Life Hasn’t Ended’  Yao was due to become a free agent July 1 and told state
television in June that he still hoped to return to the NBA. His
NBA salary for 2010-2011 was $17.7 million, the eighth-highest
in the league at the time, and he also had sponsorships with
companies including Reebok International Ltd.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
T-Mobile USA Inc.  “In terms of opening up doors for Chinese basketball
players to come to the NBA, or for the youth in China to believe
that it’s possible to achieve the dream of being an NBA player,
all that started from Yao,” Lakers guard  Kobe Bryant  said during
a visit to Shanghai yesterday, according to China Daily.  For now, Yao will remain involved with the Shanghai Sharks,
the team he led to a China Basketball Association title in 2002,
he said in the news conference. The team was struggling
financially when he bought it in 2009.  “I have said one day when my career as a professional
basketball player ends, it would be a comma, not a full stop,”
Yao said. “Life hasn’t ended. There are many things to do down
the road.”  Yao opened Yao Restaurants in Houston and Shanghai and has
invested in several companies, including Beijing UniStrong
Science & Technology Co., Ltd., a satellite navigation and
positioning services provider, and Top100.cn, a Chinese music
website.  Yao, a Shanghai native and son of two professional
basketball players, is married to Ye Li, a former women’s
national player. Their daughter was born in May 2010.  Yao spurred Chinese interest in the NBA that may not be
able to be replaced, said Sun Jian, a 30-year-old university
teacher in Shanghai.  “After  Michael Jordan  left basketball, I stopped watching
the NBA. That changed when Yao Ming appeared,” Jian said. “I
don’t know how many years we’ll wait until the next Yao Ming
comes along.”  -- Michael Wei . With assistance from Lydia Winkler in  New York .
Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, Michael Tighe  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  