-- 
China’s Yuan Advances to 17-Year High on Record Fixing, Inflation Concern

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-20T09:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-s-yuan-advances-to-17-year-high-on-record-fixing-inflation-concern.html
The yuan reached a 17-year high
before the sixth anniversary of a dollar peg being scrapped,
fanning speculation currency gains will be allowed to help tame
inflation.  The People’s Bank of  China  set its daily fixing 0.14
percent higher at 6.4592 per dollar, the strongest level since
July 21, 2005, the day China ended a fixed  exchange rate  and
said the yuan would be allowed to fluctuate against a basket of
currencies. Inflation will remain a significant issue in the
long term while  China’s economy  is restructuring, even if global
and domestic monetary factors weaken, the People’s Daily
reported today, citing central bank adviser Xia Bin. Consumer
prices climbed 6.4 percent in June, the most in three years.  “Officials are still keen to see currency appreciation as
inflation is so high and exports are doing well,” said  Brian Jackson , a senior strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong
Kong .  The yuan rose 0.06 percent to 6.4595 per dollar as of the
4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency reached 6.4556 earlier, the
strongest level since China unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the
yuan appreciated 0.12 percent to 6.4560.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.23 percent
to 6.3917 per dollar, the biggest gain in a week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a 1.1 percent premium to the
onshore spot rate.  Trading Band  China should appropriately expand the yuan’s trading band,
the China Securities Journal reported today, citing Chen Daofu,
a researcher with the State Council’s Development Research
Center, and  Liu Yuhui , a researcher with the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences .  The central bank sets a daily reference rate for the yuan
and the currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either
side of that rate. The range was last widened to 0.5 percent
from 0.3 percent in May 2007.  Yuan appreciation won’t lead to the country’s record
currency reserves declining and foreign-exchange regime reform
should accelerate, China’s State Administration of Foreign
Exchange said today on its website.  “This may bring back speculation of the yuan band
widening,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  SAFE, which manages the country’s $3.2 trillion of foreign-
currency holdings, also called on the U.S. to take action to
boost market confidence and protect the interests of investors
in its debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  