-- 
China Leading Indicator Shows Growth Quickening as Wen Battles Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T05:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-leading-indicator-shows-growth-quickening-as-wen-battles-inflation.html
A Chinese leading indicator climbed
for the third straight month, adding to evidence that the
world’s second-biggest economy is withstanding Europe’s debt
crisis and faltering growth in the U.S.  The index rose 0.5 percent to 155 in May, The Conference
Board said on its  website  today, citing a preliminary reading.
The gauge is designed to capture prospects over the coming six
months. April’s index was revised to a 0.1 percent gain from a
previous 0.2 percent increase.  The data may maintain pressure for more tightening after
 China  last week reported faster-than-forecast second-quarter
growth as domestic investment countered slowing export gains. In
Beijing, lawmaker He Keng said today that government efforts to
curb housing prices have so far been insufficient and inflation
will be higher than the government’s target this year.  “The modestly rising trend of the China leading index since
the beginning of 2011 continues to point to economic expansion
for the rest of the year,” Jing Sima, The Conference Board’s
New York-based economist, said in a statement.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, was 0.4 percent lower at 2,785.62 at
the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, set for the third straight
daily decline. The yuan reached a 17-year high against the  U.S.
dollar  as the central bank set a record reference rate before
the sixth anniversary of a dollar peg being scrapped.  Faster Growth  China’s economy  expanded a more-than-forecast 9.5 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier after a 9.7 percent
gain in the first three months of the year. Consumer prices
jumped 6.4 percent last month, the most since June 2008.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March the government aimed to
keep consumer price gains within 4 percent this year, a target
He said today won’t be met. He forecast inflation could be kept
within 5 percent.  Economic growth may reach 9.6 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  estimated last month. That’s almost
three times more than the U.S. and four times greater than the
euro area.  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis risks contaminating the rest
of the euro region, the Washington-based lender said in a report
today, while directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s regional banks
expressed “heightened caution” about the pace of improvement
in the  U.S. economy , according to minutes of Board of Governors’
meetings in May and June released yesterday.  Local Government Debt  China’s real-estate and local government debt problems may
lead to an economic crisis if not properly handled, He, a vice
chairman of the financial and economic affairs committee of the
National People’s Congress, the country’s legislature, said at a
forum.  The government should keep monetary policy “flexible” and
adopt a tighter fiscal policy, cutting infrastructure investment
and local government debt to help curb inflation, He said,
adding that he was commenting as an academic. Policy makers
should also introduce a property tax to curb a housing bubble
and speculation, he said.  He is a professor at the Central University of Finance and
Economics in Beijing and a former deputy head of China’s
statistics bureau.  ‘Hard-Landing Risks’  Speaking at the same forum, Wang Jun, a researcher at the
government-backed  China Center for International Economic
Exchanges , said the economy may expand 9.5 percent to 9.8
percent this year. “There’s no need to be overly concerned
about stagflation or hard-landing risks,” Wang said.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, said last week it will
expand efforts to curb growth in  home prices  to smaller cities.
The cabinet, headed by Premier Wen, also pledged in a July 6
statement to clean up and regulate the surging debt of local
governments after the nation’s auditor said they held
responsibility for 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) of debt by
the end of last year.  New loans and money-supply growth rebounded in June, the
central bank said last week, bolstering the case for more
increases in banks’  reserve requirements . The People’s Bank of
China has raised interest rates five times since October and
boosted the reserve ratio nine times since November to a record
21.5 percent for the biggest lenders.  Pressure for Tightening  The central bank may lift  interest rates  at least once more
and increase reserve requirements one more time before the end
of the year as inflation of more than 6 percent in the third
quarter maintains pressure for tightening, Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. said in a July 15 note.  The PBOC should raise interest rates until real deposit
rates are positive, He said today. The benchmark one-year
deposit rate is 3.5 percent and has lagged behind inflation for
more than a year.  The leading index’s six components are loans by financial
institutions, raw-material supplies, deliveries and new export
orders information from the manufacturing purchasing managers’
index, consumer expectations, and total floor space started. The
central bank publishes the first two components and the
statistics bureau releases the other four.  Loans and floor space started contributed most to the
index’s gain in May, while consumer expectations and raw
materials supplies continued to fall, The Conference Board said.  The leading index, first published in May 2010, has
successfully signaled turning points in China’s economic cycle
if plotted back to 1986, the organization says.  --Zheng Lifei, Huang Zhe, Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  