-- 
Risk of Conflict in South China Sea Is Set to Prompt ASEAN Pact With China

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-21T10:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/china-asean-to-agree-on-incomplete-s-china-sea-rules.html
China and Southeast Asian nations
agreed today on non-binding guidelines for joint activities in
the  South China Sea , a diplomatic bargain that the Philippines
said fails to address the root of recent tensions.  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  met counterparts from
the 10-member  Association of South East Asian Nations  after the
countries settled yesterday on a framework to implement a 2002
agreement on behavior in the sea, a step toward a legally
binding code of conduct.  “The status quo was not an option,” Indonesian Foreign
Minister Marty Natalegawa told reporters in Bali, where more
than 20 countries are attending a regional security meeting this
week. “You can see that year in and year out things were
beginning to get worse. I’m not saying from now on things will
get better, but at least now we can move on.”  The  Philippines  and  Vietnam  have pushed Asean to formalize
a  set of rules  to avoid clashes with China, which claims most of
the South China Sea as its own. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who angered China last year by declaring a national
interest in the waters, arrives in Bali later today after urging
 India  to play a greater role in policing Asia-Pacific waterways.  The 2002 Asean-China statement calls on signatories to
avoid occupying disputed islands, inform others of military
exercises and resolve territorial disputes peacefully. The eight
guidelines approved today say activities in the sea should be
step-by-step, on a voluntary basis and based on consensus,
according to a draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  Those projects will lead to the eventual realization of the
code of conduct, the draft said.  ‘Main Game’  “When one looks at the guidelines, one must look beyond
the actual wording” as countries can now focus on “the main
game” of the legally binding code of conduct, Natalegawa said.
Dealing with territorial disputes in the guidelines would have
caused discussions to “immediately collapse,” he said.  The Philippines and Vietnam reject China’s map of the South
China Sea as a basis for joint development of oil and gas
resources. The Asean members have pushed ahead with exploration
work, prompting Chinese patrol ships to disrupt those activities
in the past few months.  Chinese ships cut survey cables of Vietnam Oil & Gas Group
vessels twice in the past few months and in March chased away a
boat working for U.K.-based  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  that was surveying
the area. A Chinese frigate fired warning shots at Philippine
trawlers on Feb. 25.  ‘Still Incomplete’  “The necessary elements to make the guidelines succeed are
still incomplete,” Philippine Foreign Secretary Albert F. del Rosario told reporters late yesterday in Bali. The failure to
deal with competing territorial claims in the waters means “the
problem hasn’t gone away,” he said.  China wants “to be a good friend, good partner, good
neighbor with the Asean countries,” Chinese Assistant Foreign
Minister Liu Zhenmin told reporters after today’s meeting. China
plans to host a meeting on the South China Sea later this year
“to articulate areas of cooperation and start the
implementation of projects,” he said.  China’s actions in the waters provoked protests in Hanoi
over the past month and prompted a group of Filipino lawmakers
to travel yesterday to the disputed Spratly Islands, which are
also claimed by  Malaysia ,  Taiwan ,  Brunei , Vietnam and China. All
those countries except Brunei have troops stationed in the area.  “We should back up our efforts to push this territorial
claim with economic development and civilianize the island,”
Philippine lawmaker Walden Bello told reporters during his visit
to Pag-Asa island in the South China Sea.  ‘Strong Protest’  China expressed “strong protest” over the visit, Xinhua
News Agency said yesterday, citing  Ma Zhaoxu , a spokesman for
the country’s Foreign Ministry.  “The move of the Philippine side seriously infringed
China’s territorial sovereignty,” Ma said, as cited by the
official news service. He called on the Philippines to abide by
the bilateral consensus on the issue, Xinhua reported.  China  last week rejected attempts by the Philippines to
bring the maritime boundary dispute before the UN’s
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. The Philippines
plans to ask another United Nations arbitration panel to
demarcate disputed areas of the sea “to prove our claim,” del
Rosario said.  The U.S. has a mutual defense treaty with the Philippines
and has boosted military relations with Vietnam. Del Rosario
said yesterday the U.S. treaty applies to islands also claimed
by China.  The Philippines’ recent actions “could score political
points,” Mark J. Valencia, a senior research fellow with the
National Bureau of Asian Research, said by phone from Honolulu.
President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration “definitely has done
everything that China has asked them not to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  