-- 
Circumcision Reduces HIV Infections 76% in South Africa, Researchers Find

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-20T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/circumcision-reduces-hiv-infections-76-in-south-african-study.html
A circumcision program in a South
African township reduced the rate of new HIV infections among
men who had the procedure by 76 percent, according to the first
data to show the effect of circumcision in the nation with the
most AIDS cases.  More than 20,000 circumcisions were performed between 2007
and 2010 in Orange Farm, near Johannesburg, according to
 findings  presented at an AIDS conference in Rome today. The
percentage of circumcised men from 15 to 49 years of age
increased to 49 percent from 16 percent in the period, said
Bertran Auvert, a public-health professor at the University of
Versailles outside of Paris, who presented the results.  Today’s findings are the first evidence that circumcision
is altering the course of the world’s deadliest infectious
disease in the nation hit hardest by it. Botswana, Kenya,
Swaziland, Tanzania and  Zimbabwe  are among 14 African countries
promoting the procedure in an effort to expand the proportion of
circumcised men in  Africa  to 80 percent from about 66 percent
now, said Auvert.  “We are changing the social norms,” he said in an
interview in Rome. “It’s the first time in the world that we
have a successful intervention in a community to reduce the
sexual transmission of HIV between adults.”  Circumcision is the surgical removal of a skin that covers
the tip of the penis. Studies have shown the pocket between the
foreskin and the tip of the penis gives viruses and bacteria a
spot to grow, and circumcision eliminates it. The foreskin has
been shown to be rich in cells that carry HIV into the body.  Transmission to Women  The researchers surveyed almost 1,200 men in Orange Farm in
2007 and the same number in 2010. There were 0.42 infections in
every 100 circumcised men per year, compared with 2.86 among
uncircumcised men, according to the study. After statistical
adjustment, the decline worked out to 76 percent, Auvert said.  Among circumcised men in Orange Farm, 6.2 percent have HIV,
compared with 20 percent of those whose foreskins are intact,
today’s findings show. The researchers said they’re now
collecting data to measure the effect of circumcision on the
transmission of HIV from men to women.  Each circumcision costs about 750 rand ($108), said Dirk
Taljaard, who participated in the study as a researcher with
 Progressus Research and Development Consultancy  in Johannesburg.
He’s now a program manager at the Centre for HIV and AIDS
Prevention Studies, which operates a circumcision clinic in
Orange Farm.  Preventing Infections  For every five circumcisions performed, one HIV infection
is prevented in the next 10 years, and every dollar spent on
circumcision will save about $15 that would need to be spent
later on treating HIV infections, the researchers said.  South Africa ’s government aims to have 4.5 million men, or
80 percent of the male population, circumcised within five
years, Taljaard said.  “It’s really quite simple as an intervention,” Taljaard
said. “It’s not something that you’re trying to get somebody to
do every day of his life.”  Circumcised men were no more or less likely to use condoms
than uncircumcised men, the study found.  About 500,000 men have been circumcised in Africa since
2008 in programs funded by the  U.S. President’s Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief  and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and
Tuberculosis, Auvert said.  -- Editors: Phil Serafino, David Risser  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in  Rome  at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  