-- 
Citadel Asks E*Trade to Call Special Meeting, Remove Directors Over Losses

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-07-20T20:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/citadel-asks-e-trade-to-call-special-meeting-remove-directors-over-losses.html
Citadel LLC, E*Trade Financial
Corp.’s largest shareholder, called on the online retail broker
to hold a special meeting and remove two of its directors,
citing “catastrophic losses” for shareholders.  “Having endured nearly four years of value destruction and
lost opportunity, we believe it is time for change,” Chicago-
based Citadel wrote in a letter to Chief Executive Officer
Steven Freiberg, according to a regulatory filing today. “The
facts speak for themselves -- stunning losses for the company,
catastrophic losses for the shareholders. This is the story of
E*Trade’s poor management decisions.”  Susan Hickey, an E*Trade spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The stock surged 14 percent to $14.72 at 4 p.m. New York
time in the biggest daily advance since June 2009.  The online retail broker’s shares have tumbled 94 percent
since the start of 2007 as the company posted more than $3
billion of losses related to bad mortgages following the
subprime crisis. To help E*Trade avoid bankruptcy, Citadel
injected $2.55 billion of cash into the company in November
2007.  Kenneth Griffin , founder of the hedge-fund operator,
joined E*Trade’s board in June 2009 and has been selling shares
and lowering the firm’s stake this year.  Special Meeting  Citadel plans to submit a notice calling on shareholders to
support a special meeting if E*Trade doesn’t do so on its own by
July 22, according to the letter. At the special meeting,
shareholders should vote on removing the staggered board
provisions, removing directors Michael Parks and Donna Weaver
and hiring an investment banking firm to review “strategic
alternatives,” including a possible sale of the company.  E*Trade’s “debt liability and the mortgage portfolio
substantially dilutes the value of the online broker,”  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities, wrote in a note today.
“Whole company bids would be unlikely to be high-premium offers
from the current market value of $3.6 billion. Deals structured
as an ‘asset sale’ and subsequent wind-down would probably not
leave much net gain for E*Trade shareholders.”  Citadel owns about 9.8 percent of the New York-based
company. E*Trade would be required to hold a special meeting
once holders of 10 percent of its stock request it.  “We believe a sale of the company could be achieved
promptly and generate significantly higher  shareholder value ,
avoiding the risks of operating as an independent company
lacking leadership and financial capabilities,” Citadel wrote.
“It is time for E*TRADE’s shareholders to come first.”  E*Trade reported after the closing of U.S. exchanges that
second-quarter earnings were 16 cents a share excluding some
items, matching the average analyst estimate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  