-- 
Clinton Tells India It’s ‘Time to Lead’ in Asia-Pacific

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-20T14:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/clinton-tells-india-it-s-time-to-lead-in-asia-pacific-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on  India  today to expand its presence in East
 Asia , positioning it as a partner in countering China’s growing
power.  “This is a time to seize the emerging opportunities of the
21st century,” Clinton told an audience in the southern city of
Chennai. “This is a time to lead,” she said, urging India also
to play a greater role in integrating Afghanistan into South
Asia’s regional economy.  Clinton urged India’s leaders to work with the U.S. to
ensure East Asian shipping routes remain open and free from
piracy. Clinton cast the U.S. and India as bookends of the Asia-
Pacific with stewardship of the region’s waters, and ideally its
values and economic norms as well.  “The  United States  as a Pacific power, and India,
straddling the waters from the Indian to Pacific Oceans, are
both stewards of these waterways and both deeply invested in
shaping the future of the rapidly changing region they
connect,” Clinton said.  Clinton arrived in the southern Indian economic hub as part
of a two-day trip to broaden trade and investment and more
closely align U.S.-India work on counterterrorism and on
strategic goals in Afghanistan and Asia.  Shared Vision  Arguing that the two democracies have a shared vision,
Clinton said India should join the U.S. in creating a region
that embraces “international norms on security, trade, rule of
law, human rights and accountable governance.”  As the region’s importance to the global economy grows, so
does the need to fight piracy and secure shipping lanes and
freedom of navigation, Clinton said.  There have been tensions over the South  China  Sea, a
potentially oil- and gas-rich archipelago where China has
clashed with  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  over claims to
contested waters. Today, the 10 members of the Association of
South East Asian Nations reached a non-binding agreement on
rules for keeping the peace in the region.  Clinton said the U.S. wants to work with India to build the
East Asia Summit, a forum of 16 regional nations plus  Australia 
and the United States, into “the Asia-Pacific’s premier forum
for dealing with political and security issues, setting the
priorities and vision for other regional institutions.”  New Talks  China has resisted a regional approach to the South China
Sea disputes and has criticized U.S. for speaking out on the
issue.  The U.S. will inaugurate a regular dialogue with Japan and
India, Clinton said. She added that the U.S. is “also committed
to a strong, constructive relationship among India, the United
States and China.”  “This will not always be easy,” she added. “There are
important matters on which we will disagree. But we have
significant areas of common interest.”  As India takes on a larger role in the region, Clinton said
it would have new responsibilities, including the duty to speak
out against violations of universal human rights.  She praised India’s Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao, who
visited Myanmar last month and met with opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi. China and Myanmar have close diplomatic and trade
ties.  Afghan Trade  Clinton’s visit came as the U.S. starts withdrawing troops
from  Afghanistan  this month, with a plan to ending combat
operations by 2014. She told her audience that the Afghan
government’s effort to reach a political truce with insurgents
would only succeed with support from India and a “ stable,
democratic, prosperous  Pakistan , free from violent extremism.”  Clinton also called on India to increase its trade with
Afghanistan. That would enable Afghanistan to draw foreign
investment and reach other markets abroad, she said.  Clinton will travel next to Bali,  Indonesia , for  Asean 
meetings and the East Asia Summit, then to  Hong Kong  and China,
where she will have a working lunch with State Councilor Dai Bingguo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Chennai  at  ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  