-- 
Cnooc Agrees to Buy Opti Canada for $2.1 Billion to Expand Oil-Sand Assets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T15:17:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/cnooc-agrees-to-buy-opti-canada-for-2-1-billion-to-add-oil-sands-assets.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore
oil producer, agreed to acquire  Opti Canada Inc. (OPC)  for $2.1
billion in cash and debt to increase its oil-sands reserves, and
pledged to buy more energy assets globally.  Cnooc will pay $34 million in cash for the Canadian
company’s shares, $1.18 billion for some notes and assume $825
million of debt, Opti said in a statement today. A shortage of
cash to fund the extraction of heavy oil embedded in sand forced
the Calgary-based producer to seek bankruptcy protection on July
13.  “The price is favorable compared to recent transactions,”
 Neil Beveridge  and Ying Lou, Hong Kong-based analysts at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said in a research note. Cnooc is paying
$1.15 a barrel on the total resource base compared with $2.15 a
barrel paid by PTT Exploration & Production Pcl for a 40 percent
stake in Statoil ASA’s project in  Canada  in November.  China Petrochemical Corp. and Cnooc are among companies
that have invested more than $200 billion in ventures in Alberta
to tap the world’s third-largest oil deposits after  Saudi Arabia 
and  Venezuela . Chinese companies have bid more than $88 billion
for oil, natural gas and power assets overseas in the last five
years to meet demand in the world’s biggest energy-consuming
nation.  “The company will monitor trends in global energy markets
and continue to look at and select projects,” Cnooc Chief
Financial Officer Zhong Hua told reporters during a conference
call from Beijing today. “As the company currently has
relatively ample cash, we will consider any projects that fit
our strategy.”  Cnooc Cash  Cnooc’s total debt stands at almost 19.4 billion yuan ($3
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and the
company had 39.57 billion yuan in cash as of the end of 2010.  The company has spent more than $13 billion on acquisitions
abroad in the past five years, Bloomberg data show. Cnooc, based
in Beijing, paid C$150 million ($158 million) in 2005 for a
stake in  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG)  to gain access to oil-sands reserves
and to expertise that may help tap such deposits in China.  “It’s more a strategic play,” Simon Powell, an analyst
with CLSA Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by telephone today. “Cnooc
wants to have some investments in oil sands. They want some oil-
sands technology and some oil-sands capability and skills and
this acquisition will give it to them.”  Long Lake Project  Cnooc fell 3.2 percent to close at HK$17.48 in Hong Kong
while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.5 percent. The stock
has declined 5.1 percent this year compared with a 4.5 percent
drop in the benchmark. Opti had slumped 82 percent this year
before trading was halted on July 13.  BMO Capital Markets and  CIBC World Markets , along with
Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP advised Cnooc, while Scotia
Waterous Inc., TD Securities Inc. and Macleod Dixon LLP advised
Opti.  Opti’s main asset is its 35 percent stake in the Long Lake
project operated by Nexen Inc. It has investments in three other
project areas located in the Athabasca region of northeastern
 Alberta , according to today’s statement. The project employs a
technology that injects steam underground to release fossil
fuels embedded in sand.  “This is a win-win to smooth out the government red tape
and mitigates CNOOC’s sole operating risks in these oil sands
projects,”  Gordon Kwan , an analyst for Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in a note to investors.  Cnooc Reserve Boost  The acquisition is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter and will bring with it 195 million barrels of proven
reserves, Cnooc’s Zhong said. That will boost Cnooc’s proven
reserves by 5.3 percent and production by 1 percent, he said.  Opti currently produces 30,000 barrels of oil a day and had
“much room” for increased output, according to Zhong.
Bernstein analysts Beveridge and Lou estimate that at full
output it will produce 72,000 barrels a day of bitumen and
58,500 barrels of light crude.  “The transaction strengthens our Canadian presence in the
oil-sands business,” Yang Hua, Cnooc’s chief executive officer,
was cited as saying in the statement. “We believe that upside
potential of the assets will facilitate local  energy supply  and
our production growth in the long term.”  Project Delays  Oil sands are deposits of bitumen, an extra-heavy oil that
must be treated for use in refineries to produce gasoline and
diesel. Refining bitumen generally results in higher  carbon
emissions  than conventional crude production, while the
underground steaming process employed at Long Lake and other
operations use as much as five times the volume of water for
each barrel of oil produced.  Opti and Nexen had taken longer than they planned to inject
enough steam underground to heat up reserves of bitumen to make
it flow into pipes at Long Lake. The companies are also using
more steam than they planned, which has raised costs and
restrained production, Nexen said in February.  Opti’s  bankruptcy-protection  proceedings began July 13
under Canada’s Companies Creditors Arrangement Act. Opti has
obtained C$375 million of new financing and backing from
financial partners to restructure its debt.  The company said in June it would miss an interest payment
on its second-lien debt. Opti sold debt to cover a shortfall in
its operating budget as production at Long Lake failed to meet
targets.  Opti bonds rose by the most on record today. Its $1 billion
of 8.25 percent bonds due in December 2014 rose 11.5 cents to
65.3 cents on the dollar at 9:35 a.m. in  New York , according to
Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  