-- 
Cocaine Lured Freud, Yale Surgeon Into Bowling, Abuse: Review

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/cocaine-lured-freud-yale-surgeon-into-bowling-alleys-drug-abuse-books.html
Around the time readers first
learned of  Sherlock Holmes ’s turning to cocaine after a tough
case, two of the medical world’s great minds were getting a
serious buzz on for research, fun and abuse.  These actual early cokeheads were  Sigmund Freud  (1856-1939)
and U.S. surgeon William Halsted (1852-1922), the subjects of
Howard Markel’s colorful study “ An Anatomy of Addiction .”  In the opening pages, we meet a young Halsted in May 1885
in a hospital dispensary. He “frantically searched the
shelves” for cocaine, shot up and then bolted from the
operating room where he was supposed to attend a compound
fracture. He fled to his Manhattan home and “sank into a
cocaine oblivion that lasted more than seven months.”  The drug wasn’t cheap then either, but Halsted was the
scion of a dry-goods and insurance fortune. A jock and a dandy
at Yale, his medical interests surfaced only in his senior year
after some unrequired light reading in Gray’s Anatomy. Following
two years of study in Vienna and several German cities, Halsted
returned to the U.S. “a superbly trained surgeon, perhaps the
best of his generation,” Markel writes.  Also in May 1885, we encounter Freud boasting in a letter
to his fiancee about “how a dose of pure cocaine vanquished his
migraine and inspired him to stay up until four in the morning
writing a ‘very important’ anatomical study,” Markel writes.  Drug Companies  Cocaine joined the Western pharmacopeia in the 19th century
after traveling from  Peru  via conquistadors, naturalists and
popular writers like William H. Prescott. The tendency of
doctors then to freely prescribe narcotics inspired
commercialization by drug companies of the time, such as John
Searle, E.R. Squibb, Boehringer & Merck, and Parke, Davis & Co.  A clever French chemist mixed it with wine for a drink
called Vin Mariani. The Vatican gave the concoction a medal,
Ulysses S. Grant drank it while finishing his autobiography, and
Queen Victoria and President William McKinley sang its praises.  Halsted and Freud both experimented with cocaine for
legitimate medical purposes. Freud thought it would help a
friend with his morphine addiction, while Halsted sought a local
anesthetic.  Freud tended to go solo. The American initially had a cadre
of students and young doctors providing research assistance and
then some: “Halsted and his colleagues were quick to appreciate
the sheer fun of ingesting cocaine. Theater events, dances, and
even bowling matches at the University Club, a mere block away
from Halsted’s home, were brightened by the white powder.”  High-Performing Addict  Another key difference is that Freud kicked the habit
around 1896. Halsted got it under control enough to excel and
thrive in medicine -- he once charged the equivalent of $260,000
for the removal of bile duct stones -- but he lapsed often.
Markel writes that he was “a remarkably high-performing addict
for almost four decades.”  The book’s chronology jumps around confusingly at times,
and Markel’s writing has overheated moments. In Paris’s Pere-
Lachaise Cemetery, he refers to “a large number of recumbent
but great” Frenchmen. Even a contextually apt image can be too
much: “Uncomfortable questions plagued (Freud’s) thoughts as
sharply as the spiral-shaped syphilitic microbes burrowed into
the brains and critical organs of his patients.”  Still, Markel, a professor of the history of medicine at
the  University of Michigan , has assembled an engaging, well-
researched historical homily about fame and foible. It’s a brisk
read, especially with more than 100 illustrations.  And its rather silly closing caveat -- “Genius is not
found in a bottle, pill, or potion” -- is quickly offset by the
sensible reminder that the two men’s legacies were in fact
“ground out page by page, stitch by stitch, patient by patient,
insight by insight, day after day, year after year.”  “An Anatomy of Addiction: Sigmund Freud, William Halsted,
and the Miracle Drug Cocaine” is published by Pantheon (314
pages, $28.95). To order the book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 