-- 
Hickenlooper Pushes Colorado Plan to Make Capital Available to Businesses

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 
2011-07-20T20:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/colorado-governor-hickenlooper-touts-plan-to-make-state-business-friendly.html
Colorado , where unemployment topped
the national average in three of the past five months, is
looking to attract more technology jobs by helping employers
access capital through a plan unveiled today by Governor John Hickenlooper.  “This is how we really are going to get this state going
and get it back in gear,” Hickenlooper said at a press
conference in northern Denver at Taxi, a 20-acre complex where
tech and biosciences startups replaced a storage yard for cabs
and warehouses for freight.  The governor said he met yesterday with executives of
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, to discuss why Colorado would be a good fit with
its plans to hire thousands of workers nationwide.  Hickenlooper made his remarks at the official release of
his “Colorado Blueprint.” The governor’s  economic development 
team crafted the 75-page plan after traveling 6,000 miles (9,700
kilometers) to talk with people in all 64 counties, said Dwayne Romero, executive director of the state’s Office of Economic
Development and International Trade.  “The feedback we got was one part good and two to three
parts bad,” Romero said in a briefing yesterday for reporters.
“The common theme was red tape and the government is lacking in
empathy and understanding.”  Seeking Entrepreneurs  A Democrat who started a Denver brewery pub before becoming
mayor, Hickenlooper, 59, took office in January on a pledge to
bolster the economy by attracting entrepreneurs. The plan calls
for increasing access to capital by providing as much as $15
million to be used as additional collateral for companies
seeking operating loans, according to the blueprint.  The state’s jobless rate fell to 8.7 percent in May,
compared with 9.1 percent nationwide, after exceeding the U.S.
level from January to March, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Colorado’s ability to offer incentives and assistance to
encourage development is limited by the state constitution,
which makes it difficult to raise taxes without voter approval.  “Colorado in general is not a particularly competitive
state when it comes to economic incentives,” said Larry Burkhardt, chief executive officer of the nonprofit Upstate
Colorado Economic Development Corp.  “If we’re competing against states like  Texas ,  New Mexico ,
 Wyoming  or  Utah , it’s not that we are not in the game, but that
isn’t our strongest area,” he said by telephone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  