-- 
Congo’s Government in Talks With Chevron, Petrobras on Oil, Gas Investment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-20T10:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/congo-s-government-in-talks-with-chevron-petrobras-on-oil-gas-investment.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo is
in talks with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  about
investing in the country’s budding hydrocarbons industry, Oil
Minister Celestin Mbuyu said.  The Central African nation wants to improve its oil and gas
output and infrastructure and is allocating blocks to companies
for exploration.  San Ramon , California-based Chevron and Congo
are discussing gas production and treatment plans that may feed
into the company’s projects in neighboring Angola. Cohydro,
Congo’s state-owned oil producer, is seeking a cooperation deal
with Petrobras after signing a similar agreement on July 7 with
Korea National Oil Corp.  Petrobras officials will visit Congo in the coming weeks
“and then we’ll put together a proposal that I will present to
the government,” Mbuyu said in an interview in Kinshasa, the
capital, on July 15. A deal will likely include training and
transfer of expertise between the Rio de Janeiro-based company
and Cohydro, he said.  Congo currently produces about 25,000 barrels of oil per
day and plans to increase output through drilling near its
eastern borders with Tanzania, Burundi,  Rwanda  and  Uganda , as
well as in its central basin and along the western coast
bordering Angola. The country is courting investment for
exploration, pipelines, distribution and storage, and data
gathering to help develop the industry, Mbuyu said.  Tropical Forest  The minister led a delegation of Congolese officials to
 Brazil  last month, where Petrobras shared its experience with
oil and gas operations “in tropical forest and coastal areas,”
the company’s press management office said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions. Congo is home to the world’s
second-largest tropical forest, after Brazil’s, some of which
has been divided up into oil blocks.  Petrobras declined to comment on any ongoing discussions
with Congo.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company, signed an
agreement with Congo in November that will allow the company to
ship gas from  Angola ’s enclave of Cabinda to a new $9 billion
liquid-natural-gas plant in Soyo via a pipeline that cuts
through Congo’s narrow strip of Atlantic coastline. The Soyo
plant may be used to treat Congolese gas as well, and Chevron
has expressed an interest in looking at potential gas deposits
in Congo, Mbuyu said.  The company already has a 17.7 percent stake in a
concession off Congo’s coast that produced about 14,000 barrels
of crude per day in 2010, according to Chevron’s  annual report .  Gas Flaring  Congo is also burning gas as a by-product of its petroleum
production and Chevron has agreed to look into ways of capturing
the gas for market, Mbuyu said. Mbuyu met with Chevron officials
in May in the U.S., he said.  A spokesman for Chevron said in an e-mail today that the
company doesn’t comment “on negotiations regarding specific
business opportunities.”  Chevron has delayed development of part of an offshore oil
block in Angola whose ownership is disputed by Congo, according
to the company’s annual report. Congo and Angola are still
working on an agreement over their maritime borders, Mbuyu said.  A parliamentary decision on a new hydrocarbons code, which
would help regulate the industry, may be delayed by elections
scheduled for Nov. 28 of this year, Mbuyu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 