-- 
Banks’ Mortgage Servicing Falls Short, Connecticut Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-21T00:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/connecticut-attorney-general-calls-banks-to-meet-over-mortgage-servicing.html
Connecticut  Attorney General George Jepsen is seeking meetings with four U.S. lenders to discuss
their foreclosure practices, saying they are failing to devote
sufficient resources to servicing mortgages.  Jepsen wants to meet with representatives of  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial
Inc., according to letters written to the companies and released
today by his office.  “Although I appreciate the effort CitiMortgage has made to
improve its practices in recent months, I remain concerned that
it is failing to devote adequate resources to default servicing
of residential loans in Connecticut,” Jepsen wrote in a July 6
letter to Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit. The
attorney general made the same statement about the other
servicers.  The four companies, along with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
comprise the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S. and are
negotiating a nationwide agreement on foreclosure practices with
state attorneys general and federal officials. Jepsen, who has
also met with Bank of America, is helping to lead those talks
for the states.  Officials are seeking a settlement that sets standards for
how the banks service loans, interact with borrowers and conduct
foreclosures, according to proposed terms made in March. They
are also seeking monetary payments.  Wells Fargo Response  Wells Fargo spokesman Tom Goyda said in an e-mail that the
San Francisco-based bank is working to schedule a meeting with
the attorney general’s office and is “happy to meet with any
other officials to discuss our foreclosure prevention efforts.”
He declined to comment specifically on Jepsen’s letter.  Ally has added staff and modified about 25 percent of loans
serviced since 2008,  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the Detroit-
based lender, said today by e-mail.  Mark Rodgers , a Citigroup spokesman, said the bank will
meet with the attorney general’s office. The bank is adding
employees and will spend an additional $75 million to
$85 million a year on homeowner assistance, he said in an e-
mail.  “We will continue to be creative with new solutions for
distressed borrowers including solutions for the unemployed,
proactive modifications to customers at imminent risk of default
and deed-in-lieu alternatives to borrowers that aren’t able to
afford their current mortgages,” Rodgers said.  Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Meetings between the attorney general’s office and the
companies are being scheduled, according to Susan Kinsman,
Jepsen’s spokeswoman.  The letters to the four mortgage servicers follow a similar
letter to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America in
May. Jepsen said Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by
assets, also was failing to devote sufficient resources to its
mortgage-servicing business in the state.  “We want the banks to commit the resources that will allow
them to deal adequately with the current crisis,” Jepsen said
last month in an interview.  In the letters to JPMorgan, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and
Ally, Jepsen said he wants assurance that the companies are
prepared to implement new loan servicing standards “that are
taking shape” and handle “the inevitable increase” in
requests for help from borrowers once bank foreclosures fully
resume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 