-- 
Copersucar Said to Suspend Brazil Stock Sale of as Much as $1.7 Billion

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-20T02:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/copersucar-said-to-suspend-brazil-stock-sale-of-as-much-as-1-7-billion.html
Copersucar SA, the millers
cooperative that accounts for 10 percent of global sugar
exports, suspended plans to sell shares in an initial public
offering in  Brazil , two people familiar with the transaction
said.  Copersucar and its 26 shareholders were planning to raise
as much as 2.7 billion reais ($1.7 billion) in what could’ve
been Brazil’s largest initial public offering in two years. The
company decided to pull the deal because of market conditions,
one of the people said, asking not to be named because they’re
not allowed to speak publicly about the transaction.  The initial plan was to sell as many as 145.9 million
shares, including possible supplementary offerings, for 14.50
reais to 18.50 reais each, according to a June 30 preliminary
prospectus.  Seven out of the 10 companies that held IPOs in Brazil this
year sold shares at the bottom of their price ranges or below,
including oil and gas producer QGEP Participacoes SA and
Qualicorp SA, a health-insurance broker controlled by
Washington-based  Carlyle Group . At least five companies have
canceled IPO plans in Sao Paulo this year before Copersucar.  The company planned to use proceeds from the share sale to
build an ethanol pipeline in Brazil and almost double its sugar
export capacity at the Port of Santos, Brazil’s largest for the
sweetener, to 10 million metric tons. The cooperative’s 48 mills
have agreed to supply all the sugar and ethanol they produce in
the next decade for Copersucar to trade.  Copersucar’s mills can process 115 million tons of sugar-
cane and had reported net sales of 8.3 billion reais in the
fiscal year that ended March 31.  Companies in Brazil raised 6.14 billion reais in initial
public offerings this year, or 10 percent less than the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show.  Banco Itau BBA SA was coordinating Copersucar’s share sale
with Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo SA, Banco de
Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) SA and Goldman Sachs do
Brasil Banco Multiplo SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  