-- 
Copersucar, Los Grobo Shelve IPOs as Brazil’s Stock Market Slump Deepens

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-07-20T20:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/copersucar-halts-brazil-ipo-for-60-days-on-unfavorable-market-conditions.html
Agricultural companies Copersucar SA
and Los Grobo SA suspended planned initial public offerings in
 Brazil , deepening a slump in  Latin America ’s largest equity
market.  Copersucar’s sale, slated to raise as much as $1.7 billion,
will be delayed for 60 business days because of “unfavorable”
market conditions, according to a statement in Valor Economico
newspaper today. With today’s postponements, at least eight
companies have shelved first-time sales in Brazil this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg and the securities regulator show.
Seven of the 10 that held IPOs priced them at the bottom of
their projected ranges or below.  Brazilian companies have failed to meet their equity-
raising goals as quickening inflation and a surging currency
drove the Bovespa down 15 percent this year, the worst
performance out of 18 major global indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s hard to justify entering a lot of these deals,”
Oliver Leyland, who helps oversee $1.1 billion at Mirae Asset
Global Investments Brasil in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview today. “For a lot of these unknown companies, the
risk profile is just not in line with where the market is right
now.”  Companies in Brazil have raised 6.14 billion reais ($3.93
billion) in IPOs this year, 12 percent less than in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Abril
Educacao SA plans to price a 670.1 million-real sale tomorrow.  The Bovespa rose 0.1 percent to 59,119.71 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4:15 p.m. New York time today.  Inflation  Seven interest-rate increases in 14 months have failed to
quell the fastest inflation since 2005, while luring dollars
that have pushed up the real 48 percent since the end of 2008,
the most among 25 emerging-markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Los Grobo,  Argentina ’s second-biggest soybean producer,
delayed plans to transfer some assets to a new company and sell
shares of the business in an IPO in Brazil, according to an e-
mail to Bloomberg News that didn’t give a timeframe. The IPO
plans for the new company, which was going to be called LG
Agronegocios & Participacoes SA, were announced in a regulatory
filing on May 31. The filing didn’t give details on the date or
the value of the sale.  Copersucar, the millers’ cooperative that accounts for 10
percent of global sugar exports, and its 26 shareholders had
planned to raise as much as 2.7 billion reais by selling as many
as 145.9 million shares, including possible supplementary
offerings, for 14.50 reais to 18.50 reais each, according to a
June 30 preliminary prospectus.  Perenco, Tereos  The IPO, which was slated to be priced last night, could
have been Brazil’s largest since October 2009, when Banco
Santander SA raised 13.2 billion reais in the listing of its
local unit in Sao Paulo.  Perenco Petroleo & Gas do Brasil Participacoes SA said on
July 1 it suspended its planned IPO for up to 60 days because of
market conditions, while Tereos Internacional SA canceled a
follow-on stock sale on the same day. Among companies to miss
their pricing targets are oil and gas producer QGEP
Participacoes SA and Qualicorp SA, a health-insurance broker
controlled by Washington-based  Carlyle Group .  Ethanol Pipeline  Copersucar, based in Sao Paulo, planned to use proceeds
from the share sale to build an ethanol pipeline in Brazil and
almost double its sugar export capacity at the Port of Santos,
Brazil’s largest for the sweetener, to 10 million metric tons.
The cooperative’s 48 mills have agreed to supply all the sugar
and ethanol they produce in the next decade for Copersucar to
trade.  Copersucar’s mills can process 115 million tons of sugar-
cane and had reported net sales of 8.3 billion reais in the
fiscal year that ended March 31.  Banco Itau BBA SA was coordinating Copersucar’s IPO with
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo SA, Banco de
Investimentos Credit Suisse (Brasil) SA and Goldman Sachs do
Brasil Banco Multiplo SA.  Credit Suisse, Itau, Banco BTG Pactual SA and Banco
Bradesco BBI SA were to handle the Los Grobo sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  