-- 
Copper Declines for First Day in Four on European Debt Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T08:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/copper-zinc-drop-for-the-first-time-in-four-days-on-european-debt-concern.html
Copper fell for the first time in
four days in  London  as some investors viewed recent gains as
excessive amid concern that the European debt crisis may slow
global economic growth, hurting demand. Zinc also dropped.  Three-month copper shed as much as 0.7 percent to $9,773 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and traded at $9,797 at
4:47 p.m. in  Shanghai . The contract gained 1.5 percent yesterday
to a more than three-month high after U.S. housing starts were
higher than expected. Zinc lost 1.1 percent to $2,462.25 a ton.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  travels to Brussels
tomorrow to meet with European Union leaders as officials
struggle to agree on measures to restore confidence in the euro
region’s creditworthiness after the last year’s rescue of  Greece .  “The gains last night were considered somewhat excessive,
so we see some investors reaping profits today, given copper’s
fundamentals and the market environment,” Pang Juan, an analyst
at Jinrui Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.  Copper for September delivery shed 1.2 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $4.4565 a pound on the Comex in  New York . The most-
active contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange, for delivery
in October, fell 0.2 percent to 72,680 yuan ($11,257) a ton.  European policy makers are divided on how to prod investors
into financing a new bailout package for Greece. “It could be a
make-or-break moment for where  Europe  is going,” Prime Minister
Papandreou said in interview ahead of the summit.  Slower Growth  In  China , the world’s largest copper user, demand for
copper is growing at a slower rate than last year, Duncan Hobbs,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. , said by phone yesterday
after a trip to the country. Copper is used in pipes and wires.  China should raise borrowing costs as real interest rates
are negative, He Keng, a vice chairman of the financial and
economic affairs committee of the National People’s Congress,
said at a forum in Beijing today.  So-called real interest rates are typically defined as the
nominal interest rate less inflation. The People’s Bank of China
has increased interest rates five times since October to stem
inflation that reached a three-year high last month.  In the U.S., work began last month on 629,000 houses at an
annual pace, up 15 percent from May and the highest level in
five months, figures from the Commerce Department showed. The
U.S. is the world’s second-largest copper consumer.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, won’t reach
a target to produce 1 million tons of copper by 2015, according
to Jose Carlos Martins, director for marketing and sales at the
Rio de Janeiro-based company.  “We won’t be able to reach it. We would have to make
acquisitions or new discoveries,” Martins said at an event in
 Sao Paulo . “The 1 million metric tons still exists, but it’s
difficult to reach it by 2015.”  Aluminum was little changed in London to $2,548.75 a ton,
while lead declined 0.7 percent to $2,751.25 a ton. Nickel shed
0.2 percent to $24,081 a ton, and tin dropped 0.3 percent to
$27,800 a ton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  