-- 
Corinthians Calls Off Carlos Tevez Signing Citing Impending Trade Deadline

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-20T06:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/corinthians-says-it-ran-out-of-time-to-sign-manchester-city-s-carlos-tevez.html
Carlos Tevez ’s proposed move to SC
Corinthians Paulista for a Brazilian record fee collapsed after
the Sao Paulo-based club said it had run out of time to sign the
Manchester City striker.  Corinthians,  Brazil ’s biggest soccer team by sales, said in
a  statement  on its website last night that hiring the Argentine
striker was an “impossibility” before a local player trade
deadline.  “There is no more time for the transfer to be achieved
given that the window to sign players from abroad closes on
Wednesday, July 20,” the club’s board said in the statement.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters two days ago
that an agreement for the sale of Tevez to Corinthians had been
reached. Luis Paulo Rosenberg, the Brazilian club’s vice
president for marketing, later said in an interview the teams
had yet to agree on how the payments for the fee of about $55
million would be structured.  Corinthians had been willing to pay more than double the
previous Brazilian transfer record, when the Sao Paolo-based
team paid  Argentina ’s Boca Juniors $20 million for Tevez in
2004. Tevez, 27, has said he wants to leave City to be closer to
his daughters, who live in Argentina with their mother.  Corinthians said in its statement last night that it still
wants to rehire Tevez at some point in the future.  “We are aware of the dream our fans had of having this
player at Corinthians again and we look forward to him being
with us in the near future,” Corinthians said.  Tevez previously played for Corinthians when the club was
owned by a company controlled by his agent, Kia Joorabchian. The
Iran-born businessman oversaw Tevez’s move to  England  in 2006
when he joined West Ham. Tevez then spent two seasons at
 Manchester United  before joining City in a deal that U.K. media
reported was worth as much as 47 million pounds ($76 million).  He scored 20 Premier League goals in the 2010-11 season to
help City finish in third place and qualify for the  Champions
League  for the first time. He also captained the team to the
F.A. Cup title, its first major trophy since 1976.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  