-- 
Corn Gains for Second Day as Hot Midwest Weather May Hurt Yields

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-20T10:15:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/corn-gains-for-second-day-as-hot-midwest-weather-may-hurt-yields.html
Corn rose for a second day on
speculation that hot, dry weather in the U.S., the biggest
grower and shipper of the grain, will cut yields. Wheat gained
as rain in Europe delays harvest of the crop.  Corn crops in the Midwest that are in the reproductive
stage may face “extreme stress” in three-to-five days from
July 19, because of well-above normal temperatures, Telvent DTN
Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. In Europe, excessive rain is
delaying harvests in France, the second-largest shipper, and in
Germany and the U.K.  “Hot and dry weather in many parts of the U.S. have been
supporting prices and have already prompted the USDA to
downgrade the condition of corn plants,” said  Carsten Fritsch ,
an analyst at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt . “The initially sought-
after rain in major wheat growing areas of the EU is now slowly
beginning to become a burden, as too much rainfall threatens to
reduce the quality of the crop.”  Corn for December delivery gained 8 cents, or 1.2 percent,
to $6.9525 a bushel by 11:06 a.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The price has gained 66 percent in the past year
on increased demand and after wet weather in April and May
slowed U.S. planting.  About 66 percent of the corn in the top 18 producing states
was in good or excellent condition as of July 17, down from 69
percent a week earlier and 72 percent a year earlier, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said in a  report  July 18. About 35
percent of the plants were beginning to reproduce, up from 14
percent a week earlier.  Soybeans Flowering  Soybeans also gained as 64 percent of the U.S. crop earned
top ratings, compared with 66 percent a week earlier and 67
percent a year earlier, according to the USDA. About 40 percent
of the plants were beginning to flower, up from 21 percent a
week earlier, the USDA said.  Soybeans for November delivery climbed 10.25 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $13.9225 a bushel in Chicago. The price had dropped
the past two days.  Wheat for September delivery rose for a second day, gaining
12.25 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $7.0575 a bushel in  Chicago . The
price has gained 15 percent this month.  “The weather is still playing its part,” Victor
Thianpiriya, an agricultural commodity analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne 
today. “The market is trying to look at the effect on yields
from the hot weather.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  