-- 
Oil Rises for a Second Day on U.S. Crude Supply Drop, Europe Debt Talks

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-20T12:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/crude-oil-advances-a-second-day-on-decline-in-u-s-supplies-europe-talks.html
Oil advanced for a second day in  New
York  on signs that crude stockpiles are shrinking in the U.S.,
and on speculation that European leaders may agree on steps to
address the region’s debt crisis during talks tomorrow.  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said crude
supplies fell the most in six weeks. An Energy Department report
today may show inventories dropped for a seventh week, the
longest run of declines in two years. Euro-area government
chiefs are meeting tomorrow in Brussels for the second time in a
month as they aim to break a deadlock over a new Greek rescue.  “There’s still some hope we’ll see some kind of solution
regarding the European debt crisis,” said Gerrit Zambo, a
trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “And we saw a stock
draw in the API numbers, which pulls crude higher. All in all,
sentiment is more positive but not strongly bullish.”  Crude for August delivery increased as much as $1.45, or
1.5 percent, to $98.95 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $98.48 at 1:12 p.m.  London 
time. The contract expires today. Prices have risen 27 percent
in the past year. The more-actively traded September future
gained 95 cents to $98.81. Brent oil for September settlement
advanced as much as $1.80, or 1.5 percent, to $118.86 a barrel
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Stock Draws  U.S. crude supplies declined 5.2 million barrels to 354.2
million, the biggest drop since the week ended June 3, according
to the  American Petroleum Institute . A Bloomberg News survey
shows that the Energy Department report may show stockpiles fell
2 million barrels last week.  “We continue to see stock draws,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne, who predicts oil in New York will average $113 a
barrel in the third quarter. “Crude supplies are still
relatively high compared with history but it’s undoubtedly
positive for  oil prices .”  U.S. inventories are about 4 percent above the average of
the past five years, according to Energy Department data.  The American Petroleum Institute collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the Energy Department for its weekly
survey. In the past four years, the indicators have moved the
same direction 75 percent of the time for oil.  Gasoline supplies increased 1.96 million barrels to 210.3
million, the American Petroleum Institute said. It was the first
increase in five weeks. The Energy Department report may show
stockpiles fell 250,000 barrels, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Ichimoku Cloud  Oil in New York may extend gains as prices approach an area
on daily technical charts where orders to buy may be clustered,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude is rising to the
first so-called leading-span line on its “ichimoku cloud”, at
about $99.55 a barrel today. Front-month futures also opened
today’s trading above the 50-day moving average for the first
time since May 4, signaling the market may climb further.  Prices surged yesterday after the Commerce Department said
work began on 629,000 houses in the U.S. at an annual pace in
June, up 15 percent from May and the fastest rate in five
months. Reports today will show sales of existing homes also
increased, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  