-- 
Crude Oil Advances for Second Day on U.S. Supply Drop, Europe Debt Talks

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-07-20T20:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/crude-oil-climbs-as-u-s-inventories-decline-european-debt-concerns-ease.html
Crude oil climbed for a second day
after a report showed that U.S. supplies dropped as refineries
bolstered fuel output and on speculation that European leaders
will agree on steps to address the region’s debt crisis.  Oil rose 0.7 percent after the Energy Department said
stockpiles fell 3.73 million barrels to 351.7 million last week.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a decrease of 2
million. Refineries operated at 90.3 percent of capacity, an 11-
month high. European officials meet tomorrow to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue plan.  “The crude number was very strong,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Refineries are
operating at the highest rate this season, which suggests there
is pretty strong demand somewhere. It looks like U.S. refineries
are producing a great deal of fuel for export.”  Crude oil for August delivery increased 64 cents to settle
at $98.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract expired today. The more actively traded September
future advanced 54 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $98.40.  Brent oil for September settlement rose $1.09, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $118.15 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The spread between oil in  New
York  and Brent widened to a record $22.63 a barrel July 14. The
September contracts for the grades ended today $19.75 apart.  Crude oil supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the physical
delivery point for West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade traded
in New York, tumbled 977,000 barrels to 36.7 million.  Floating-Roof Tanks  DigitalGlobe Inc . said on July 18 that Cushing inventories
fell 2.5 percent from July 9 to July 14. Stockpiles held in
floating-roof tanks at the hub dropped 898,000 barrels to 35.7
million barrels, satellite images taken by the Longmont,
Colorado-based company show.  Refinery operations advanced 2.3 percentage points last
week, the report showed. Operating rates were forecast to be
unchanged, according to the median of 14 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “We had a bump in refinery operating rates, so crude oil
was converted into products,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst
at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “Overall petroleum
stocks ended the week higher.”  Gasoline supplies grew 757,000 barrels to 212.5 million,
the first gain in five weeks. Inventories of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, rose 3.43 million
barrels to 148.5 million barrels. Total commercial stockpiles of
crude oil and fuel climbed 3.8 million barrels to 1.07 billion.  Refinery Margins  Profit margins for refiners, as expressed by the so-called
crack spread, climbed to a record $34.993 a barrel July 14,
based on New York futures prices. The hypothetical profit to
refine three barrels of oil into two barrels of gasoline and one
of heating oil was $32.10 a barrel, based on today’s settlement
prices of September contracts.  “Barrels are going to other countries because of the Brent
premium,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston. “If you are a refiner who can get your
hands on WTI, you are going to process it because the margins
are out of sight. The crack spread is wide enough that you will
do well even with more expensive grades.”  The Energy Department will deliver about 7.7 million
barrels of crude oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve
in July, according to a notice on its  website . The rest of the
30.64 million-barrel release will be delivered in August.  “The crude numbers weren’t as bullish as the first
looked,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “People were
probably making room for SPR barrels, which will soon start
showing up in the data.”  Berlin Meeting  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  are meeting in Berlin today to seek common
ground on fighting the region’s debt crisis before tomorrow’s
European summit, a meeting that their Greek counterpart says
could make or break the euro.  “There’s optimism that an agreement will come out of
tomorrow’s EU summit, will be enough to calm fears about the
debt crisis,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines, to prevent the spread of the region’s debt crisis, a
person close to the talks said. Other options up for discussion
include enabling the main 440 billion-euro ($626 billion) rescue
fund to lend to recapitalize banks, said the person, who
declined to be named because negotiations are in progress.  U.S. Deficit Proposal  President  Barack Obama  endorsed a U.S. deficit-cutting
proposal by a bipartisan group of senators. The plan for a $3.7
trillion debt reduction faces resistance from  House Republicans 
as lawmakers intensify efforts for a compromise on  government
spending  less than two weeks before a threatened default.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 454,225
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 617,053
contracts yesterday, 8.3 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.49 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  