-- 
Czech Stocks Rise From 7-Month Low on Apple, Debt Crisis Easing

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-07-20T15:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/czech-stocks-rise-from-seven-month-low-as-erste-new-world-gain.html
The Czech Republic’s benchmark stock
index rose from a seven-month low, led by Austria’s  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS) , as improved earnings and speculation the U.S. is close
to a debt-ceiling compromise boosted demand for risk worldwide.  The PX gauge added 0.7 percent to 1,193.7 at its 4:28 p.m.
end of trading in  Prague , after a four-day selloff pushed the
index to its lowest close since Dec. 10 yesterday. Erste, with a
20 percent weighting in the index, rose 2.3 percent to 823.5
koruna, its biggest gain in more than two weeks.  Lenders led a rally in European stocks while Spanish and
Italian bonds gained after a person close to the talks said
European officials are considering steps, including the use of
precautionary credit lines, to prevent the spread of the debt
crisis. In the U.S., Apple Inc. said profit more than doubled
last quarter and President Barack Obama yesterday endorsed a
$3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan from a group of senators.  “Investors have welcomed the news of an agreement taking
shape in the U.S. to lift the debt ceiling as well as excellent
earnings at Apple,” Miroslav Adamkovic, an analyst at  Komercni
Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, wrote in a report today. “Banks are helped
by negotiations on a European credit line.”  New World Resources Plc, the biggest Czech producer of
coking coal, advanced 1 percent to 240.8 koruna.  Orco Property
Group (ORC)  SA jumped 3.3 percent, the most since April 29, to 188.5
koruna. Power utility  CEZ AS (CEZ)  and phone operator Telefonica Czech
Republic AS both added more than 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  