-- 
Danish Mortgage Lending Falls to New Low, Jeopardizing Recovery

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-20T10:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/danish-mortgage-lending-falls-to-new-low-jeopardizing-recovery.html
Mortgage lending in  Denmark , the
world’s third-largest mortgage bond market, slumped 8 percent in
the second quarter to its lowest level in four years, hampering
the Nordic country’s economic recovery.  Lending fell to 58.5 billion kroner ($11.1 billion) from
63.6 billion kroner in the first quarter, the Association of
Danish Mortgage Banks said today on its  web site.  Refinancing
accounted for 82 percent of lending, while new loans made up the
remainder.  Consumers spend and save in tandem with the housing market,
and that’s still “in very fragile condition,” Jens Pedersen,
an economist at Danske Bank A/S said.  “We need to see a pick-
up before the recovery is sustainable,” he said by phone today.  Denmark’s  consumer confidence  index fell to minus 0.6 in
July from plus 3 in June, Copenhagen-based Statistics Denmark
said today on its website today. Pedersen said he had expected
the index to drop to 2. “The volume of properties up for sale
and falling prices are eroding consumer confidence,” he said.  Denmark fell into a recession in the fourth quarter,
lagging behind neighboring Sweden and  Norway , as declining
private consumption offset a rise in exports. The Nordic
country’s central bank last month lowered its growth forecast
for 2011 and said gross domestic product will expand by 1.7
percent, down from an earlier outlook for growth of 1.9 percent.  “The  property market  is very unstable, and it’s hard to
know which way it will go,” Jan Knoesgaard, deputy director of
the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks, said yesterday by
phone. “The number of houses for sale is the biggest since we
began measuring. So many people want to sell but the buyers are
uncertain and everyone knows that they will have to bargain.”  The number of homes, apartments and summer houses reached
its highest level since January 2004, with about 71,000
properties for sale, the association said earlier this month.
Prices fell in June for the third month in a row and were 2.3
percent lower last month than at the beginning of the year,
Danske Bank said on July 14.  Southern Europe’s debt crisis and the chance that national
elections in the fall will lead to new taxes is putting buyers
off, Sven Blomberg, chief executive officer of BRFKredit, said.  “With a little and open economy like Denmark, we are very
much dependent on what’s happening in the international
economy,” Blomberg said yesterday by phone. “I don’t think
we’re going to see a fast return to a positive situation.
Patience is necessary, unfortunately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  