-- 
Obama Open to Short-Term Debt Increase

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-20T23:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/debt-compromise-pressure-intensifies-in-congress-as-obama-resumes-talks.html
The Obama administration signaled it
may accept a short-term increase in the U.S. debt limit only if
lawmakers need a few days to finish work on a broader agreement
to cut the deficit.  President  Barack Obama  “must have a firm commitment to
something big” on cutting the deficit before he would sign a
short-term rise in the debt ceiling, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters at a briefing. He released a written
statement later saying Obama “does not support a short-term
extension” unless “a few days” are needed “for a bill to
work its way through the legislative process.”  The president called congressional leaders to the White
House today as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the $14.3
trillion debt limit nears.  Obama met today for just under an hour with Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , second-ranking Senate Democrat  Dick Durbin ,
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and second-ranking House
Democrat Steny Hoyer. That meeting followed by a session of
about 90 minutes with Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , the top two House Republicans. Obama spoke by
telephone with congressional leaders from both parties
yesterday, Carney said.  Matter of Timing  Durbin said afterward that it’s “not practical” to write
and pass legislation based on a $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting
plan proposed by a bipartisan group of senators in time to meet
the debt-ceiling deadline.  “Let’s be honest about this,” Durbin said at the Capitol.
“It’s not written, it’s not scored, and we are down to 13
days.”  Reid is open to incorporating it in debt limit legislation
“by reference,” perhaps directing a later deficit-reduction
vote or turning the matter over to a new joint committee, he
said.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who helped
negotiate the proposal, said he wants Congress to “go all-out”
to accomplish cutting spending and raising the debt limit.  “My preference would be that we go all-out to try to
accomplish this, to solve the problem,” Coburn said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. He acknowledged the
resistance that the plan from the so-called Gang of Six senators
faces within his own party: “We have made changes that some
people cannot accept,” Coburn said.  Shares Slip  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,325.84 in New York, a day after its biggest rally since March.
A drop in Treasuries sent the 10-year yield up five basis points
to 2.94 percent, erasing yesterday’s decrease.  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Budget Committee, said on Bloomberg Television that
lawmakers have drafted legislation for the Senate proposal that
could advance more quickly than some observers believe.  The plan, which calls for tax increases and spending cuts,
was gaining momentum on  Capitol Hill , where Republican lawmakers
who have opposed using increased revenue to shrink the deficit
said they were seriously looking at it.  “There are some good things in there,” Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, the Republican chairman of the tax-writing
Ways and Means Committee, said in an interview. “I certainly
like the lower rates and a simpler  tax code , but I do think that
revenue increases are an issue that we’ll have to deal with.
We’re just not going to increase taxes.”  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a fiscal
conservative elected last year with Tea Party backing, said he
too was looking at the plan to see whether he could support
something that envisions $1 trillion more revenue.  ‘Benefit of the Doubt’  “They would argue that this is not a tax increase, so I
want to give them the benefit of the doubt,” Rubio said in an
interview.  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon said in a memo to Republicans on the panel that he
doesn’t support the proposal “in its current form” because it
would mandate $886 billion in defense and other security
spending cuts over a decade. He also said he objected to the
plan’s proposal to change military retirement benefits.  The proposal would require Senate committees to produce
legislation to reduce spending and raise revenue. The Senate
Finance Committee would be instructed to lower tax rates,
eliminate the alternative minimum tax, and “reform” tax breaks
for health care, charitable giving and homeownership.  Tax Brackets  The outline calls for three individual income tax brackets
with a top rate between 23 percent and 29 percent, down from 35
percent today. The corporate rate would drop to a single rate of
between 23 percent and 29 percent, down from a top rate of 35
percent today. The tax system would need to retain its current
progressivity and retain benefits for low-income workers such as
the earned income tax credit.  Some lawmakers hold out hope for the compromise offered by
three Senate Republicans and three Democrats after months of
opposition to new revenue among  House Republicans .  “The fact that Republicans are coming out for revenues is
certainly something of a breakthrough. They haven’t done that
before,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
today. “We hope it shows they’re willing to compromise. But of
course we are running out of time. We need to assure the world
we will not default on our debt.”  While House Republican leaders indicated a willingness to
consider the proposal, they and other members of their fiscally
conservative caucus continue to stress opposition to more taxes.  “Tax increases aren’t going to fly in the House,” said
Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican and a member of
the Ways and Means Committee.  Backup Plan  That suggests a backup plan along the lines of one still
being worked out by Reid and Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  may offer the best chance for a compromise before Aug.
2, when the Treasury Department says the government will hit the
debt limit. The plan would give Obama $2.4 trillion in new
borrowing authority in installments.  Carney said that while the bigger accord is still possible,
“we have to make sure there’s a backup plan.”  More than a dozen Senate Republicans have signed a
bipartisan letter of support for the gang’s efforts, said
Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota.  Most Republican leaders have been noncommittal, yet have
signaled openness to some of the plan’s elements. Only one,
third-ranking Republican Senator  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee,
has endorsed the plan.  Step Forward  “In this Congress, with this president, from the
Republican point of view, this would be a big step forward,”
Alexander said.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released yesterday
showed that most Americans favor Obama’s approach to a
compromise rather than Republicans’ position. According to the
survey, conducted July 14-17, 58 percent backed Obama’s push for
reducing the deficit by $4 trillion over the next decade through
a combination of budget cuts and a tax increase, while 36
percent supported the Republican proposal to shave the deficit
by $2.5 trillion solely by reining in spending. The poll’s error
margin is plus-or-minus 3.1 percentage points.  The plan released yesterday by the Senate’s Gang of Six,
led by Republican Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia  and Democrat Mark Warner of  Virginia , proposes $500 billion in immediate spending
cuts.  It then lays out targets and enforcement mechanisms for
compelling future reductions, including between $85 billion and
$202 billion in Medicare and other health spending, $80 billion
from defense, $70 billion from education and labor programs and
$11 billion from agriculture programs, according to a summary.  Tax Overhaul  It calls for a broad tax overhaul that would raise $1
trillion by limiting breaks for health, charitable giving, home
ownership and retirement, while lowering individual and
corporate tax rates. It would scrap the Alternative Minimum Tax,
a system designed to prevent higher-earners from avoiding taxes.  Colorado Democratic Senator Michael Bennet said the
proposal is the “best bipartisan plan that we’ve seen -- the
only one.” Members of both parties in the Senate are pushing
for an agreement that avoids a government default, Bennet said
on Bloomberg TV.  “‘No’ is not an answer for the American people,” he said.  McConnell was noncommittal. “I don’t have an opinion
yet,” he told reporters yesterday.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, also tempered his reaction.
The “plan shares many similarities with the framework” Boehner
has discussed with Obama “but also appears to fall short in
some important areas,” Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Treasuries with credit-default swaps
for five years fell to the lowest in a week, declining 1.7 basis
points to 52.5 basis points as of 2:30 p.m. in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Reid said today he will schedule a test vote for July 23 on
a plan by House Republicans to raise the debt limit only if
Congress approves a balanced-budget constitutional amendment.
Senate Democrats say the plan won’t pass in their chamber. Reid
said the vote may be held earlier if members agree.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  