-- 
Defect in Sperm Cloaking Protein May Explain Puzzling Male Infertility

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-25T11:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/defect-in-sperm-cloaking-protein-may-explain-puzzling-male-infertility.html
(Corrects quote in the 11th paragraph in story published
July 20.)  Infertile men  may have a gene defect
that takes away a protein that cloaks and protects sperm against
a woman’s immune system while traveling to the egg, according to
a study that offers a new explanation for some male infertility.  Although the sperm from men with the gene variant look
normal under a microscope, they are less able to move through a
solution made to resemble human cervical mucus, researchers
reported today in  Science Translational Medicine . When the
cloaking protein was added to the sperm, they regained their
swimming abilities, the study found.  About 10 percent of women of childbearing age have
difficulty getting pregnant, and one in three cases involves
male infertility, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . In another third of cases, the cause of infertility
isn’t known. The discovery announced today may aid in those
cases, the authors of the study wrote.  “This is the kind of discovery that makes scientists
almost giddy with excitement,” said  Charles Bevins , the study
author and a microbiologist at the University of California,
Davis, said today during a conference call.  When scientists tried to clone the cloaking protein from
the sperm in lab studies, they noticed the mutation, Bevins
said.  The mutation  was so significant that no protein was made.
Also, it was a gene involved in reproductive success, where
mutations usually aren’t seen.  Earlier Treatment  In about 70 percent of infertile men, the sperm count and
quality don’t explain the infertility, said  Gary Cherr , the
paper’s senior author and a professor at the University of
 California , Davis. Knowing the cause of infertility may lead to
earlier treatment, allowing patients to bypass expensive
testing.  “We envision a clinical or home kit for detecting the
presence or absence” of the gene, Cherr said.  About 50 percent of men worldwide carry one defective copy
of the gene, called  DEFB126 , according to the report. These men
can still form normal sperm. Another 25 percent carry two
defective copies and produce sperm that are poor at swimming
through mucus.  By diagnosing the problem early, doctors can avoid certain
tests and switch to a fertility treatment that involves directly
implanting the sperm into an egg.  In a study cited by the report, 500 couples in  China  showed
that birth rates were 30 percent lower among those in which the
husband had two copies of the gene than among those with men who
had one or no mutations.  “The mutated gene reduced the rate of conception, so it
took them longer to achieve a pregnancy,” said  Scott Venners ,
another study author, and epidemiologist at Simon Fraser
University in Burnaby,  Canada , during today’s conference call.  Concept  The mutation doesn’t make it impossible for men to produce
viable sperm. Men with two mutated genes but otherwise  healthy
sperm  may very well impregnate their partner without help, said
Cherr. However, if these men have lower sperm counts, or less
mobile sperm, the gene defect may have “a dramatic impact.”  Human sperm is of poorer quality than some primate cousins
because humans tend to mate in a longer-term way than, for
instance, rhesus monkeys, where multiple males pair with a
female during one ovulation, said Ted Tollner, a study author
and an adjunct assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology
at the  University of California , Davis. That may be why the
mutation hasn’t disappeared, he said.  Also, there may be some advantage to having one mutated
gene and one normal one, Bevins said. Further research may
include seeing if the mutation changes anything in women.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 