-- 
Dell Is Said to Pass Over Brocade Before Acquiring Force10

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-07-20T20:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/dell-said-to-consider-acquiring-brocade-before-opting-for-force10-networks.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  passed over  Brocade
Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  to buy Force10 Networks Inc., a
person with knowledge of the matter said, expanding into the
Cisco Systems Inc.-led market for computer-networking gear.  Dell considered purchasing Brocade, a maker of switches for
data-storage networks, and opted instead for Force10 because its
technology is more advanced than Brocade’s, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Dell, based in  Round Rock , Texas, paid about $700 million for
Force10, two people familiar with the matter said.  Force10 lets Dell add networking products to an arsenal
that includes computers and servers. That helps it cater to
customers that are building data centers, the warehouses that
deliver storage and computing via the Internet. Force10, with
about $200 million in sales in the past year, also may lessen
Dell’s reliance on partners such as Cisco and Juniper Networks
Inc., analysts at Gleacher & Co. and ISI Group said.  “Dell has not historically been a major player in the
enterprise networking market,”  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI
Group, wrote in a research note. “Given Force10’s limited reach
in terms of sales coverage, Dell will be able to grow its
revenues due to its size and brand name.”  David Frink , a Dell spokesman, declined to comment on
Brocade. John Noh, a spokesman for San Jose, California-based
Brocade, also declined to comment.  Dell rose 10 cents to $17.52 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Brocade dropped 40 cents, or 6.4
percent, to $5.89.  Brocade’s Quest  Brocade has been looking for potential buyers with the
assistance of Frank Quattrone’s Qatalyst Partners for the past
two years, according to the person. Dell’s acquisition “most
likely means Dell will not be a likely acquirer of Brocade,”
Gleacher & Co. said in a report today.  Dell announced plans to buy Force10 today. Dell was advised
by Evercore Partners Inc., while Force10 was advised by Deutsche
Bank AG. Fenwick & West LLC was legal counsel to Force10, while
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP worked for Dell.  The deal comes as part of Dell’s announced intention to
expand in data management, or hardware and software that help
corporations catalog growing volumes of data.  “Instead of selling ingredients like servers and storage,
we’re selling the whole data center,” Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  said on June 29. “It’s the evolution of where
storage goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 