-- 
Dodd-Frank Oil Trade Data May Help Curb Speculators: One Year Later

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/dodd-frank-oil-trade-data-may-help-curb-speculators-one-year-later.html
As the chief operations officer of
 Midstates Petroleum Company  LLC, Ric Mayers keeps one of his two
computer screens locked on the price of crude oil.  As he watches futures rise and fall, he decides when the
Vernon, Ala.-based firm should load up or pull back on oil and
gasoline supplies and when to hedge its bets with oil
derivatives. The price swings can translate into 10-cent hikes
at the gas pump one day followed by 15-cent declines the next.  “It’s really out of control,” Mayers, 27, said in an
interview. “You don’t understand why it would be.”  The trade in oil derivatives has long been one of the
world’s most opaque markets, with buyers and sellers of swaps,
futures and forwards often not understanding who else was buying
what, how much and at what prices.  The Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul of financial regulation
enacted a year ago, aims for the first time to bring
transparency to oil derivatives as part of new rules for the
$601 trillion global swaps market. The U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
writing new regulations designed to limit risk and boost
transparency after the largely unregulated trading in
derivatives helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The law gives the CFTC authority to regulate all types of
oil-derivatives contracts. On July 7, the agency finalized a
rule to require swap data reporting on 46 physical commodities,
including crude oil. The data would lead to the first
comprehensive survey of the size and complexity of the market
for both cleared and non-cleared swaps, according to the agency.  ‘Police Reports’  “The police have to have the authority to check out the
whole marketplace and they should be filing police reports
regularly so the rest of us know what’s going wrong,”  John
Parsons , a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , said in an interview.  During the last three decades, oil derivatives grew into a
multitrillion-dollar business cleaved into separate and unequal
markets with traders such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  straddling both.  On one side, futures contracts tied to West Texas
Intermediate and Brent crude have traded in  New York  and  London 
with listed prices, clearinghouses to reduce risk and CFTC
regulation. On the other side, unregulated over-the-counter
swaps ballooned, trading off-exchange directly between buyers
and sellers and sometimes outside clearinghouses.  Different Types  Companies trade different types of oil derivatives in
different markets. Oil and gas companies execute 33 percent of
their transactions with exchange-traded derivatives, while
airlines conduct only one percent of their trades on exchanges,
according to a June report by  Greenwich Associates  based on a
survey of 309 corporations.  For example, Chevron and ConocoPhillips, the second- and
third-biggest U.S. energy companies by market capitalization,
trade futures, options and swaps, according to annual reports
filed with the  SEC . Chevron trades derivatives on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , IntercontinentalExchange and directly with
financial institutions and other oil and gas companies in
private contracts, according to its annual report.  Meanwhile, the majority of Southwest Airlines Inc.’s more
than 600 financial derivatives contracts to hedge fuel prices
between 2011 and 2014 are traded with third-parties in the over-
the-counter market, the airline said in its 2010 annual report.  Lloyd Avram, a Chevron spokesman, and Romelia Hinojosa,
spokeswoman for ConocoPhillips, and Laurel Moffat, a spokeswoman
for Southwest Airlines, declined requests for interviews about
the use of derivatives.  $5.5 Billion  The five biggest U.S. bank derivatives dealers also trade a
mix of commodity contracts. JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  trade
futures, forwards, exchange-traded and over-the-counter options
and swaps to hedge or speculate in  commodities markets ,
according to  quarterly financial statements  filed by the bank
holding companies with the  Federal Reserve .  U.S. bank holding companies recorded $5.5 billion in
revenue in 2010 on trading of commodity derivatives, according
to a  report  by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Now the CFTC is taking steps to bring transparency across
the range of markets for derivatives. “Size is really hard to
estimate,”  Talib Dhanji , a partner at Ernst & Young, said in an
interview. “Nobody has actually put it together.”  Data Declined  In the past, getting such data has been difficult at best.
A  task force  on commodity markets organized by the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  in 2010 sought
disaggregated data on oil swaps to “enable market participants
to make better informed, more rational decisions.” Such data
“would likely benefit the whole financial system,” the task
force concluded  in a report .  The  Bank for International Settlements , the Basel-based
organization that estimates the size of the over-the-counter
 derivatives market , declined the request to publish the oil
data, according to the task force report.  The data that will now be collected by the CFTC may lead to
reports similar to ones the agency has put out on the futures
market since 1962, and weekly since 2000. While Dodd-Frank
requires the agency to publish data on the swaps market at least
every six months, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  indicated a weekly
timetable is possible.  “The market would very much benefit if we could strive
towards similar periodic reporting of aggregate data,” Gensler
said on July 7.  Position Limits  That data will also help the CFTC determine whether and how
to limit speculation in oil and other commodities markets. A so-
called position limits proposal, issued in January, has been
among the most contentious Dodd-Frank rules at the CFTC and
spurred more than 13,000 public comments from supporters such as
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents such as  Barclays Capital .  Limits on single months and all-months-combined positions
for futures and swaps should be postponed, Brent Harris,
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
a March letter to the CFTC.  “As a practical matter, the CFTC does not have any
meaningful data on the size of the commodity swap market, and it
would be premature to impose a position limit regime without
fully understanding these markets,” Harris wrote.  At Midstates Petroleum, Mayers joined in a petroleum
marketers’ letter-writing campaign to encourage the CFTC to
adopt the limits.  “Massive positions held by speculators have contributed to
price volatility that is simply unrelated to supply and demand
fundamentals,” Mayers said in a March letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  