-- 
Euro Gains Versus Dollar on Bets Europeans Will Reach Sovereign-Debt Deal

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-20T21:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/dollar-weakens-as-stocks-rise-on-optimism-for-u-s-european-debt-solution.html
The euro advanced to the highest
level in almost a week versus the dollar as optimism increased
that European politicians will take steps toward a resolution of
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis at tomorrow’s summit.  Canada ’s dollar approached a three-year high after the
central bank raised its inflation forecast, increasing
speculation it may boost  interest rates . The dollar fell against
the yen as a bipartisan Senate plan to cut the U.S. deficit and
increase the debt limit faced resistance from House Republicans.  “Investors are trying to listen to what euro officials are
saying and hoping we get some euro-positive news on Thursday,”
said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the online
trader GFT Forex in New York. “It shows they’re slowly easing
into long euro-dollar positions.” A long is a bet a currency
may gain in value.  The 17-nation euro climbed 0.4 percent to $1.4215 at 5 p.m.
in  New York , from $1.4156 yesterday, after touching $1.4240, the
highest level since July 14. The euro was little changed at
111.99 yen. The dollar decreased 0.5 percent to 78.78 yen, from
79.18.  Canada’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 94.74 cents versus
the greenback, compared with 94.46 cents on April 29, the
strongest level since November 2007.  The central bank’s  Monetary Policy  report said inflation
will average 2.8 percent from July through September and slow to
1.9 percent in the second quarter of next year. Monetary
stimulus will be withdrawn as the economy improves, Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated at a press conference.  Euro-Franc Volatility  The one-month implied volatility for the euro-franc
 exchange rate  may drop from the highest level since November
2008 on the prospects for a European deficit accord, according
to Henrik Gullberg, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  “The volatility is at elevated levels and is reflecting
the sell-off we’ve seen,” Gullberg said. “Given that we are
now getting relatively optimistic headlines coming out of
 Europe , this looks way too elevated.”  The common currency dropped 0.1 percent to 1.1653 Swiss
francs after declining on July 18 to 1.1374, the lowest level
since its 1999 debut.  European leaders are preparing for the second meeting in a
month to resolve the Greek debt crisis, which pushed the euro to
$1.3837 last week, the lowest since March. French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  were to
meet today to prepare for tomorrow’s meeting.  ‘Broad Agreements’  “We’re looking for broad agreements and not specifics,”
said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings
Plc in New York. “We don’t know what’s going to happen, but it
could be that the most the leaders are able to do is to come up
with these broad agreements.”  The yield on the 10-year Italian bond fell 13 basis points
to 5.60 percent, and the Spanish 10-year bond yield was 14 basis
points lower at 5.96 percent. The yields on both securities
surged to records July 18.  European leaders’ efforts to calm the region’s debt crisis
will probably pave the way for a rally in higher-yielding
currencies before a recession worse than in 2008 starts to bite,
according to FX Concepts LLC, which manages $8 billion.  Policy makers “are going to kick the can further down the
road” at tomorrow’s summit, FX Concepts Chairman and Founder
 John Taylor  said today in an interview in  London . “It looks
like we’re going to have a sort of risk rally,” which will lift
commodity prices, supporting the Australian and Canadian
dollars, he said. Gold may reach $1,900 an ounce by October,
Taylor said.  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which gauges
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.5 percent to 74.834.  The Obama administration signaled it may accept a short-
term increase in the U.S. debt limit only if it’s combined with
a major agreement to cut the deficit.  President  Barack Obama  “must have a firm commitment to
something big” on cutting the deficit before he would approve a
short-term rise in the debt ceiling to allow time for the plan
to be enacted, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters.
The president plans to meet with top congressional Democrats
today as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the $14.3 trillion debt
limit nears.  Obama endorsed yesterday a plan from the Gang of Six, a
bipartisan group of U.S. senators, that may help speed up
negotiations on the deficit and raising the debt ceiling.  Republican View  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  called the Gang
of Six proposal a “useful addition to the budget debate.” The
Wisconsin Republican is critical of the plan for containing new
 tax revenue  and says it doesn’t do enough to rein in spending.  The  New Zealand dollar  dropped from a record as a technical
indicator used by traders showed the currency had risen too fast
and was poised to change direction.  The kiwi’s 14-day stochastic oscillator against the
greenback climbed to 96, above the 80 threshold that suggests to
some traders an asset’s price has risen too quickly. New
Zealand’s dollar traded at 85.62 U.S. cents after reaching 85.73
cents yesterday, the all-time high. The Australian currency fell
0.2 percent to $1.0750.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  