-- 
Hurricane Dora Strengthens Off Mexico as Tropical Storm Cindy Intensifies

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-07-21T07:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/dora-may-intensify-into-a-major-pacific-hurricane-by-tomorrow-off-mexico.html
Dora, a major hurricane in the
eastern Pacific, may strengthen off  Mexico  today. In the
Atlantic, Tropical Storm Cindy intensified while Bret weakened.  Dora, a Category 4 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale is expected to strengthen today before weakening
tomorrow, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said in an advisory
issued at 11 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time.  The hurricane was located about 210 miles (340 kilometers)
south-southwest of Manzanillo, Mexico, and was heading west-
northwest at 15 miles per hour.  Maximum sustained winds increased to near 135 mph and
hurricane force-winds extend outward 40 miles, the center said.
Mexico’s government has discontinued a tropical storm watch for
its southwest coast from Lazaro Cardenas to Cabo Corrientes as
the storm moves offshore.  A storm reaches hurricane status when winds quicken to 74
mph. A category 4 hurricane has sustained winds of 131-155 mph.
A disturbance becomes tropical when it develops cyclonic
activity and becomes a named storm when sustained winds reach 39
mph.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Cindy was about 800 miles
east-northeast of  Bermuda  and is gathering strength as it moves
northeast at 23 mph with top winds near 50 mph, the center said.
Cindy poses no threat to land and should weaken in a day or so
when it hits colder water, the  center said .  Bret, the second named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , may become a tropical depression by today, the center
said. Winds have dropped to 40 mph from 45 mph. The system was
235 miles southeast of Cape Hatteras,  North Carolina , and moving
northeast at 9 mph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  