-- 
Lebanon Said to Hire Blom Bank, Citigroup to Refinance $950 Million Debt

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-20T10:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/lebanon-said-to-hire-blom-citigroup-to-refinance-950-million.html
Lebanon plans to hire  Blom Bank SAL (BLOM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to advise on refinancing about $950 million
in Eurobonds and interest payments due next month, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Lebanon’s  finance ministry  and the banks will sign the
agreement either today or tomorrow ahead of meetings with
investors next week, the people said, declining to be identified
as details of the transaction haven’t been made public. The Arab
nation has a $750 million bond maturing Aug. 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government also needs to pay
about $200 million in interest next month, according to the
Association of Banks in Lebanon.  The finance ministry declined to comment on the matter and
Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi hasn’t returned several calls
seeking comment. Blom spokesman Alexandre Mouradian declined to
comment as did a banker at Citigroup in  London .  Lebanon had public debt of $52.6 billion at the end of last
year, or 137 percent of gross domestic product, which it
accumulated while rebuilding the country after a  15-year civil
war  that ended in 1990 and a month-long conflict with  Israel  in
2006. The debt is forecast to rise to $55.3 billion this year,
according to finance ministry figures. The debt-to-GDP ratio has
declined from a high of 180 percent at the end of 2006.  Lebanon sold $1.2 billion of 10-year Eurobonds last year to
refinance debt that matured in March 2010. It also sold about
$725 million of Eurobonds in November to refinance debt maturing
that month, for which demand came to three times the amount
offered.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Lebanon’s domestic and
foreign-currency bonds at B1, four levels below investment
grade. Standard & Poor’s rates Lebanon at B, five levels below
investment grade.  A Eurobond is a bond issued and traded outside the country
whose currency it is denominated in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  