-- 
EBay Profit Drops After Acquisition Costs Eat Into Earnings

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-21T00:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ebay-forecast-tops-estimates-as-paypal-acquisitions-fuel-website-s-growth.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
online marketplace, reported a drop in second-quarter net income
and forecast lower-than-anticipated earnings, a sign its
acquisition spree is weighing on profits and margins.  Excluding some costs, third-quarter profit will be 46 cents
to 47 cents a share this quarter, the company said today in a
statement. That missed the 48 cents projected by analysts,
according to Bloomberg data.  Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, leading a turnaround
of the company, has made at least nine acquisitions in the past
year to expand into new businesses. Costs tied to the $2.4
billion purchase of GSI Commerce Inc., announced in March, cut
into net income. Still, EBay’s PayPal business surged last
quarter, and Donahoe’s comeback plan showed signs of progress,
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BCG Partners in  New York .  “It wasn’t a blowout,” he said. “It’s nice, steady,
incremental improvements.” Gillis recommends buying shares of
EBay, which he doesn’t own personally.  EBay fell 47 cents to $32.70 in extended trading after the
report. Shares of the  San Jose , California-based company, which
have climbed 19 percent this year, closed at $33.17 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  In-Store Payments  EBay forecast third-quarter sales of $2.85 billion to $2.95
billion, topping the $2.71 billion estimated by analysts.  Future growth may be driven by in-store payment products,
which EBay is testing with retailers this year, Donahoe said in
an interview. The company plans to roll them out to more
merchants in 2012.  These products may include the ability to pay with wireless
systems, such as near field communication, or NFC, a technology
that lets phone swipes take the place of credit cards.  “PayPal will work with all NFC-related systems,” Donahoe
said. “Retailers are pulling PayPal into their stores, because
they realize their consumers want a seamless experience.”  EBay’s main e-commerce site, meanwhile, has continued to
lose ground to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  -- even after the company
revamped its search engine and lowered listing fees for sellers.
In June, it drew 65.5 million visitors in the U.S., a drop of
2.3 percent from the previous year, according to Reston,
Virginia-based research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Amazon increased its
visitors 26 percent to 95.8 million.  Tighter Margins  Margins in the e-commerce business have narrowed because of
acquisition costs, EBay Chief Financial Officer Bob Swan said on
a conference call with analysts.  PayPal remains one of the biggest sources of growth for
EBay, with revenue from the division rising 31 percent to $1.07
billion last quarter. The unit accounts for 39 percent of EBay’s
sales and eventually will be larger than the company’s e-
commerce sites, Donahoe has said.  “There’s two things that make PayPal work: the number of
users and the frequency of users,” Gillis said. “When you have
both levers working, that’s a great thing. It’s slowly creeping
up to becoming half the company.”  Second-quarter net income fell to $283.4 million, or 22
cents a share, from $412.2 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier.
Expenses from the GSI deal, which EBay is using to build ties
with big retailers, crimped profit in the period. Sales climbed
to $2.76 billion, compared with the $2.61 billion predicted by
analysts.  Zong Acquisition  EBay is adding to its stable of mobile-payment services
with the $240 million purchase of Zong Inc., a deal announced
this month.  The mobile-payment market is an increasing focus for EBay
as rivals such as Google Inc., Visa Inc. and Square Inc. roll
out their own programs. EBay’s purchase of Zong, a startup that
lets users charge online purchases to their wireless carrier
bills, could help PayPal compete in the emerging market for
transactions made on the go, said Ken Sena, a New York-based
analyst at Evercore Partners.  “PayPal is positioned well when you pay for things in a
store using a mobile phone,” said Sena, who doesn’t own shares
of EBay and has an “equalweight” rating on the shares. “For
investors, it’s a reason why they want to own EBay.”  Active Users  PayPal will process more than $3 billion this year on
mobile devices, up from just $750 million last year, the company
said. The service now has more than 100 million active user
accounts.  In May, EBay said it had posted a $1.4 billion return on
its original investment in Skype Technologies SA after Microsoft
Corp. agreed to purchase the video-calling service for $8.5
billion. Former EBay CEO  Meg Whitman  led the acquisition of
Skype for $2.6 billion in 2005. Two years later, the company
wrote down its value by $900 million. Donahoe sold 70 percent of
the service to investors in 2009, a deal that valued Skype at
$2.75 billion.  EBay was founded in 1995 as an online auction site. After
auctions fell out of favor with many  Internet users , Donahoe
began steering the company toward fixed-price listings. EBay
also owns StubHub.com and Shopping.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  