-- 
ECB’s Stark Heaps Pressure on European Governments to Find Greek Solution

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-20T14:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ecb-s-stark-heaps-pressure-on-european-governments-to-find-greek-solution.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark heaped pressure on politicians to
find a solution to the sovereign debt crisis at a summit
tomorrow that doesn’t involve any form of Greek debt default.  Stark told  Germany ’s  Boersen-Zeitung  newspaper that
governments agreed last month to avoid a selective default and
urged them to stick to that commitment. He also said the
Frankfurt-based central bank won’t change its rules or take on
any more risk if the private sector is involved in a Greek
bailout. The ECB confirmed the remarks.  “I expect state and government leaders this week to stop
fiddling and give a clear signal to markets -- you can rely on
 Europe ,” Stark said. “Europe is at a crossroads. What the
leaders decide at their summit will have a medium to long-term
impact on the functioning of the currency union.”  European leaders meet in Brussels tomorrow to hammer out a
second Greek aid package and stem a 21-month debt crisis that is
now threatening to engulf Spain and  Italy . The main sticking
point is how to get bondholders and banks to foot a share of the
bill without triggering a default.  While Germany is reluctant to keep forcing its taxpayers to
support Greece and has signaled a restructuring may be
unavoidable, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  says any default
risks sparking a meltdown on a par with the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  ECB Rules  “Whoever wants to involve private creditors in the
solution must be aware of the consequences,” Stark said. “At
the end of the day, the involvement of the private sector could
be even more costly to taxpayers than going without it” as it
may result in governments having to recapitalize Greek banks.  Stark reiterated that the ECB won’t accept defaulted Greek
 government bonds  as collateral. “We won’t change our rules and
we won’t increase our risk because of the possible involvement
of private creditors,” he said.  It’s “technically possible” to involve the private sector
without triggering a selective default or a default, Stark said,
noting that the ECB has called for the European Financial
Stability Facility to be given the power to purchase bonds on
the secondary market. Even then, there’s no guarantee that
markets wouldn’t view this as a  credit event , he said.  Stark said that in June, governments “decided to avoid a
selective default.” They should not now engage in “political
yo-yoing,” he said. “Our assumption is that the governments
hold to what they have decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  