-- 
Ecolab Agrees to Buy Nalco for $5.4 Billion to Add Water-Treatment Service

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-20T20:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ecolab-agrees-to-buy-nalco-for-5-4-billion-to-add-water-treatment-service.html
Ecolab Inc. (ECL) , the largest maker of
cleaning chemicals for hotels and restaurants, agreed to acquire
 Nalco Holding Co. (NLC)  for $5.4 billion in cash and stock to add
industrial water-treatment services.  Ecolab is offering $38.80 a share or 0.7005 of a share for
each Nalco share,  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Ecolab said today in
a statement. Ecolab will use about $1.6 billion in cash and
issue about 68.9 million shares to pay for the deal. The bid is
34 percent above Nalco’s closing share price yesterday on the
New York Stock Exchange.  Chief Executive Officer Douglas M. Baker is diversifying
Ecolab’s base of food-service, hotel and health-care customers
with water-treatment sales to energy and industrial companies.
The acquisition will help Ecolab expand in a world where 40
percent of the population will be living in water-scarce regions
by 2025, Baker said on a conference call.  “It positions us very well to meet the increasing demand
for water and the water-scarcity challenges that the world is
going to face,” Baker, 52, said on the call.  Nalco is defending itself against lawsuits related to the
use of its Corexit dispersant to help clean up the  oil spill 
from BP Plc’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year.
Baker said BP has provided Naperville, Illinois-based Nalco with
“very strong” indemnification against the claims.  Prior Discussions  Nalco CEO Erik Fyrwald, who will continue to run Nalco
units after the merger, said on the call the decision to merge
evolved from discussions with Baker about potential
collaborations. He declined to say whether he sought competing
bids.  Nalco rose $7, or 24 percent, to $35.87 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York trading. The shares dropped 9.6 percent this year before
today. Ecolab fell $4.08, or 7.4 percent, to $51.31, the biggest
drop since December 2008.  “The acquisition would shift Ecolab’s center of gravity
towards industrial end markets and away from the restaurant and
lodging exposure that investors discuss most often,” Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co. who rates
both companies “hold,” said today in a report.  Ecolab has indentified $150 million of cost savings from
the combination, which was unanimously approved by both
companies’ boards. The takeover will add 10 cents to earnings
per share in 2012 and “significantly more” in subsequent
years, Baker said. Adjusted earnings next year will be about $3
a share for the merged companies, a figure Baker called
“conservative.” The deal is expected to close in the fourth
quarter, subject to approval by regulators and Nalco investors.  Total Sales  Combined revenue of $11 billion will grow at the upper end
of the 6 percent to 8 percent rate that is forecast by both
companies, Baker said.  “We expect stronger growth than either company can achieve
individually,” Baker said, estimating $500 million in
additional annual sales growth from the merger.  The transaction is valued at $8.1 billion, including
assumption of $2.7 billion of net debt. Ecolab will refinance
Nalco’s debt at a 3.5 percent blended rate including costs, and
incremental interest will be about $165 million, Chief Financial
Officer Steven L. Fritze said on the call. The combined company
will have investment-grade credit ratings, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Nalco’s debt Ba2,
two levels below investment grade, said it may raise the rating
because of the merger. Ecolab, which is rated A2, five levels
above junk, may be downgraded, Moody’s said.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Nalco fell 202 basis points to 118
basis points as of 4:11 p.m. in  New York , according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group. The contracts, which are trading at the
lowest since July 2005, according to data provider CMA,
typically drop as investor confidence in a company’s
creditworthiness improves.  Ecolab is paying 10.9 times Nalco’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared with
the 9.7 median multiple of eight comparable deals announced in
the past eight years, according to Bloomberg data.  “While possibly a shrewd strategic move, it is a
relatively full price being paid for Nalco,” Edward H. Yang, an
Austin, Texas-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who rates
Ecolab “outperform” and doesn’t rate Nalco, said today in a
report. “It is unclear whether Nalco makes Ecolab better.”  Increasing Ecolab’s size will “mute” the impact of
Nalco’s exposure to more cyclical end markets, CEO Baker said.  Breakup Fees  Ecolab would pay Nalco a fee of $275 million to back out of
the acquisition, and Nalco would pay a termination fee of $135
million, according to a regulatory filing.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and law firm Baker & McKenzie
advised Ecolab. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and law firm Cravath
Swaine & Moore LLP advised Nalco.  Ecolab was founded as Economics Laboratory in 1924. A maker
of rug cleaners for hotels, it became a leading seller of
dishwasher detergent in the 1950s, held an initial public
offering in 1957 and changed its name to Ecolab in 1986,
according to data from Hoover’s Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 