-- 
EDF Delays New Reactor at Flamanville to 2016 after Fukushima Stress Tests

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-20T17:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/edf-delays-flamanville-to-2016-on-fukushima-deadly-accidents.html
Electricite de France SA,  Europe ’s
biggest generator, said stress tests following the Fukushima
atomic disaster and fatal accidents have raised the cost and
delayed the start of its new reactor at Flamanville in Normandy.  The EPR will cost around 6 billion euros ($8.5 million) and
start selling power commercially in 2016 compared with a
previous estimate of about 5 billion euros and 2014, according
to an e-mailed statement today from the Paris-based company.  The plant is a showcase for the ‘third-generation’ nuclear
technology the utility wants to export globally. EDF is
developing EPRs in  China  and has plans for more in the U.K. and
the U.S. The 1,650-megawatt plant has run over its initial
budget of 3.3 billion euros and 2012 startup target.  Two people died at the EPR building site in separate
incidents, one of which suspended civil engineering work for
weeks, “considerably slowing down progress” this year,
according to the state-controlled generator.  France ’s nuclear watchdog is carrying out so-called stress
tests on reactors and other nuclear installations like
Flamanville to determine whether they can withstand natural
disasters and cuts to power supply and cooling systems after the
meltdowns at Fukushima.  “The delay doesn’t come as a surprise,” Yohann Terry, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, said by telephone. “EDF
has underperformed for months in part because of worries about
nuclear projects.”  Public Consultation  EDF rose 1.7 percent to 26.425 euros in trading today. The
shares have dropped 14 percent since the start of the year.  The delay in completing the reactor stems from EDF’s review
of how much work is left to be done as well as a decision to
hold regular public site meetings and change management and
supervision of the project, according to EDF’s statement.
“Valuable feedback” will be obtained for planned EPR reactors
in the U.K., it said.  EDF executives in the past have blamed delays at
Flamanville and cost overruns on the fact that the reactor is a
“first of a kind.” Rival French nuclear builder Areva SA has
experienced its own delays and budget overruns building an EPR
in  Finland .  EDF operates 58 nuclear reactors in France and 16 in the
U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  