-- 
Medvedev Signs Law Restricting Russian Beer, Alcohol Sales

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-07-20T09:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/medvedev-signs-law-restricting-russian-beer-alcohol-sales-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
approved a measure curbing the sale of alcoholic beverages such
as beer, attempting to reduce illegal production and alcoholism.  Medvedev signed the  legislation , the Kremlin  said  today in
an e-mailed statement.  The law will control beer production and sales because it’s
an alcoholic beverage, and will prohibit beer sales from kiosks
by 2013, according to the text, available on the Russian
parliament’s website. The  law  also restricts advertising for
alcoholic drinks, bans stores from selling alcohol from 11 p.m.
to 8 a.m. and establishes licensing for alcohol transportation.  “The law brings some order into the sale of beer,” said
Vadim Drobiz, director of the Center for Federal and Regional
Alcohol Market Studies, speaking by phone. “The restrictions
will not reduce beer consumption.”  Russians consumed about 12.5 liters of alcohol a person
last year, with beer accounting for about 4 liters and vodka for
more than 5 liters, Drobiz said. Kiosks sell at least 30 percent
of beer consumed in  Russia , he added.  The law will reduce illegal production, said Dmitry Dobrov,
chairman of  Russia’s Union of Liquor Producers . The group’s
members make more than half of the country’s liquor production.
The amount of illegal spirits has declined to as low as 20
percent from 45 percent before 2008, when Russia imposed federal
regulations on the industry, Dobrov said. The new rules could
reduce the amount to the level seen in other  consumer goods , of
about 2 percent to 5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  