-- 
Egypt to Announce Election Date Before End of September

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-20T19:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/egypt-to-announce-election-date-before-end-of-september-2-.html
Egypt  will announce a date for
parliamentary elections before the end of September, said Major
General Mamdouh Shahine, a member of the ruling military
council.  The first legislative vote since the ouster of former
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February will take place before the
end of the year, Shahine told reporters today in Cairo. It will
be held in three phases, each separated by 15 days, he said. The
military council will hand over authority to an elected
president, he said.  “There was a consensus by everyone to delay the elections
and that they don’t take place in September and that only the
procedures start in September with the vote to follow after
this,” Shahine said. “We will hold free, fair and transparent
elections that will serve as a model among all countries.”  The ballot boxes will be supervised by the judiciary and
the army will only provide security, he said.  The elections, originally due in September, were postponed
on July 13 in an attempt to appease protesters who have camped
in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  for almost two weeks. Many activists
had called for delaying the vote, saying holding elections so
soon would benefit established forces such as the Muslim
Brotherhood at the expense of the young protesters who were the
main driver of the revolt.  Parties Organizing  Shahine said the delay would allow the established parties
to organize and the new ones to gain ground.  Parliament will have 504 elected members and 10 appointed
ones. Half of parliament’s seats will be contested through
slates of candidates and the other half by individual
candidates, he said. Individual members will run in 120
constituencies and 58 constituencies will be contested by the
slate system. More than one party can strike alliances and run
on the same slate.  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf made changes to his cabinet in
response to the ongoing protests in central Cairo. The changes
didn’t include the ministers of justice and interior, the two
responsible for speedy prosecution of Mubarak-era officials and
restructuring of the police force.  The sit-in is the longest since the one that lasted 18 days
and culminated in the departure of Mubarak on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  