-- 
Egypt’s First Bond Sale Since Uprising May Cushion Debt Costs: Arab Credit

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-21T12:38:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/egypt-bond-sale-may-hedge-against-post-election-instability-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s first bond sale since the
popular uprising that ousted its president in February may help
cushion the country against higher borrowing costs after the
year-end elections should political instability persist.  The most populous Arab country will auction two-year bonds
valued at 3 billion Egyptian pounds ($504 million) on July 25,
the first issuance since Jan. 18. The notes may yield 13.25
percent, according to the median estimate of seven analysts and
investors surveyed by Bloomberg. The average yield at a sale of
one-year treasury bills today was 12.781 percent.  “The government could be trying to hedge its position in
case the elections don’t provide the expected stability,” Nour
Mohei-el-Din, assistant general manager for treasury at BNP
Paribas Egypt, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s
locking in a rate that may be lower than that of future sales
should borrowing costs increase after the elections.”  Egypt’s  Finance Ministry  has canceled sales of 19.5 billion
pounds in treasury bonds ranging in maturity from three years to
seven years amid the worst political crisis in three decades.
The country’s reliance on short-term debt sales caused treasury-
bill yields to surge to the highest levels since 2008.  Protesters Return  Next week’s sale is the first of  planned auctions  for a
combined 22 billion pounds in two-year fixed-rate, two-year
floating-rate and three-year bonds this quarter. The amount
represents 15 percent of the government’s fund-raising plan for
the period, with the rest coming via sales of treasury bills,
according to the  Finance Ministry . That compares with 19 percent
in the same quarter last year.  Yields on Egyptian t-bills declined today for a fifth
auction. The government met its target of raising 5 billion
pounds.  Protesters have returned to the streets in Cairo and other
cities to demand faster political and economic changes, and
speedy trials of government officials that served under
President  Hosni Mubarak  for alleged corruption and the killing
of protesters in the uprising. The ruling military council this
month delayed parliamentary elections to October or November
from September.  Egypt’s local-currency borrowing costs surged since the
start of the revolt, with the yield on one-year T-bills climbing
239 basis points, or 2.39 percentage points, to a 31-month peak
of 12.98 percent at an auction on June 23. The central bank
canceled a sale of similar-maturity bills the following week
because investors demanded yields it deemed too high. Bidders
accepted lower rates at the two auctions since.  Local Lenders  The extra yield investors demand to hold Egyptian debt over
U.S. Treasuries rose 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point,
this month to 317, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global
Emerging-Market Index. Middle Eastern debt yields on average
rose 14 basis points to 346, the data show.  Foreign investors sold 34.7 billion pounds of T-bills in
the first four months of the year, according to the most recent
central bank data, leaving local lenders to finance the
country’s weekly borrowing.  The average yield on Egypt’s three-month securities surged
244 basis points to 11.934 percent since the start of the
revolt. The yield on similar securities sold on July 18 by
Bahrain, the Arab country that needed the help of Saudi Arabian
troops to end an uprising, was 0.67 percent.  Keep ‘Foreigners Away’  The cost of protecting Egyptian government debt against
default for five-years rose 17 basis points this month to 332
today, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That compares with 182 for  Tunisia ,
the other North African country whose president was overthrown
by popular uprising.  “The uncertainty around the politics and short and medium-
term disturbances may keep foreigners away” from next week’s
issuance, Anthony Simond, emerging markets investment analyst at
London-based Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said by phone July
19. “Even pre-revolution, foreigners were still mostly buying
T-bills because the bonds were not liquid enough.”  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf this week changed about a dozen
members of his Cabinet to quell the biggest protests across the
country since those that called for the ouster of Mubarak. The
changes included replacing Finance Minister  Samir Radwan ,
criticized for his ties to Mubarak’s former ruling party, with
Hazem El Beblawi, an economist who works as an adviser for the
Arab Monetary Fund in the  United Arab Emirates .  ‘Power Vacuum’  “Political events are taking the front seat in Egypt and
that’s what will determine the pricing on the issuance,” said
Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head of  Middle East  and North
Africa investment at Schroder Investment Management Ltd., which
oversees about $230 billion worldwide. “It’s a question of how
long the power vacuum will last,” he said July 19.  Changes to the Cabinet, broadcasting of trials of some
former government officials and purging the police force of 669
officers, including some accused of violence against protesters,
have failed to end a sit-in in  Tahrir Square  that has continued
for almost two weeks.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond due
April 2020 fell 2 basis points to 5.61 percent at 2:10 p.m. in
Cairo, down from a six-week high of 5.78 percent on July 14,
before Sharaf’s Cabinet was reshuffled. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards for the pound rose to 6.62 per dollar this
month, reflecting an expected 10 percent decline in currency’s
value.  The bond sale “is a gamble, but they had to come back to
the market at some point, especially the local  bond market ,”
Moustafa Assal, head of fixed-income at Cairo-based Beltone
Financial Holding SAE, said July 19 by phone. “The political
instability is part of life now and it will be for the
foreseeable future, so the state has to make the necessary
adjustments to sell the debt it needs.”  Slowing Growth  Economic growth may slow to 2 percent in the next 12 to 18
months, because of the decline in foreign investment and
tourism, Moody’s Investors Service said in April. Growth may be
1.6 percent in the fiscal year that started this month,
according to the median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with the government’s forecast of 3.2
percent compared with the previous fiscal year’s 2.6 percent.
Prior governments had said 7 percent is needed to keep
joblessness from rising.  Fitch Ratings  cut Egypt’s credit worthiness one level, to
BB, on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels below investment grade.
Moody’s said in June the “political environment” was the main
source of uncertainty. It lowered its rating of Egypt twice this
year to Ba3, three levels below investment grade.  “The instability has and will continue to increase the
 risk premium  for Egypt,” said BNP’s Mohei-el-Din. “The longer
elections are held off, the longer foreign investors will be
delayed from returning and the higher the likelihood rates will
go up in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Dubai at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  