-- 
Tele2 Chief Foresees Norwegian Operators’ Mergers as Phone Market Matures

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-20T13:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tele2-chief-foresees-norwegian-operators-mergers-as-phone-market-matures.html
Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , Sweden’s second-largest
telephone company, sees the possibility of consolidation in
Norway as smartphones become more widespread in Nordic markets.  The industry in Norway probably has at least one too many
mobile-service providers and also has an excess of mobile
virtual network operators, who rent capacity from the
infrastructure owners, Chief Executive Officer Mats Granryd said
in a phone interview. Mergers are less likely in Sweden, where
all four operators are doing reasonably well, he said.  “Norway is a good three-operator market, and right now
there’s four operators and a whole bunch of MVNOs,” Granryd
said. “Either we’re going to sell or we’re going to buy. But
something needs to give in  Norway .”  Second-quarter net income fell 32 percent from a year
earlier to 1.11 billion kronor ($172 million), Stockholm-based
Tele2 said today in a  statement . Earnings before interest and
taxes at Tele2’s Norwegian mobile unit plunged 95 percent as
price competition intensified, with the drop outpacing a 9.2
percent Ebit decline at the Swedish mobile business.  Tele2 cut its Swedish mobile revenue outlook to “mid-
single digits” from “high single digits,” a revision that
Granryd said stemmed partly from an accounting change to report
only services and exclude installment purchases of mobile
handsets as well as from a slowing market expansion.  ‘More Normal’  “We have now lived with smartphones for a year in  Sweden ,
and we can see first euphoria is starting to become more normal
behavior,” Granryd said. “The revenue growth of new users
coming in is slightly more moderate than earlier users of
smartphones.”  Smartphones account for 88 percent of the Tele2’s handset
sales, and 35 percent of its customers now use the devices, the
CEO said on a conference call.  Nordic operators that formerly subsidized mobile phone
purchases through their service contracts are separating them
under new billing systems as handset prices drop. Customers from
Tele2’s discount service, Comviq, are starting to buy cheap
smartphones from vendors including  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and move to
postpaid plans, mixing with higher-spending users and
contributing to the dilution in growth, Granryd said.  Tele2 fell as much as 1.6 percent to 126.50 kronor and was
down 0.9 percent as of 2:59 p.m. in  Stockholm .  Sales Decline  Second-quarter sales slipped 5.1 percent to 10 billion
kronor, missing estimates, as the Swedish currency rose against
the euro and the ruble. Analysts had expected net income of 1.19
billion kronor on sales of 10.11 billion kronor, according to
average estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company raised forecasts for its Russian business,
saying that it plans to serve 21 million subscribers by the end
of the year compared with an earlier prediction of 20 million to
21 million. The margin for earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization may be as high as 40 percent of
sales, versus a forecast of as much as 39 percent.  Russia  accounts for 61 percent of Tele2’s customers
worldwide. The Swedish company is the fourth-largest mobile
operator in Russia, with a market share of less than 10 percent.
It sells prepaid voice connections to customers at supermarkets
and market stalls and doesn’t yet offer mobile broadband for
data connections.  Granryd reiterated that the company is seeking
opportunities to expand in Russia through licenses or
acquisitions, declining to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  