-- 
EMC Earnings Surge on Increased Demand for Storage Computers

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-20T20:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/emc-second-quarter-earnings-rise-28-on-storage-computer-demand.html
EMC Corp., the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, reported a 28 percent gain in second-
quarter earnings as companies ramped up spending on data
products and software for Internet-based computing.  Net income rose to $546.5 million, or 24 cents a share,
from $426.2 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier, the Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
some costs, profit was 35 cents, beating by one cent the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  EMC is seeing increased demand for mid-priced storage
products, helping counter slower growth for more expensive
machines, a market where many customers have already upgraded to
EMC’s newest model, said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities, before the report. EMC is also benefiting from
demand for software from its majority-owned  VMware Inc. (VMW) , which
reported better-than-forecast sales and profit yesterday.  “They hit the ball out of the park, a very strong
quarter,” said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets
in New York. “They’re doing a really good job of managing
growth and profitability so you’re seeing some improved margins
coming in.”  EMC sales rose 20 percent to $4.85 billion, exceeding the
$4.74 billion average estimate. Revenue was bolstered as
companies revamp their networks to take advantage of the move to
so-called cloud computing, which lets customers use the Internet
to store and access data.  ‘Cloud Resonating’  “Clearly our hybrid cloud and big data strategies are
resonating extremely well with customers,” said Joe Tucci,
chief executive officer, on a conference call today.  The company said full-year profit excluding some items will
exceed $1.48 a share, up from a prior projection of $1.46.
Analysts on average estimated $1.49.  EMC lost 1 cent to $27.37 at 4 p.m. on the  New York  Stock
Exchange. The stock has climbed 20 percent this year.  VMware, the biggest maker of programs that let computers
run multiple operating systems, yesterday said second-quarter
profit excluding certain costs was 55 cents a share, exceeding
the 47-cent average of projections compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 37 percent to $921.2 million.  EMC’s RSA security software unit, which makes
authentication products like security tokens, was hit by a cyber
attack in March that resulted in some data being stolen from its
networks.  EMC recorded a $66 million charge in the second quarter as
it replaced some tokens and increased security following the
breach, said David Goulden, EMC’s chief financial officer, on
the conference call. “It is likely that RSA growth will remain
a bit slower after remediation efforts.”  Second-quarter revenue from VMware increased 37 percent
from a year earlier to $920.8 million. Sales from the security
unit rose 13 percent to $196.1 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  