-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Second Day on Apple Profit, U.S. Debt Plan

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-20T21:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-apple-profit-u-s-debt-plan.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day after Apple Inc.’s profit spurred gains in technology
companies and banks rallied before tomorrow’s European Union
summit on the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.7 percent to
1,136.79 at 5 p.m. in  New York , extending yesterday’s 0.6
percent advance. Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 2.1 percent, the
most since September, and  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 1.2
percent. Czech’s benchmark snapped a four-day decline, driven by
gains in banks, and Hungary’s BUX index climbed as the forint
strengthened against the Swiss franc for a second day. Equity
gauges in Brazil and  Argentina  both gained.  Apple, the world’s second-biggest company by market value,
said profit more than doubled last quarter. Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., which assembles iPhones, Simplo Technology Co., a
maker of battery packs for Apple products including the iPad,
and Catcher Technology Co., a casing maker for Apple laptops,
helped lift the MSCI’s developing-nation technology gauge the
most in three months.  “The numbers should be good for some companies, and
analysts who were pessimistic will most likely have to upgrade
some of the stocks,” said Lye Thim Loong, who helps manage
about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 1.3 percent this
year, trailing a 3.4 percent gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, a
measure for developed markets. Stocks in the developing nation
index are valued at about 10 times estimated profits, less than
the multiple of 12 times for developed shares.  Debt Plan  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  and Gafisa SA were among the biggest
gainers on the Bovespa index.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss measures to restore confidence in the euro region’s
creditworthiness. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said
 Europe ’s leaders need to show they can resolve the debt crisis
to avoid a contagion enveloping Italy and  Spain  in a “make-or-
break moment.”  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday praised a bipartisan
Senate proposal for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan as
lawmakers intensify efforts for a compromise on  government
spending  less than two weeks before a threatened default. Obama
said he will renew talks at the White House this week with
congressional leaders as the Democratic-led Senate and
Republican House pursue divergent paths toward ending the
stalemate over lifting the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by
Aug. 2.  European Banks  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, surged 3.2
percent.  The forint gained 1.3 percent versus the dollar, the best
performer among 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. A stronger forint helps homeowners with mortgages
denominated in a foreign currency.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points to 307,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  Hon Hai Precision increased 4.6 percent, Simplo Technology
advanced 6.9 percent, and Catcher Technology jumped 4 percent to
the highest level since January 2007.  Wintek Corp. (2384) , which
supplies touch sensors for Apple Inc.’s iPad, gained 4.8
percent. Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, rose 3.5 percent in Seoul trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  