-- 
Erdogan Boom Under Threat as Greek Crisis Exposes Turkey’s Financing Risk

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-21T15:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/erdogan-boom-under-threat-as-greek-crisis-exposes-turkey-s-financing-risk.html
The boom that turned  Turkey  into
Europe’s fastest-growing economy may be imperiled by the debt
crisis in neighboring Greece, the continent’s worst performer.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  hailed Turkey’s 11
percent first-quarter expansion as “magnificent” on June 30.
It hasn’t prevented the lira from sliding to a two-year low
against the dollar and a record to the euro, as the country’s
trade deficit widens on surging demand for imports. Turkey needs
increasing flows of cash to finance the gap -- just as investors
take alarm at the risk of default in Greece, where output shrank
5.5 percent.  “There will be global risk and of course Turkey will
suffer” if Greece’s problems worsen,  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps
manage about $17 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment and is
“underweight” on Turkish bonds, said in a telephone interview.
“When the fear trade starts they sell big and liquid currencies
first, and that’s usually the Polish zloty and the lira.”  Erdogan’s drive to cool the economy looks enviable from
Athens, where his Greek counterpart George Papandreou must
impose budget cuts and fight to fend off debt default. Turkey’s
success can help, Papandreou said.  “This dynamic economy is something which we can profit
from too,” the premier said in a July 19 interview in Athens.
“We have the biggest city in  Europe  right next to us, which is
Istanbul, a very dynamic city. We know the Turks well, they know
us well, we have a boom in tourism.”  Greece Trade  The neighbors traded $3 billion of goods last year, with
Greece enjoying a surplus for the first time in more than a
decade, selling mineral fuels, oil products and plastics,
according to  Turkish government figures .  The flipside is that Greece could also derail the Turkish
rebound. A Greek default could trigger a flight from investments
seen as risky, depriving Turkey of the short-term funding it
needs. That would undermine Erdogan’s claim to have ended a
decades-old cycle of boom and bust and turned his country into
the region’s economic powerhouse.  Under Erdogan “the word crisis has been thrown in the
trash,” Trade Minister Zafer Caglayan said in Ankara today.
“But that doesn’t mean we’ll escape the impact from abroad.”  The lira is already down about 7.9 percent against the
dollar this year, the biggest loser among emerging market
currencies. It was trading 0.3 percent lower at 1.6676 at 6:00
p.m. in Istanbul. It fell 1.4 percent to 2.3970 per euro, the
lowest level since the euro was introduced on Jan. 1, 1999.  Turkish Debt  Buying insurance on Turkish debt is getting more expensive.
Credit default swaps for five-year debt rose to about 195 basis
points this week, the highest for more than a year, according to
CMA prices. That’s about 40 points above  Russia , whose debt cost
more to insure than Turkey’s at the start of the year.  Erdogan, re-elected for a third term last month, has won
praise from investors for his economic record. He completed two
International Monetary Fund accords, reducing debt to about 40
percent of gross domestic product from 74 percent.  Turkey had a  budget surplus  in the first half of this year
as tax income surged. Greece forecasts a deficit of about 10
percent this year and debt of 166 percent of GDP by 2012.  “If I were an investor I’d be overweight Turkey because it
doesn’t suffer from the fiscal problems that are hurting
everyone else,” said Cevdet Akcay, chief economist for Yapi
Kredi Bankasi AS, the lender co-owned by  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA.  Stock Index  Turkey’s ISE-100 stock index has risen more than 500
percent in dollar terms since Erdogan’s party came to power in
2002, beating the 300 percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets
benchmark. When National Bank of Greece SA bought Turkish lender
Finansbank AS five years ago, the parent’s market value was five
times that of its new unit. Now, Finansbank is worth more.  The acquisition reflected closer economic ties that
followed a thaw between two historic rivals.  Greeks and Turks fought a series of wars in the century
after Greece gained independence from the  Ottoman Empire  in
1821. In 1955 Turks rioted against the Greek minority in
Istanbul, which has dwindled to about 2,500 from 200,000. More
recently, the countries clashed over Cyprus and territorial
rights in the Aegean Sea.  Papandreou, foreign minister at the time, helped start the
detente at the end of the 1990s. “We hadn’t signed any treaties
or agreements for about four years,” he recalled, pointing to
“about 30, 40 agreements in all kinds of areas” reached since.  State Assets  Turkey’s $740 billion economy is more than double the size
of  Greece ’s. Per capita, Greece -- a European Union member since
1981 -- is about twice as wealthy, according to IMF figures.  That gap is narrowing. Turkey’s economy has grown more than
5 percent a year under Erdogan, who sold state assets, built
roads and railways, and boosted trade ties with the  Middle East .  What he didn’t do is cut Turkey’s import bill to make
growth less dependent on foreign capital.  Erdogan’s government “didn’t push for change,” such as
improving vocational training and making it easier for companies
to hire and fire, said Sarp Kalkan, an analyst at  Tepav , the
Ankara-based research group that monitors the budget. “The link
between growth and the current account has not been reduced.”  Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek promised on July 15 a “more
interventionist” industrial policy. The country can shave at
least $10 billion off the current account gap by making car
parts locally and using domestic scrap steel, Trade Minister
Caglayan said July 12, announcing incentives for six industries
that account for at least $30 billion a year in imports, due to
enter force at the end of the year.  Trade Gap  Until then, Erdogan is leaving the task of closing the
trade gap to Turkey’s financial authorities, who are trying to
rein in the credit boom that’s spurring imports. The central
bank, while keeping  interest rates  at a record low this year,
has ramped up  reserve requirements  for banks, and the financial
regulator is demanding higher provisions. Lending is still
growing at closer to 40 percent a year than the government’s
target of 25 percent.  “Given the scale and trend in the current account deficit
and bank credit growth, we think that there is still
uncertainty” that could delay a credit upgrade,  Ed Parker ,
managing director at  Fitch Ratings  said in a phone interview.
Fitch ranks Turkey the highest among the three biggest ratings
companies, at one level short of investment grade with a
positive outlook.  Hot Money  Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said the current-account
deficit is sustainable until the measures start working. It’s
mostly financed by short-term inflows to buy stocks and bonds,
so-called “hot money,” not longer-term investments.  More than half of the $7.8 billion gap in May was financed
by inflows that the central bank can’t exactly classify and
lists only as “net errors and omissions.” Foreign direct
investment dropped to $8.9 billion last year from a peak of $22
billion in 2007. International companies mostly stayed away as
the government sold assets including gas and electricity grids,
raising more than $10 billion.  Turkey has experience of boom-and-bust. Cem Akyurek, an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Istanbul, points to the lira
slumps of 1994 and 2001 that reversed periods of expansion.  Papandreou cites Turkey’s 2001 experience as offering hope
for Greece. “They went to the IMF, and went through a difficult
period, and they were able to revamp their economy and make it
more dynamic,” he said.  Trailing  Asia   Still, such setbacks have kept Turkey’s long-run growth
below that of some emerging markets, especially in Asia. Since
1980,  South Korea ’s output has jumped about sevenfold, while
Turkey grew less than half that much, according to IMF data.  Erdogan says his government has ended the era of crises.
“Turkey’s global standing is now very different,” he told
voters at an Istanbul rally on May 5. Plastered across
billboards nationwide during the campaign was one of his party’s
slogans: “Lasting stability, continued growth.”  The precedents aren’t favorable, Akyurek said.  “An orderly adjustment is not something we have seen in
Turkey in the past,” he said. It will require tighter budgets,
higher interest rates and an acceptance of slower growth, “not
to mention some luck,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 