-- 
Tesla Wins $100 Million Supply Deal With Toyota for RAV4 EV

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T20:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tesla-wins-100-million-toyota-supply-deal.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , maker of electric
Roadster sports cars, said today it reached a three-year
agreement with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to supply powertrain equipment
worth about $100 million.  Toyota, which previously agreed to pay Tesla $60 million to
develop lithium-ion batteries and motors for use in an all-
electric RAV4 sport-utility vehicle, is paying the additional
funds for packs and motors for the vehicle that goes into
production next year, Tesla said in a regulatory filing.  “Toyota has reasonable confidence Tesla is well-positioned
within the battery-vehicle market,” said Alan Baum, principal
of automotive consultant Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,
 Michigan . The $100 million “isn’t a huge amount for Toyota, so
this allows them, with only modest downside risk, to participate
in what Tesla is doing.”  Toyota, the maker of the Prius, the world’s best-selling
gasoline-electric hybrid, is planning next year to sell more
electric-drive models, including a version of the Scion iQ
subcompact and a plug-in version of the Prius that runs about 13
miles on battery power before the engine kicks in and the car
starts running like a regular Prius.  The automaker bought a 2.9 percent stake in Tesla last
year, as part of a deal in which the startup, led by  Elon Musk ,
acquired a former Toyota-General Motors Corp. auto-assembly
plant in Fremont,  California .  Tesla’s Plans  Tesla is to begin making its Model S electric sedan by
mid-2012 at the factory, where it will also make the battery
packs and motors for the Toyota model. The plant was shed by GM
when it filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and is not part of the
current General Motors Co.  “This is just the next step as the relationship
progresses,” said  Mike Goss , a spokesman for Toyota’s North
American engineering and manufacturing unit. Toyota hasn’t
decided the final production site for the electric RAV4, he
said. The gasoline-powered RAV4 is built at Toyota’s Woodstock,
Ontario plant.  The supply agreement runs from 2012 through 2014, Tesla
said. Khobi Brooklyn, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-
based Tesla declined to provide additional details of the
contract.  Trading in Tesla shares was temporarily suspended prior to
the filing. Tesla rose as much 9.1 percent. The company gained
80 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $28.69 in Nasdaq Stock Market
Trading at 4 p.m.  New York  time after earlier touching $30.44.
Toyota’s American depositary receipts, representing two ordinary
shares, gained 9 cents to $84.33 in New York.  Tesla is scheduled to release second-quarter financial
results on Aug. 3, according to the company’s  website.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  