-- 
EU Seeks to Triple Banks’ Minimum Reserves in Basel Law

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-20T16:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/eu-seeks-to-triple-minimum-capital-levels-for-banks-in-basel-law.html
The European Union proposed boosting
minimum capital and liquid assets at more than 8,300 banks to
stave off insolvency amid complaints the plans may hamper the
region’s economic recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
proposed implementing global rules approved by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  to bolster banks’ ability to
withstand a crisis. Lenders will need to raise an extra 423
billion euros ($601.3 billion) by 2019 to comply with the
requirements, according to an EU impact study. This adds to 37
billion euros needed to meet earlier changes to capital rules
that take effect by the end of this year.  Today’s  proposals  “will have a fundamental impact on the
activities and behavior of European banks,” Barnier told
reporters in Brussels. The plans will require “considerable
efforts” from the region’s lenders, he said.  The EU overhaul adds to pressure on banks to bolster their
reserves after stress tests revealed that eight lenders have a
combined 2.5 billion-euro shortfall in the capital they need to
cope with a future financial shock.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  may
face calls from investors to boost capital after scraping
through the EU exams.  Bank ‘Concerns’  Under the EU plans, banks would be expected to hold core
tier 1 capital amounting to 7 percent of their assets adjusted
for risk, more than tripling current requirements.  The definition of capital will also be toughened, under the
rules to be phased in between 2013 and 2019, the commission
said.  The rules “have big implications” on types of instruments
that banks can include in their core capital, said Stuart
Willey, a financial services lawyer at White & Case LLP.  Core tier 1 capital is mainly made up of a bank’s ordinary
shares and retained earnings.  Banks “continue to have concerns about a number of
important aspects of the underlying proposals,” Michael Lever,
a managing director at the Association for Financial Markets in
 Europe , said in an e-mail.  The European Commission should “be prepared to reconsider
some of its requirements if it becomes clear that they are
having a damaging effect on the economies of member states,”
Lever said. AFME represents international lenders including
Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Banks’ estimates on the impact of the plans on lending and
economic growth are “exaggerated,” the commission said.  ‘Limited Impacts’  The commission said the measures would have “limited
impacts” on economic growth until 2019, when possible gains
from improved financial stability start to outweigh the costs.  Banks’ need to raise a combined 460 billion euros in extra
core capital by 2019 will trim EU gross domestic product by as
much as 0.49 percent, the commission said in its impact
assessment of the rules.  After 2019, the “net economic benefits” of the rules will
lead to extra annual growth of 0.3 percent to 2 percent, the
commission said.  Barnier and Antonio Tajani, the EU’s industry commissioner,
asked the London-based European Banking Authority to study the
possibility of reducing the amount of capital that banks would
have to set aside for loans to small businesses under the Basel
III accord, Tajani said in an e-mailed statement.  Real Economy  “The stability of the financial system cannot be pursued
at the expense” of the “real economy,” Tajani said.  The EU is the first region to put in place Basel III, which
was endorsed by global leaders in November, Barnier said, adding
that he’s “confident without being naive” that the U.S. will
implement the bank standards.  The U.S. is yet to fully implement a previous overhaul of
capital rules. “Everyone needs to respect the commitments we’ve
jointly entered into,” Barnier said.  Today’s proposals also include calls for banks to hold a
minimum amount of easily saleable assets to ensure that they
could survive a 30-day credit crunch.  “When the crisis hit, many firms were short of
liquidity,” the commission said. “This contributed to the
demise of several financial institutions,” it said.  Liquidity Buffer  The European Banking Authority will be tasked with
determining exactly which assets will be allowed to count
towards the buffer “before 2015” when the liquidity measure
will become binding, the commission said.  Lenders have said that the Basel committee’s version of the
rule, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, may curb lending, for
example by stifling demand for covered bonds that are used to
back mortgages.  Barnier has clashed with some governments in the 27-nation
EU over how to interpret and implement the Basel accord. Finance
ministers including  Spain ’s  Elena Salgado ,  Sweden ’s Anders Borg
and U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
criticized plans to make it harder for national regulators to
set tougher capital rules than those agreed on by Basel.  It is “imperative” that nations can decide on whether to
further reinforce requirements for lenders, as it is their
national budgets “that might bear the considerable costs” of a
banking crisis, the ministers told Barnier in May.  Higher  capital requirements  in one EU country would
“distort competition and encourage regulatory arbitrage,” the
commission said today.  The proposals would allow national regulators to impose
stricter requirements if they determined that a specific lender
needed more capital, or if the country was experiencing a credit
boom, the commission said. Authorities would also be free to
impose tougher rules for real-estate lending, the commission
said.  Changes Needed  “It is clear that the proposals set out in today’s draft
legislation will need changing if we are to properly implement
international standards in the EU, strengthen the European
banking system and safeguard the stability of the European
economy,” said a spokesman for the U.K. Treasury who couldn’t
be identified in line with civil service rules.  The EU proposals on Basel III also aim to reduce banks
reliance on credit ratings companies to gauge their levels of
risk, and to give lenders financial incentives to trade over-
the-counter derivatives through clearinghouses, the commission
said.  The plans include sanctions for lenders that mislead
regulators about their capital reserves, liquidity, indebtedness
and risk taking. Supervisors would be empowered to fine lenders
as much as 10 percent of their annual sales for these offenses,
the commission said.  Banks will face restrictions on their right to pay out
bonuses and dividends if their core capital falls below the 7
percent capital threshold, Barnier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 