-- 
EU Said to Weigh Bailout Fund Use for Emergency Credit to Thwart Contagion

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-20T19:48:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/eu-said-to-weigh-bailout-fund-use-for-emergency-credit-to-impede-contagion.html
European officials are considering
steps previously rejected by  Germany , including the use of
precautionary credit lines, to prevent the spread of the
region’s debt crisis, a person close to the talks said.  Other options up for discussion at tomorrow’s Brussels
summit include enabling the main 440 billion euro ($626 billion)
rescue fund to lend to recapitalize banks, said the person, who
declined to be named because negotiations are in progress.
Nothing will be decided until leaders convene.  Together with a second Greek aid package, the goal is to
prove to markets that  Europe  has the will and the tools to
prevent the 21-month sovereign debt crisis from engulfing  Spain 
and Italy. The euro today rose against the dollar for a second
day and Spanish and Italian bonds also gained as investors
signaled optimism that policy makers are moving toward a deal.
The cost of insuring against default on the sovereign debt of
Greece, Portugal,  Italy  and Spain declined.  “There needs to be a program with a certain amount of
shock and awe to impress the market that the leaders are on top
of the crisis,” said Robin Marshall, a London-based  money
manager  at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in  London .  (For a related story on Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s view of the summit, click here. To read a story on
the German-French pre-summit meeting, click here. For a story on
how the euro-area debt crisis may affect Iceland’s accession
plans, click here.)  ‘Very Serious’  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the Greek
situation is “very serious” and requires a response.
“Otherwise, the negative consequences will be felt in all
corners of Europe and beyond.”  The start of tomorrow’s summit was delayed by an hour to 1
p.m. to allow more time for preparations, an EU official said. A
working group meeting of euro-area officials was also pushed
back to 9 a.m. tomorrow from 6 p.m. today, the official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because negotiations are
still under way.  Talk of new rescue measures raises the pressure on German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who vetoed proposals to put more
weapons in the rescue fund’s arsenal earlier this year amid
misplaced optimism that Greece was turning the corner.  Merkel will meet today with French president  Nicolas Sarkozy , who has swayed her stance on crisis-fighting in the
past. U.S. President  Barack Obama  weighed in yesterday on a
phone call with his German counterpart during which they agreed
Europe needed to deal with its problems “effectively.”  More Flexibility  Discussions of more flexibility for the European Financial
Stability Facility come on the heels of last month’s accord to
boost its lending power to its original target. International
Monetary Fund-style credit lines would better enable countries
with stronger fundamentals than  Greece  to ward off speculative
attacks.  Rescues for Ireland and Portugal partly funded by the EFSF
already include some funds for helping banks, while Greece’s
separate program also earmarks aid for its banks. Greater
support for European banks may be necessary after stress tests
on 90 left as many as 24 under pressure to show they can raise
capital. Investors said Deutsche Bank AG, UniCredit SpA and
Societe Generale SA should consider boosting capital after
scraping through the probes.  ‘Make-or-Break’  As floated by finance ministers on July 11, the leaders
will also look at empowering the EFSF to buy bonds in the
secondary market and to enable crisis-hit countries to buy back
their own debt, measures that may help reduce nations’ borrowing
burdens. Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado , who is battling
to prevent the crisis from engulfing her country, today said she
supported such steps.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year
Spanish bonds over German bunds rose to a euro era record of 367
basis points on July 18. The Italian spread hit 332 basis
points.  Credit-default swaps on Greece, which decline as investor
confidence improves, dropped 138 basis points to 2,361 as of
2:30 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA.  Contracts protecting the debt of Ireland tumbled 90.5 to
1,066 basis points,  Portugal  decreased 78 to 1103, and Spain
fell 18 to 340, while Italy declined 17.8 to 287.5, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Beyond Greece  With Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou saying in an
interview yesterday that leaders face a “make-or-break” moment
at the summit, success hinges on going beyond a second Greek
package, which national officials continue to work on today. The
IMF said yesterday that Greece’s crisis still risks
contaminating the rest of the euro region even if officials
avert a default there.  The main sticking point is how to get bondholders and banks
to foot a share of the bill without sparking a new wave of
financial turmoil. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  says any default risks sparking a crisis on a par with
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. German policy
makers, who are reluctant to keep forcing their taxpayers to aid
the spendthrift, signal a restructuring may be unavoidable.  EU officials are aiming to narrow down a list of options to
be presented to the leaders in Brussels, the person familiar
with the talks said. Sarkozy and Merkel will meet for talks and
dinner in Berlin, repeating the one-on-one talks the leaders of
the two-largest euro-area economies have adopted in the past
when trying to steer their region out of trouble.  One approach would see governments taxing financial
institutions to fund a new bailout in addition to a voluntary
rollover of Greek debt, according to an EU paper obtained by
Bloomberg News. The other two options in the document involve
either a partial or outright default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  