-- 
Euro Rises for Third Day on German-French Agreement on Greece

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-07-21T08:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/euro-advances-to-one-week-high-on-european-debt-summit-optimism.html
The euro rose for a third day
against the dollar after  Germany  and  France  reached an agreement
on addressing Greece’s debt crisis before a summit aimed at
stopping contagion in  Europe ’s bond markets.  The 17-nation currency touched the highest level in a week
versus the yen before paring its advance as a report showed
European services and manufacturing growth slowed more than
economists forecast in July. The Swiss franc weakened after
Blick, a Zurich-based newspaper, cited Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann as saying the currency’s strength against the
euro is “alarming.” Australia’s dollar weakened after data
showed Chinese manufacturing slowed.  “The market is buoyant on reports France and Germany have
reached an agreement on new aid for Greece,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.
“The euro should remain relatively supported,” though “there
are still some potential sources of uncertainty that might
prevent a rally against the safe-haven currencies,” he said.  The euro advanced as much as 0.6 percent to $1.4295, the
highest level since July 11, before trading at $1.4242 as of
9:49 a.m. in  London . The common currency climbed 0.2 percent to
112.23 yen, after reaching 112.69 yen, the strongest since July
14. The dollar was little changed at 78.78 yen. The dollar was
little changed at 78.85 yen.  Euro-area leaders and officials will convene today for the
second time in a month as they aim to break a deadlock over a
new Greek rescue. While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
this week the crisis can’t be resolved in “one spectacular
step,” Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said in an
interview that the summit could be a “make-or-break moment”
for the euro region.  Accord Details  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  reached an
agreement on  Greece  after seven hours of talks at the
Chancellery in Berlin and details will be released at today’s
summit, the governments said in a statement. The discussions
also included European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and European Union President Herman van Rompuy, who
participated by telephone.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing industries fell to 50.8
from 53.3 in June, London-based Markit Economics said today.
Economists forecast a drop to 52.6, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Dollar Index  The franc slid 0.4 percent to 1.1697 per euro, and touched
1.1750, the weakest since July 12. It depreciated 0.1 percent to
82.07 centimes per dollar.  “We are prepared” for any measures to be taken, the
economy minister was quoted as saying in the Blick report,
adding that any short-term action would have to be taken by the
 Swiss National Bank .  The Dollar Index touched its lowest level since July 6 as
President Barack Obama’s administration signaled it may accept a
short-term increase in the U.S. debt limit only if it’s combined
with a major agreement to cut the deficit.  Obama “must have a firm commitment to something big,”
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday. Obama
met with top congressional Democrats as the Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit nears. The president this
week endorsed a plan from the Gang of Six, a bipartisan group of
U.S. senators, that may help speed up negotiations.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, including the euro, the yen and the pound, fell as
much as 0.4 percent to 74.532 before recovering to 74.698.  Bipartisan Plan  “In terms of the debt ceiling issue, the market focus is
shifting to how policy makers will hammer out details on a
bipartisan plan to cut deficits,” said Junichi Ishikawa, a
Tokyo-based market analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. “The
market wants to see how the situation will develop, and so
people can’t buy the dollar.”  The so-called Aussie dollar snapped a two-day advance as
 China ’s preliminary purchasing managers’ index, compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, dropped to 48.9 in July from
a final reading of 50.1 in June. A number above 50 indicates
expansion. China is  Australia ’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  “I’ll be bearish both on the Aussie and kiwi, especially
the Aussie,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . There are “concerns that a slowing
China may not have so much demand for resources and minerals
from Australia.”  Australia’s currency declined 0.3 percent to $1.0720. New
Zealand’s dollar, the so-called kiwi, was little changed at
85.60 U.S. cents after earlier touching a record 85.90 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 