-- 
European Bank Bets Crush Returns for Herro, Other Managers

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T10:19:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/european-bank-bets-crush-returns-for-herro-fellow-top-managers.html
David Herro, a Morningstar Inc.
manager of the decade, Fidelity International’s Sanjeev Shah and
Marc Halperin of Federated Investors Inc. beat 80 percent of
rivals over five years. Then they bet on European banks.  The investments on lenders including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  have plunged the three
managers into the bottom third of their peer-group rankings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today’s European summit
in Brussels may be critical to improving their returns.  “How many times have we gone through a period like this
when there’s blood in the streets and sheer panic?” said Marc
Halperin, manager of Federated’s $400 million International
Leaders Fund. “We’ve stayed the course, not panicked, and held
onto the highest quality companies at the most attractive
valuations. We’ve emerged out of every crisis even stronger.”  European banks this year dropped to their cheapest relative
to earnings since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
2008. That tempted some of the world’s best-performing fund
managers to purchase stocks that would benefit from a resolution
to the European debt crisis and an upturn in global growth.
After failing so far this year, the success of the strategy may
hinge on today’s meeting that Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said is “make-or-break” for the region.  Bond Yields Rise  “There are going to be things that aren’t good,” Herro
said in a Bloomberg Television interview by Erik Schatzker
on “Fast Forward” on June 9. “But the worst case scenario,
contagion, the collapse, I think is a very low probability.”  European lenders’ stocks dropped below the value of their
assets this week for the first time in two years after last
week’s stress tests failed to reassure investors banks could
withstand the region’s debt crisis. Lloyds fell 31.9 percent
this year while BNP Paribas is down 3.5 percent and Intesa
Sanpaolo is 13.6 percent lower.  Yields on Italian and Spanish government bonds rose,
driving down the STOXX 600 Banks Index on July 18 to its lowest
in since April 2009. The index is down 11.4 percent this year
compared with a 3.6 percent decline in the broader STOXX  Europe 
600 Index. It rallied 3.7 percent yesterday to 174.8 points, its
biggest gain since January, before today’s meeting in Brussels.  Manager of Decade  Herro’s Oakmark International Fund, which has $8.5 billion
of assets, has beaten 81 percent of rivals over the past five
years and its longer-term performance earned him Morningstar’s
International  Fund Manager of the Decade  award last year. This
year, investments in European banks have plunged the fund into
the bottom 11 percent of its peers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t look like the timing was very good,” said
 Russel Kinnel , director of mutual fund research at Chicago-based
Morningstar. “If you’re a deep value investor, one of the chief
risks you run is that a bad situation gets worse. You’re betting
on reversion to the mean that the problems will be brought under
control and the company will revert back to past levels.”  Herro, who declined to be interviewed for this article, had
four of his top 10 holdings in European banks -- Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , BNP Paribas based in Paris,  Spain ’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Intesa Sanpaolo of  Italy  -- on March 31,
the latest date for which information is available.  Credit Suisse’s “business value has continued to go up and
up and up, its price is going down, down, down, which means that
the value gap has opened up,” Herro said in the Bloomberg TV
interview. “And so that’s O.K. As long as that business value
continues to be created we won’t lose patience.”  Fidelity’s Shah  Sanjeev Shah, who took over Fidelity International Ltd.’s
Special Situations Fund from  Anthony Bolton  in 2008, is another
so-called value investor who’s being hurt by declines in bank
stocks. Lloyds and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, both bailed out
by the British government in 2008, are two of Shah’s 10 largest
holdings.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, was his top
position on March 31.  “I’m a contrarian value investor so the fact that the
banks are disliked by the sell side, under-owned by most
institutional investors does interest me,” Shah, 41, said in an
 interview last month  posted on Fidelity’s website. “The banks
are at the low end of their historical range in terms of
valuations which is very attractive.”  While Shah’s 3 billion-pound ($4.8 billion) fund has beaten
84 percent of rivals since 2006, its performance has dropped
into the 12th percentile this year, having lost 4 percent since
Jan 1. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  is down 1.1 percent in 2011.
Bolton delivered annual returns of 19.5 percent for the 28 years
to 2008. Shah declined to add to his comments last month.  Philippe Chaumel  Another top manager betting on a bank recovery is Philippe Chaumel of Paris-based Rothschild & Cie Gestion. His 720
million-euro ($1 billion) Elan Euro Valeurs fund is down 6.4
percent this year, putting it in the bottom 12 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has beaten 83
percent of its rivals over the past five years.  Chaumel, who declined to be interviewed, had  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, Intesa Sanpaolo and BNP Paribas as three of his
four biggest holdings at May 31.  Federated’s International Leaders Fund, run by Halperin,
beat 81 percent of its peers over the last five years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year, investments in HSBC,
Credit Suisse and BNP have caused it to fall into the lowest 7
percent of its peer group this year.  “They’ve taken such a hit in the last month,” Halperin
said. “But we’re continuing to hold these names. The valuations
are attractive. There’s a sentiment of capitulation out there at
the moment.”  Today, European leaders will debate ways to prevent such a
capitulation. Measures being considered at the meeting include
guaranteeing Greek bonds in the event of any default, making it
easier for the country’s banks to keep tapping the  European
Central Bank  for emergency funds, according to two officials
with knowledge of the talks, who declined to be identified.  “I can’t imagine they allow the whole euro system to
simply unravel,” Halperin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 