-- 
European Stocks Rise for Second Day; Banks Gain Before EU Summit

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-07-20T16:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/european-stock-index-futures-climb-as-apple-beats-estimates-bhp-may-move.html
European stocks gained for a second
day as speculation grew that U.S. lawmakers will agree to
increase the nation’s debt ceiling and banks rallied before
tomorrow’s European Union summit on the region’s debt crisis.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  jumped more than 6 percent.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, gained 1.7
percent after reporting increased iron-ore output.  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  climbed 4.9 percent after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s earnings exceeded
analyst estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rallied 1.3 percent to
267.73 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the biggest increase in
three weeks. The measure has still retreated 8.1 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 17 amid growing concern the region’s
debt crisis is spreading from  Greece  to Italy and Spain.  “Markets seem to be getting convinced U.S. lawmakers will
agree on the debt ceiling,” Mikkel Petersen, a senior equities
adviser at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen, wrote in a report
to clients. “On top of that, corporate reports in the U.S. have
been very good.”  Of the 61 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
have reported earnings since July 11, 54 have exceeded analysts’
per-share profit estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In  Europe ’s Stoxx 600, 21 companies missed forecasts
and 14 surprised positively, the data show.  Obama Praise  President Barack Obama praised a bipartisan Senate proposal
for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan as U.S. lawmakers
intensify efforts for a compromise on  government spending  less
than two weeks before a threatened default. Obama said he will
renew talks at the White House this week with congressional
leaders as the Democratic-led Senate and Republican House pursue
divergent paths toward ending the stalemate over lifting the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by Aug. 2.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss measures to restore confidence in the euro region’s
creditworthiness. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said
Europe’s leaders need to show they can resolve the debt crisis
to avoid a contagion enveloping Italy and  Spain  in a “make-or-
break moment.”  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines and enabling the main 440 billion-euro ($624 billion)
rescue fund to lend to recapitalize banks, according to a person
close to the discussions who declined to be identified because
the talks are in progress.  Considering Steps  “Investors are probably buying banks hoping something will
happen tomorrow at the EU summit,” said Hendrik Koenig, an
equity strategist at B. Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA in
 Frankfurt . “If they can solve the euro crisis, banks could rise
even further due to their low historic valuation. It’s all about
changing the minds of investors because you won’t see the effect
of these austerity measures until two or three years down the
road.”  Global investors cut their holdings of European stocks to
the lowest level in more than a year this month amid concern a
euro-region nation will default, a BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research survey showed. A net 22 percent of 265 respondents, who
together manage $792 billion, were “underweight” euro-region
equities in July, compared with 15 percent in June.  A gauge of banks in the Stoxx 600 climbed 3.7 percent, the
most in six months. Dexia, Belgium’s biggest bank, soared 8.6
percent to 1.89 euros and Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest
lender, rose 6.3 percent to 2.51 euros.  BHP Rises  BHP Billiton  advanced 1.7 percent to 2,364.5 pence after
iron-ore output rose 14 percent in the three months to June 30,
driving an 11th straight annual production record as Chinese
demand send prices to all-time highs. BHP also said full-year
petroleum output rose, boosted by the $4.75 billion acquisition
of Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s shale assets in Arkansas.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest miner,
increased 1.3 percent to 4,420.5 pence. Boliden, a Swedish
copper and zinc miner, rose 1.8 percent to 115 kronor after
Nordea Bank AB recommended buying the shares.  ARM, the designer of chips for Apple’s iPhone, advanced 4.9
percent to 611 pence. Apple said third-quarter net income more
than doubled to $7.31 billion, or $7.79 a share, from $3.25
billion, or $3.51, a year earlier. Analysts had predicted profit
of $5.87 a share, according to Bloomberg data.  European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., the parent
company of Airbus, surged 3.6 percent to 24.79 euros after AMR
Corp.’s American Airlines agreed to buy 260 jets.  Accor, REC  Accor SA (AC)  increased 2.8 percent to 30.31 euros as France’s
largest hotel operator said revenue growth at its lodgings
accelerated in the second quarter, led by the domestic French
market.  Renewable Energy Corp. ASA surged 20 percent to 10.97
kroner in Oslo trading after its biggest shareholder, Orkla AS,
said the current share price is too low for it to consider
divesting its 39 percent stake.  Trelleborg AB (TRELB) , the world’s biggest maker of vibration
dampening gear, jumped 8.7 percent to 71.60 kronor after saying
second-quarter pretax profit was 469 million kronor ($73
million), exceeding analyst estimates of 424 million kronor.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  climbed 3.4 percent to
1,030 pence after first-quarter sales rose 2 percent, boosted by
income from capital markets and information services.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , slumped 8.8 percent to 3.26 kroner, the
lowest level in two years. The world’s largest salmon farmer
said second-quarter net income slid 8 percent to 676 million
kroner ($123 million), trailing the average estimate of 705
million kroner from 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  