-- 
Existing-Home Sales in U.S. Unexpectedly Fall 0.8% to a 4.77 Million Rate

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-20T20:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/existing-home-sales-in-u-s-fell-0-8-in-june.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
unexpectedly declined in June to a seven-month low as the
industry struggled to overcome rising unemployment and
foreclosures.  Purchases dropped 0.8 percent to a 4.77 million pace, data
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a gain to 4.9 million. Inventories increased, more
contracts were canceled and 30 percent of transactions last
month were of distressed dwellings, the figures showed.  Stricter lending rules, unemployment above 9 percent and
delays in processing foreclosures mean it may take years to
reduce the number of distressed properties on the market even as
all-cash purchases have recently helped buoy demand. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the decline in
confidence and lack of job growth that are impeding  consumer
spending  are also keeping real estate “depressed.”  “The market continues bumping along the bottom, with every
move ahead matched by a disappointing setback,” said  Richard DeKaser , an economist at Parthenon Group in  Boston . “As long as
the risk of further price declines is appreciable, buyers and
lenders alike are going to remain skittish. For there to be a
meaningful rebound in sales, we’ll probably have to wait until
2012.”  Stock Market  Stocks fell on concern the government will fail to increase
the debt limit. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1
percent to 1,325.84 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York , up 0.1
percent.  Treasury securities  declined, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note to 2.94 percent from 2.88 percent late
yesterday.  Estimates for home sales in the Bloomberg survey of 71
economists ranged from 4.75 million to 5.2 million.  Existing-home sales have fallen since reaching an annual
peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that helped dragged the U.S. into
an 18-month recession. They slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91
million last year.  Of all purchases, cash transactions accounted for about 29
percent, NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a news
conference today as the figures were released. The Realtors
group began tracking the monthly figure in August 2008, and the
share on a yearly basis before that was around 10 percent, Yun
has said.  Contracts Canceled  The number of canceled contracts to buy previously owned
homes jumped to 16 percent in June from 4 percent a month
earlier. Yun said the rise was a “mystery” that the group will
look into by surveying Realtors around the country. They have
been running in the 9 percent to 10 percent range in the past
year.  Distressed sales, which comprise foreclosures and short
sales, in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than
the balance of the mortgage, accounted for about the same share
of the total in June as in recent months.  The U.S. Treasury Department is exploring a proposal aimed
at promoting modifications of delinquent or defaulted home
loans, including writedowns of principal, by bringing fresh
private capital into the market, according to housing market
executives.  The plan is based on a paper whose main author is Jordan
Dorchuck, executive vice president of American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc. in Coppell,  Texas . Dorchuck said he’s contacted
other loan servicers at the behest of the Treasury Department to
gauge their interest in the proposal and generally they think it
could have some value.  By Region  Today’s report showed existing-home sales decreased in two
of four regions, led by a 5.2 percent drop in the Northeast and
a 1.7 percent decline in the West.  The median sales price rose 0.8 percent last month from
June 2010 to $184,300.  The inventory of unsold previously owned homes on the
market rose to 3.77 million in June from 3.65 million in May. At
the current sales pace, it would take 9.5 months to sell those
houses, the longest since November, compared with 9.1 months at
the end of May. Supply in the eight months to nine months range
is consistent with stable  home prices , the group has said.  Pending Foreclosures  A total of 6.35 million homeowners weren’t current on their
loans at the end of May, with 2.16 million in the process of
foreclosure, according to data from Lender Processing Services
Inc., a Jacksonville, Florida-based provider of mortgage-
processing services and data. Foreclosures averaged 580 days
after borrowers became delinquent on their loans.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults will push as
many as 1 million U.S. foreclosure filings from this year into
2012 or beyond, casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing
market, RealtyTrac Inc., a housing data provider, said last
week. A clogged foreclosure pipeline means it will take longer
to clear the inventory of unsold homes and may prevent prices
from finding a bottom.  Builders remain cautious about the outlook, prompting them
to look for other income sources. Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the
third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, last month reported
second-quarter profits that beat analysts’ estimates on rising
earnings at its distressed-investing unit.  “The long-awaited selling season of 2011 has not yet
defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle,”  Stuart
Miller , chief executive officer of Lennar, said on a June 23
teleconference. “The housing recovery will take time and
patience and will be inconsistent and uneven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  