-- 
Lafite at $230,000 a Bottle Means Boom for Hong Kong Wine Vaults

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-07-20T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/face-scans-protect-230-000-lafite-from-hong-kong-s-thieves-and-humidity.html
Fergus Fung swipes his card across a
sensor and waits as his face is scanned by a computer to match
his profile. A steel door opens and the  Hong Kong  entrepreneur
enters a vault that holds his treasure of Bordeaux and Burgundy.  This is the  Hong Kong Wine Vault , one of more than 15
repositories that have been set up in the past three years in
the Chinese city as it overtook London and  New York  as the
world’s biggest auction market for top wine labels like Chateau
Lafite, Domaine Romanée-Conti and Krug. The temperature is a
constant 13 Celsius and humidity is 75 percent, protected by 4
inches of insulation on the walls, ceiling and floors.  “The facial recognition thing is a bit gimmicky,” said
35-year-old Fung, founder of the  WOM guide  to Hong Kong
restaurants. “But with any wine cellar, security is a key
issue.”  After Hong Kong axed wine duties in February 2008, imports
surged to $858 million last year, from $185 million in 2007.
Auction house  Sotheby’s (BID)  hasn’t had an unsold bottle in the city
in its last 15 auctions and broke the world record in October
with three bottles of 1869 Chateau Lafite that fetched HK$1.8
million ($230,930) each.  “It’s exploded, and you need logistics to support that,”
said Robert Sleigh, who runs Sotheby’s Asia wine business. “Now
there are world-class wine storage facilities in Hong Kong.”  The city needs them. Temperatures can soar to 35 degrees
Celsius, with relative humidity near 100 percent, factors that
could render a $75,000 bottle of Chateau d’Yquem undrinkable.
Moreover, few collectors have room for cellars, with 99 percent
of the population living in apartments.  Tax Break  Still, it wasn’t until the government cut the wine duty to
zero from 40 percent in February 2008 that storage took off.  “It’s a free-trade zone for wine,” said Anthony Mak,
managing director of  Modern Wine Cellar  which opened its doors
in June in Hong Kong’s New Territories.  The  tax cut  drew customers from the mainland, which has
some of the biggest buyers among its 1.1 million millionaires.  “Half our customers are Chinese,” according to Thomas
Shum, manager of  The Cave,  which opened near the border with
 China  last December, he said, “This business is new in Hong
Kong and now is a good time to catch the trend.”  Imported wine in China is taxed at 45 percent including
customs duty, while the UK charges 41.7 percent in excise duty
and VAT. Hong Kong wines have no  sales tax .  Flowing East  “There’s no question, a ton of wine came over to Hong Kong
that was traditionally kept in  London ,” said John Kapon, chief
executive officer of New York-based  Acker Merrall & Condit , the
world’s largest wine auction house. “Once the tax was removed,
people wanted their wines at home.”  Asians, particularly from Hong Kong and China, have
dominated the fine wine market in recent years, while Americans
have been net sellers, say auctioneers. For speculators, the
climate-controlled vaults can mean a difference of thousands of
dollars in the value of their bottles.  Provenance, or the history of how and where a bottle was
kept, is important because it’s impossible to know the quality
of a wine without opening it. Visible inspections provide
limited protection against counterfeits, and even bona fide
labels may have been ruined by heat or humidity during handling.  Army Bunker  A 1982 Chateau Lafite Rothschild, which received a perfect
score of 100 by wine critic  Robert Parker , with good provenance
sells for more than $12,000 per bottle, while one of dubious
heritage may only fetch $500, according to Greg De’Eb, general
manager of  Crown Wine Cellars , which opened its first cellar in
Hong Kong in 2003, 60 feet underground in a former World War II
munitions bunker.  Crown now has three sites, including a 44,000 square foot
facility it built for more than $10 million that houses two of
the three record bottles of Lafite. Their exact location is kept
secret even from the bottles’ owner, De’Eb said.  Part of the appeal of the new vaults is that they offer
more than storage, with some selling wines or offering club
facilities that members can use.  One recent Tuesday evening, 12 of Crown’s members and their
guests dined on foie gras, beef carpaccio and porcini mushroom
risotto in the library at a blind tasting of 12 red wines
contributed by the group, including a 1988 Chateau Beychevelle,
a 1992 L’Avenir from  South Africa , and Brazilian 2005 Miolo Lot
43 that stumped the entire gathering.  European View  Still, some collectors are keeping their bottles in  Europe ,
said William Chan, senior wine consultant at the Hong Kong unit
of London-based  Berry Bros. & Rudd.   “There is still a perception that storage facilities in
Europe are more developed or better than in Hong Kong and people
feel the provenance is better,” he said.  To compete, Hong Kong introduced the first government
quality standards for the industry in 2009.  “Hong Kong needs to show we can offer quality storage,”
said Hubert Li, 34, general manager at Hong Kong Wine Vault, who
advised on the standards. Formerly with PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, Li started the vault in 2008 on two rented floors of a
local warehouse with four partners, including V-Nee Yeh, co-
founder of asset manager Value Partners Ltd. They now occupy
seven floors and plan to open another unit in Kowloon this year.  The growth of the business also attracted Hong Kong-listed
developer Hanison Construction Holding Co., which opened its
 Collezione Wine Cellars  in October 2010 in Sha Tin, near Hong
Kong’s biggest horse-racing stadium. The 5,000-case site, which
uses radio frequency identification tags, or RFID, to provide a
record of handling, is close to capacity and there are plans to
expand next year, said Marketing Manager Dick Chan.  For Fung, the reason for storing his wines locally is
simple. “Storage here is three times the price of the UK, so if
you are buying wine purely for investment I would advise not to
store it in Hong Kong,” he said. “I chose accessibility over
cost -- I love to drink.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 Fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 