-- 
Fed’s Sack Says End of Bond Buying Unlikely to Cause Interest Rate Rise

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/fed-s-sack-says-end-of-qe2-unlikely-to-cause-interest-rate-rise.html
Brian Sack , the Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York ’s markets group chief, said the end of the central
bank’s second round of large-scale asset purchases is unlikely
to cause interest rates to rise.  “We do not expect this adjustment to our purchases to
produce significant upward pressure on interest rates or a
tightening of broader financial conditions,” Sack said in the
text of remarks given in New York today.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted on June 22 to
conclude its $600 billion bond-buying program as scheduled at
the end of last month, and to maintain its balance sheet near
record levels by reinvesting proceeds from its securities
holdings. The FOMC also affirmed its pledge to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  The pace of the Fed’s bond purchases will drop to about $15
billion a month from about $100 billion a month through June,
Sack said.  “While there has been considerable volatility in Treasury
yields over the past several weeks, we attribute those movements
primarily to incoming economic data and to broader risk
events,” Sack said.  Policy makers cut their forecasts for growth this year
before a July 8 government report showed that employers added
18,000 jobs last month, the fewest since September. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that while the economy
“still requires a good deal of support,” officials have no
immediate plans for further stimulus.  Policy ‘Appropriate’  “The disappointing pace of recovery that has been
realized” since the Fed announced its asset-purchase plan last
year suggests it “was appropriate,” Sack said. It’s a
“reasonable observation but not a strong criticism” that the
purchases were “unable to restore vigorous growth to the
economy,” Sack said in a speech to the Money Marketeers of  New
York University .  The Fed’s second round of so-called quantitative easing,
dubbed “QE2” by analysts, sparked the harshest political
backlash against the U.S. central bank in three decades.  Bernanke said last week that Fed officials are waiting to
see whether the economy changes before altering their stance and
embarking on another round of stimulus.  “We’re not proposing anything today,” Bernanke said to
the Senate Banking Committee on July 14 in  Washington . “We just
want to make sure that we have the options when they become
necessary. But at this point, we’re not proposing to undertake
that option,” he said, referring to a third round of purchases.  Should policy makers deem it necessary to provide
additional stimulus, the Fed could further expand its balance
sheet, or buy longer-term securities to alter the composition of
its portfolio, Sack said. The FOMC could also provide more
details on how long it expects to hold the assets, he said.  Additional Stimulus  Fed policy makers have disagreed on whether additional
monetary stimulus will be needed even if the outlook for
economic growth remains weak, minutes of their meeting last
month showed. Some members said a further slowdown in growth
would signal a need for additional support, while others said
the growing risk of inflation would require withdrawing stimulus
sooner than currently anticipated.  If the Fed allowed all types of securities it owns to run
off, the portfolio would shrink by an average of $250 billion a
year “over the first several years,” Sack said.  The Fed lowered its target for the federal funds rate,
which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to between
zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008. The central bank’s
balance sheet swelled to a record $2.88 trillion last week.  The portfolio’s duration, a measure of interest-rate
sensitivity, was more than 4.5 years at the end of June,
compared with a “historical range” of between two and three
years, Sack said.  “Transferring this additional duration risk to the  Federal
Reserve ’s portfolio, and hence out of the portfolios of market
participants, was one channel through which the asset purchase
program was intended to have its effect on financial
conditions,” Sack said.  He said the Fed’s portfolio will earn about $500 billion
from 2009 to 2018, “about $90 billion in excess of what we
project would have been realized in the absence of asset
purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  