-- 
Dodd-Frank Defense, Swap-Rule Delay, Basel: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-20T12:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/frank-to-defend-dodd-frank-swap-rule-delay-basel-compliance.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank 
will make the short walk across Capitol Hill this week to defend
the financial-regulation law that bears his name.  Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, will testify for the
 Senate Banking Committee  tomorrow, the one-year anniversary of
the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. As chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, Frank and his staff played a
leading role in drafting the legislation.  Senate Banking Chairman Tim Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat, will hold the hearing to review progress on the law
enacted by President  Barack Obama . Federal regulators have spent
the last year drafting and implementing the hundreds of rules
required by the law, which was almost unanimously opposed by
Republican lawmakers.  Frank, who lost his chairmanship in January when
Republicans took control of the House, has defended the law and
said this month that Republicans were “bluffing” in their
efforts to make major revisions or repeal the law.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro and acting Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. chairman Martin J. Gruenberg are also
scheduled to testify at the Senate hearing.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Proposal May Give Clearinghouses Time to Accept Swaps  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  may re-
propose a Dodd-Frank Act rule to allow clearinghouses more time
before they must decide whether to accept and guarantee trades
in the $601 trillion swap market.  CFTC commissioners meeting in Washington yesterday were
expected to consider easing  a proposal  that called for
clearinghouses to immediately accept or reject executed trades.
The new proposal would require decisions as soon as
technologically possible, “milliseconds or seconds, or, at
most, a few minutes, not hours or days,” according to a CFTC
summary of the rule.  “The proposed rule promotes market participants’ access to
central clearing, increases market transparency and supports
market efficiency,” CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler said in a
statement prepared for the meeting.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
year, aims to reduce risk in the swaps market after largely
unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members, seek to
mitigate risk by guaranteeing trades and standing between buyers
and sellers.  The CFTC proposal released in March was opposed by swaps
and derivatives industry groups, which argued that requiring
immediate trades would limit risk-management tools and increase
systemic risk.  The revised measure would also establish rules governing
documentation standards between swap dealers and their clients.  For more, click here.  Indonesia Government, Lawmakers at Impasse on Financial Agency  Indonesian lawmakers and the finance ministry are
struggling to reach an agreement on the composition of a planned
financial regulator before a July 23 deadline, the head of a
parliamentary committee said.  The Financial Services Authority parliamentary working
committee met with Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo yesterday
and today to try to reach a compromise, and a plenary session
will be held July 21, committee chairman Nusron Wahid said
yesterday in Jakarta. The working group is scheduled to disband
July 23.  Parliament plans to approve the draft law for the
regulator, known in the Indonesian language as Otoritas Jasa
Keuangan, or OJK, “soon,” Achsanul Qosasih, a deputy chairman
of the working committee, said in June. The agency is due to
start operating in January 2013, he said at the time.  Swap-Trading Platforms Would Face Fewer Limits Under Bill  Derivatives regulators would be barred from adopting Dodd-
Frank Act rules restricting the number of market participants
who must receive or respond to price quotes on new trading
facilities in the $601 trillion swaps market, under a bipartisan
bill introduced in the U.S. House.  The bill aims to require the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission  to allow for
flexibility in the types of trading methods on so-called swap
execution facilities. The CFTC proposed a rule in December that
would allow participants in the trading facilities to request
price quotes from a minimum of five possible sellers. The SEC on
Feb. 2 proposed a rule that would allow swap buyers to request a
quote from a single seller.  In addition to bipartisan support, the bill also received
support from the  Investment Company Institute , a trade
association representing mutual funds, and the  Wholesale Markets
Brokers’ Association, Americas , which represents interdealer
brokers.  The House legislation would also bar regulators from
requiring trading platforms to display or delay quotes for any
amount of time and prohibit agencies from restricting the
methods of commerce that may be used to execute the transaction.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment, saying
the agency hasn’t reviewed the legislation.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, intends
to register as a swap-execution facility, Ben Macdonald, global
head of fixed income at the company, said in a June 3  letter  to
the CFTC.  Special Section: Basel III Impact  EU Seeks to Triple Banks’ Reserves, Publishes Impact Study  The European Union proposed boosting minimum capital and
liquid assets at more than 8,300 banks to stave off insolvency
amid complaints the plans may hamper the region’s economic
recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
proposed implementing global rules approved by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision to bolster banks’ ability to
withstand a crisis. Banks would be expected to hold core capital
amounting to 7 percent of their assets adjusted for risk, more
than tripling current requirements. EU proposals to meet global
capital rules will require the region’s banks to raise 460
billion euros ($653 billion) in funds, Barnier said today.  The definition of capital will also be toughened, under the
rules to be phased in by 2019.  “The banking sector will have to hold more capital and
better quality capital every time it is taking risks,” Barnier
said in a  statement  today. “It is a tremendously important step
forward in learning the lessons of the crisis and adopting a new
approach to risk.”  The  European Commission  published on its  website  a study
showing the likely impact of its proposals to beef up capital
and liquidity rules for banks.  The EU overhaul adds to pressure on banks to bolster their
reserves after stress tests revealed that eight lenders have a
combined 2.5 billion-euro shortfall in the capital they need to
cope with a future financial shock.  For more, click here.  Separately, twenty-eight banks would face capital
surcharges because they are systemically important if
international rules to rein in too-big-to-fail banks were
applied today, global regulators  said .  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision disclosed on its
website yesterday how authorities will apply capital surcharges
for the world’s most systemically important banks, guiding
investors in calculating extra funds that lenders deemed too big
to fail must raise.  The surcharge plans were approved July 18 by the  Financial
Stability Board  at a meeting in Paris.  Regulators are at loggerheads with some banks over the
additional capital rules, with lenders arguing the requirements
may harm the global economic recovery. Jamie Dimon, chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  CEO Brian T. Moynihan are among bankers who have suggested
that the new rules will constrain lending and hurt the economy.  The Basel group is seeking views on its formula for
determining which lenders should have to hold as much as 2.5
percentage points more capital according to the risk they pose
to the global economy.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA may face the highest additional capital requirements,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said in a note last month. Other lenders
that may be subject to the highest surcharge include Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the analysts said.  Separately, Standard & Poor’s said in a report yesterday
that European banks may seek to raise additional capital after
last week’s stress tests revealed their riskiest investments and
showed a need to curb their dependence on governments.  Regulators Force Banks to Cut Contingent Convertible Plans  Global regulators’ decision to stop banks from using
contingent convertible bonds to meet planned capital rules may
cut the market for the securities by about half.  Lenders will only be able to use common equity to meet
additional capital requirements for the world’s largest banks,
Mario Draghi, chairman of the  Financial Stability Board , which
has to approve proposals put forward by Basel regulators, told
reporters in Paris on July 18. His comments came after the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision last month blocked the use of
securities such as contingent convertibles to meet the rules.  When  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest
lender, sold $9 billion of CoCos in February, Standard & Poor’s
said the market could eventually surpass $1 trillion -- three
times the value of all high-yield bond offerings last year.
Analysts said Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG would follow.  Apart from Bank of Cyprus’s 1.3 billion-euro ($1.8 billion)
CoCo in March, offerings have dried up, and investors say sales
may only ever total $500 billion.  The decision leaves firms such as Swisscanto and  Pacific
Investment Management Co. , which started a fund to buy CoCos in
May, looking to invest in other bank securities such as
subordinated debt and hybrid instruments.  The Basel Committee ruled last month that 30 systemically
important financial institutions will have to hold an additional
1 percent to 2.5 percent of total risk weighted assets in core
Tier 1 equity to reflect the danger they pose to global markets.
European banks had been pushing to use hybrid securities to meet
the requirements, a plan opposed by their U.S. counterparts and
rejected by the Basel Committee.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Bats Withdraws Options Market-Maker Program Rivals Criticized  Bats Global Markets, the exchange operator planning to go
public, withdrew a proposal that would have let market markets
on its options venue give certain brokers better prices than
those publicly available.  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer of Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats, wrote in a newsletter distributed yesterday
that while the rule “has many elements that are broadly seen as
positive” there are a “few concerns that could be better
addressed.”  The so-called directed-order program was approved by the
Securities and Exchange Commission three weeks ago over the
objections of  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , International Securities Exchange and BOX Options
Exchange.  The Bats program would have let market makers send the
exchange two prices on options contracts. One would be displayed
publicly while the other, assuming the first is quoting at the
national best bid or offer, would improve that price and be
hidden. The second, better price would be available only to
brokers directing orders to that market maker who are on a list
of approved firms. Others couldn’t access it.  Germany, France Among States Warned by EU Over Telecom Rules  European Union regulators rebuked Germany, France and 18
other EU nations over late implementation of new
telecommunications rules that were scheduled to enter into force
on May 25.  The  European Commission  gave the countries two months to
respond to a warning over their failure to put in place the
measures, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels yesterday.  S. Africa Says Wal-Mart Deal Approval Up to Antitrust Body  South Africa ’s parliament will leave antitrust regulators
to decide what conditions to impose on  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s
purchase of  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , a lawmaker said.  Parliament’s economic development committee began three
days of hearings on the deal in  Cape Town  yesterday. The aim is
to assess the takeover’s impact on jobs and manufacturing, said
Mmathulare Coleman, the committee’s chairwoman.  The Competition Tribunal ruled on May 31 that the world’s
biggest retailer could proceed with its 16.5 billion rand ($2.4
billion) purchase of a controlling stake in Johannesburg-based
wholesaler Massmart on condition no jobs are cut for two years.
The tribunal’s decision is being appealed by the South African
Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union in the Competition
Appeal Court.  South African Trade Minister  Rob Davies  has objected to the
deal, saying it would have a “destabilizing” impact on the
economy as a surge in imports may undermine manufacturing
output.  Wal-Mart’s entry into South Africa is likely to drive down
prices to the benefit of consumers and create jobs, Coenraad
Bezuidenhout, acting executive director of economic policy at
Business Unity South Africa, a business group, told lawmakers.  Labor unions and executives from Wal-Mart and Massmart are
due to make presentations today. Unions are opposed to the
takeover.  Coventry in FSA Talks Over Northern Rock Bid, Sky Reports  Coventry Building Society is in talks with the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority about creating two new forms of
capital to support its offer to take over the government-owned
lender, Northern Rock Plc , Sky News reported, citing people
familiar with the matter.  The FSA is positive about the proposals, Sky said. The
plans would involve the creation of a class of core tier 1
shares and a new loss-absorbing capital instrument, Sky said.  Comings and Goings  Treasury Elects Directors to Capital Purchase Program Banks  The U.S. Treasury Department elected directors to two banks
that participated in the government’s capital purchase program
under the Troubled Asset Relief Program rules.  The Treasury elected John S. Poelker and Guy Rounsaville
Jr. to the board of Clayton, Missouri-based First Banks Inc.;
and Gerard M. Thomchick to the board of Narberth, Pennsylvania-
based  Royal Bancshares of Pennsylvania Inc. (RBPAA) , the department said
in a statement July 18.  Board members elected by the Treasury have the same
fiduciary duties to shareholders as other board members, the
department said. The new directors can’t be government employees
and don’t represent the U.S. government.  The Treasury’s program gave it the right to nominate up to
two members to the board of a capital-purchase program bank if
the institution misses a sixth dividend or interest payment on
preferred stock issued to the Treasury.  Senate’s Jerry Moran Calls CFPB Nomination ‘Dead on Arrival’  U.S. Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican serving on
the  Senate Banking Committee , said President Barack Obama’s
nomination of Richard Cordray to lead the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau  is “dead on arrival.”  Moran, who is the sponsor of legislation to restructure the
bureau, made the remark yesterday at a Banking Committee hearing
on consumer protection, adding that the nomination doesn’t add
to the bureau’s accountability or “shed light” on its
operations.  Moran is one of 44 Republicans who signed onto a May letter
vowing to block any nominee to lead the bureau, which is
scheduled to begin operations this week, unless changes are made
to its funding mechanism and leadership structure.  Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law last July 21, in
the wake of an economic crisis that lawmakers and regulators
said was fueled by predatory lending by financial companies.
Under the law, the bureau -- organized by Harvard professor
 Elizabeth Warren  -- becomes independent on July 21 of this year.  For more, click here.  For video of a Senate Committee Hearing, click here.  Interviews  Wheeler Says Goldman Sachs May Plan Additional Job Cuts  Christopher Wheeler, an analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , talks
about the performance of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the
outlook for additional job cuts.  Goldman said yesterday it will cut about 1,000 jobs after a
plunge in fixed-income revenue that was bigger than analysts
estimated. Wheeler speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 