-- 
Freescale Semiconductor Declines After Reporting Net Loss on Debt Payments

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-21T16:02:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/freescale-posts-loss-on-debt-payments-in-first-quarter-since-ipo.html
Freescale Semiconductor Holdings,
the chipmaker mostly owned by Blackstone Group LP, TPG Capital,
 Carlyle Group  and Permira Advisers LLP, fell after saying a drop
in orders for chips used in cars will hurt third-quarter sales.  The shares declined 60 cents to $16.59 at 12:01 p.m. on the
New York Stock Exchange. Earlier, they tumbled as much as 6.5
percent. Third-quarter sales will be $1.19 billion to $1.22
billion, the company said yesterday, compared with the $1.23
billion average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Freescale is the largest supplier of chips to the U.S. auto
industry and makes semiconductors used in mobile-phone systems
and portable devices like Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle e-reader.
Orders from automakers are falling as they work through unused
stockpiles of parts, Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer said in
an interview today.  “Automotive production has been slowed in the quarter, and
we think in the third quarter we’ll see a slight reduction
again,” he said. “We do anticipate these issues will be
largely over with by the fourth quarter.”  Yesterday marked Freescale’s first earnings report since an
initial public offering in May, which raised $783 million to pay
down debt. The second-quarter loss was $168 million, or 79 cents
a share, compared with a loss of $538 million, or $2.73 a share,
a year earlier, the Austin, Texas-based company said in a
statement. Revenue was $1.22 billion. Analysts on average
estimated a loss of 22 cents a share on $1.23 billion in sales.  In the second quarter, excluding certain costs, the company
had a profit of 33 cents a share, exceeding the 25-cent average
estimate of analysts. The company will improve profitability
even if revenue declines, Beyer said.  Freescale sold 43.5 million shares at $18 each in the IPO,
raising 25 percent less than it originally sought. The IPO price
reflected a 50 percent discount to the average of $36 that
investors paid for the company, according to a regulatory
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  