-- 
Free-Trade Agreements Said to Be Delayed by Obama Amid Worker-Aid Dispute

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-20T21:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/free-trade-agreements-said-to-be-delayed-by-obama-amid-worker-aid-dispute.html
President  Barack Obama  will delay
sending free-trade agreements to Congress until lawmakers return
from an August recess as a dispute with Republicans over a
worker-aid program remains unresolved, according to people
familiar with the decision.  Approval of the free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
Colombia and  Panama , reached under President  George W. Bush ,
stalled last month after Republicans opposed linking them to an
aid program for workers hurt by global competition, called Trade
Adjustment Assistance.  “At this time, we are still in active discussions with
Congress regarding the process for proceeding with the three
FTAs and TAA as soon as possible,” Matthew Vogel, a White House
spokesman, said today, without discussing a delay.  Obama and lawmakers also are involved in talks to end a
stalemate over the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt limit, and leaders
in Congress asked the administration to delay the trade deals
while the debt talks continue, according to a person familiar
with the talks. Lawmakers are set to recess on Aug. 8, which may
leave too little time to also pass the trade pacts, three people
said.  William Daley , Obama’s chief of staff, said yesterday that
the president plans to send the agreements “very soon,” while
declining to say whether a vote would occur before the break.  Representative Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee’s panel on trade, said Congress has time to act
on the agreements before the recess.  ‘Stakes Are High’  “If the White House is considering not sending
them, I hope they’ll reconsider,” Brady, a Texas Republican,
said today at an event in Washington. “The stakes are very high
and the time is now.”  A series of other trade pacts had been voted on in the days
before recessing in August, including the Central American Free
Trade Agreement in 2005, which passed the House by two votes.
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said on June 30 that the
administration hoped for bipartisan support that would let the
trade-deal measures be approved before the recess.  In a speech in  Washington  today, he didn’t put a deadline
on the process.  “We want to bring home the job-building benefits of these
agreements as soon as possible,” Kirk said.  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
have pressed lawmakers to reach a compromise amid concern U.S.
companies will lose market share as competitors move forward
with separate agreements.  A South Korean free-trade deal with the European Union went
into effect July 1, putting U.S. producers of autos,
pharmaceuticals and scientific equipment at a disadvantage in
the Asian economy. A deal between Colombia and  Canada  is
scheduled to take effect Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  