-- 
Simon Fuller Sues Fox Broadcasting to Get ‘X-Factor’ Fees

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-20T22:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/fuller-sues-fox-for-x-factor-fees.html
Simon Fuller , the creator of
“American Idol,” sued Fox Broadcasting Co. alleging that it
failed to make good on a 2005 promise to pay him executive
producer fees for the “X-Factor” TV talent show.  Fox “contractually promised” Fuller that when “X-
Factor” aired in the U.S. it would give him executive producer
credit and fees “commensurate with his duties and stature in
the entertainment industry” to end a copyright-infringement
lawsuit Fuller filed in  England  over the show, a British program
with striking similarities to “American Idol,” according to a
complaint filed today in state court in Los Angeles.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and television company FreemantleMedia
North America have made hundreds of millions of dollars on the
show and have refused to pay Fuller, according to the complaint.  “Mr. Fuller has prudently attempted to settle this matter
privately, but the other parties have refused to honor the
original contract, leaving him no other choice but to pursue
legal action,” Kelly Mullens, Fuller’s spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Fox says it doesn’t owe Fuller anything.  “Mr. Fuller has not been hired, nor performed any duties,
on the U.S. version of ‘The X-Factor,’” Fox and FreemantleMedia
said in an e-mail. “His suit seeks payment and credit as an
executive producer despite his neither having been approved by
the required parties, nor hired, as such. We believe this
lawsuit is without merit and we expect to prevail.”  Dale Kinsella, Fuller’s attorney, said Fox’s position is
“absurd” because the company is “contractually obligated” to
approve Fuller and compensate him.  “It is because of the breach of the 2005 binding agreement
that the case was filed,” Kinsella said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Fuller v. Fox Broadcasting, SC113449,
California Superior Court ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles
at   afixmer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 