-- 
Gang of Six Deficit Plan Could Save the Day Now, Or Later: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-20T00:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/gang-of-six-deficit-plan-could-save-the-day-now-or-later-view.html
Six stalwart U.S. senators delivered
yesterday the outlines of an intelligent and ambitious deficit-
reduction proposal. It is, as President  Barack Obama  succinctly
said, “good news” -- at a time when some is needed.  The bipartisan “Gang of Six” plan takes the sensible policy
framework of the  Bowles-Simpson  fiscal-reform commission and
turns it into a workable package for the Senate to consider.  Although the plan’s details are not all clear, the senators
say it would reduce deficits by $500 billion immediately and by
$3.7 trillion over 10 years. It would overhaul entitlements, in
part by switching to a so-called chained  consumer price index  to
calculate benefits. It would tighten the budget process using
triggers and enforcement mechanisms to protect against lawmakers
with an itch to spend. And it would move toward a simplified and
pro-growth tax code.  Enthusiasm expressed by senators not involved in the talks
suggests that there may be enough votes in the Senate to pass
the package. The House will be a problem, perhaps even an
impossibility. To make the odds even longer, it’s unclear how
the plan might overlap with various proposals to increase the
debt limit -- and very little time remains.  Hope Still Alive  But there’s reason for hope. Even staunch House
conservatives should agree with the scope of the plan’s budget
cuts. They should also find its tax changes appealing: The plan
would cut the top individual  tax rate  to 29 percent from 35
percent, establish a single corporate rate and change how
foreign income is taxed, eliminate the alternative minimum tax,
and bring in $1 trillion in new revenue over 10 years by
reducing tax breaks.  The senators say it will amount to a net tax cut of $1.5
trillion. We’ll know more when all the details of the plan are
released.  The Gang of Six, if nothing else, has taken admirable steps
toward shared sacrifice. Even as the plan was making the rounds,
 House Republicans  were debating an ill-advised balanced-budget
amendment that stands no chance of becoming law, a dangerous
distraction from the critical task of raising the debt ceiling.  If the Senate plan is part of a last-minute grand bargain
that helps prevent a government default, all the better. On its
own, it’s a work of substance that could eventually guide us in
solving our long-term budget woes.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 