-- 
Genworth Plunges After Loss Amid ‘Worsening Trends’ in Mortgage Insurance

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-07-21T20:21:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/genworth-slips-to-second-quarter-loss-on-weakness-in-mortgage-insurance.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the
Richmond, Virginia-based insurer, plunged the most in almost a
year after posting a surprise quarterly loss on “worsening
trends” in its mortgage-guarantee business.  Genworth fell $1.26, or 13 percent, to $8.21 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The second-quarter
net loss was $92 million to $112 million, the company said late
yesterday. The firm had an operating loss of 14 cents to 18
cents per share, missing the average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, which was for a profit of 24 cents.  Genworth posted its second loss in three quarters as
homeowners fell further behind on their mortgage payments. The
company added to reserves as it  tallied  more than 39,000 insured
borrowers who had slipped into default by 12 or more payments.
That’s an increase of about 7,000 from a year earlier.  “The older delinquencies are up,” said  Steven Schwartz ,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. “The older a
delinquency, the more you have to reserve against it.”  Genworth, which posted net income of $42 million a year
earlier, had declined 28 percent this year through yesterday in
New York trading. The company also sells life insurance and
retirement products and said it will use assets with a market
value of $375 million to add to reserves in its U.S. mortgage-
guarantee business.  Genworth had the credit ratings of two  mortgage insurance 
subsidiaries cut two levels by  Standard & Poor’s  to BB-, or
three levels below investment grade. S&P said today in a
statement the insurer may add further to reserves. The outlook
on the units remains “negative,” the rating firm said.  ‘Inherently Volatile’  Genworth’s mortgage insurance business “now has one of the
highest reserve levels in the industry,” S&P said. “However,
the mortgage insurance industry generally continues to be
affected by the fluid movements of a host of variables that make
reserving inherently volatile.”  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the biggest U.S. mortgage insurer,
had a second-quarter loss as fewer borrowers caught up on loans.  The cost to protect Genworth’s debt from default for five
years surged to the highest since September 2009. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt jumped 40.6 basis points to 510.6
basis points as of 3:31 p.m., after adding 93 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘Continuing Weakness’  Genworth said the boost in reserves “was the result of
worsening trends” in mortgage insurance. It also cited
“continuing weakness in the U.S. residential real estate
market.”  The number of so-called cures, in which insured borrowers
caught up on payments, dropped to 17,908 from 25,868 a year
earlier, Genworth said. New delinquencies fell to 21,272 from
26,034. Mortgage insurers reimburse lenders when homeowners stop
paying and foreclosure fails to recoup costs.  Genworth, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer,
reported its first annual profit since 2007 last year as
investments recovered from the credit crunch. The stock
quadrupled in 2009. The company is scheduled to report complete
second-quarter results on July 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  