-- 
Bunds Fall, Greek Notes Rise on U.S., European Fiscal Optimism

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-20T16:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/german-government-bonds-decline-before-debt-sale-as-asian-stocks-advance.html
German bunds fell while securities
from the euro region’s most fiscally strained nations rose on
optimism that European leaders meeting tomorrow will take steps
to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The declines raised yields on 10-year German bonds by the
most in more than four months as stocks gained from  Tokyo  to
London amid optimism that U.S. lawmakers are nearing an
agreement to cut the deficit. European officials are considering
new measures to prevent contagion, a person close to the talks
said, as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  prepare to meet before a regional crisis summit.  “There’s optimism that some sort of solution will be found
tomorrow at the summit and that the U.S. is close to agreement
on its debt ceiling, and that improves demand for risk,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh, a broker for banks. “Having said
that, the market is in a very nervous mood. Whatever we get
tomorrow, it’s unlikely to be a comprehensive program for the
euro.”  Ten-year bund yields increased nine basis points to 2.77
percent as of 4:32 p.m. in  London , after reaching 2.78 percent
for the biggest intraday gain since March 3. The 3.25 percent
security maturing in July 2021 lost 0.81, or 8.1 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,423) face amount, to 104.13. Yields on two-year
notes climbed seven basis points to 1.31 percent.  European Summit  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.3 percent, while the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.2 percent.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels tomorrow to
discuss measures to restore confidence in the euro region’s
creditworthiness. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said
they need to show they can resolve the debt crisis to avoid
contagion spreading to Italy and  Spain  in what could be “a
make-or-break moment” for the 17-member bloc.  Officials are considering steps previously rejected by
 Germany , including the use of precautionary credit lines,
according to a person familiar with the talks. Other options up
for discussion include enabling the main 440-billion-euro rescue
fund to lend to recapitalize banks, said the person.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Juergen Stark
urged the region’s governments to stick to an agreement last
month to avoid a so-called selective default for Greece,
according to Germany’s  Boersen-Zeitung  newspaper. He also said
the Frankfurt-based central bank won’t change its rules or take
on any more risk if the private sector is involved in a Greek
bailout. The ECB confirmed the remarks.  ‘Disaster’  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said
yesterday that governments should bury their plans to involve
the private sector in a solution for  Greece ’s debt problems, Die
Welt reported, citing an interview.  “A restructuring would be a disaster,” Bini Smaghi was
quoted as saying. “A restructuring would be by far more costly
for the taxpayer than granting Greece another aid package with
conditions,” he said, according to the report.  Germany today sold 1.64 billion euros of 2042 bonds at an
average yield of 3.43 percent. Yields on benchmark 30-year
German bonds trading in the secondary market rose nine basis
points to 3.47 percent. Portugal issued 450 million euros of 91-
day bills and 300 million euros of 182-day bills.  Spanish 10-year yields fell 12 basis points to 5.97
percent, while equivalent-maturity Italian yields were 13 basis
points lower at 5.60 percent. Irish 10-year bonds rose for a
second day, reducing yields by 61 basis points to 13.06 percent.
Two-year Irish yields dropped 45 basis points to 21.85 percent,
the least in three trading sessions.  Greek Contagion  Greek two-year yields surged as much as 144 basis points to
a record 40.46 percent, before retreating to 38.07 percent, 95
basis points below the previous close.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc offered to buy two-year Greek
notes at a yield of 47.05 percent and sell at 31.52 percent
today, a so-called bid-ask spread of 15.53 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a spread of less
than two basis points on German two-year notes.  Greek government bond trading on the electronic secondary
 securities market  known as HDAT dropped 47 percent in June after
a 50 percent decline the previous month, according to data from
the Bank of Greece. Traded volume fell to 368 million euros from
695 million euros in the previous month, and 1.57 billion euros
in the same period a year earlier.  Greece risks contaminating the rest of the euro region even
if officials avert a default, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report late yesterday. Germany’s Merkel told reporters
that the debt crisis can’t be fixed “in one step.”  No Bund Bargains  “There will be some kind of deal, but the fear is that it
won’t be sufficient to stop the contagion to larger peripheral
member states,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist
at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,  Netherlands . “The market is
positioned not to expect too much from the meeting, especially
after Merkel tried to subdue expectations yesterday.”  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said her country
wants the EU to increase “flexibility” for its crisis tools,
including the ability to buy bonds on the secondary market,
according to comments made to Parliament in  Madrid  today.  German  government bonds  handed investors 2.3 percent this
year, compared with 3.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 23 percent,
while  Portugal ’s have shed 29 percent, the indexes show.  “German bond yields have reached levels that they are no
longer a good bargain,” said Charles Berry, a bond trader at
Landesbank Baden-Wuettermberg in Stuttgart.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  