-- 
Gillard Says Australians Wants Answers From Murdoch Outlets

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-20T08:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/gillard-says-australians-wants-answers-from-murdoch-outlets.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said
Australians want answers from News Ltd. following allegations of
phone hacking by its parent company’s newspapers in the U.K.  "I do believe Australians, watching all of that happening
overseas with  News Corp. (NWS) , are looking at News Ltd. here and
wanting to see News Ltd. answer some hard questions," Gillard
told reporters near Canberra today.  Her remarks follow a call from the Greens party for talks
on setting up a domestic media watchdog. The nation should have
an “arms-length” body to assess acts of media intrusion,
Greens leader  Bob Brown  said in Canberra on July 14.  Rupert Murdoch  shut down the 168-year-old News of the
World, owned by News Corp. since 1969, following allegations it
hacked into the mobile phone of a 13-year-old murder victim.
Australia’s Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Communications Minister
Stephen Conroy in the past week have accused News Ltd.’s The
Daily Telegraph of political bias.  News Ltd. Chairman John Hartigan on July 14 told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television he was “hugely confident” there
was no unethical behavior in its newsrooms. Brown, when calling
for inquiry, said he has no evidence of complaints against
Australian media.  Melbourne-born Murdoch, who is now a U.S. citizen, got his
start in 1953 when he inherited a daily newspaper with a
circulation of 75,000 in Adelaide. He built that into a media
empire with newspapers, satellite television and movie studios
spanning the globe.  News Ltd. owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural
newspapers, including The Australian and the Daily and Sunday
Telegraph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  