-- 
Gold Futures Fall for Second Day as Haven Demand Ebbs After Euro Rebounds

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-20T18:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/gold-may-drop-for-second-day-as-obama-endorses-plan-to-avert-u-s-default.html
Gold futures fell for the second
straight day on optimism that policy makers in  Europe  are moving
closer to resolving the region’s debt woes, cutting demand for
the precious metal as a haven.  The euro gained against the dollar as European Union
officials prepared to meet tomorrow to seek a solution to the
region’s fiscal crisis. Gold pared gains as  John Taylor , the
founder of FX Concepts LLC in New York, the world’s largest
currency hedge fund, said the price will surge to $1,900 an
ounce by October.  “A lot of the flight-to-quality money is coming out of
gold,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a market strategist at Lind-Waldock,
a broker in Chicago, said by telephone. “There haven’t been any
flare-ups in the euro zone.”  Gold futures for August delivery fell $4.20, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $1,596.90 at 1:43 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Earlier, the price dropped as much as 1.2 percent.
Yesterday, the metal rose to a record $1,610.70 before closing
0.1 percent lower. This week, the commodity priced in euros and
pounds climbed to all-time highs.  “Improvement in risk sentiment is also partly responsible
for gold’s loss of momentum,”  Edel Tully , a London-based
analyst at UBS AG, said in a report. “Market expectations
appear to be leaning toward a more-positive outcome” from the
EU summit tomorrow,  she said.  Debt Debate  Gold’s losses were limited on concern that President Barack
Obama and congressional leaders won’t reach an accord on
increasing the nation’s debt limit. The metal has jumped 34
percent in the past 12 months.  “The overall risk factors are still there, so there are a
lot of people willing to come in and buy gold when there’s a dip
in prices,” Klopfenstein of Lind-Waldock said.  Silver futures for September delivery fell 66.3 cents, or
1.6 percent, to $39.558 an ounce. The metal has more than
doubled in the past year.  Palladium futures for September delivery dropped $4.65, or
0.6 percent, to $793.65 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Platinum futures for October delivery declined 20
cents to $1,776.10 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
   pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  