-- 
Google’s Android Growth Threatened By Apple’s Patent Victory

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-20T15:41:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/google-s-android-growth-threatened-by-apple-s-patent-victory-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s victory over  HTC Corp. (2498) 
in a patent dispute at the U.S. International Trade Commission
may slow the advance of rival Google Inc.’s fast-growing Android
operating system for mobile phones and tablets.  A trade judge found on July 15 that HTC infringed two
patents owned by Apple, whose iPhone competes with Android-based
devices, including those made by HTC. If his decision is upheld,
HTC may be prevented from bringing phones into the U.S., and
companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. may find it more expensive to sell Android phones.  Android is poised to be the most-used smartphone software
in a mobile market that may reach $206.6 billion worldwide this
year, according to IHS Inc.  Google (GOOG)  is under attack from rivals
including Apple and Microsoft Corp. that allege infringement by
handset makers that use Android. The ruling may embolden Apple
to sue more vendors and even Google, said Michael Bettinger, a
patent lawyer with K&L Gates who focuses on cases at the ITC.  “They either make global peace or it will be a war of
attrition,” Bettinger, who is based in  San Francisco , said in
an interview. Apple “put a chink in the armor,” he said.  Apple, which also has pending legal fights with Samsung and
Motorola, is looking to thwart rivals rather than extract
payment for use of the patents, making it more likely to hold
out for a ban on imports, said Ron Laurie, managing director of
Inflexion Point Strategy LLC, which counsels companies on
purchasing intellectual property.  “This is not about money,” Laurie, a former patent lawyer
who is based in  Palo Alto ,  California , said in an interview.
“This is about market share in the hottest market out there.”  HTC’s Appeal  Taiwan-based HTC said it will appeal Administrative Law
Judge Carl Charneski’s finding, which is subject to review by
the full six-member commission in Washington. The smartphone
maker,  Asia ’s second-biggest, denied violating Apple’s patents
and said it will use “all means possible” to defend itself in
a statement after the ruling.  One of the patents in the HTC case involved data-detection
technology used in e-mail and text messages, while another
related to a data-transmission system.  Charneski found that two other Apple patents, one related
to an operating system and one for a type of programming,
weren’t infringed. The ITC staff, which acts as a third party in
the case, had recommended that Apple lose on all claims. The
staff’s position isn’t binding on the agency.  Google, Apple  “We are confident the commission will ultimately agree
with the ITC staff’s finding that HTC does not violate any of
Apple’s patents,” Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for Google, said in
an e-mail.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt , speaking at a Google Mobile
Revolution conference in  Tokyo  yesterday, said he was “not too
worried” about the litigation over Android.  “We have seen an explosion of Android devices entering the
market and, because of our successes, competitors are responding
with lawsuits as they cannot respond through innovations,”
Schmidt said, according to ZDNet Asia. He said Google would
support HTC, without providing details.  Android is the fastest-growing operating system in the
smartphone market, according to researcher Gartner Inc. Google’s
software powered half of all smartphones bought in the U.S. in
the six months that ended in March, Nielsen Inc. said.  Any Android license payments to Cupertino, California-based
Apple may not immediately impact phone prices. Still, with some
patent license fees already agreed upon and other suits wending
their way through the courts, prices for Android phones over
time may rise to reflect the costs.  Few HTC Patents  Among large Android phone makers, HTC faces the biggest
hurdles, because it holds few patents of its own to tempt Apple
into a cross-licensing agreement. Apple may even refuse to
license the patents, said  Will Stofega , a program manager at
researcher IDC, leaving HTC struggling to produce a phone that
works around them.  “I don’t see Apple giving an inch,” Stofega said in an
interview.  Apple may be more likely to sign a license accord with
 Samsung (005930)  or Motorola. Still, such deals may involve payments to
Apple that would be passed along to Android customers, said
 Florian Mueller , a Munich-based consultant.  “I don’t think we will see Android demand dwindling
anytime soon,” he said in an interview. “The question is two
years down the road, and there is reason for profound concern at
that point.”  Other Android Claims  Many of Google’s 39 licensees to make phones based on
Android are smaller manufacturers that have far less cash than
HTC, Motorola and Samsung to defend against suits and pay fees
to patent holders, Mueller said. That may prompt some to switch
to making phones for systems other than Android.  Mountain View , California-based Google also faces other
claims that Android encroaches on patents.  Microsoft (MSFT) , which
makes a rival Windows system for mobile phones, signed four
patent licenses with Android device makers in the past month and
already has a deal with HTC.  Microsoft also sued  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  after the
bookseller refused to sign a license for sales of the Android-
powered Nook reader.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  contends that Google used code
from the Java operating system without permission and is seeking
billions of dollars in royalties.  ‘Mutually Assured Destruction’  The patent world operates like a “nuclear arms race,”
said Inflexion’s Laurie. Companies such as Microsoft or Apple
rarely go nuclear on each other, because each company holds
enough patents to make a raft of claims against the other’s
products, leading to “mutually assured destruction” if the
balance is threatened, he said. Instead, the parties sign
agreements letting them develop products that make use of the
other’s intellectual property.  Google lacks the patent cache to strike those kinds of
bargains, and its attempts to purchase patents to catch up have
foundered. The company failed in a bid last month to buy the
$4.5 billion patent portfolio of Nortel Networks Corp., losing
out to a group of companies that included Apple and Microsoft.  “Apple’s got all the missiles,” Laurie said.  HTC may have some leverage in its dispute with Apple. The
company agreed earlier this month to buy S3 Graphics Co., which
won an ITC patent ruling against Apple in June. HTC also has its
own pending case against Apple.  ‘Defend Our Portfolio’  A final decision in the Apple-HTC case will take months.
The six-member commission is expected to complete the case by
December. If the panel agrees with the judge’s finding, it may
block HTC’s Android phone imports to the U.S. HTC also may seek
an order to delay any import ban until the appeals court rules,
which might take a year or more.  Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  was asked about the
various patent disputes involving Apple during the company’s
earnings conference call yesterday.  “We love competition,” he said. “We think it’s great for
us and everyone. But we want people to invent their own stuff.
We’re going to make sure we defend our portfolio.”  The case is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  