-- 
Google to Wind Down Google Labs

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-20T21:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/google-intends-to-wind-down-google-labs.html
  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, plans to wind down the website where
it let users explore early product prototypes to help better
prioritize development of new services.  Some Google Labs experiments will end and others will be
incorporated into different products, Bill Coughran, senior vice
president for research and systems infrastructure, said in a
 blog post  on the company’s site. Many of the Labs products that
are applications for the mobile Android software will continue
to be available, he said.  Co-founder  Larry Page , who became chief executive officer
in April, is trying to make product development more efficient
to tap opportunities in the mobile, social and e-commerce
markets. Last month, he introduced Google+, a rival to Facebook
Inc.’s social-media site, while retiring Google Health, which
helped users manage health information, and Google PowerMeter,
which gave consumers simple access to their energy use.  “This is sending a message to investors and consumers that
Google has core businesses, and those will be what get served,”
Whit Andrews, an analyst with Gartner Inc., said of the closing
of Google Labs. “This makes Google address innovation in a
different way. It means that it will be less likely that you’ll
create something cool and see how it works. This means we need a
business goal and a business direction.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , fell $7.20, or
1.2 percent, to $595.35 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The shares are little changed this year.  “While we’ve learned a huge amount by launching very early
prototypes in Labs, we believe that greater focus is crucial if
we’re to make the most of the extraordinary opportunities
ahead,” Coughran said. “We’ll continue to push speed and
innovation -- the driving forces behind Google Labs -- across
all our products.”  -- Editors: Cecile Daurat, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  