-- 
Gospel-Belting Psychic Channels Dead Hunk, Seeks Killer: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/gospel-belting-psychic-channels-dead-hunk-seeks-killer-in-ghost-review.html
When the hero Sam gets killed near
the beginning of  “Ghost: the Musical”  it seems like the best
thing that could happen to such a cardboard character. Then
something magical happens.  Suddenly he’s standing on the sidewalk a few feet away from
his own corpse. The clever trick, seen at the  Piccadilly Theatre 
in  London , gets a round of applause. Soon Sam bumps into Oda Mae
Brown, a black, cynical fake psychic. Her number “Are You a
Believer?” is a hilarious series of gospel-music platitudes. In
moments, the plot, the energy and the wit all rev up 13 gears or
so.  It turns out that Oda Mae, unknown to herself, isn’t a fake
after all. Sam starts talking to her, though she can’t see him.  “I’m hearing dead guys,” she wails into thin air. Things
get worse for her. “I’m hearing dead white guys,” she wails
even louder.  Sam wants Oda Mae to contact his grieving widow, Molly, and
get revenge for his murder. Once this plot MacGuffin has been
thrown into the mix, it spurs the writers to some stonking
numbers. Act 1 closes with a cleverly constructed trio “I Had a
Life” in which desperate Sam, confused Molly and the villain 
Carl twine conflicting musical motifs.  Diamonds and Furs  The highlight comes in Act 2 when Oda Mae unexpectedly
receives $10 million as part of a scam to foil Carl’s evil
plans. Chorus members drape her in furs, pass her a pair of
diamond-studded dark glasses, and bring on some chic traveling
trunks.  “I’m outta here,” trills Oda Mae, sung and acted with
megawatt energy by Sharon D. Clarke, and she brings the house
down in the process.  Naturally, her good heart wins out and she returns to help
her friends.  The book, based on his own 1990 film script, is by Bruce
Joel Rubin, and he finds just the right slots for numbers and
ensembles. The music is by Dave Stewart (of the Eurythmics) and
Glen Ballard. As well as some neat comedy songs, they provide a
couple of ear-catching slow ballads too.  Direction is by Matthew Warchus, who has enormous fun with
artifice and theatrical prestidigitation. When Sam walks through
a closed door, the gasp of disbelief in the audience is as
entertaining as the effect itself. Carl is whooshed around the
stage when he dies and goes to hell. A letter magically folds
itself up.  Moving digital panels and transparent projection scrims
help the sets change from Molly’s Brooklyn apartment to Carl’s
bank in the twinkling of an eye.  Six-Pack Hunk  Richard Fleeshman shows off his six-pack torso and
efficient singing as Sam, and Caissie Levy (Molly) has a belting
voice with a good sweet core. Andrew Langtree does a nice line
in slithery charm as Carl.  Even though those roles don’t offer as much interest as
that of the smart-talking Oda Mae, the lovey-dovey main couple
still manage to generate some warmth. The moment when Molly
first believes she is truly in contact with her dead husband
likely will strike a chord with anyone who has faced loss.  Immortal, it might not be. Terrific entertainment, it
certainly is. Rating: ****.  Information:  http://www.ghostthemusical.com/  or
+44-844-871-7618.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 