-- 
Guggenheim Arranges Bond Backed by Loans to Oxford Firms Lacking Revenue

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-07-20T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/guggenheim-arranges-bond-backed-by-loans-to-oxford-firms-lacking-revenue.html
A bond backed mostly by loans to
nascent medical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies may
lay the groundwork for similar securitizations tied to borrowers
that typically lack revenue.  Oxford Finance Funding Trust 2011-1, which includes $258.8
million of notes ranked A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, was
sold on July 7 with a 3.75 percent coupon, according to
Guggenheim Securities LLC, which arranged the deal. The bond
structure, which resembles a collateralized loan obligation, is
supported by senior debt to firms with products or devices in
testing by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Moody’s said.  Oxford Finance LLC, which is owned by  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and
private-equity firm Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe, is charting
new ground by securitizing debt to life-science companies that
need working capital to carry them until a product can be
marketed and sold. Deals of this type may help offset a decline
in funds that are being raised to support early-stage companies.  “It’s not something that we see often,” said Michael
McDermitt, a Moody’s vice president in  New York . The collateral
consists of loans to borrowers that are often operating with
venture capital. “Often they’re not revenue producing
companies,” he said.  Oxford, based in Alexandria,  Virginia , lends exclusively to
life science and healthcare-services firms, according to the
company’s website. The securitization is the first of its kind,
Guggenheim said in a statement. The deal, which includes senior
loans to 51 life science and 9 healthcare companies, consists of
an A2 portion and an unrated piece held by Oxford that receives
payments after the senior noteholders are repaid.  Securitized Debt  The underlying loans have an average yield of 11.8 percent
and maturities of three to five years, Moody’s said. The notes
have a weighted-average life of less than one year.  The lender sold the debt as the market for securitized
bonds revives after tumbling in 2008 when losses on subprime-
mortgage securities infected the financial system and froze
credit markets globally.  Demand for CLOs, a type of collateralized debt obligation
that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return, has increased as the cost
of raising the highest-rated piece has decreased. CLO sales have
risen to $6.6 billion from $3.4 billion for all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time, the number of U.S.  venture capital  funds
raised in the first half of 2011 fell to the lowest in 16 years,
according to a survey conducted by the  National Venture Capital
Association  and Thomson Reuters.  Oxford and others may follow with similar bond offerings,
said Alexander Rekeda, the New York-based head of financial
securitizations at Guggenheim Securities, a unit of Guggenheim
Partners LLC.  “We certainly look forward to doing more deals like this,”
Rekeda said. “This is a very interesting space, a very
promising space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  