-- 
Gundlach’s Hedge Fund Said to Rise 28% on Mortgage-Backed Bond Investments

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/gundlach-hedge-fund-said-to-rise-28-on-mortgage-backed-bonds-since-start.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s hedge fund has
gained 28 percent since its Sept. 1 start, driven by bets on
mortgage-backed securities, according to an investor briefed on
the returns.  The DoubleLine Opportunistic Income Fund, which invests in
fixed-income securities, is up 16 percent through the first half
of the year, net of fees, said the investor, who asked not to
identified because the information is private. The Los Angeles-
based fund gathered $566 million in investor deposits as of June
14, according to filings with the  U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission .  Gundlach, 51, embroiled in a legal dispute with TCW Group
Inc. since the Los Angeles-based company ousted him in December
2009, has built a $12.5 billion firm with President Philip Barach in less than two years by outperforming many rivals,
including the  TCW Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  run by his former
employer. TCW sued Gundlach soon after he started his new
company, claiming he stole  trade secrets . The case is scheduled
for trial later this month.  “Because of his track record, Jeffrey Gundlach has gotten
the attention of a lot of investors and has created quite a
following,”  Geoff Bobroff , a fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
 Rhode Island , said in a telephone interview. “I would assume
there will be more opportunities once the litigation overhang
goes away.”  Lew Phelps, a spokesman for DoubleLine, declined to
comment.  Beats Rivals  The hedge fund is invested in both mortgage-backed
securities that lack government backing and U.S. agency bonds,
including those guaranteed by government-supported companies
such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the investor said. The fund,
which can borrow $1 in leverage for every $1 in assets, avoided
subprime securities, according to the investor.  Hedge funds that invest in mortgage-backed securities have
beaten generalist strategies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A
Bloomberg index of hedge funds investing in MBS climbed 11
percent this year through June 30, better than the 4.4 percent
return for the Bloomberg aggregate hedge fund index. Gundlach’s
fund outperformed the index of its peers by 5 percentage points
this year, according to data compiled by Blomberg.  During a July 12 conference call with investors, Gundlach
said subprime-mortgage bonds will continue to fall as the
housing market remains in a slump. He predicted the riskiest
subprime securities could decline 15 percent from current
levels.  Ousted From TCW  “People are so used to the housing market being lousy,
they’re not even noticing how bad it is anymore,” he said
during the conference call.  Gundlach’s $8.5 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund,
which climbed 13 percent in the past year to beat 99 percent of
rivals, has 42 percent of its assets in non-agency residential
MBS, 43 percent in agency-backed collateralized mortgage
obligations and MBS, 9 percent in cash and about 5 percent in
commercial mortgage-backed securities, according to the firm’s
 website . The fund has advanced 5.6 percent this year through
July 18 to beat 96 percent of peers, Bloomberg data show.  Gundlach managed the TCW Total Return Bond Fund until Dec.
4, 2009, when he was ousted as chief investment officer of TCW
Group after the company accused him of planning to start his own
investment firm. Gundlach said he was fired to reduce expenses.  Suit, Countersuit  Barach and more than 40 members of Gundlach’s team followed
him to DoubleLine, which has opened four fixed-income mutual
funds and partnered with other firms to offer additional funds.
DoubleLine was started with backing from  Howard Marks ’s Oaktree
Capital Management LP, a Los Angeles-based investment firm.  The $5.3 billion TCW Total Return, whose assets peaked at
about $11.9 billion before Gundlach’s ouster, averaged annual
gains of 7.5 percent in the five years ended Dec. 4, 2009. The
fund has returned 3.5 percent this year, including dividends,
beating 69 percent of rivals.  In January 2010, TCW, a unit of Paris-based Societe
Generale SA, sued Gundlach and three other former employees
working for Gundlach’s new firm for more than $200 million in
damages. Gundlach countersued, claiming that he was dismissed so
the company wouldn’t have to pay $600 million to $1.25 billion
in future management and performance fees from the funds his
group managed. The case is scheduled for trial on July 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  