-- 
Liberty Media’s TruePosition Sues Alcatel, Ericsson Over 4G Phone Locators

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-20T20:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/liberty-media-s-trueposition-sues-alcatel-qualcomm-over-gps.html
Liberty Media Corp.’s TruePosition
unit sued Alcatel-Lucent, LM Ericsson and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
contending they are trying to shut it out of access to the next
generation of phone-locator technology.  TruePosition  says it provides superior products to help
law-enforcement and other agencies identify locations of mobile
cellular devices, and that the rivals are violating U.S.
antitrust law, according to a complaint filed today in federal
court in Philadelphia.  Alcatel, Ericsson and Qualcomm are allegedly “accelerating
standardization of their own positioning technology” and trying
to “derail” TruePosition’s technology development, according
to court documents.  TruePosition, based in Berwyn,  Pennsylvania , helps police,
fire and ambulance services locate more than 55 million callers
in the U.S. every year, using more than 90,000 cell towers, the
company said in the lawsuit, which seeks damages and an order to
stop the “anticompetitive conduct.”  “The defendants, through the guise of creating objective
standards for the telecommunication industry, conspired to
exclude a competitor,”  Stuart Salen , TruePosition general
counsel, said in a statement.  “We haven’t even seen the complaint and as is our general
policy we do not comment on pending litigation,”  Mary Ward , a
U.S. spokeswoman for Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent, said in an e-
mailed message.  Ericsson Response  “We have to review this suit, so we can’t comment on it at
this time,” Fredrik Hallstam, a spokesman for Stockholm-based
Ericsson, said in a telephone interview.  “We just learned of the complaint,” which “appears to be
TruePosition’s dissatisfaction with the standards-setting
process,” and are reviewing it, Christie Thoene, a spokeswoman
for San Diego-based Qualcomm, said in an e-mailed statement.  Alcatel-Lucent’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, fell 3 cents to $5.14 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ericsson LM-B
shares rose to 91.90 krona today in  Stockholm . Qualcomm rose
32 cents to $57.30 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York .  Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Media’s capital tracking
stock fell $1.67 or about 2 percent to $84.08 on the Nasdaq.  The case is TruePosition v. LM Ericsson, 11-cv-4574, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 