-- 
Microsemi Makes Hostile Bid to Buy Zarlink for $549 Million

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/microsemi-offers-to-buy-canada-based-zarlink-for-549-million.html
Microsemi Corp. (MSCC) , the maker of
microchips for the aerospace and defense industries, made a
hostile offer to buy  Zarlink Semiconductor Inc. (ZL)  for about $549
million to broaden its range of products.  Microsemi said in a statement that it went public with its
proposal to the board of Ottawa-based Zarlink after two attempts
to negotiate in private were dismissed “without discussion.”
The cash bid of C$3.35 ($3.54) a share is 40 percent more than
to Zarlink’s closing price of C$2.39 yesterday. Zarlink
responded by saying the offer undervalues the company.  Microsemi, based in  Irvine ,  California , is expanding its
semiconductor business through acquisitions. The company has
announced seven deals since March 30, 2010, including a takeover
of Actel Corp. last year for more than $400 million. Microsemi
said buying Zarlink will extend its reach into communications
and medical markets.  “This proposal provides your shareholders a far superior
economic alternative to the risk adjusted outcomes associated
with the company’s standalone prospects,” Microsemi Chief
Executive Officer James Peterson wrote in a letter to Adam Chowaniec, Zarlink’s chairman.  Zarlink jumped C$1.21, or 51 percent, to C$3.60 at 4 p.m.
on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest intraday gain since
at least 1983. With today’s gain, the stock has added 97 percent
this year and is trading at its highest level since 2004.
Microsemi fell 2 cents to $19.92 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have fallen 13 percent this year.  Private Offer  Microsemi said it made a private offer of as much as C$3.55
to the board on June 17 and has taken down its bid “due to the
added costs associated with pursing this transaction in a public
manner and the inability for Microsemi to perform diligence.”  In a statement,  Zarlink  said its board had reviewed the
Microsemi offers of C$3 and C$3.25 a share, with the help of
legal counsel and financial advisers  RBC Capital Markets  and
Canaccord Genuity.  The company “unanimously concluded and advised Microsemi
that the proposals significantly undervalued Zarlink and its
future prospects and were not in the best interests of its
stakeholders,” Zarlink said in the statement. The latest
proposal doesn’t change the view of the board, which
“unanimously concluded with the assistance of its advisers that
it significantly undervalues the company.”  Zarlink designs semiconductor products for companies such
as Alcatel-Lucent SA,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Juniper Networks
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  