-- 
Tiger Woods Says Caddie Steve Williams Is No Longer Carrying His Golf Bag

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-20T19:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tiger-woods-says-caddie-steve-williams-is-no-longer-carrying-his-golf-bag.html
Tiger Woods  and longtime caddie
 Steve Williams  will no longer work together, the golfer said on
his  website .  “I want to express my deepest gratitude to Stevie for all
his help, but I think it’s time for a change,” Woods said.
“Stevie is an outstanding caddie and a friend and has been
instrumental in many of my accomplishments. I wish him great
success in the future.”  A replacement hasn’t been named, Woods said.  The departure of Williams is the latest change for Woods
since a November 2009 car accident outside of his Florida home
led to his admission of marital infidelity. The golfer has lost
endorsement agreements with companies, including
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  and PepsiCo. Inc.’s Gatorade, changed swing
coaches and been hobbled by injuries. He hasn’t won a tournament
in 20 months.  Williams, a 47-year-old New Zealander, has been Woods’s
caddie for 13 of his 14 major titles. Mike “Fluff” Cowan
caddied for Woods during his first major victory, the 1997
 Masters Tournament .  Williams has caddied for Australian  Adam Scott  at golf’s
last two major championships, the U.S. and British Opens, and
said he will now work with him full-time.  “After 13 years of loyal service needless to say this came
as a shock,” Williams said on his  website . “Given the
circumstances of the past 18 months working through Tiger’s
scandal, a new coach and with it a major swing change and Tiger
battling through injuries I am very disappointed to end our very
successful partnership at this time.”  Woods, 35, has been recovering from left knee and Achilles’
tendon injuries and hasn’t played since he dropped out of the
Players championship in May.  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009 and has
fallen to No. 20 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  after
holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  