-- 
India Plans $10 Billion Sovereign Fund, Singh’s Adviser Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-20T07:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/india-plans-10-billion-sovereign-fund-singh-s-adviser-says.html
India  is considering a plan to set
aside $10 billion from its foreign-exchange reserves and create
a sovereign wealth fund to secure energy assets overseas, an
aide to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said.  “The idea of a sovereign wealth fund really boils down to
sequestering a certain amount of your foreign-exchange
reserves,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of India’s
Planning Commission, said in an interview in New Delhi late
yesterday. “I doubt if what would be done is anything more than
just an experiment. Maybe $10 billion, or something.”  India has been outpaced by China in the quest to acquire
oil blocks and coal fields to meet growing energy demand in the
world’s fastest-growing major economies. Chinese companies have
announced about $46.6 billion of energy acquisitions overseas
since January 2010, compared with $8.3 billion by Indians, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Rising  oil prices  are driving the valuation of energy
assets and Indian companies can use any help they can get from
the government,” said Rina Sanghavi, a Kolkata-based research
analyst at SPA Securities Ltd., who recommends investors buy
shares of Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the country’s biggest
explorer. “India’s demand is rising and our companies haven’t
had a good record competing against the Chinese.”  India has $282 billion in foreign-currency assets, while
China has $3.2 trillion, according to Bloomberg data.  Oil Prices  Crude oil in New York trading has gained 27 percent in the
past year. Crude for August delivery increased as much as 85
cents to $98.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $98.08 at 1:40 p.m. Singapore
time.  India’s oil ministry had asked the  finance ministry  to
start a fund using part of the reserves, a government official
said in March last year. The official had declined to be
identified because a decision hadn’t been reached.  The fund was proposed to help state-run companies compete
with their overseas counterparts for energy assets abroad, the
official said, without providing an estimate for its size.  The International Energy Agency predicts India’s energy use
may more than double by 2030 to the equivalent of 833 million
metric tons of oil from 2007. The Paris-based agency says
China’s use may rise 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons in the
period.  Oil Imports  India imported about 3.3 million barrels of crude a day in
the year ended March 31, equivalent to about 83 percent of the
total oil processed by the country’s refiners, according to oil
ministry data. State-run companies are forming ventures to bid
for energy deposits around the world and fend off competition.  New Delhi-based ONGC and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  may bid for OAO
Novatek’s liquefied natural gas project in Russia in partnership
with  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , Joeman Thomas, managing director of ONGC
Videsh Ltd., said May 30. Petronet is a venture formed by
government-owned  oil companies .  Ahluwalia said a formal decision on establishing the fund
is awaited. He said it may be “subject to restrictions” by the
 Reserve Bank  of India.  ONGC failed to win Exxon Mobil Corp.’s 25 percent stake in
an Angolan oil block after making a $2 billion offer, two people
with knowledge of the matter said March 14. Indonesia’s PT
Pertamina is the preferred bidder for the stake and is in talks
with  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  on a possible joint bid to help fund the deal,
an official at the Jakarta-based energy company said May 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  