-- 
Indian Refiners Said to Seek Saudi Crude as Iran Warns of Cutoff

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-07-21T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/indian-refiners-said-to-seek-saudi-oil-next-month-as-iran-warns-of-cutoff.html
Indian refiners asked Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. for at least one additional shipment in August as a
payment dispute jeopardizes Iranian cargoes, four people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Iran  has told customers in  India  that they won’t receive
shipments next month unless outstanding bills are paid,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Indian refiners
have said global sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program
have made banks unwilling to transfer oil payments.  Iran may stop oil exports to India starting Aug. 1, state-
run Fars news agency reported July 18, citing an unidentified
official in the Oil Ministry. The country hasn’t issued export
permits for crude shipments to India for August, Fars said.
India owed $5 billion for oil shipments, Iranian Central Bank
Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said that day, according to the  Islamic
Republic News Agency .  Staff working for Ahmad Qalebani, managing director of
National Iranian Oil Co. in Tehran, referred questions on the
matter to Mohsen Qamsari, head of international affairs. Qamsari
didn’t immediately respond to two calls to his office.  Saudi Aramco , as the world’s largest crude exporter, has
told refiners in India it can replace some of the Iranian crude,
people with knowledge of the situation said earlier this month.
The Dhahran-based company didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Second-Biggest Supplier  India imports about 21 million metric tons of crude from
Iran annually, making it the country’s second-biggest supplier
after  Saudi Arabia , S. Sundareshan, a former Indian oil
secretary, said on Dec. 30. Total oil trade between India and
Iran is worth $9.5 billion a year.  R. Gopalan, a secretary in the department of economic
affairs in India’s Ministry of Finance, declined to comment
yesterday on the dispute.  The biggest Indian buyer is  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  Other purchasers of Iranian crude include
 Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and Indian Oil Corp.  “Supplies are maintained based on an interim
arrangement,”  Mangalore Refinery , which buys about 7 million
tons a year of crude from Iran, said in its 2010 annual report.  India voluntarily stopped channeling funds for Iranian oil
through a bank in  Germany , a government official said April 5.  Iran hasn’t yet given Indian refiners loading dates or
shipping amounts for August, three of the people familiar said
yesterday. Iran typically provides this information by the
middle of each month for the following month’s supplies, they
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  