-- 
Linkers Snapping Seven-Month Gain Signal Call for BOJ Action: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-07-21T00:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/linkers-snapping-seven-month-gain-signal-call-for-boj-action-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s inflation-linked bonds are
poised for their first monthly loss since November as traders
back the International Monetary Fund’s view that consumer price
growth will trail the central bank’s projections.  Securities that reflect the outlook for inflation have lost
0.5 percent in July, snapping a seven-month rally that was the
longest since at least July 2004, an index compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch shows. U.S. inflation-linked debt has
risen 1.8 percent in July, while Germany’s has returned 1.7
percent, separate indexes show.  The IMF urged the  Bank of Japan  to buy more assets to
combat deflation that’s gripped the nation for more than a
decade. Prices are falling as the yen climbs to a four-month
high and the economy slips into recession after a record
earthquake in March.  “Weak demand and sluggish wage growth prevent companies
from raising prices,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in
Tokyo at Norinchukin Research Institute Co., a unit of
Norinchukin Bank, which has $894 billion in assets. “The
situation calls for an expansion of  money supply .”  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
inflation-linked debt was negative 0.32 percentage point
yesterday, the lowest since May 6. The IMF said it forecasts
zero inflation in Japan in the next two years, while BOJ policy
makers expect annual price increases of 0.7 percent for both
fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012.  Commodity Prices  The difference in views come mainly from the “commodity
price outlook feeding into energy costs, higher food prices,”
Mahmood Pradhan, the IMF’s mission chief for Japan, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “They see
commodity prices still rising at perhaps 5 to 6 percent a year.
We see the commodity price outlook as broadly flat.”  A Bloomberg survey of 14 economists last month showed that
all but one expect the BOJ’s next move would be to provide more
stimulus and four expect it will expand its asset-purchase fund
around August.  The BOJ doubled the fund to 10 trillion yen ($127 billion)
after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami struck in March,
buying assets including government and corporate debt, and stock
funds. The central bank, which also purchases 1.8 trillion yen
of  government bonds  every month, should consider expanding the
asset-purchase fund and buying more longer-dated government
bonds, the IMF said.  Inflation Swaps  Five-year inflation swaps, which allow investors to
exchange fixed-interest rates for returns equivalent to Japan’s
consumer price index, were at minus 0.010 percent today, the
lowest since May 13. That’s down from as high as positive 0.14
percent last month after data showed gains in core consumer
prices in April and May for the first time since December 2008.  The statistics bureau will change the base year to 2010
from 2005 for the computation of consumer prices starting with
July data due for release Aug. 26. Because of the change, the
inflation rate will probably remain negative for the year ending
March 31, according to Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Research Institute
Inc.  “It’s likely to take longer before Japan beats
deflation,” said Akihiro Morishige, an economist at Mitsubishi
Research Institute, Inc. “The BOJ will need to keep monetary
easing longer before heading for an exit.”  The BOJ’s key rate has been below 1 percent since 1995 as
it tried to stoke economic growth through low borrowing costs.
Those efforts have been stymied as banks funneled money back
into government bonds rather than fresh lending.  Yen Gains  BOJ Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi pledged “decisive”
action when needed as  Europe ’s debt crisis poses greater risks
to the global economy.  The BOJ will “take appropriate policy actions in a
flexible and decisive manner” if necessary, Yamaguchi said
yesterday. “The bank is aware that uncertainties at home and
abroad are significant.”  The yen has advanced against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts over the past three months amid concern Europe’s
woes will worsen and the U.S. will fail to raise its debt limit
and go into default. The yen tends to strengthen in times of
financial turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus means
it doesn’t have to rely on foreign capital. The currency reached
78.47 per dollar on July 14, the strongest since the post-World
War II high set on March 17. It was at 78.81 per dollar as of
9:24 a.m. in  Tokyo  today.  A stronger yen weighs on prices by making imports cheaper,
while it makes overseas shipments relatively more expensive,
hurting exporters. Finance Ministry data today showed imports
rose 9.8 percent in June from a year earlier, while exports
dropped 1.6 percent.  BOJ Confidence  Five-year contracts to insure Japanese government bonds
against default were at 90.60 basis points in  New York 
yesterday, according to data by CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That compares with 58.46 points to protect
German debt and 53.14 on Treasuries.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond slid to an
eight-month low of 1.06 percent this week, and rose one basis
point today to 1.085 percent. That’s the least among 32 bond
markets tracked by Bloomberg. Ten-year debt yields 2.76 percent
in  Germany  and 2.95 percent in the U.S.  The Bank of Japan has resisted calls from lawmakers to
expand stimulus, with Governor Masaaki Shirakawa saying that
underwriting of bonds could lead to sharp inflation and loss of
trust in the currency. Data from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development showed Japan’s public debt reached
200 percent of annual economic output last year.  Investor confidence in the BOJ means investors can feel
secure in buying government bonds, said  Ayako Sera , a strategist
at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo, which manages the
equivalent of $317 billion.  “I don’t think there’s confidence in Japan’s government
finances,” Sera said. “A weaker yen as a result of lost
confidence in the BOJ may be good in the short term, but we
can’t restore that lost confidence in two-to-five years’ time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  