-- 
Minnesota Goes Back to Work as Politicians Gauge Shutdown Fallout

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 
2011-07-20T13:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/minnesota-goes-back-to-work-as-politicians-gauge-shutdown-fallout.html
Minnesota ’s rest stops and parks
must be cleaned after being closed almost three weeks during
state government’s shutdown. Equipment must be returned to
construction sites. There may be a backlog of hunting license
applications. And winners and losers have to be sorted out.  The Republican-controlled Legislature passed the last of
the budget bills about 3:30 a.m. local time largely on party-
line votes, allowing Democratic Governor  Mark Dayton  to end the
20-day impasse. Dayton, who called a session yesterday after
settling the details of a broad agreement last week with
Republican legislative leaders, plans to sign the bills at 9
a.m. local time, according to an e-mail from his office.  Both sides took a political hit because they might have
reached much the same deal last month, making it a lesson for
politicians in  Washington  debating the federal debt limit, said
Lawrence Jacobs, a  University of Minnesota  professor who directs
its Center for the Study of Politics and Governance.  “The haunting lesson is, when you leave things to the last
minute, miscalculations are quite probable,” Jacobs said in a
telephone interview from  Minneapolis .  Fitch downgraded about $5.7 billion in Minnesota general-
obligation bonds one step to AA+ from AAA, the highest level, on
July 7 in because of the state’s reliance on one-time funding
sources during the recession and “the likelihood that the final
budget agreement will again include nonrecurring solutions,”
according to a release.  Plugging the Hole  Dayton, 64, and Republican legislative leaders agreed to
close a $5 billion  budget deficit  with spending cuts while
raising as much as $640 million through bonds tied to the 1998
tobacco settlement and shifting $700 million in additional
education spending into the next budget, according to bills
passed last night and this morning.  The Legislature also agreed to Dayton’s request for a
$497.6 million  bonding bill  for capital projects. The budget
authorizes the administration to set the terms of the tobacco
bond sale, Representative Greg Davids, the Republican chairman
of the Tax Committee, said in an interview on the House floor.  Most government functions stopped at 12:01 a.m. July 1
after Dayton and lawmakers failed to resolve the budget dispute
in the Midwestern state of 5.3 million.  Emerging From Slumber  While some operations can restart just by turning on
computers, it might be weeks before the state functions as it
did before the start of the nation’s longest shutdown since
2002, said Jim Schowalter, commissioner of the Management and
Budget office.  “Normal operations do not happen immediately,” Schowalter
said during a conference call with reporters from  St. Paul 
yesterday.  Minnesota has a plan for restarting itself, John Pollard,
spokesman for the Management and Budget office, said in an
interview yesterday in St. Paul.  The first step will be recalling about 23,000 state workers
who were laid off, and employees have three days to return under
an agreement reached with unions before the shutdown, Pollard
said.  “It’s really tough to predict where the bumps will be,”
he said, adding that it is too early to calculate a final cost
of the shutdown.  Construction on 100 road, bridge and building projects may
take the longest to restart, Schowalter said. In some cases,
contractors pulled equipment off sites and assessments are
needed to ensure work can resume safely, David Semerad, chief
executive of the  Associated General Contractors of Minnesota  in
St. Paul, said in a telephone interview.  Out of Hibernation  He compared the situation to resuming work after winter.  “It’s certainly not like turning a light switch on,”
Semerad said.  Rest stops must be cleaned and damage from storms repaired
before barricades are removed, Kevin Gutknecht, a spokesman for
the Minnesota Department of Transportation, said in a telephone
interview. That could take “a couple of days” after workers
are recalled, he said.  About 300 bars, restaurants and liquor stores that were
unable to purchase alcohol from wholesalers because their
permits expired during the shutdown are getting a reprieve. One
of the  budget bills  allows businesses with so-called buyer’s
cards that expired between June 15 and July 25 to continue
buying alcohol through the end of the month.  Dry and Angry  Public outcry about the possibility of businesses running
out of booze, combined with the threat that MillerCoors LLC
would have to pull its products from shelves because it failed
to renew brand-label registrations, contributed to Dayton’s
acceptance of Republicans’ June 30 budget offer with conditions,
said Steven Schier, a political-science professor at Carleton
College in Northfield.  “If you pull beer, you’re courting a political
whirlwind,” Schier said in a telephone interview.  The final deal was a compromise, and it was clear last
November it would be needed after Minnesota voters elected a
Democratic governor and gave Republicans control of the
Legislature, Dayton told reporters yesterday during a news
conference at the Capitol in St. Paul.  “It just meant by definition that we’re not going to be
able to, any of us, walk away saying we have everything we
want,” said Dayton, who dropped his plan to raise the income
tax on the wealthiest 2 percent of Minnesotans.  Although Republicans accepted higher spending, they
prevented a tax increase that would have hurt Minnesota’s
competitiveness, House Speaker Kurt Zellers said in an interview
at the Capitol. Republicans found “common ground” with the
governor “and we can move forward,” Senator Geoff Michel, the
deputy majority leader, said in a floor speech.  Reckless Borrowing  Still, Representative Paul Thissen, the minority leader,
called the spending plan “the most irresponsible budget in
state history” in a floor speech because it borrows money and
will create a deficit in the next budget, he said. Selling the
tobacco bonds “violates every principle of good governance,”
Democratic Senator Dick Cohen said in a floor speech.  Jacobs named three losers from the shutdown -- Minnesota,
Democrats and Republicans -- and said the state got a black eye
nationally.  “Minnesota went from being kind of poster child for good
governance to being a warning label on how not to run the
public’s business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  