-- 
Intel Sees Quarterly Sales Beating Estimates on Company Computer Upgrades

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-21T20:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/intel-sees-quarterly-sales-beating-estimates-on-company-computer-upgrades.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, forecast third-quarter sales that exceeded some
analysts’ estimates, bolstered by corporate computer upgrades
and first-time purchases by consumers in emerging markets.  Revenue will be $14 billion, plus or minus $500 million,
Intel said yesterday in a statement. That compares with $13.5
billion, the average of analysts’ projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
deducting production costs, will be about 64 percent.  Corporate purchases of personal computers and servers, as
well as sales to consumers in  developing countries  such as
Brazil and  China , are outweighing stagnant sales of laptops in
the U.S. and  Europe . Greater demand for Intel’s powerful chips
for business machines and servers that run data centers has
lifted average selling prices, boosting Intel’s profitability.  “We knew that there would be strength in the servers, but
to see double-digit growth in their PC unit is great,” said
Michael Shinnick, a  South Bend , Indiana-based  money manager  at
Wasatch Advisors Inc., which oversees about $10 billion in
investments. Intel’s PC Client Group sales rose 11 percent in
the second quarter to $8.3 billion.  Intel shares slid 18 cents to $22.81 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. They have gained 8.5 percent
this year.  Cloud Computing  Second-quarter net income rose to $2.95 billion, or 54
cents a share, from $2.89 billion, or 51 cents, a year earlier,
the  Santa Clara , California-based company said. Analysts on
average had estimated profit of 51 cents. Sales increased 21
percent to a record $13 billion, compared with an average
prediction of $12.8 billion.  Gross margin, the only measure of profitability that Intel
forecasts, was 60.6 percent in the second quarter.  The technology industry needs one server computer for every
600 smartphones in use, and one for every 122 tablets, Intel
Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  told analysts in May. That
means that even though Intel has so far failed to enter the
mobile-phone processor business directly, it’s benefitting from
rising demand for computer services provided over the Internet
in the so-called cloud. Companies also need servers to handle a
rising tide of high-definition video and other data over the
Internet.  Data Centers  “The whole explosion of global devices and Internet
services is driving significant growth for us,” Otellini said
in an interview yesterday. “I don’t see it abating. As more and
more of the  Internet traffic  moves to HD video, it’s going to
drive more of that infrastructure.”  Intel’s data-center sales will jump to $10 billion this
year, and they’ll double to $20 billion within five years,
Otellini has predicted.  The company’s rosy forecast contrasted with disappointing
reports on the broader PC market last week. On July 13, IDC said
global PC shipments rose 2.6 percent in the second quarter,
below the market-researcher’s projection for a 2.9 percent gain.
U.S. shipments dropped 4.2 percent, IDC said. The same day,
Gartner Inc. said worldwide PC sales increased 2.3 percent from
a year earlier, compared with the 6.7 percent rise the firm
predicted.  Intel’s processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s
PCs. The company’s earnings have outperformed the industry so
far this year because a greater portion of its sales come from
emerging markets, which Intel says are harder for analysts to
track when tallying total PC sales.  ‘Low Double Digits’  The company expects the overall market for PC shipments to
grow 8 percent to 10 percent this year, Otellini said yesterday.
That’s down from an earlier forecast for percentage growth in
the “low double digits.” Fewer units shipped won’t hold back
the company’s revenue growth, as the potential shortfall will be
in lower-end machines powered by Intel’s discount Atom range, he
said.  Intel’s profit was helped by a lower  tax rate  in the second
quarter. It paid 24.9 percent, compared with a prediction of 29
percent, because it got more profit in countries where the rates
are lower, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 