-- 
Investor Enthusiasm May Add Momentum to Obama Deficit Deal Push

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/investor-enthusiasm-may-add-momentum-to-obama-s-broad-deficit-deal-desires.html
The surge in stock and bond markets
after President  Barack Obama  embraced a $3.7 trillion debt-
cutting plan from a bipartisan group of senators may add
momentum to the administration’s push for a broad deficit deal.  The favorable market reaction “fills out the case” for
the economic benefits of a compromise for both parties, said
Patrick Griffin, who was President Bill Clinton’s chief
congressional lobbyist from 1994 to 1996.  “Since this has really been psychological warfare as much
as anything else for the last couple weeks, I think it does have
an impact,” said Griffin, who helped the Democratic president
navigate a Republican-controlled Congress. “It makes it more
credible.”  Even so, yesterday’s plan from the Senate’s so-called Gang
of Six faces significant obstacles in the House because it would
include tax increases along with spending cuts, which Republican
congressional leaders say they will oppose in any plan to shrink
the deficit. That stand has led to a stalemate in weeks-long
negotiations on raising the government’s $14.3 trillion
borrowing authority before the Treasury Department forecasts it
will be exhausted on Aug. 2.  “Tax increases aren’t going to fly in the House,” said
Texas Republican Representative Kevin Brady, a member of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. “That’s not going to
change.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  was non-committal on the
senators’ proposal.  Falling Short  “This plan shares many similarities with the framework the
speaker discussed with the president, but also appears to fall
short in some important areas,”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for
the Ohio Republican, said in an e-mail. For the time being, a
constitutional amendment to balance the budget and make it more
difficult to raise taxes “remains our focus,” Steel said.  The group of three Republican and three Democratic senators
released their framework yesterday as polls showed the public
mood has turned against Republicans in the debt talks.  Seventy-one percent of Americans disapprove of
congressional Republicans conduct in the talks on the debt
ceiling versus 48 percent who disapprove of Obama’s performance
in the negotiations, according to a CBS News  poll  conducted July
15-17. Half of self-identified Republicans said they disapprove
of how their party leaders are handling the issue.  Support for Compromise  According to a Washington Post-ABC News  poll  conducted July
14-17, more than three-quarters of Americans say the Republican
leadership has been too resistant to compromise on the deficit
versus about six in 10 who say Obama isn’t willing enough to
reach agreement. Among Republicans, 58 percent see the party as
too resistant to a deal, up from 42 percent who said so in
March.  The plan from the Gang of Six, led by Republican Senator
 Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia and Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of
 Virginia , calls for an immediate $500 billion in spending cuts
followed by a longer-term effort to force bigger reductions, and
$1 trillion in tax increases. The plan also would lower tax
rates and limit the growth of entitlement programs such as
Medicare and Social Security.  Obama appeared at a White House briefing to embrace the
proposal, though he stopped short of endorsing it in full. He
called it “broadly consistent” with what he has sought and “a
very significant step” in so-far fruitless negotiations.  “We now are seeing the potential for a bipartisan
consensus,” he said.  Signs of Support  About 50 senators, roughly evenly divided between the two
parties, attended a closed-door briefing on the proposal, a sign
of potentially widespread support. One member of the Republican
leadership, third-ranking Senator  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee ,
publicly endorsed it.  “In the next 24 hours, you’re going to see a significant
portion of the Senate come behind this,” said Republican
Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, who rejoined the Gang of Six
today after he abandoned the talks in May over an impasse on
Medicare cuts. “This doesn’t solve our problems, but this
creates the way forward where we can,” he said.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  was
noncommittal. “I don’t have an opinion yet,” he told
reporters.  Obama’s embrace of the framework stirred a surge in
financial markets as investors concluded a deal with significant
debt reduction is now more likely, traders said.  Move in Markets  “This is the biggest on-the-announcement move we’ve had”
in the debt-limit negotiations, said  Carl Lantz , New York-based
head of interest rate strategy for Credit Suisse Securities USA
LLC.  Throughout the debt limit talks, the assumption in
financial markets has been that political leaders in  Washington 
will conclude a deal in time to avert a default, Lantz said.
Still, investors haven’t expected major deficit reductions, he
said. After yesterday’s events, “there is some reassessment of
that,” he added.  “At least for today everyone is looking at the markets
through rose-colored glasses,” said Richard Schlanger, who helps
manage $20 billion in fixed-income securities as vice president
at Pioneer Investments in  Boston . “In Washington, a lot of
things can change, just like the weather down there.”  Stocks surged yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to its biggest gain in four months, and Treasuries
rallied, with 30-year bond yields falling the most since 2010.
Gold futures dropped.  The  S&P 500  jumped 1.6 percent to 1,326.73. Ten-year
Treasury note yields lost five basis points to 2.88 percent, and
30-year bond yields fell 12 basis points to 4.19 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  ‘Robust Proposal’  “The upside in Treasuries has been a function of this new,
more robust proposal from the Gang of Six,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “There’s a reasonable amount of perceived momentum
behind that, the concept being that’s the type of proposal
needed to keep the credit-rating agencies at bay.”  Still, some analysts said there was less to the Gang of Six
outline than meets the eye because it set goals without
specifics.  “The market completely overreacted to this Senate plan,”
said  Tom Porcelli , chief economist at  RBC Capital Markets .
“There’s an idea that could easily go nowhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 