-- 
Mirae’s Kwan Is Top Forecaster for Oil; Danske Leads Brent

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-20T17:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/mirae-s-kwan-is-top-ranked-oil-forecaster-danske-leads-brent.html
Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. was the
most accurate forecaster of oil traded in  New York  out of 26
analysts ranked by Bloomberg over the last eight quarters.  Estimates by  Gordon Kwan , Mirae’s Hong Kong-based head of
regional energy research, for West Texas Intermediate crude were
closest to the actual price from the third quarter of 2009 to
the quarter ended June 30.  “ Oil prices  are well supported in a very high trading
range,” Kwan said by phone from  Hong Kong  today. “It’s very
profitable for the energy sector but not high enough to kill any
economic growth. We’re in a sweet spot.”  Kwan expects WTI crude to trade from $90 to $110 a barrel
this year as rising Chinese demand is offset by higher OPEC
production. Kwan formerly worked for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
Ltd., the regional brokerage unit of Credit Agricole SA.  Christin Tuxen of Danske Bank A/S and Francisco Blanch of
Bank of America Merrill Lynch were the top forecasters of Brent
crude and Henry Hub natural gas futures, respectively, the
Bloomberg ranking survey found.  Oil capped eight straight months of gains through April as
violence in  Libya  halted most of the nation’s output, raising
concern the gains would derail the global economic recovery. The
 International Energy Agency  said June 23 its members will offer
60 million barrels of oil in the first release of strategic
stockpiles in almost six years. OPEC failed on June 8 to agree
on a plan to make up for Libyan exports, prompting  Saudi Arabia 
to offer extra supplies.  Mirae was followed by Danske Bank, Standard Chartered Bank,
Societe Generale SA and National Australia Bank Ltd. as the most
accurate WTI forecasters.  Danske Bullish  Tuxen, a Copenhagen-based analyst at Danske Bank, had the
lowest margin of error for North Sea Brent crude prices out of
19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We have been fairly bullish,” Tuxen said by telephone.
“We are looking for global growth, and especially Asian growth,
to bounce back.  China ’s demand for raw materials will pick up
again and that should be a fairly positive factor for oil.”  Danske Bank forecasts Brent will average $111 a barrel in
2011 and $117 in 2012 on a “tighter market.”  WTI crude for August delivery declined 70 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $96.80 a barrel at 1:22 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It has advanced 25 percent in the past 12
months. Brent for September settlement was up 7 cents at $117.13
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent has risen 54
percent in the past year.  Blanch, head of global commodities research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, was the most accurate forecaster for
Nymex Henry Hub natural gas prices out of 12 analysts.  The following table lists the best forecasters of WTI and
Brent crude and Henry Hub gas prices ranked by Bloomberg for the
last eight quarters ended June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  