-- 
Irish Life Investors Reject State Control; Court Move Possible

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-20T12:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/irish-life-investors-reject-state-control-court-move-possible.html
Ireland’s government signaled its
intention to push through a plan to take control of  Irish Life  &
Permanent Plc, even after shareholders revolted against
proposals for state ownership.  To a standing ovation from the audience of about 300
investors at a meeting in Dublin today, Irish Life Chairman Alan Cook said the company’s plan to accept 3.8 billion euros ($5.4
billion) of state capital had been rejected.  “While noting that shareholders have voted against the
proposed recapitalization ” the government “remains committed
to recapitalizing Irish Life to the levels set by the central
bank,” a spokesperson for Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
in an e-mailed statement.  The capital injection would give the state a 99 percent
share of the company, making it the fifth lender to fall under
state ownership after a real-estate bubble burst and pushed
Ireland’s financial system to the brink of collapse. The
government last year introduced new banking laws, effectively
allowing it to take over banks to preserve financial stability.  “The government is not for turning on this issue and has
clearly signaled its intent to impose its will” even if it has
to secure a court order on Irish Life, Ray Kinsella, banking
professor at the Smurfit Business School at University College
Dublin, said before the shareholder vote.  The requirement to raise so much capital is “not
credible” and an “artificial requirement,” said Piotr
Skoczylas, managing director of Malta-based Scotchstone Capital
Fund Ltd., who is leading investors resisting the plans.
Investors backed a resolution appointing Skoczylas a director.  Noonan used bank stabilization laws in relation to Irish
Life when he secured a High Court  order  on June 9, directing the
company to prepare for the private sale or initial public
offering of its life-assurance business. Noonan has said he
favors a sale.  The Dublin-based lender’s shares rose as much as 28
percent today and traded at 6 cents as of 12:29 p.m., giving it
a market value of 15 million euros. The shares peaked at 23.09
euros in February 2007 giving a market capitalization of about
6.4 billion euros.  “I am delighted that there was such a unanimous
rejection” of the company’s resolutions, shareholder John
O’Donoghue said at the meeting. ”We are the owners of the
company -- not the minister for finance, not the  European
Central Bank .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  