-- 
Israel 10-Year Bond Yields Hold Near Five-Month Low on Rate Bets

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-20T12:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/israel-10-year-bond-yields-hold-near-five-month-low-on-rate-bets.html
Israel ’s 10-year government bond
fell, lifting yields from the lowest in almost six months, as
speculation grew that U.S. lawmakers will agree to increase the
nation’s debt ceiling, boosting demand for riskier assets.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond
due January 2020 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 4.98 percent at 2:03 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The rate, which
has plunged 18 basis points this month, reached 4.96 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 31.  “There are some investors selling to take profits after
yields dropped sharply over the past week amid a slump in global
markets,” said Sagie Poznerson, a bond trader at Leader Capital
Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone. “It seems that a
spark of optimism has returned to global markets today
triggering investor appetite for riskier assets.”  Stocks rallied after President  Barack Obama  embraced a $3.7
trillion debt-cutting plan from a bipartisan group of senators.
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes probably rose in June from
a six-month low as the industry struggled to overcome rising
unemployment and foreclosures, economists said before a report
today. Apple Inc. yesterday reported earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  Room to Fall  “There is still room for yields to fall as the market
expects  interest rates  to remain unchanged next week and on bets
U.S. yields will decline on uncertainty about U.S. borrowing and
the pace of the global economic recovery,” Gil Chen, a trader
at IBI-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by
telephone.  The  Bank of Israel  kept the benchmark lending rate at 3.25
percent in June after four increases this year, citing concern
about slower U.S. economic growth and rising debt risk in
 Europe . The rate is expected to climb gradually to about 4.1
percent in 12 months, according to an assessment by Bank of
Israel research staff that was contained in the minutes of the
June 27 rate-setting meeting.  The two-year interest-rate swap, the cost to receive
floating payments or a gauge of the average short-term rates in
the next two years, has declined to 3.87 percent from 3.98
percent on May 23, the last time the central bank raised rates.
The bank will leave the rate unchanged at its next meeting July
25, according to 14 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic growth may be slower in 2011 than the central
bank’s forecast of 5.2 percent because expansion in the second
quarter may have been less than expected, Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said July 7. The economy expanded an
annualized 4.6 percent in the first quarter, slower than the
previously estimated 4.8 percent, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said July 17.  The shekel strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.4180 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Jerusalem at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  