-- 
Misys Shares Rise on Sale Speculation

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-07-20T10:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/misys-shares-advance-in-london-as-company-said-to-be-near-sale.html
Misys Plc (MSY)  rose as much as 9.1
percent in London trading after people with direct knowledge of
the situation said the U.K. software maker is nearing an accord
to be bought by  Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS)   Misys’s board was to vote on Fidelity National’s offer
yesterday and may announce a deal this week if it accepts the
proposal, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Fidelity National, a provider of
banking and payment technology, said last month it made a
“preliminary approach regarding a possible cash offer for
Misys.”  Misys climbed as much as 34.7 pence to 416.1 pence, the
biggest gain in a month, and traded at 414.7 pence as of 11:10
a.m., giving the company a market value of 1.4 billion pounds
($2.3 billion). Jacksonville, Florida-based Fidelity National
advanced 2.7 percent to $29.78 in New York trading yesterday.  “Last week, fear had replaced greed, with capital markets
looking dreadful, no news on a deal” and banking software
supplier Temenos Group AG cutting its forecast, said George O’Connor, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in  London  with a
“hold” recommendation on Misys shares. “Now people are coming
back and say ‘Wait, we don’t want to be out.’”  Phil Branston, a spokesman for Misys, declined to comment.
Marcia Danzeisen, a spokeswoman for Fidelity National, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The London-based provider of software for the financial
industry would help Fidelity National reduce its reliance on the
U.S., where it derives more than 80 percent of revenue.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,200
banking customers in 12 countries, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  