-- 
Misys Shares Advance as Agreement on Sale to National Fidelity May Be Near

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-07-20T07:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/misys-shares-advance-as-agreement-on-sale-to-national-fidelity-may-be-near.html
Misys Plc (MSY)  rose as much as 8.4
percent in London trading after people with direct knowledge of
the situation said the U.K. software maker is nearing an accord
to be bought by  Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS)   Misys’s board was to vote on Fidelity National’s offer
yesterday and may announce a deal this week if it accepts the
proposal, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Fidelity National, a provider of
banking and payment technology, said last month it made a
“preliminary approach regarding a possible cash offer for Misys.”  Misys climbed as much as 31.9 pence to 413.3 pence, the
steepest gain in a month, and traded at 411.9 pence as of 8:35
a.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of 1.4 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion). Jacksonville, Florida-based Fidelity
National added 2.7 percent to $29.78 in New York trading 
yesterday.  Phil Branston, a spokesman for Misys, declined to comment.
Marcia Danzeisen, a spokeswoman for Fidelity National, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  The London-based provider of software for the financial
industry would help Fidelity National reduce its reliance on the
U.S., where it derives more than 80 percent of revenue.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,200
banking customers in 12 countries, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  