-- 
Ivy League Schools Are Limiting Football Practices to Reduce Head Injuries

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-20T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/ivy-league-schools-are-limiting-football-practices-to-reduce-head-injuries.html
The  Ivy League  will suspend football
players for intentional helmet hits and limit full-contact
practices this season to prevent concussions.  Teams can’t have more than two full-contact practices each
week during the season, down from the National Collegiate
Athletic Association maximum of five, the league said in a
statement. Full-contact practices during spring practice will be
reduced to seven from the current  Ivy League  limit of eight, and
a new rule will allow players to practice in pads during both
parts of summer two-a-day sessions just once.  The changes were recommended by a committee formed in
December 2010 to determine how to limit concussions, including
an evaluation of playing rules. The group published a 21-page
report on its recommendations today.  “Given the lack of data regarding the number or type of
hits that may cause long-term consequences, it is important to
minimize the likelihood and severity of hits to the head,” said
Dartmouth College President  Jim Yong Kim  and co-chairmen of the
committee with  Cornell University  President  David J. Skorton .
Both are medical doctors.  “Our goal is to emphasize that a concussion is a serious
injury that requires immediate and proper treatment,” Skorton
said in the statement.  The league said it also will expand the video review of
helmet-to-helmet and targeted hits it conducted the past two
years. In keeping with a review in December 2010, the league
this season “will take appropriate but firm action in response
to helmet hits, including suspension for intentional hits,”
according to the report.  Limited Numbers  The committee reported that players were penalized for
helmet hits in only five of 6,355 plays in 2009, and just eight
out of 6,665 in 2010.  “It appears, based on the available data, that the number
of plays involving significant helmet hits or hits to the head
is approximately 0.18 percent -- less than one out of every
three games,” the report said.  Still, the committee concluded that because the potential
long-term consequences of even one hit are still unknown,
precautions must be taken to reduce the severity of hits to the
head altogether. A big part of that will be convincing the
players of the dangers involved.  “A key component of this effort is continuing to change
the mentality of student-athletes regarding the seriousness of
concussive injuries,” the report said.  While the focus this fall is on football, the league will
soon begin conducting similar reviews of player contact in men’s
and women’s ice hockey, lacrosse and soccer.  The Ivy League is made up of  Yale University ,  Harvard
University ,  Brown University , the  University of Pennsylvania ,
Cornell University, Dartmouth College,  Princeton University  and
 Columbia University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  