-- 
Japan Stock Futures Rise on Earnings Outlook; Australia Falls

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-20T23:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-company-earnings-outlook-australia-declines.html
Japanese stock futures rose after
companies from Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. to NOK Corp. forecast
higher profits for this year. Australian stocks futures fell as
metal prices dropped.  American depositary receipts of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
Japan’s third-biggest lender by market value, gained 1.3 percent
from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker that gets 28 percent of
revenue in  North America , slid 0.1 percent after the yen
strengthened against the dollar. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, dropped 0.3 percent.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 10,050 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
10,020 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
10,030 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index slipped 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “It seems Japanese companies’ profits for the April-June
period were better than anticipated, so expectations for annual
profits will likely increase,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. in Tokyo. “However, the yen is strong as nothing
has been decided yet in the U.S. even though the deadline for
raising the U.S. borrowing limit is approaching.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. In New York, the index slipped 0.1 percent to 1,325.84 as
concern the government will fail to increase the debt limit
overshadowed higher-than-estimated earnings at Apple Inc.  Divergent Paths  The proposal for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan is
facing resistance from House Republicans as lawmakers intensify
efforts for a compromise less than two weeks before a threatened
default. President Barack Obama plans to renew talks at the
White House this week with congressional leaders as the
Democratic-led Senate and Republican House pursue divergent
paths toward ending the stalemate.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly declined
in June to a seven-month low as the industry struggled to
overcome rising unemployment and foreclosures. Purchases dropped
0.8 percent to 4.77 million, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday in  Washington .  The median projection of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called was for a gain to 4.9 million. Inventories
increased, more contracts were canceled and 30 percent of
transactions last month were of distressed dwellings, the
figures showed.  Yen Rises  The yen appreciated to 78.71 against the dollar, compared
with 79.07 at the close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday. A
stronger yen reduces income at Japanese companies when overseas
revenue is converted into their home currency.  European leaders are meeting in Brussels today to discuss
measures to restore confidence in the euro region’s credit-
worthiness. Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou said  Europe ’s
leaders need to show they can resolve the debt crisis to avoid
contagion enveloping Italy and  Spain  in a “make-or-break
moment.”  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines and enabling the main 440 billion-euro ($624 billion)
rescue fund to lend to recapitalize banks, according to a person
close to the discussions who declined to be identified because
the talks are in progress.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5.4 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Profit Forecasts  Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., a Japanese drugmaker majority owned
by Kirin Holdings Co., boosted its full-year operating profit
outlook by 18 percent to 43.5 billion yen ($552 million) on
higher-than-expected sales.  NOK Corp., a Japanese maker of oil seals and rubber
products, forecast net income will rise 33 percent to 22.1
billion yen this fiscal year. The company had delayed an
earnings forecast because of damage from the March earthquake
that devastated northeast  Japan .  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum dropped 0.8
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 