-- 
Japan Won't Rule Out Possibility Radioactive Fukushima Beef Was Exported

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-07-20T13:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/japan-won-t-rule-out-possibility-radioactive-fukushima-beef-was-exported.html
Japan ’s government said it can’t
rule out the possibility beef contaminated with radioactive
material has been exported, as consumers and lawmakers accused
authorities of negligence on  food safety .  The government yesterday imposed a ban on beef shipments
from areas near the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant after
finding 637 cattle were fed hay containing radioactive cesium.
Supermarkets including Japan’s biggest, Aeon Co., said the beef
was sold in Tokyo and other cities.  “We cannot completely rule out the possibility”
contaminated beef was also sold abroad, Yuichi Imasaki, the
deputy director of the farm ministry’s meat and egg division
said by phone today. “The chances are very low” because most
countries have tightened rules on Japanese beef imports or
banned them, he said.  The ban comes more than four months after the earthquake
and tsunami wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station causing
the worst nuclear fallout since Chernobyl. Concerns about food
contamination before yesterday’s ban cut beef exports by 16
percent in the last two months, while hotels and restaurants in
the region, including Shangri-La Asia’s luxury chain dropped
Japanese seafood from their menu.  “There has to be at least an independent investigation
regarding the level of contamination to farming,” said Chris
Busby, a visiting professor at the University of Ulster’s school
of biomedical sciences and scientific secretary of the European
Committee on Radiation Risk, a think-tank.  Radioactive Hay  Busby is due to speak to Japanese lawmakers later today and
has been testing radiation levels in Fukushima prefecture north
of  Tokyo  and other areas.  Tainted hay was given to cattle in 19 farms in Fukushima,
Niigata and Yamagata prefectures. Twelve cases of beef
contamination were detected in eight prefectures, according to a
statement from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.  Some beef from the 637 cattle contained cesium exceeding
government standards and was sold to consumers, said Kazuyuki
Hashimoto, an official at the food-monitoring division of the
Tokyo metropolitan government. Aeon, Seven & I Holdings Co., and
Marui Group said this week they had sold the tainted beef.  Seven & I  traced back  the origin of the beef it sold after
the government announced the cattle contamination this week,
spokesman Hiroyuki Hanamitsu said today by phone.  U.S. Import Ban  The U.S. has not allowed beef imports from Japan since
April, 21, 2010, because of the possibility they may harbor
foot-and-mouth disease, Matt Herrick, a spokesman for the
Department of Agriculture, said today in an e-mail.  The danger from less-than-rigorous testing of produce leads
to contaminated products on supermarket shelves and that creates
a lack of confidence in all products, said  Peter Burns , a
nuclear physicist and former Australian representative on the
United Nation’s scientific committee on atomic radiation.  “Like with Chernobyl, you don’t have people buying
anything from Ukraine because it might be contaminated,” he
said. “I would have thought that within two or three months
they would have formed some sort of  task force  who has somebody
in charge,” Burns, who has 40 years of radiation safety
experience, said.  Contaminated Products  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated with
cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers (225 miles) from Dai-
Ichi. Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the stricken
station, said on June 14 it found cesium in milk tested near
another nuclear reactor site about 210 kilometers from the
damaged plant.  “The contamination occurred because the government did not
take appropriate measures,” Yoko Tomiyama, chairwoman of the
 Consumers Union  of Japan, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They should take responsibility for their
negligence.”  About 437 kilograms (963 pounds) of beef from a farm in
Minami-Soma city, 30 kilometers from the Dai-Ichi nuclear
station, was consumed in eight prefectures, according to the
Tokyo metropolitan government, which detected the first case of
tainted beef from the farm earlier this month.  Cesium Beef  As much as 2,300 becquerels of cesium a kilogram was
detected in the contaminated beef, according to the July 18
statement from the health ministry. The government limit is 500
becquerels per kilogram. Rice hay produced in Fukushima
prefecture was found to contain as much as 690,000 becquerels,
exceeding the 300-becquerel limit, according to the local
government office.  For people who have eaten the beef, “the overall long-term
implications of this are extremely minor as far as any potential
harmful health effects,” said Burns. Though the reputational
damage can end up “destroying whole industries,” he said.  Fukushima is the 10th biggest cattle-producing region in
Japan, representing 2.7 percent of the total. The nation
exported 541 metric tons of beef worth 3.4 billion yen ($42.8
million) last year, including premium wagyu meat.  Japan exported 49.1 tons of beef in May, 50.6 tons in April
and 58.6 tons in March, according to the farm ministry’s data.
 Vietnam ,  Hong Kong  and the U.S. were the biggest markets for
Japanese beef in the year through March 2010.  “We are currently tracking all beef shipped from Fukushima
prefecture. So far we’ve found no case of contaminated beef
exports,” said Tomohiro Hagiya, an official at the Ministry of
Health, Labour and Welfare’s food safety department.  Japan imported 204,543 tons of beef in the five months
ended May 31, an increase of 11 percent from the same period
last year, according to the agriculture ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  