-- 
Julius Baer, EFG See Banking Earnings Slump as Franc Climbs to a Record

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-20T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/julius-baer-efg-see-earnings-slump-as-franc-climbs-to-a-record.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and  EFG
International AG (EFGN)  are among the Swiss private banks struggling to
contain costs as a record-breaking currency, which gives the
Alpine nation safe-haven appeal, erodes earnings.  Baer, the fifth-biggest Swiss wealth manager, may say
tomorrow first-half profit fell 23 percent to 142 million Swiss
francs ($173 million), according to the median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The franc climbed to a high
against the dollar and euro this week and gained 41 percent and
22 percent against the currencies, respectively, since May 2010.  The franc’s advance comes as Swiss wealth managers build
networks in  Europe  and  Asia  to counter the loss of more
lucrative cross-border customers fleeing a global crackdown on
 tax evasion . Fees are also under pressure as clients trade less
and shun riskier investments amid concern over Europe’s debt
crisis and the global economic outlook. The worsening profit
picture may lead banks to scale back compensation and cut jobs,
unless they can devise new business models, said Arno Endres, an
analyst at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Luzern, Switzerland.  “From a historic perspective, this is certainly a new
phenomenon because within a short period of time the Swiss franc
has become so strong,” said Teodoro Cocca, a professor of
wealth management at Johannes Kepler University in Linz,
Austria. “Swiss private banks already have a cost problem.”  For Baer and three smaller listed rivals -- Bank Sarasin &
Cie. AG,  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  and EFG -- franc expenses average
about 63 percent of the total while revenue generated in the
Swiss currency is just 31 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News from company reports.  Currency Mismatch  That mismatch weighs on profitability, said  Matthew Clark ,
an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in  London .  “Swiss private banks have a limited number of measures at
their disposal to reduce costs,” said Clark. There is no
“quick fix,” he said.  The average 2011 profit forecast for Zurich-based Baer was
cut by 43 percent over the past five months, according to six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Baer spokesman Jan Vonder Muehll declined to elaborate on
the cost control “focus” cited by Chief Financial Officer
Dieter A. Enkelmann on May 16. Baer’s profit will also be
crimped after the 121-year-old Swiss wealth manager agreed in
April to pay German authorities 50 million euros ($71 million)
to end an investigation over undeclared client assets.  Baer reports first-half earnings tomorrow at 7 a.m. Zurich
time, with EFG results on July 27 and Sarasin the following day.
Vontobel plans to release earnings on Aug. 10.  EFG, the bank controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis,
cut its full-year profit target by as much as 30 percent because
of gains in the franc, Chief Executive Officer John Williamson
said on June 27.  Earnings Pressure  The burden of a stronger franc comes after  Switzerland 
committed to attracting only declared assets following attacks
on banking secrecy by the U.S., France and  Germany . That is
already putting pressure on earnings as opening overseas
branches to capture funds being repatriated by formerly Swiss-
booked clients is less profitable than managing assets offshore,
said Cocca.  “So far, no bank that I know has been able to really make
money outside of Switzerland,” he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss wealth
manager after  UBS AG (UBSN) , may cut about 500 jobs at its private bank
to reduce costs, a person familiar with the plan said this
month. The franc’s appreciation cut pretax profit at the bank’s
wealth management unit by 130 million francs in the first
quarter, CFO  David Mathers  said in April.  UBS said last November that a 5 percent gain in the franc
against the dollar or euro shaves 100 million francs off
annualized profit at its  wealth management  business.  Permanent Shift  UBS and Credit Suisse may report next week declines of
about 9 percent in wealth management pretax profit to 597
million francs and 574 million francs, respectively, according
to estimates by analysts at Citigroup Inc.  The franc rose to a record on July 18 against the dollar,
euro and pound as bond yields in Italy and Spain surged to euro-
lifetime highs. The franc, which traded as high as 1.1374 a
euro, may go to par against the euro-area currency, according to
 John Taylor , founder of FX Concepts LLC in  New York , the world’s
largest currency hedge fund.  “The threat here is that the moves might be permanent
structural shifts, and with more to come, reflecting the
downward pressure on the dollar, pound, euro and other
currencies from loose monetary and fiscal policies as over-
indebted governments try to inflate and devalue their way out of
trouble,” Barclays Capital analysts Jeremy Sigee and Kiri Vijayarajah said in a report last week, cutting their earnings
estimates for Swiss wealth managers.  Safe Haven  The franc’s strength underlines Switzerland’s appeal as a
haven from instability, which will help assets booked in the
country grow at an annual rate of 2.5 percent over the next five
years on inflows from wealthy clients in  Latin America , the
Middle East and Africa, according to  Boston Consulting Group .  Currency gains may also push some banks to consider
merging, said  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst at Helvea SA.  “Consolidation would create more efficient business lines
that help reduce the burden of foreign exchange pressures,” he
said. “The appreciation of the franc has happened very quickly
and suddenly and it doesn’t look like it’s going to go away any
time soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at   gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  