-- 
Kapstream’s Palghat Has Australia Home ‘Bias’ Amid U.S., Europe Debt Woes

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-20T01:38:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/kapstream-s-palghat-has-australia-home-bias-amid-u-s-europe-debt-woes.html
Kapstream Capital is moving money
back into  Australia  amid concern the U.S. and  Europe  will
struggle to curb sovereign-debt levels.  Kumar Palghat, Kapstream’s founder and Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s former head of  portfolio management  in the
Asia-Pacific region, said he’s boosted Australian investments to
80 percent of the fund’s $4 billion under management over the
past month, up from 60 percent. Cash-like holdings increased to
25 percent from 5 percent, and the fund owns the debt of
Australia’s four largest lenders and AAA-rated mortgage-backed
securities.  “Short-term event risks are high, and therefore the first
thing you’d do is have a home-country bias, so we’ve sold quite
a bit of the assets that we had overseas and we’re moving our
assets back to Australia,” Sydney-based Palghat said in an
interview yesterday. “You’re back to protecting capital.”  European leaders are struggling to convince investors that
they will agree on a second Greek bailout at a summit this week
as record bond yields threaten to boost financing costs. The
U.S. government says it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to
pay its debt expires, while Republican and Democrat leaders
remain divided on an agreement to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond yield fell to as low as
4.88 percent yesterday, the least since Sept. 8, and was at 4.93
percent as of 10:04 a.m. in Sydney. The yield is headed for the
biggest monthly decline since August 2010.  Bank, State Bonds  Australia’s government bonds have gained 6.4 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, the best return along with
 New Zealand  among 20 developed markets tracked by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Financial bonds in Australian
dollars have gained 6.4 percent as well, while state-government
debt returned 6.5 percent, separate indexes show.  “You’re better off having home-country exposure to
domestic institutions, local banks and local governments because
fiscally Australia is a much better place to be,” Palghat said.  Australia’s four largest banks, all rated AA by  Standard &
Poor’s , didn’t receive bailouts during the financial crisis that
worsened after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, unlike lenders in the U.S., U.K. and Europe. The banks are
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Westpac Banking Corp., Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., and National Australia Bank
Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  