-- 
Nazarbayev’s Reported Hospitalization Raises Succession Question

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T13:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/kazakh-president-nazarbayev-leaves-hamburg-hospital-bild-says.html
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s reported hospitalization in  Germany  is stoking
concern about a succession in central  Asia ’s biggest energy
producer, which he has ruled since 1989.  Nazarbayev, 71, had prostate surgery at University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf in Germany,  Bild  newspaper reported
today, without saying where it got the information. A Nazarbayev
spokeswoman declined to comment on the president’s health
yesterday, saying only that he was on vacation. Calls to the
president’s press service weren’t answered today.  “Succession has been the gazillion dollar question for a
very long time and remains one without an answer to date,” said
Milena Ivanova-Venturini, head of Central Asia research at the
Almaty unit of  Renaissance Capital . “Expect to see nervousness
inside and outside of the country until more becomes known.”  The oil-rich nation is facing its first transfer of power
since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991 and Nazarbayev extended
his rule to the newly independent  Kazakhstan . Nazarbayev won a
new five-year term in April with 95.5 percent of the vote. He
was named “leader of the nation” last year, giving him the
power to dictate policy even after retirement.  Nazarbayev is expected to return to work tomorrow, Foreign
Minister Erzhan Kazykhanov told reporters today in Berlin.  Timur Kulibayev, Nazarbayev’s son-in-law, was appointed to
head the state-run National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna in
April and named to the board of OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s state-
owned gas export monopoly last month.  While the moves led to speculation about Kulibayev’s
position, the question of Nazarbayev’s successor remains open,
Ivanova-Venturini said yesterday in a note to clients.  ‘Power Struggle’  The state-owned  Development Bank  of Kazakhstan in December
cited the lack of a clear successor to Nazarbayev as a risk for
a planned sale of $2 billion of bonds. Kazkommertsbank, the
country’s largest lender by assets, also flagged political
uncertainty as a risk for its own $2 billion bond program.  “Kazakhstan’s political stability is underpinned by
Nazarbayev’s personality and political presence,” Lilit
Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said by
e-mail. “If his health forces him to revisit his political
plans, this is likely to destabilize Kazakhstan. It may trigger
a power struggle on the top of the power pyramid, unnerving
investors.”  Samruk-Kazyna and its subsidiaries employ 260,000 people,
or 2 percent of Kazakhstan’s population, and has more than $71
billion in assets, equivalent to 52 percent of gross domestic
product, according to a fund statement released June 7, 2010.  Assets ‘Under Pressure’  Kulibayev and his wife, Dinara, control Halyk Savings Bank,
the nation’s second-largest by assets. The lender’s London-
traded shares were unchanged today at $8.32 after falling 4.2
percent yesterday, their biggest drop since June 20.  “Kazakh asset prices are coming under downward pressure,”
said Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London , in a note to clients.  Even so, the nation’s strategic value as an energy supplier
and transit route for  China , Russia and the U.S. will probably
contain any instability during a succession, he said.  “I have some confidence that we would see a pretty smooth
transition of power to someone in the inner circle,” Ash wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  