-- 
Kenya Insurers May Face Lower Income on Inflation, Stocks, Pan Africa Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-07-20T11:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/kenya-insurers-may-face-lower-income-on-inflation-stocks-pan-africa-says.html
Rising inflation and lower returns
from the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  may cut the investment income of
Kenyan insurers and other investors this year,  Pan Africa
Insurance Holdings Ltd. (PAIL)  Chief Executive Officer Tom Gitogo said.  Pan  Africa  more than doubled earnings from its investments
to 1.31 billion shillings ($14.5 million) in the year through
December, according to Nairobi-based the company’s website.
Rival British American Investment Co. more than tripled
investment income 2.68 billion shillings as  Jubilee Holdings
Ltd. (JBIC)  posted a 63 percent increase.  “It will be difficult, but not impossible to maintain the
same level of growth this year,” Gitogo said in an interview
yesterday in Nairobi, the capital. Pan Africa is a unit of
 Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) , the largest South African-based insurer.  Inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to
14.5 percent in June, the highest in more than two years, from
an average of 4.1 in 2010, according to data from the  Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics.  The stock market’s benchmark NSE
20 share index has declined 14.6 percent in the year to date,
while the government forecast on June 8 that economic growth
will slow to 5.3 percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2010 as
the rising food and fuel costs limit  consumer spending .  Pan Africa, which will announce its first-half earnings
next month, said in March net profit last year quadrupled to
589.3 million shillings as premium income jumped.  “We are pleased with our insurance business results, but it
is fair to say investment income will be nowhere near the same
level as the previous year” in the first half, Gitogo said. “We
have seen how difficult the market has been.  Interest rates  have
been all over the place.”  Lending Rates  Kenya’s central bank raised its benchmark lending rate for
a second time this year in May. Prior to that, the central bank
had cut the benchmark rate by 3.25 percentage points since
December 2008 to encourage commercial banks to provide cheaper
loans and spur economic growth.  Pan Africa has a total market share of 22 percent in the
life-insurance business, Gitogo said. The company has about
120,000 policy holders in its individual life business and about
700,000 people in its group business.  Last year, Pan Africa’s individual life insurance portfolio
grew about 24 percent, while group life climbed 40 percent,
according to Gitogo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 