-- 
Australian Dollar Falls on China Manufacturing Index; Kiwi Touches Record

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-07-21T06:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/kiwi-reaches-record-high-aussie-dollar-gains-as-europe-concern-eases.html
Australia ’s dollar fell against most
of its peers after a private report signaled manufacturing
slowed in  China , spurring concern demand for commodities will
drop from the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner.  The so-called Aussie snapped a two-day gain versus the  U.S.
dollar  as the Chinese report added to speculation the Reserve
Bank of Australia will cut  interest rates  as the economy slows.
New Zealand’s currency touched a record high against the
greenback and rose versus Australia’s as traders added to bets
the smaller nation’s central bank will raise borrowing costs.  Australia’s dollar fell on “concerns that a slowing China
may not have so much demand for resources and minerals from
Australia,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . Australia “is deriving a lot of
growth from China.”  Australia’s dollar declined to $1.0735 as of 4:01 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0750 in  New York  yesterday. New Zealand’s
currency reached an all-time high of 85.88 cents before trading
at 85.68 U.S. cents from 85.62 cents.  China’s manufacturing gauge fell to 48.9 in July, below the
50 level that signals a contraction, from 50.1 last month,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The final
reading for July is due Aug. 1.  National Australia Bank Ltd. today said its index of
business sentiment fell in the second quarter. That followed a
private report last week that showed consumer confidence slid by
the most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  Rate Outlook  Australia’s central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged
at 4.75 percent on July 5. Cash-rate futures show a 100 percent
probability the RBA will lower borrowing costs by December,
Sydney Futures Exchange contracts show.  “A recent run of weak Australian data has led to growing
expectations of a policy rate cut,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of
global currency strategy in Hong Kong at Credit Agricole CIB,
wrote in a report today.  Losses in the Aussie were limited after Germany and France
said  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and President Nicolas Sarkozy
agreed on a joint position to end Greece’s debt crisis.  Merkel and Sarkozy “listened” to the views of European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet, the governments said
in a statement. Details will be released today when euro-region
leaders meet in Brussels, they said.  European policy makers are preparing for the second meeting
in a month to resolve the crisis, which pushed the euro to
$1.3837 last week, the lowest since March.  ‘I am optimistic’  “I am optimistic that  Europe  will eventually solve its
sovereign-debt problems,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher in
 Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s
largest foreign-exchange margin company. “Easing of risk
aversion spurs buying of higher-yielding currencies” such as
the Australian and  New Zealand  dollars, he said.  The kiwi was within 0.4 percent of an 11-month high against
the Australian dollar after the Bank of Canada lifted its
inflation forecast yesterday, adding to speculation its
counterpart in New Zealand will take steps to contain higher
prices.  The Bank of Canada’s monetary policy  report  said inflation
will average 2.8 percent from July through September, up from
the previous forecast of 2.5 percent. Monetary stimulus will be
withdrawn as the economy improves, Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated at a press conference.  The BOC’s report “was worth mentioning given some of the
similarities” to New Zealand, David Croy, an interest-rate
strategist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington, and Alex Sinton, a senior dealer, wrote in a research note today.  Swaps traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
will raise its target rate by 89 basis points over the next 12
months, up from 58 basis points a month ago, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index showed. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The kiwi climbed 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2532 per Australian
dollar after rising to NZ$1.2484 on July 19, the highest since
August 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 