-- 
AT&T’s T-Mobile Bid Raises Concerns of Democratic Lawmakers

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T21:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/kohl-urges-justice-department-fcc-to-block-at-t-t-mobile-deal.html
Concerns are building among members
of the  U.S. Congress  over  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc., as a Democratic senator urged the
government to block the deal and three other lawmakers
criticized it.  Senator  Herb Kohl , head of a Judiciary antitrust
subcommittee, said in a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder
and Federal Communications Chairman  Julius Genachowski  the
purchase would further consolidate an “already highly
concentrated market.”  In a separate letter to Holder and Genachowski, Democratic
Representatives  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts , John Conyers of
 Michigan  and Anna Eshoo of California said the deal “raises
serious questions regarding the future competitiveness of the
wireless industry.”  The FCC and the Justice Department are vetting the deal in
a review that AT&T executives have said will take about a year.
If completed, the merger, which was proposed March 20, would
combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new
market leader, surpassing  Verizon Wireless . Members of Congress
don’t have a formal role in the approval process.  Kohl’s letter may give deal opponents some hope in the face
of AT&T’s lobbying efforts, said  Rebecca Arbogast , an analyst in
Washington with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. His opposition “is of some
significance,” she said in a report today. He “could be
something of a barometer for mainstream Democratic antitrust
thinking” and “could help embolden critics at the DOJ and
FCC.”  Showing Support  Some members of Congress are indicating support for the
deal.  “The merger has the potential to provide significant
network efficiencies that may help alleviate capacity
constraints” and expand use of a faster wireless technology
known as LTE,” Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , the senior Republican
on the antitrust panel, said in a statement today.  In a June 24 letter to Holder and Genachowski, 76
Democratic House members said they supported AT&T’s pledge, if
the deal goes through, to build a state-of-the-art wireless
network that covers 97 percent of Americans. Such a commitment
would create jobs to help provide millions of Americans with
wireless services, the lawmakers said in the letter.  In his letter, Kohl of Wisconsin said that the two
companies’ defenses of the deal “are without merit in my
view.”  National Basis  He said the acquisition of Bellevue, Washington-based T-
Mobile from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  should be evaluated on a
national basis rather than a local market-by-market analysis, as
Dallas-based AT&T has urged.  The companies’ arguments that the deal will improve the
service of customers of AT&T and T-Mobile aren’t “convincing to
justify such a clearly anti-competitive acquisition,” Kohl
wrote.  In testimony before Kohl’s subcommittee on May 11, AT&T
Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson said the deal would
result in fewer dropped calls and faster, more reliable Internet
connections.  AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said in an e-mail that
Kohl’s view “is inconsistent with the antitrust law, is shared
by few others and ignores the many positive benefits and
numerous supporters of the transaction. We continue to believe
those reviews will result in approval of this transaction.”  The transaction requires a majority at the FCC, which has
three Democrats and one Republican, to be approved. The  Justice
Department  would have to sue in court to halt the deal.  ‘Careful, Comprehensive’ Review  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment. Justice Department spokeswoman Gina Talamona declined to comment about the lawmakers’ letters. “The
investigation is continuing,” she said in an interview.  In their letter, Markey, Conyers and Eshoo pressed the
government to do a “careful, comprehensive and expeditious
review.” Conyers is the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary
Committee; Eshoo and Markey are the top two Democrats on the
House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on communications and
technology.  The lawmakers said they thought the deal would reverse some
of the gains the government has made in injecting competition
into the telecommunications industry.  The planned acquisition “would be a troubling backward
step in federal public policy,” the lawmakers wrote, calling it
“a retrenchment from nearly two decades of promoting
competition and open markets to acceptance of a duopoly in the
wireless marketplace.”  Sprint as Buyer?  Sprint Nextel Corp. and the Rural Cellular Association,
opponents of the proposed acquisition, praised Kohl.  Kohl understands the T-Mobile purchase is “a bad deal for
consumers, competition and our nation’s economy,” said Vonya
McCann, Sprint’s senior vice president for government affairs,
in a statement.  The Communication Workers of America, which supports the
deal, said in a statement that Sprint, the other possible buyer
for T-Mobile, “would be a disaster for workers and consumers.”  That’s in part because  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint
farms out work to foreigners and hasn’t finished integrating
Nextel, which it bought in 2005, into its business, the CWA
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Leslie Hoffecker at 
 lhoffecker@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  