-- 
Nauru’s Plea for United Nations Action Over Climate Threat Goes Unheeded

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-20T23:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nauru-s-plea-for-un-action-on-climate-threat-goes-unheeded-1-.html
Nauru’s president, speaking for
small island nations threatened with extinction by rising sea
levels caused by climate change, asked the  United Nations 
 Security Council  today for help.  A divided council couldn’t agree on the linkage between
climate change and threats to peace and security and took no
action.  “It is a threat as great as nuclear proliferation or
terrorism, and it carries the potential to destabilize
governments and ignite conflict,” President Marcus Stephen told
the Security Council. “I urge you: Do not bury your heads in
the sand. Seize this opportunity to lead.”  Russia  led the opposition to U.S. and European efforts to
get the council involved.  Germany , which organized the meeting
in its role as president of the Security Council this month,
settled for a statement expressing concern that “possible
adverse effects of  climate change  may, in the long run,
aggravate certain existing threats” to peace and security.  Stephen, speaking on behalf of Pacific Island nations
Fiji,  Marshall Islands , Micronesia, Palau, Samoa, Tuvalu, Tonga
and Vanuatu, said they were “deeply disappointed.”  “Let history report that again we have sounded the alarm
and the world chose not to act,” he said.  The meeting in  New York  came as the UN declared a famine in
two regions of southern Somalia resulting from drought and
conflict that have left 3.7 million people, almost half the
country’s population, in need of humanitarian aid.  Immediacy Questioned  Security Council  members Russia,  China ,  India ,  South Africa 
were among nations that questioned the immediacy of the threat
posed by climate change. The UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, the forum for negotiations on a global agreement to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, should deal with the issue,
they said.  Industrialized and developing nations remain at odds over
how to limit  carbon emissions  after 2012, when the commitments
of the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  expire.  Egypt ’s Ambassador, Maged Abdelaziz, speaking for the 118-member Non-Aligned Movement,
said industrialized nations have a “historic and particular
responsibility” to reduce emissions and help developing nations
mitigate and adapt to climate change.  Russia’s Deputy Ambassador, Alexander Pankin, referred in
his remarks to the Security Council to the “hypothetical
nature” of the threat and “lack of empirical evidence”
linking carbon emissions to droughts, rising sea levels and
other extreme weather patterns.  Alarm Sounded  Higher temperatures are expected to raise sea levels by
expanding the ocean water volume, accelerating the melting of
mountain glaciers, and causing portions of the Greenland and
Antarctic ice sheets to melt or slide into the ocean, according
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The UN-backed
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimated in 2007 that
global average  sea level  will rise by 7.2 to 23.6 inches by the
year 2100.  Stephen asked the Security Council to seek the appointment
by Ban of a special representative on climate and security to
analyze the security ramifications, and a system-wide UN
assessment of the world body’s capability to respond. He called
the requests the “absolute minimum required to move the
international community from a culture of reaction to one of
preparedness.”  ‘Proven Trends’  The meeting opened with Ban, who has made the pursuit of a
global climate agreement a priority of his tenure as UN chief,
saying there is a clear link between climate change and
security. He urged the Security Council to “mobilize national
and international action to confront the very real threat.”  Achim Steiner, executive director of the UN Environmental
Program, told the Security Council that 42 million people were
driven from their homes last year by natural disasters, 90
percent of which were weather-related. The “scale and number of
these disasters will increase exponentially,” he said.  “The latest science that is being published by scientific
institutions across the planet is in many respects overtaking
the rather conservative scenarios and predictions and models the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change brought to our
attention four years ago,” said Steiner.  “Whether you look at the linear warming trend over the
last 50 years, an average of 0.13 degrees warming per decade
that is nearly twice the temperature increases we saw over the
last 100 years; whether we look at the increases in extreme
weather events and storms and cyclones; whether we look at the
thermal expansion of the oceans; whether we look also at the
melting of the arctic summer ice, all these are not speculative
data about the fact that a changing climate is a reality,” he
said. “These are proven trends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  