-- 
New Zealand Dollar May End Four-Month Rally Versus Aussie, Citigroup Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-20T19:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/new-zealand-dollar-may-end-four-month-rally-versus-aussie-citigroup-says.html
The  New Zealand  dollar’s four-month
rally against its Australian counterpart may be poised for a
short-term reversal as traders bet on a divergence in monetary
policy between the two South Pacific nations, according to
Citigroup Inc.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, has
outperformed all of its 16 most-traded peers tracked by
Bloomberg since the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand cut its key
interest rate a half-percentage point to 2.5 percent on March 10
following an earthquake in Christchurch, the nation’s second-
largest city. The kiwi has surged 8 percent against Australia’s
currency since the beginning of March.  “It appears either the RBNZ cut more aggressively than
they needed to, or the economy has responded very quickly to the
50 basis point cut,” Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at
Citigroup in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “I think
it’s the former.”  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at NZ$1.2539 per
Australian dollar at 3:08 p.m. in New York, compared with
NZ$1.2540 yesterday. It traded at 85.62 U.S. cents after
climbing yesterday to as high as 85.73 cents, a record.  The kiwi is now poised to pare its rally as investors
speculate the RBNZ will raise rates while the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  lowers its 4.75 percent benchmark,  Todd Elmer , head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia ex-Japan at Citigroup in
 Singapore , wrote today in a note to clients.  One-Touch Options  Investors should purchase three-week NZ$1.2950 one-touch
options with a spot rate of NZ$1.2550, Citigroup said. A one-
touch option pays out if the underlying asset reaches or exceeds
a target level.  The difference between the two-year swap rates of  Australia 
and New Zealand, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates
that is sensitive to interest-rate expectations, has narrowed 86
basis points to 1.22 percentage point since early May, showing
investors are expecting divergent policies from the central
banks. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Sydney-based Westpac Banking Corp. said July 15 that the
Australian central bank will cut interest rates in December to
address economic weakness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  