-- 
New York City Temperatures to Feel Like 110 as Heat Wave Spreads Into East

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-07-20T13:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/new-york-city-temperatures-to-feel-like-110-as-heat-wave-spreads-into-east.html
Temperatures in  New York ,
Philadelphia and  Washington  may feel as high as 110 degrees or
more this week as a heat wave spreads from the Midwest into the
eastern U.S., increasing energy demand.  Portions of 33 states may have a heat index, which measures
air temperature and humidity, above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38
Celsius) tomorrow, according to the National Weather Service.
The index reached 131, a level common only along the Red Sea in
the  Middle East , in Iowa on July 18, according to  Weather
Underground Inc.  in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  “You’re seeing a sustained level of heat and humidity, and
you’re not seeing a lot of relief overnight,” said Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather in Rockville,
 Maryland . “Power demand is going to be very high.”  The high temperature in New York the day after tomorrow may
be 98 degrees Fahrenheit, 13 above normal, and feel like 114,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  The high in Washington may be 101
and feel like 113, the forecaster said.  The  National Weather Service  today issued an excessive heat
watch, meaning temperatures will feel hotter than 105 degrees,
for eastern states including New York,  Pennsylvania  and
Maryland.  “While it’s already hot on the East Coast, the worst is on
its way,” said Heather Buchman, a meteorologist at AccuWeather
in State College, Pennsylvania, in blog post today. “Areas
along the Northeast’s heavily populated Interstate 95 corridor
will have highs near or higher than 100 by the end of the week
as the steamy air spreads eastward from the Plains.”  ‘Dangerous’ Heat  Jack Hayes, director of the  National Weather Service ,
called the heat “dangerous on many levels.” The combination of
high temperatures, high humidity and a lack of respite “make
this an unhealthy situation,” he said in a statement yesterday.  Cooling demand in the Northeast may be almost double the
normal level on July 22, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist at
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a note to clients
today.  The extreme heat will last through July 24 in the mid-
Atlantic, ending on July 25  when a cold front sweeps across the
region, said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather Underground, in
 blog post  yesterday.  “Detroit has hit 100 degrees Fahrenheit 18 different years
in its 137-year record, and  New York City  22 years out of the
past 140 years, so this heat wave is expected to be about a one-
in-seven-year event,” he said.  Hotter-than-normal weather may return to the Midwest next
week, Masters said.  Gas Futures  Forecasts of above-normal temperatures drove natural gas
futures to their biggest weekly gain since November last week.
Gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rose
3.8 percent as meteorologists predicted hotter-than-normal
weather in the eastern and central U.S. through the end of July.  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  Corn prices rose to a five-week high yesterday as U.S. crop
conditions deteriorated, and hot, dry weather this week may
erode prospects for Midwest yields. In the week ended July 17,
corn rated in good or excellent condition fell to 66 percent
from 69 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  