-- 
New York Bomb-Plotter’s Father Hid Evidence, Lawyer Says as Trial Closes

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-20T23:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/new-york-bomb-plotter-s-father-obstructed-justice-lawyer-says.html
A U.S. citizen from  Afghanistan  hid
evidence of, and lied to investigators about, his son’s failed
plot to bomb  New York City ’s subways in 2009, a prosecutor said
at the close of the father’s trial.  “The evidence has shown that the defendant did everything
he could to manipulate the system to get what he wanted,” which
was to protect his son, his family and himself, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Melissa Marrus said in her closing argument today in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  Prosecutors allege Mohammed Wali Zazi, 55, directed family
family members to destroy evidence, including glasses, masks,
liquid chemicals and containers, that was part of the probe into
his son and that he lied to agents looking into the subway plot.  His son, Najibullah Zazi, pleaded guilty in February 2010
to supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction in a plot to detonate bombs on  New York  subways
around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  A co-conspirator, Zarien Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty to his
role in the foiled plot in April 2010. Ahmedzay and Najibullah
Zazi face life in prison.  A third man, Adis Medunjanin, pleaded not guilty in August
2010 to participating in the plot.  The elder Zazi, a former New York City taxi driver who
lives in the Denver area, was charged with two counts of
obstruction of justice and one count of conspiracy to obstruct
justice.  ‘Not Guilty’  “Mr. Zazi is not guilty of those crimes,” Deborah A.
Colson, one of his lawyers, said in her closing argument today.
“He didn’t destroy evidence or tell anyone else to.”  Colson said Zazi’s nephew and brother-in-law, who pleaded
guilty to obstruction of justice under cooperation agreements
and testified for the government, were responsible for the
wrongdoing.  The jury is scheduled to begin its deliberations tomorrow.
The trial began July 18.  Naqib Jaji, Mohammed Wali Zazi’s brother-in-law, testified
that in July 2009 Najibullah Zazi left chemicals, including
bleach and nail-polish remover, in the garage of Jaji’s house in
Aurora,  Colorado , where Najibullah was living. Najibullah told
Jaji he planned to use them to make a fertility drug, Jaji
testified.  Amanullah Zazi, the nephew, testified that he went to
Jaji’s house to participate in a cover-up of bomb-making
equipment, acting under orders of the elder Zazi.  Chemicals Destroyed  “The defendant is the one who ordered that the chemicals
be destroyed,” Marrus said.  Colson said the government didn’t present enough evidence
linking Zazi to the evidence destruction.  The prosecutors are “arguing because his family members
did something wrong, he did something wrong too,” Colson said.
“Naqib wanted his cooperation agreement and he had to serve
somebody up.”  Prosecutors said Mohammed Wali Zazi lied to investigators
when he said he didn’t speak with an imam, who was also a police
informant, about a trip Najibullah Zazi took to New York. The
jurors heard evidence of four phone conversations Mohammed Wali
Zazi and the imam had in September 2009.  “He knew he had talked to someone in New York about what
his son was up to,” Marrus said.  The defendant also lied when he said his nephew, who
investigators were looking into, was his adopted son, the
government said.  Colson said Zazi viewed Amanullah as a son and paid for
some of his education. She said what the government called lies
were the results of misunderstandings.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-60, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 