-- 
News Corp. Under Fire Finds Defense in Wall Street Journal’s Opinion Pages

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T14:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/news-corp-under-fire-finds-defense-in-wall-street-journal-s-opinion-pages.html
While the widening  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-
hacking scandal sent Rupert Murdoch and son James in front of a
U.K. parliamentary committee and unseated senior officials at
the company and Metropolitan Police, the media empire found an
aggressive defender in the Wall Street Journal’s opinion pages.  Among at least seven opinion pieces published so far this
week supporting the newspaper’s owner were three signed by
editorial board members. A fourth, a 1,000-word lead  editorial ,
said media organizations commonly “pay sources for
information” and “skew their coverage” to influence public
affairs. The piece, titled “News and Its Critics,” added that
it was “up to British authorities to enforce their laws.”  “This is the first great test of the Wall Street Journal
under Murdoch’s ownership,” said  Sarah Ellison , whose book
“War at the Wall Street Journal” chronicled News Corp.’s 2007
acquisition of Dow Jones & Co. for $5.2 billion from the family
that had controlled it for 105 years.  “I think this establishes the Journal as a mouthpiece for
News Corp., unfortunately,” Ellison said.  The editorial described the “righteous hindsight” and
“thick” Schadenfreude of groups such as British Broadcasting
Corp., the  Guardian newspaper  and investigative website
ProPublica. “We also trust that readers can see through the
commercial and ideological motives of our competitor-critics,”
it said.  Calame’s Take  Byron Calame, who joined the Wall Street Journal in
September 1965 and was deputy managing editor when he retired
from the newspaper in 2004, said it “remains to be seen” if
the editorial’s voice resonates with the newspaper’s readers.
While it was “well-crafted,” he said, “the defensive tone
alone was a disappointment.”  As of 5 p.m. on July 18, the editorial was the second-most-
read article on the Wall Street Journal’s website, behind a
piece titled “Get Ready for a 70% Marginal Tax Rate.” It was
still No. 2 at 5 p.m. yesterday.  News Corp. closed the News of the World tabloid this month
after allegations that its journalists tapped the voicemails of
murder victims and paid police officers for stories. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units
in providing financial news and information.  The Wall Street Journal’s opinion pages were called “the
primest real estate in all journalism” in a  column  by editorial
board member Robert Pollock. He wrote that Murdoch, the
company’s 80-year-old chairman and chief executive officer, has
imposed “no editorial direction.”  Murdoch told the committee yesterday that while he checks
in with editors of his papers on occasion, he doesn’t meddle.  ‘In the Same Building’  “If there’s any editor I’ve spent the most time with, it’s
the editor of the Wall Street Journal, because I’m in the same
building,” Murdoch said.  Another editorial board member, Bret Stephens,  wrote  that
the reaction to the hacking scandal was harsher than the fallout
from whistle-blowing organization WikiLeaks, whose disclosure of
classified information he said did more harm.  In a  video  that followed, Stephens, the editorial page’s
deputy editor, described the News Corp. scandal as a
“convenient morality play for people who either for competitive
reasons or ideological reasons haven’t liked  Rupert Murdoch  and
his company for a very long time.”  Another  opinion piece  criticized a New York Times columnist
who  apologized  for supporting News Corp.’s purchase of the Wall
Street Journal. A fifth  described  “an outpouring of left-wing
ressentiment.”  Today’s Defense  Today, two attorneys who served in the  Department of
Justice  during President  Ronald Reagan  and President George H. W.
Bush’s administrations  wrote  that it would be “inappropriate”
to apply the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act to News Corp.’s
news-gathering.  A  seventh  piece, by Holman W. Jenkins, Jr., focused on the
police response to the alleged phone-hacking, which he said is
the bigger scandal.  “So far, the hacking controversy is filtered through the
media’s preoccupation with two words -- Rupert Murdoch,”
Jenkins, a third Wall Street Journal editorial board member,
said today.  Les Hinton   The “News and Its Critics” editorial also said that the
newspaper’s previous owner, the Bancroft family, had an
“appetite for dividends” and that the calls for criminal
probes into News Corp. come from a “political mob.” It
commended the ethical judgment of Les Hinton, who oversaw News
Corp.’s U.K. newspapers during the time of the alleged hacking
and resigned as the chief executive officer of the company’s Dow
Jones unit on July 15.  The newspaper, the largest by circulation in the U.S., has
not been accused of phone hacking.  “The editorial isn’t defending the Wall Street Journal; it
obviously easily could defend the Journal,” Dean Starkman,
editor of the Columbia Journalism Review’s business press
section, said in an interview. “It’s ‘News and Its Critics’ --
News Corp. It’s a defense of News Corp.”  Paul Gigot, the editorial page editor, declined to comment,
according to Ashley Huston, a spokeswoman. Former Wall Street
Journal op-ed editor Tunku Varadarajan, now the editor of
Newsweek International, worked with Gigot for seven years. In an
e-mail, he said he saw Gigot’s “high-class mind” and
“impressive professional integrity” in the editorial.  David Weidner, a columnist for MarketWatch and the Wall
Street Journal, said most of his colleagues would prefer that
the newsroom’s work speak for the organization’s integrity.  “The people who are paid to make speeches can make them,”
he said in an e-mail. “But you would be hard pressed to find
anyone in news who wants opinion pieces read before their own
reporting and analysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  