-- 
News Corp. Holders See Little Value in Voting: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/news-corp-holders-see-little-value-in-voting-chart-of-the-day.html
Voting rights count for relatively
little with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s investors as a phone-hacking scandal in
the U.K. engulfs the media company.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows this by comparing News Corp.’s
two classes of common shares since November 2004, when Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  moved the company’s
incorporation to the U.S. from his native  Australia . The New
York-based company has non-voting shares, designated as Class A,
along with Class B voting stock.  Class B shares were 2.9 percent more costly at yesterday’s
close. That was less than half the average of 7.7 percent since
the reincorporation, and even further away from a peak of about
20 percent in November 2009.  “The vote has no value” because Murdoch and his family
control the company,  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC,
wrote in an e-mail yesterday. A premium of 2 percent or less for
the voting shares is appropriate, he wrote.  Greenfield’s threshold was reached on July 1, the last
trading day before a report that News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid broke into the voice mail of a schoolgirl killed in
2002. Fallout from the story, published in the Guardian
newspaper, led to a parliamentary committee hearing yesterday
with testimony from Murdoch and his son James, the company’s
deputy chief operating officer.  The voting shares account for about 30 percent of the
market value of the company, which competes with Bloomberg News
in providing financial news and information. Yet only the non-
voting shares are in the Standard & Poor’s 500 and Nasdaq-100
indexes, ensuring demand from funds that track the gauges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  