-- 
News Corp. Allows Law Firm to Answer Questions From Police, U.K. Lawmakers

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/news-corp-allows-law-firm-to-answer-police-lawmaker-questions.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  authorized Harbottle &
Lewis LLP, the  law firm  it hired to review documents for
evidence of phone hacking at the News of the World, to answer
questions from police and U.K. lawmakers.  The firm can provide information about what it was asked to
do by News Corp., the media company’s management and standards
committee said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The move by
the New York-based company allows Harbottle & Lewis to defend
its actions in a 2007 review of documents. News Corp. previously
refused to waive the London-based firm’s confidentiality duty.  In testimony to Parliament this week, News Corp. Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  and Deputy Chief
Operating Officer  James Murdoch  sought to shift attention to the
law firm when asked to explain why they missed the extent of
phone-hacking at the now-defunct tabloid.  A renewed police probe this year revealed victims of murder
and terrorism had their voicemails targeted alongside
celebrities and Britain’s royal family, causing public outrage
and a review of journalistic standards.  One of the files given to Harbottle & Lewis in 2007, after
it was reviewed by at least two executives of News Corp.’s News
International unit, held evidence of “serious criminal
offenses,” Ken Macdonald, the former U.K. director of public
prosecutions, told lawmakers. Macdonald was hired earlier this
year by News Corp.’s board to review the documents. They were
turned over to police at his suggestion and have led to an
investigation into police bribery by journalists.  A receptionist at Harbottle & Lewis who answered the phone
after normal business hours said no one was available to speak
today. A voicemail left for the company’s press office didn’t
receive an immediate response.  Glen Atchison, Harbottle & Lewis’s managing partner, said
July 19 that it was a matter of “great regret” that the firm
couldn’t comment on the case to correct inaccurate statements
made in parliamentary testimony.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in  London  at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 