-- 
News Corp. Stops Paying Legal Fees for Phone Hacker Mulcaire

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T13:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/news-corp-stops-paying-legal-fees-for-phone-hacker-mulcaire-2-.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  will immediately
terminate “any arrangement” to pay legal fees for Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator who went to jail for
intercepting phone messages left for Prince Charles’s staff.  A company spokeswoman declined to comment on how recently
payments were made or how much News Corp. provided for Mulcaire.
She declined to comment on whether it was still paying fees for
Clive Goodman, a reporter who was jailed at the same time.  Mulcaire is a key figure in the phone-hacking scandal that
prompted the closure of News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid.
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch and his son James Murdoch
yesterday told U.K. lawmakers they don’t know if News Corp. was
still paying the legal fees for  Glenn Mulcaire , who was jailed
in 2007 for intercepting voice mails left for supermodel  Elle Macpherson  and members of the British royal family.  News Corp. said today its Management and Standards
Committee is authorized to “cooperate fully with all relevant
investigations and inquiries on the News of The World phone
hacking case, police payments and all other related issues
across News International, as well as conducting its own
enquiries where appropriate.”  Rupert Murdoch, 80, yesterday withstood three hours of
questioning yesterday with his son James. He denied any
knowledge of phone-hacking and payments to police at the now-closed News of the World tabloid. Both Murdochs said they didn’t
know about employees intercepting voicemails or paying police
for stories.  ‘Surprised’  James Murdoch  said he was “surprised” when he found out
payments had been made to Mulcaire and Goodman. Philip Davies, a
conservative member of Parliament, said it seemed odd that
Goodman, a journalist pleading guilty to a crime, is using “one
of the most expensive lawyers in the country.”  The July 10 closure of 168-year-old News of the World cost
about 200 employees their jobs. The public outcry and political
backlash from the scandal also prompted News Corp. to drop its
7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 10 people have been arrested,
including Rebekah Brooks, the former CEO of News Corp.’s U.K.
newspaper unit News International, and ex-News of the World
editor  Andy Coulson .  Advice From Lawyers  James Murdoch, 38, became CEO of BSkyB in 2003 and left
that post in 2007 to run News Corp.’s television, newspaper and
digital operations in  Europe ,  Asia  and the  Middle East . He said
yesterday that the lawsuits predated his time at News
International and said he relied on advice from lawyers.  News Corp. rose 5.1 percent to the equivalent of $16.36 in
Sydney trading today. The stock has dropped 11 percent in
 Australia  since July 4, when the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
reported that the News of the World hacked into the voicemail of
kidnap and murder victim Milly Dowler.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron today used an emergency
session of Parliament to defend his record on dealings with
 Rupert Murdoch , saying that with hindsight it was a mistake to
hire Andy Coulson.  Coulson resigned from the News Corp. newspaper at the start
of 2007 after Goodman was jailed for phone-hacking. He denied
any knowledge of illegality and Cameron hired him a few months
later as communications chief. Coulson quit that job in January
of this year and was arrested July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  