-- 
News Corp. Response to Hacking Was ‘Deficient,’ Expert Said

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-07-21T18:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/news-corp-lawyer-said-u-s-marketing-arm-accessed-rival-s-site.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s response to allegations
of hacking from its U.S. marketing arm was “rudimentary and
deficient,” according to an expert hired by a New Jersey
company that said its password-protected website was accessed
illegally.  The expert was retained by lawyers for Floorgraphics Inc.,
which sold floor advertising in grocery stores, to investigate
how its website was hacked by someone at News America Marketing
In-Store Services. Luke Cats, then a forensic examiner at the
firm Stroz Friedberg LLC, wrote in a 2007 report that News
America Marketing “gained unauthorized access” to
Floorgraphics’ secure site 11 times from October 2003 to January
2004.  Alerted to the hacking by Floorgraphics, News America
Marketing started a “rudimentary and deficient” probe and
failed to pursue obvious leads, Cats wrote. In reviewing the
investigation, he said he was relying on the deposition of  David
Benson , News America Marketing’s chief information officer. News
America Marketing’s “investigation falls far short of any
standards in this area,” Cats said.  The report was included in records of a U.S. court fight
between Floorgraphics and Wilton, Connecticut-based News America
Marketing. At a 2009 civil trial over hacking allegations, Lee Abrams, a lawyer for News America Marketing, acknowledged to
jurors in Trenton, New Jersey, that his client’s computers were
used to access Floorgraphics’ secure website.  “We don’t know who did the access,” he said.  FBI Probe  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is probing whether
employees of New York-based News Corp., mired in a voice-mail
hacking scandal in the U.K., sought unauthorized access to
voice-mail accounts of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center.  New Jersey  Senator Frank Lautenberg yesterday wrote to the
U.S. Justice Department to ensure that it was “fully aware of
the case of Floorgraphics and News America, as it may be
relevant to your current investigation” into alleged hacking of
Sept. 11 victims, according to a copy of the letter.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  told U.K. lawmakers on
July 19 that he has “seen no evidence” of hacking of Sept. 11
victims.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI in New York, said
yesterday that the agency will “look at all facts relevant to
our investigation.”  News Corp., owner of the Fox TV networks and the Wall
Street Journal, has fallen 11 percent since allegations surfaced
July 4 that one of Murdoch’s U.K. tabloid newspapers hacked into
the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl. The shares rose 14
cents to $15.93 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Condemn Conduct  Suzanne Halpin, a spokeswoman for News America Marketing,
said in a statement that the accessed website “was available to
hundreds, if not thousands, of Floorgraphics retailers,
representatives of consumer packaged goods companies and
Floorgraphics employees.”  “There is considerable employee movement within this
industry, and we believe it was someone with an authorized
password” who was using a News America Marketing computer, she
said. “News America Marketing condemns such conduct, which is
in violation of the standards of our company.”  The Floorgraphics case grew out of the refusal of the
company, now based in Hamilton, New Jersey, to sell itself in
1999 to News America Marketing, co-founder George Rebh testified
at the 2009 trial.  After the offer by News America Marketing Chief Executive
Officer Paul Carlucci was rebuffed, the News Corp. unit began
spreading lies and otherwise attacking Floorgraphics’ business
of selling supermarket floor advertising for companies such as
Nestle SA, Rebh said.  Safeway Contract  Floorgraphics discovered that its site was hacked in
January 2004 as it and News America Marketing vied for a
“critically important” contract with grocer  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , Rebh
testified. Floorgraphics lost the contract to News America
Marketing, which was able to use “comprehensive” financial
data stored on Floorgraphics’ site for its bid, Rebh said.  “We investigated as to how information had fallen into our
competitor’s hands,” Rebh testified.  “Right up to the day before” the breach was discovered,
“there had been unauthorized accesses into our system by people
utilizing computers registered with an IP address to News
America Marketing,” he said, using the initials for Internet
protocol.  The discovery of the computer breach spurred Rebh in early
2004 to have a board member, William Berkley, alert David Devoe,
then and now News Corp.’s chief financial officer, Rebh
testified. Berkley forwarded a memo written by Rebh’s brother to
Devoe, Rebh said.  Company Response  “Did Mr. Berkley or did you get a response from News
America after this was sent?” Rebh was asked at the trial.  “No,” Rebh testified.  Berkley confirmed Rebh’s account in an interview. Rebh
wouldn’t comment. Halpin, News America Marketing’s spokeswoman,
didn’t have an immediate comment on the company’s response.  In his report, Cats said that investigators for News
America Marketing “appear to have lacked the basic skills one
would expect of IT personnel charged with securing the integrity
of corporate networks.”  Investigators interviewed only one company employee,
searched a single computer for clues of hacking, didn’t ask
important questions, and failed to save documents and notes,
Cats said.  ‘Failed to Perform’  They didn’t question an employee who had once worked for
Floorgraphics, didn’t scan a company computer registry that kept
track of usernames and passwords that are entered, and didn’t
check whether Floorgraphics’ site was password-protected, said
Cats, who had previously worked as a forensic expert for the  New
York  Police Department.  Investigators “failed to perform any of these basic
steps,” Cats wrote, calling their probe “deficient.”  At the 2009 trial, Abrams, the lawyer for News America
Marketing, argued that Floorgraphics’ website wasn’t secure and
held only pictures of its advertising, not confidential data. He
said News America Marketing didn’t steal business.  “News America Marketing has succeeded in this business the
old-fashioned way, by working hard to introduce new products,”
he told jurors. Of the alleged hacking, he said there was no
proof that the accessing of Floorgraphics’ site “had any impact
on the success of News America Marketing.”  ‘Beginning of the End’  Six days into the trial, News America Marketing entered
into what its lawyer called a “series of business
arrangements” with Floorgraphics, part of which involved a
$29.5 million payment and an agreement to buy Floorgraphics’
assets, according to court records. Floorgraphics, which hadn’t
yet presented Cats’s report, dismissed the case.  The loss of the Safeway contract “marked the beginning of
the end” for Floorgraphics, which had 85 employees at its peak
and fewer than 25 in 2009, Rebh testified.  “They were outraged,” Berkley said of Rebh and his
brother. “They had given their life to the thing.”  Allegations of News Corp. hacking and other misdeeds
spurred other suits and a state probe. Alerted by Floorgraphics
executives, the New Jersey Division of Criminal Justice’s
computer unit opened an investigation into News America
Marketing in 2006, according to court papers filed in a lawsuit
against Floorgraphics by an ex-officer and director, Fred Potok.  ‘Surprised’  The investigation ended without charges being filed, said
Rachel Goemat, a spokeswoman for the Division of Criminal
Justice, declining to comment further. Abrams, the lawyer for
News America Marketing, said in an interview that the company
was never contacted by New Jersey investigators.  As part of the New Jersey probe, Potok cooperated with
investigators and initially agreed to wear a wire to record a
conversation with Abrams, according to Abrams. Abrams said he
recently read an account given by Potok in a deposition in which
he said he ultimately chose not to wear a body wire.  “He said he was going to do it at the request of the State
Police,” Abrams said. “I was surprised.”  “He fully cooperated with the state investigation,” said
Potok’s lawyer, Thomas McNamara. Potok isn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The case is Floorgraphics v. News America Marketing In-
Store Services Inc, 04-cv-3500, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in U.S. District Court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  