-- 
NFL and Helmet Maker Riddell Sued by 75 Retired Players Over Concussions

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T12:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nfl-and-helmet-maker-riddell-sued-by-75-retired-players-over-concussions.html
(Corrects year of  Super Bowl  in penultimate paragraph in
story published yesterday.)  The  National Football League  and
sports-equipment maker  Riddell Inc.  were sued by 75 former
professional football players over allegations that the league
and the company concealed data about dangers of concussions.  Former NFL stars, such as Miami Dolphins receiver  Mark
Duper  and Phoenix Cardinals running back  Lyvonia “Stump”
Mitchell,  allege league officials knew for more than 75 years
concussions posed long-term health risks and didn’t warn
players, coaches or trainers, according to the lawsuit filed
yesterday in state court in  California . The players seek
unspecified damages from the NFL and Riddell, the league’s
official helmet maker.  “For decades, defendants have known that multiple blows to
the head can lead to long-term brain injury, including  memory
loss , dementia and depression,” the players’ lawyers said in
the 81-page complaint.  The league issued a June 2010 warning that brain injuries
from concussions, which result from brain movement within the
skull after an impact, “may lead to problems with memory and
communication, personality changes, as well as depression and
the early onset of dementia.”  NFL officials plan to “vigorously contest” players’
claims that the league withheld information about health risks
tied to concussions,  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an
interview.  Riddell, owned by buyout firm Fenway Partners Inc., hasn’t
had time to review the suit and can’t comment on it, Laura
Moore, a Riddell spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bone-Jarring Hits  The former NFL players contend in the suit that they suffer
from dementia, headaches, lost memories, blurred vision and
depression as a result of repeated concussions suffered from
bone-jarring hits and tackles. The players argue the league and
Riddell officials should have warned them earlier about the
long-term risks of such blows.  A study released July 19 by a Loyola University of Chicago
professor found athletes who play American football showed
symptoms of mild brain dysfunction at an earlier age than non-
playing peers. In addition, there was more illness among the
retired athletes than in those who were about the same age.  Earlier this month, former Baltimore Colts tight end John Mackey, who was ranked by Sports Illustrated Magazine as the
third-best player at his position in NFL history, died after
being diagnosed with dementia. Traumatic  brain damage  was found
in autopsies of  Andre Waters , a former Philadelphia Eagles
defensive back who killed himself in November 2006 at the age of
44, and former Chicago Bears safety Dave Duerson, who killed
himself in February at age 50.  $1 Million Pledge  The NFL has taken steps over the last three years to
address concussion concerns by restricting helmet-to-helmet
contact and fining players for violating those restrictions.  The league also has pledged $1 million to Boston
University’s  Center  for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy to
research how to prevent and treat brain injuries. Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  told the league’s 32 clubs that players with
concussion symptoms can’t play or practice until cleared by a
neurologist.  The players’ suit alleges the NFL was negligent in failing
to warn them and league medical personnel about the long-term
health threats tied to concussions. The suit also contends
Riddell’s helmets were defectively designed because they didn’t
“provide adequate protection” from concussions.  ‘Improperly Diagnosed’  Fenway Partners , with offices in  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
acquired Riddell in June 2003. A year later, the private-equity
firm purchased Bell Sports Corp., best-known as a bicycle-helmet
maker, for $240 million and combined it with Riddell. The firm
has $2.1 billion in capital under management, according to its
website.  Duper, a former Pro Bowl receiver suing over concussions,
“suffered multiple concussions that were improperly diagnosed
and treated throughout his” 10-year career, according to the
suit.  Mitchell, a kick returner and running back for the
Cardinals from 1981 to 1989, contends in the suit that he
suffers from “headaches, neck problems, vision problems and
occasional confusion” as a result of repeated concussions
during his playing days. Mitchell, a former NFL assistant coach,
is now the head football coach at  Southern University  and A&M
College in  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana .  Other former stars listed as plaintiffs in the case include
 New York Giants ’s Rodney Hampton, a two-time Pro Bowl running
back who helped the Giants win the Super Bowl in 1991, and
 Harold Jackson , a five-time Pro Bowl wide receiver who played
for the Los Angeles Rams, Philadelphia Eagles,  New England
Patriots ,  Minnesota Vikings  and Seattle Seahawks during his 17-
year career.  The case is Vernon Maxwell v.  National Football League ,
BC465842, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 