-- 
NFL Players Ready to Vote on Labor Agreement, President Kevin Mawae Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-20T16:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nfl-players-ready-to-vote-on-labor-agreement-president-kevin-mawae-says.html
National Football League players are
ready to vote on an agreement to end a four-month shutdown and
allow the U.S.’s richest and most-popular sports league to start
play on schedule.  Kevin Mawae , president of the  NFL Players Association , said
team representatives won’t be pressured into approving a deal
before an NFL owners’ meeting in Atlanta tomorrow without
understanding all aspects of a new collective bargaining
agreement.  “There are a lot of issues, a lot of guys who we have to
make sure are happy and feel comfortable with it,” he said
today in a news conference in  Washington .  “There’s a lot of
legal stuff that needs to take place, and we all know how long
lawyers take.”  Players’ representatives from each team began arriving at
the association’s headquarters in Washington, after the
executive committee met yesterday. The players don’t yet have a
full draft of a proposed agreement, according to a person
familiar with talks who wasn’t authorized to discuss them
publicly.  A majority of representatives for the 1,900-member
association needs to approve a deal, which would also require
support from 24 of 32 clubs in Atlanta tomorrow.  Negotiators for players and owners have tentatively agreed
on terms of a deal that may last as long as 10 years, giving
players about 48 percent of a projected 2011 revenue of $9.3
billion, according to three people familiar with the
negotiations who asked not to be identified because talks are
confidential. The salary cap would be around $120 million, down
about $8 million from 2009, the last year played with a ceiling
on spending, the people said.  Rookies, Free Agents  The agreement would also create a pay scale for rookies and
free-agency rules that allow most veterans to negotiate with any
team after four years, the people said.  NFL owners in March locked out players, who sued in federal
Court, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, said on July 18 that players want to settle
multiple legal cases simultaneously. The sides are also awaiting
a decision from U.S. District Judge David Doty on a players’ May
claim for $700 million in damages after Doty found the league
unfairly negotiated television contracts.  The NFL and players are trying to reach a deal before
missing one or more rounds of preseason games, which the league
estimates are worth about $200 million in revenue a week.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears  are
scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play the
first preseason game Aug. 7 in Canton, Ohio.  The regular season is scheduled to open Sept. 8 when the
Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers host the  New Orleans
Saints .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 