-- 
Niko Skewers Guests, Fries Chicken, Souses Steaks: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/niko-skewers-guests-fries-tokyo-chicken-souses-78-steaks-ryan-sutton.html
Something’s not right at the hip
Soho hangout Niko. That’s a shame, because the gastropubby food
is downright great.  There was no host at the door on Friday, just an empty
stand. And there was no maitre’d greeting guests at the second-
floor dining room, just an army of staffers apparently trained
to avoid eye contact. Can we sit at the sushi bar? “Someone
will be with your shortly,” said a server. We stood, we waited.  Finally we were seated, but getting water and service was
an equally complicated affair.  Cobi Levy, the former suit designer who opened  Niko , ambles
through his domain, a glass of white wine in hand, chatting with
folks who might matter and ignoring those that don’t.  Eating here can be a deeply unpleasant experience because
Levy and his team seem to go out of their way to make commoners
feel invisible.  Levy was the guy behind Charles, an uber-exclusive West
Village den where supplicants submitted reservation requests via
email. Niko is theoretically more democratic. Except sometimes
there’s a bouncer-like fellow out front. That means private
party. Walk on by.  Slow Roast  Come back, though, for the cherry glazed duck. It’s cut
like a steak. Hefty slices of breast share space with crispy
skin and silky fat. The game requires elbows on the table for
leverage, knife and fork in hand for sawing. Except you’re
handed chopsticks -- not optimum for this urban lumberjack
preparation.  Same goes for a slow roast chicken, whose concentrated
flavor lets you know the fowl lived a fine life. A pool of spicy
consomme substitutes for pan juices. The dish calls for Riesling
as much as it does for beer.  You must hail Niko’s waiters like taxi cabs. Raise your
hand for some proper flatware.  Our server suggested a side dish of rice, curious counsel
since two of our three entrees came with it. A runner snatched
away dunking sauces as we munched on fried chicken -- skinless,
boneless morsels with an equal ratio of breading to bird. Did
the kitchen need that butter ponzu back?  Sushi Bar  Niko, like Megu and Nobu, is an uber-izakaya of sorts,
specializing in anything Japanese and somehow doing it all
pretty well, service notwithstanding.  Raw fish comprises about half the menu; all the more reason
to sit at the sushi bar, where your chef-waiter stands trapped
behind a counter. At least you’ll know where he is.  Start with Beausoleil oysters. Spicy pineapple vinegar
mixes so seamlessly with the bivalves you become convinced that
somewhere in the tropics, the ocean tastes of fruit and chilis.
Move onto tiny fried shrimp that release hot, salty juices when
chomped. Cleanse the palate with a glass of Roederer Champagne.  Then things get sustainable. Sort of. Toro tartare pulls
off the impossible; it tastes like the majestic bluefin but
contains none of that endangered species. Niko uses kindai, a
rare and expensive farm-raised alternative. Chef Hiro Sawatari
cuts the unctuous fish with jalapeno for heat, soy for salt,
yuzu for pucker.  Sweet and Wild  Ask Sawatari for a piece-by-piece omakase. His cuts of fish
aren’t as trim or elegant as at other high-end sushi joints; his
rice isn’t as firm as it should be. No matter. Any annoyances
dissipate when you lay a slice of his sockeye salmon on your
tongue.  He rolls sea urchin into a tube of nori and hands you the
“uni cigar,” as he calls it.  “Suntory Time” steak ($42-$78), with a glaze of Japanese
whiskey, took so long to cook that Niko was thoughtless enough
to send out dessert first -- ice cream coated in sticky rice
flour. We sent it back.  Wait for the beef. The Creekstone Farms, 30-day dry-aged
strip balances minerality and char with the sweetness of malt.
It even comes with a knife.  Rating: *1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30; omakase sushi can easily run
$75 and up.  Sound Level: About 70-75.  Date place: If your date likes being ignored by waiters.  Inside Tip: No one picking up the phone? Keep calling. They
eventually answer.  Special Feature: The Leitz Kabinett, an under-$60 Riesling,
is your go-to wine for this food.  Will I be back? Maybe to the sushi bar.  Niko is at 170 Mercer Street, near Houston Street.
Information: +1-212-991-5660;  http://helloniko.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.) 