-- 
Nissan’s Electric Auto Will Help Cook Dinner During Power Blackouts: Cars

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-07-21T03:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nissan-s-electric-auto-will-help-cook-dinner-during-power-blackouts-cars.html
Nissan Motor Co. and  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)  say their electric cars can be used for more than
just going to the grocery store. Soon, the battery-powered
vehicles may also help owners cook dinner during a blackout.  Mitsubishi is working to increase the 100-watt discharge
capacity of its  i-MiEV  electric car, which can already power
small gadgets such as mobile phones with the use of an optional
accessory, to 1,500 watts. At that level, “you’d be able to
power a rice cooker or a microwave,” said Yoshikazu Nakamura,
head of the company’s electric-vehicle business.  The electricity shortage that caused rolling blackouts in
Tokyo after an earthquake knocked out nuclear reactors in March
is highlighting the usefulness of electric-car batteries as
backup power sources, according to Nissan and Mitsubishi, the
world’s two biggest makers of such vehicles. Rather than dent
demand, the disaster may boost electric-car sales, said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company Carnorama in  Tokyo .  “Electric cars now have the chance to demonstrate how
useful their batteries can be,” Miyao said. “ Electric vehicles 
have an advantage, more than ever.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. has said electricity shortages
this summer may lead to further scheduled outages after the
March 11 earthquake crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power
plant, causing the world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years.
Other reactors in Japan have also been halted for inspections
and maintenance, exacerbating a national power shortage.  Nighttime Charging  Even so, energy use at night, when electric-car owners
typically charge their vehicles, only reaches about 50 percent
of available supply, according to the utility.  “Charging electric vehicles during the night shouldn’t be
a problem at all,” Miyao said. “What’s necessary is to cut
back during peak times.”  Using the car’s battery to run appliances is done with a
foot-long device that Mitsubishi sells for an extra 15,540 yen
($200). It plugs into a socket in the i-MiEv’s interior and
converts the battery’s direct current into alternating current
for the appliances, which plug into the other side.  Mitsubishi has intensified battery-development efforts
since the March disaster, Nakamura said. The Tokyo-based company
aims to introduce a battery that can discharge as much as 1,500
watts by the end of this year, he said.  “We noticed a shift in the public’s focus, and we are
speeding things up,” Nakamura said.  Nissan plans to unveil a discharge system for its Leaf
electric car early next month, said Hideaki Watanabe, the
Yokohama-based company’s head of zero-emission vehicles. While
the car’s battery has a capacity of 2,400 watts, Nissan has yet
to decide on its discharge capacity, said Shiro Nagai, a
spokesman at the carmaker.  Leaf Orders  While Japan’s overall auto sales have declined after the
earthquake, orders for the Leaf have held steady, said Nagai.  Sales of the model in Japan, which fell in March and April
amid output disruptions caused by the disaster, rebounded in May
to 472 vehicles from 177 the previous month, Nagai said. Nissan
had sold about 8,200 Leafs globally as of mid-June, after
introducing the car in December, Watanabe said.  “Even though we had to halt production after the quake,
sales are going well,” Nagai said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest maker of gasoline-
electric  hybrid vehicles , is also introducing a system that will
enable its Prius hybrid car to discharge as much as 1,500 watts,
enough to power home appliances. Toyota said July 19 the system
will be available within a year.  For now, the technology may be of limited use to people
living in high-rise apartment buildings, who have no way to
connect their cars to their kitchen appliances.  “Right now, it’s impossible,” said Toshitake Inoshita, a
spokesman at Nissan. “The infrastructure to carry that
electricity up to a room on the 12th floor needs to be developed
first.”  Emergencies, Camping  The technology isn’t meant for regular use in homes just
yet, said Kai Inada, a spokesman at Mitsubishi.  “We only have plans for the electricity to be used in
emergency situations, or for people going camping,” he said.  Mitsubishi’s i-MiEV, which went on sale in April 2010, uses
a battery supplied by Lithium Energy  Japan , a joint venture
between Mitsubishi and battery maker GS Yuasa Corp. The battery
can be fully charged in seven to 14 hours and can power the
vehicle for 160 kilometers (99 miles), according to the company.  Mitsubishi says it has sold about 4,000 i-MiEVs in Japan
and exported more than 10,000, including vehicles supplied to
French carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen. The Japanese company plans
to add eight hybrid and battery-powered models by 2015,
beginning with its M model, set to go on sale July 25.  Peak Demand  Nissan plans to introduce a total of seven electric models
in addition to the Leaf in the six years to fiscal 2016. It is
targeting sales of 1.5 million electric vehicles over the next
six years along with its French partner,  Renault SA. (RNO)   In addition to serving as an emergency power source,
electric vehicles can help conserve energy during peak demand
times, Nissan’s Watanabe said.  “They can store energy during the night, when demand is
low, and that stored energy can be used at peak time,” Watanabe
said. “The battery’s ability to store power adds value to the
car even when it’s not running.”  The Leaf’s lithium-ion batteries, supplied by battery maker
Automotive Energy Supply Corp., a venture between Nissan and NEC
Corp., take about eight hours to be fully charged to 24 kilowatt
hours. A full charge can power the car for an estimated 200
kilometers, according to Nissan.  The company plans to begin making batteries for the Leaf in
Smyrna,  Tennessee , and Sunderland,  England , next year. It will
start making them in  Portugal  in 2013 and also plans production
in  France . Nissan aims to make 500,000 batteries a year by 2015.  “The Leaf already has the capacity to supply all the
electricity you need for a regular household for two days,”
Watanabe said. “Customers can expect more than that in the new
cars to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  