-- 
Nortel, Starbucks, Sprinkles, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-20T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nortel-starbucks-sprinkles-google-intellectual-property.html
The Canadian government won’t review
the sale of Nortel Networks Corp. patents under the country’s
foreign-investment law, clearing the way for a group led by
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to complete the $4.5-billion deal, Industry Minister
Christian Paradis said yesterday.  “Based on the information provided by the investor and
Nortel’s 2010 audited financial statements, the acquisition of
the Nortel patents is not subject to review for net benefit
under the Act,” Paradis said in an e-mailed statement.  Paradis had asked his department to determine whether the
country’s foreign-investment review process applied to the sale
of about 6,000 patents and patent applications, which cover
wireless, Internet search and social-networking technologies.  Nortel said June 30 it agreed to sell the patent portfolio
to a group composed of Apple,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , EMC
Corp., Ericsson AB, Microsoft Corp. and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Under Canadian law, foreign acquisitions of companies with
assets worth more than C$312 million ($328 million) are reviewed
by the federal government to determine whether the transaction
would give a “net benefit” to the country.  In November, the Canadian government rejected a proposed
takeover of fertilizer maker Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
by Australia’s BHP Billiton Ltd. The government also blocked a
2008 bid by Minneapolis-based Alliant Techsystems Inc. to
acquire the aerospace division of Vancouver-based MacDonald,
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.  The two decisions are the only times  Canada  has blocked a
foreign takeover bid since the Investment Canada Act came into
force in 1985.  Boehringer, Bristol-Myers Negotiating With AIDS Patent Pool  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  have
entered into negotiations with the Medicines Patent Pool for
patents on drugs to treat people with AIDS in developing
nations, according to a  statement  from the patent pool.  Established in 2009 by UNITAID to increase access to
affordable drugs to treat AIDS in developing nations, the patent
pool completed its first licensing agreement with a leading
pharmaceutical company earlier this month.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  of  Foster City ,  California , agreed
July 12 to allow sales of generic versions of four AIDS
treatments. That deal permits copies of Gilead’s Viread and
Emtriva medicines in 111 countries, while two experimental
drugs, cobicistat and elvitegravir, will be available in 102 and
99 nations, respectively, after they’re approved by regulators.  Patent pool officials are in talks with five additional
entities about entry into the pool, according to the statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Starbucks Seeks Declaration It Doesn’t Infringe SDN Trademarks  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the Seattle-based coffee-house chain, sued
a South Dakota information-services company in a trademark
dispute.  South Dakota Network LLC, which does business as  SDN
Communications , is owned by 17 telephone companies in South
Dakota. The company offers business services on its fiber-optic
network in 19 western states and is a telecommunications
provider in 36 states, according to its website.  In the complaint filed in federal court in Omaha,  Nebraska ,
Starbucks says the Sioux Falls, South Dakota-based company
objected to Starbucks’ use of the acronym “SDN” to refer to
the Starbucks Digital Network.  This network is accessible exclusively to Starbucks in-
store customers who connect to free wireless access to the
Internet provided by  AT&T Inc. (T) , Starbucks said in its pleadings.
The network contains content provided free to Starbucks
customers through the coffee chain’s partnership with Yahoo!
Inc., the company says.  Even though Starbucks asserted that it uses “SDN” only in
association with its Starbucks Digital Network, the company
received several cease-and-desist letters from the South Dakota
company. The letters accused the Seattle company of willful
infringement of SDN Communications’ trademarks, according to
court papers.  Starbucks said that negotiations between the two companies
have come to naught and the allegations that it’s infringing
“casts a cloud over Starbucks’ ongoing use and development of
the Starbucks Digital Network.”  It asked the court to declare that it’s not infringing, and
to order the South Dakota company to quit threatening to file an
infringement suit. The company also requested litigation costs
and attorney fees.  SDN Communications filed a request July 18 to extend the
time for it to answer the complaint to mid-August.  Starbucks is represented by  Patrick C. Stephenson ,  John P.
Passarelli  and  Douglas W. Peters  of Kutak Rock LLP of Omaha. SDN
Communications’ lawyers are  Bruce D. Vosburg  and  Gerald L.
Friedrichsen  of Omaha’s  Fitzgerald, Schorr, Barmettler & Brennan
PC LLO .  The case is Starbucks Corp. v. South Dakota Network LLC,
8:11-cv-00237, U.S. District Court, District of Nebraska
(Omaha).  Sprinkles Cupcakes Frosted Over Pink Sprinkles’ Trademark Use  Sprinkles Cupcakes Inc. , the Beverly Hills, California-
based chain, sued a Fairfield,  Connecticut , competitor for
trademark infringement.  The California company, which has been featured on “The
Oprah Winfrey Show,” “The Martha Stewart Show,” and
“Entertainment Tonight,” operates in California,  New York 
Washington, D.C.,  Illinois ,  Texas  and  Arizona . Its pastry chef
and founder  Candace Nelson  is one of the judges on Scripps
Networks Interactive’s Food Network’s “ Cupcake Wars ” reality
television show.  Sprinkles sued  Pink Sprinkles LLC  in federal court in  New
Haven , Connecticut, on July 15, claiming to be harmed by the
Connecticut baker’s name and Internet domain name. The public is
likely to be confused by the similarity of the two companies’
names, it said, and accused Pink Sprinkles of trying to
hitchhike on goodwill and reputation belonging to the California
company.  In addition to asking for a court order barring the use of
“Pink Sprinkles” and related names, Sprinkles asked to be
transferred the Connecticut company’s Internet domain name.  It also seeks an order for the destruction of all
infringing products and promotional materials, and for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Pink Sprinkles didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Sprinkles is represented  by Steven M. Coyle  of  Cantor
Colburn LLP  of Hartford, and  John L. Slafsky  and  Hollis Beth
Hire  of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC of  Palo Alto ,
California.  The case is Sprinkles Cupcakes Inc., v. Pink Sprinkles LLC,
3:11-cv-01117-JCH, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(New Haven).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google, Authors Get More Time to Discuss Scanning Settlement  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a group of publishers and authors got more
time to discuss a possible settlement of a lawsuit over the
search-engine company’s digital reproduction of books.  “We are not there yet,” Michael Boni, a lawyer for the
authors, told U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in  Manhattan 
yesterday. “They are very complicated, complex issues,
requiring us to delve into them in the dog days of summer.”  Google was sued in 2005 by authors and publishers who said
the company was infringing their copyrights on a massive scale
by digitizing books and allowing “snippets” of them to be seen
online. Chin objected to an earlier, $125 million settlement,
saying it would be unfair to authors.  Chin, who kept the case after he was elevated to the
appeals court bench from the U.S. district court in April 2010,
set a new hearing for Sept. 15.  “We’ve been working closely with the authors and
publishers to explore a number of options,” Gabriel Stricker, a
spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based Google, told
reporters after the hearing yesterday.  She said “we asked the
court for more time to discuss these options.”  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-CV-8136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Baidu to Pay Labels for Beyonce, Lady Gaga Music in  China   Baidu Inc., owner of China’s most popular Internet-search
engine, agreed to pay record labels to offer songs by artists
including Beyonce, Lady Gaga and Frank Sinatra, ending a six-
year dispute over piracy.  Sony Corp., Universal Music Group and  Warner Music Group
Corp. (WMG)  will receive undisclosed fees for allowing their content
to be downloaded for free to users of Baidu’s Ting and MP3
services, the Chinese search-engine operator said in a statement
yesterday. The four companies will end all outstanding
litigation, according to the statement.  The deal paves the way for the Chinese company to ease
concerns that led the U.S. Trade Representative to call Baidu a
“notorious market” for helping sustain piracy. For the record
labels, the accord allows them to capitalize on the world’s
biggest Internet market, where almost all music downloads are
estimated to be illegal.  “China has a long way to go yet, but the deal serves as a
good baseline to work from,” said Ed Peto, managing director at
Outdustry, which represents western music companies in China.
“Baidu will need to show sustained commitment over the coming
few years before this deal can be seen as a proper watershed.”  The Beijing-based company, which handles about 80 percent
of the country’s Web-search traffic, expects the agreement to
lead to a “precipitous drop” in the piracy rate, spokesman
Kaiser Kuo said.  “This is a mutually profitable deal,” Kuo said by phone
yesterday. Record companies will benefit from sales of
advertising linked to their music, in addition to license fees,
he said.  China has a music piracy rate of “virtually 100 percent,”
the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said
in its 2011 report released in January.  One-Stop China -- a venture between Universal Music, Warner
Music and Sony Music -- will license its catalogs and new
releases, including songs in Mandarin and Cantonese, to Baidu,
according to the statement.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal, Sony and Warner Music previously
lost rulings in Chinese courts when seeking damages from Baidu
for copyright infringement.  Baidu was named in the U.S. Trade Representative’s
“notorious markets” list published in March for helping
sustain piracy and counterfeiting. Google Inc., Baidu’s closest
competitor in China’s search-engine market, started a music
service in the country in 2009.  Baidu “won’t lose money” from the agreement with One-Stop
China, as sales of advertising will more than offset the cost of
license fees, Kuo said.  Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search-engine,
accounted for 18.9 percent of revenue generated in China’s
search-engine market during the second quarter, declining from
19.2 percent three months earlier, according to research firm
Analysys International. Baidu’s market share increased to 75.9
percent from 75.8 percent, the researcher said.  Baidu is adding services and bolstering partnerships with
technology companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to lure Web users
in China from domestic rivals  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Knobbe Martens Hires Scott Smith for Silicon Valley Practice  Knobbe Martens Olson & Bear LLP hired Scott Smith for its
Silicon Valley IP practice, the Irvine, California-based firm
said in a  statement .  Smith , who does patent work, previously served as vice
president for  intellectual property  and legal affairs at Polmonx
Corp. of  Redwood City , California, a maker of medical devices.  He previously did in-house IP work at  Align Technology
Inc. (ALGN) , Baxano Inc. and Acclarent Inc. before it was acquired by
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  in 2009. Before that, he practiced at the San
Francisco firm then known as Townsend & Townsend, and at
Phoenix’s Snell & Wilmer LLP.  Smith has an undergraduate degree from  Northwestern
University , a law degree from Ohio State University and a
medical degree from the University of Arizona.  Jones Day Brings in Two German IP Lawyers from Hogan Lovells  Jones Day is hiring two intellectual-property specialists
in  Germany  from rival Washington-based firm Hogan Lovells LP,
according to a statement.  The new hires are Wolfgang Buchner and Undine von Diemar,
both from Hogan Lovells’s office in Munich.  Buchner, a transactional lawyer, has represented clients in
the  information technology  and media sectors.  Von Diemar’s area of expertise is cloud computing, and has
advised clients in mergers and acquisitions in the information
technology and intellectual property areas.  Clients the lawyers have represented include  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,  SAP AG (SAP) ,  ADVA AG Optical Networking (ADV)  and
Parametric Technology Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 