-- 
Northern Trust Tops Estimates on Market Gains as Bank Seeks to Cut Costs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   L a u r a   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-20T21:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/northern-trust-s-net-income-declines-24-on-low-interest-rates.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-
largest independent U.S. custody bank, reported earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates as market gains boosted the amount of
money the company oversees for clients.  Net income decreased 24 percent to $152 million, or 62
cents a share, from $200 million, or 82 cents, a year earlier
because of one-time expenses related to restructuring,
acquisition and integration, the Chicago-based company said
today in a statement. Excluding those items, earnings of 70
cents a share beat the 69-cent average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It looks like they are beginning to take action that will
result in expense savings going forward,”  Marty Mosby , an
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said
in a telephone interview.  In making changes that will lead to future savings,
Northern Trust joined rivals  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and
State Street Corp., both of which announced cost-cutting
measures yesterday. Boston’s State Street said it will eliminate
850 information technology jobs over the next 20 months, and BNY
Mellon’s Chief Executive officer  Robert Kelly  said he planned
unspecified cost reductions after non-interest expenses rose 22
percent from a year earlier.  Shares Rise  Northern Trust rose 55 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $44.19 at
4:00 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It has
declined 10 percent in the past year, making it the worst
performer in the 18-company  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset
managers and custody banks. The index has gained 13 percent in
the same period.  State Street said yesterday second-quarter net income on an
operating basis rose 5.2 percent to $483 million and BNY Mellon,
the largest custody bank, said second-quarter net income rose 12
percent to $735 million.  Northern Trust’s assets under custody increased 24 percent
to $4.42 trillion, as the MSCI AC World Index rose 27 percent in
the year ended June 30. The amount of money the company invests
for clients rose 13 percent to $684 billion.  Fees from custody and investment services failed to keep
pace with the rise in assets, climbing 3 percent to $558
million. Total revenue declined 2 percent to $945 million, hurt
by a 30 percent drop in foreign-exchange trading income.  Kenneth Usdin, a senior analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New
York , said the company offset some of the impact of low  interest
rates  with higher volumes of lending compared with the previous
quarter.  Job Cuts  Non-interest expenses rose 15 percent to $705 million, as
compensation, the largest expense, climbed 15 percent to $320
million.  The restructuring, acquisition and integration expenses
reduced earnings by $18.8 million after taxes, or 8 cents a
share.  Northern’s results a year ago included an after-tax benefit
of $8 million, or 4 cents a share, as it recouped some money set
aside to cover the company’s share of penalties resulting from
an antitrust lawsuit by American Express Co. against Visa Inc.
in 2007. Northern Trust is a Visa member bank.  The company announced today it plans to eliminate 270 jobs
in Ireland and the U.K. Doug Holt, a spokesman for Northern
Trust in  Chicago , said the cuts will take place over the next 18
months and would eliminate “duplicate roles” created by the
Bank of Ireland acquisition.  Fed Benchmark  Holt said Northern Trust has had operations in Ireland
since 1990. The company will employ about 800 people in Ireland
after the cuts, he said.  Northern Trust said yesterday it hired Michael O’Grady from
Bank of America Corp. as chief financial officer. O’Grady, who
will join in August, replaces William Morrison, who will become
the firm’s chief operating officer.  Northern Trust has lagged behind rivals in making
acquisitions that can offset the impact of low interest rates.
The company purchased the securities-servicing unit of Bank of
Ireland Plc in June for as much as 60 million euros ($85
million). That compares to  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s takeover of the
asset-servicing unit of  Italy ’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in May 2010
for 1.28 billion euros, and Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s
$2.31 billion purchase of PNC Financial Services Group Inc.’s
global investment-servicing business in July 2010.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark lending
rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, cutting the
income Northern Trust earns when investing or lending out
securities and client deposits. Low interest rates also have
forced the company to waive some of the fees it collects for
running money-market funds to maintain positive yields. Fund fee
waivers totaled $7.5 million in the quarter, compared with $2.6
million a year earlier.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Keeley in Boston at 
 lkeeley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  