-- 
NuCapital to Receive ‘Insured’ Loan for Two Caribbean Wind Farms

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-20T17:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/nucapital-to-receive-insured-loan-for-two-caribbean-wind-farms.html
NuCapital Inc. , a closely held
Caribbean wind developer, will borrow $53 million to build two
projects in Curacao, which is seeking to diversify its energy
sources.  The 12-year loan will include a guarantee from the Danish
state export credit agency  Eksport Kredit Fonden  to reimburse
lenders if Aqualectra, the state-run utility that’s agreed to
purchase the wind farms’ electricity, defaults on its contract,
NuCapital Chief Executive Officer Hendrik Hutting said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  The loan guarantee helped Curacao attract the developers,
Hutting said. The Caribbean island nation, part of the
 Netherlands Antilles  until the country was dissolved in October,
is seeking to to expand its use of renewable energy and reduce
its dependence on imported oil.  “Without the credit agency it would have been very
expensive to go to a commercial bank,” he said. EKF’s guarantee
“allows you to get much longer terms. Normal commercial loans
rarely exceed 8 years.”  The two 15-megawatt projects will be built with turbines
from Randers, Denmark-based Vestas Wind Systems A/S. They will
replace two aging wind farms with combined capacity of 12
megawatts.  EKF, based in Copenhagen, will insure the loan and provide
half of it, with the other half to be furnished by local lender
 First Caribbean International Bank Ltd. (FCI) , Hutting said. It is
expected to close within two weeks and will carry an annual rate
of about 6.5 percent, which includes a 2.5 percentage-point
premium to cover EKF’s guarantee.  Brussels-based bank  Dexia SA (DEXB)  agreed to pay off 30 percent
of the value of the loan if Willemstad, Curacao-based NuCapital
defaults, he said.  ‘Novel Concept’  The loan “is a novel concept,” Hutting said. “It’s the
type of thing EKF has been using for offshore wind projects,”
that are typically high risk. EKF guaranteed business
transactions worth almost 14 billion kroner ($2.7 billion) in
2009, according to its website.  Hutting said the wind farms will generate electricity at
half the cost of oil, which provides virtually all of the
nation’s power.  “We’re going to be saving the island $1 million a month”
in energy costs, he said. “We can beat any conventional power
plant without incentives or subsidies.”  NuCapital expects to invest $76 million in the project,
making it more expensive than wind farms in other countries in
the region.  It costs $2 million to build one megawatt of wind power in
 Brazil , about 21 percent less than what NuCapital is paying,
according to Helena Chung, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance’s  Sao Paulo  office.  “You have to import the cranes, the trucks, the steel,”
Hutting said. “It’s basically a semi-offshore wind farm from a
logistical point of view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  