-- 
Obama Correct to Resist Financial ‘Terrorism,’ Summers Says

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-20T19:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/obama-correct-to-resist-financial-terrorism-summers-says.html
President  Barack Obama  is correct in
resisting financial “terrorism” in the debate over budget cuts
and the debt ceiling, former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said today.  “Is the president right to not yield to terrorism?”
Summers, a professor at  Harvard University , said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”
“Yes, the president is absolutely right to not yield to threats
to send the country into default. You can’t run the country that
way.”  Summers, 56, who served as head of the National Economic
Council under Obama until December, did not name those he
believes are financial terrorists, nor did he explain the
reference further.  House Republicans  last night passed
legislation, which Obama has said he would veto, tying an
increase in the debt ceiling to approval of a balanced-budget
amendment to the Constitution.  Obama yesterday endorsed a bipartisan plan from the so-
called “Gang of Six” senators to cut the  budget deficit  by
$3.7 trillion over 10 years through a combination of spending
cuts and tax increases. While House Republican leaders indicated
a willingness to consider the proposal, they and other members
of their caucus stress their opposition to a debt compromise
that includes more taxes.  “How you have people who want on the one hand to say that
banks need to hold less capital and then on the other hand say
that the country maybe should call into question the possibility
of paying its debts, and then they say they’re trying to make
the economy work better, I really can’t understand that,”
Summers said in the interview. “The financial terrorism threats
are untenable.”  Summers, who was Treasury secretary under President  Bill
Clinton  from 1999 to 2001, said lawmakers who threaten to send
the country into default are “descending into a place that
responsible political leaders should not go.”  Obama said he will renew talks at the White House this week
with congressional leaders as the Democratic-led Senate and
Republican House pursue divergent paths toward ending the
stalemate over lifting the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.
If lawmakers don’t raise the ceiling by Aug. 2, the U.S. will
default on some of its obligations, according to the Treasury
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  