-- 
OCC Revises Rule on State-Law Preemption After Treasury Rebuke

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-20T16:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/occ-revises-rule-on-state-law-preemption-after-treasury-rebuke.html
The U.S. agency that oversees
national banks released rules governing when federal regulations
should trump state law, revising language that was faulted for
ignoring the aims of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s  final rules 
aim to eliminate ambiguity by removing language calling for
preemption of state laws that “obstruct, impair or condition”
national bank powers, the agency said today in a statement. The
measure also recognizes the authority of state officials to
bring enforcement actions against national banks to enforce
applicable laws, the OCC said.  An initial proposal released in May was criticized by state
regulators and the U.S. Treasury Department, whose general
counsel said the measure was “not centered on the key language
of Dodd-Frank’s preemption standard and seeks to broaden the
standard.” John “Buz” Gorman, general counsel for the
Conference of State Bank Supervisors, said the changes announced
today don’t go far enough.  “It is not clear that anything has changed to what they
proposed in their initial proposal,” Gorman said today in an
interview. By changing the language “I think they are willing
to review their previous determinations; question is what
standard are they going to use,” he said.  Congressional Democrats and consumer advocates pushed for
curbs on the OCC’s power to preempt state laws amid claims that
federal regulators were too lenient with national banks before
the 2008 credit crisis. The Treasury Department said the OCC’s
initial interpretation didn’t align with Dodd-Frank’s
requirement that preemption questions be resolved on a case-by-
case basis.  The OCC, which operates as an independent bureau within the
Treasury Department, said it will consult with the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau before deciding whether to preempt
some state consumer laws. The agency, which officially takes
over the operations of the Office of Thrift Supervision
tomorrow, said it will apply the preemption standards to federal
thrifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  