-- 
Hoenig Sees ‘Modest’ Growth as Economy Works Off Excesses

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-20T00:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/hoenig-sees-modest-growth-as-economy-works-off-excesses-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the U.S. will continue to grow
modestly as it works off excesses of the past two decades.  “We will continue to grow at a modest pace” of 2.5
percent to 3 percent in 2011 and 2012, Hoenig said today in a
speech in Kansas City,  Missouri .  “The  U.S. economy  is adjusting to the excesses and poor
policy of the last 15 to 20 years,” he said. “I wish there was
a shortcut to taking care of those problems.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted on June 22 to
conclude its $600 billion bond-buying program as scheduled and
maintain its balance sheet near record levels. The FOMC also
affirmed its pledge to keep its target interest rate near zero
for an “extended period.”  Hoenig repeated his criticism of the central bank’s near-
zero interest-rate policy. “I’ve lived through three crises now
and I know the conditions that are right for bubbles and guess
what? Zero interest rates create the conditions for bubbles,”
he said today at an agriculture conference at the  Kansas City 
Fed.  Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, has
repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten monetary policy to
limit inflation and avert the emergence of asset price bubbles.
He voted eight straight times in 2010 against record stimulus
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single year.  Rate Policy  Hoenig has called for the Fed to raise the federal funds
rate to 1 percent as part of a normalization of monetary policy.
The central bank has kept the rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Addressing the debate in  Washington  on how to raise the
debt ceiling and address the nation’s long-term fiscal
challenges, Hoenig said, “Now we’re in a stalemate that can
only lead to harsher times ahead.”  “I suspect that as we’ve done in the past we will look to
the central bank of the  United States  and the world’s central
banks to inflate our way out of this because it’s so much
easier,” he said.  Earlier this year Hoenig, the central bank’s longest-
serving policy maker, announced plans to retire on Oct. 1 after
a 20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed. He is
required under internal Fed rules to retire at age 65, an age he
will reach in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Kansas City, Missouri at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  