-- 
Logoplaste Mulls Raising REN Stake Should Portugal Sell Out

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-20T15:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/logoplaste-mulls-raising-ren-stake-should-portugal-sell-out-1-.html
Logoplaste , a Portuguese plastic-
packaging company, may increase its holding in REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SA should  Portugal  sell its stake this
year, according to Chief Executive Officer Filipe de Botton.  The state may sell its 51 percent holding in REN, the
country’s natural-gas and electricity grid operator, in the
third quarter, Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said June 30.
The government said two days earlier it would seek to sell the
stake “preferably” by the end of the year.  Logoplaste is REN’s second-largest shareholder, with 8.5
percent held between two of its subsidiaries, said Botton.  “The maximum stake an investor can hold in REN is 10
percent,” Botton said today in a telephone interview. “The
increase in our stake will depend on the conditions of the
privatization and on REN’s new strategic partners.”  The government’s sale of its stake will help Portugal shore
up its finances and comply with an austerity plan that was a
condition of its 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) aid package from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in May.  Individual investors can’t hold more than 10 percent of REN
shares while rivals have a 5 percent ownership cap, said a
spokeswoman who asked not to be named in accordance with company
policy.  Botton, who is also a board member at REN, said there has
been interest from foreign investors in the sale of Portugal’s
stake in REN.  “I think this privatization has all the necessary
conditions to take place by the end of the third quarter or by
the middle of the fourth quarter,” he said. “This
privatization is bound to make REN a more valuable company. It
doesn’t make sense for the state to continue to hold a stake in
REN.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  