-- 
Oil India Said to Consider Purchasing Stake in Maurel’s Gabon Crude Field

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-21T04:05:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/oil-india-said-to-consider-purchase-of-maurel-s-gabon-fields.html
Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , the nation’s second-
biggest state-run oil producer, is in talks to buy a stake in
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA’s assets in Gabon, three people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Oil  India  is studying the fields and plans to appoint banks
for financial due diligence soon, two of the people said, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private. Maurel wants
to sell a controlling stake in the fields, which may be valued
at more than $1.5 billion, one person said.  Oil India and Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the country’s
biggest explorer, are seeking access to deposits as energy
demand in the world’s second-most populous nation rises. Oil
India wants to buy shale gas assets in  Canada  and  Australia  and
has held initial talks with Calgary-based  Americas Petrogas Inc. (BOE) 
about acquiring the company’s shale gas fields in  Argentina , two
of the people said.  “If India has to continue growing at 7 to 8 percent, oil
consumption will increase and it will be necessary to have
control of supply,” said Vienna-based Juergen Maier, who helps
manage about $1.3 billion of emerging-market shares including
Indian shares, at Raiffeisen Capital Management. “Companies and
countries that own production and reserves across the world will
be better off than others.”  Oil India rose as much as 1.4 percent and was 1.1 percent
up at 1,291.90 rupees at 9:22 a.m. in Mumbai trading, valuing
the company at about $7 billion. Maurel jumped 4.6 percent in
Paris yesterday to close at 16.67 euros.  An Oil India spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for
Maurel said he couldn’t immediately comment. Americas Petrogas
Chief Executive Officer Barclay Hambrook declined to comment.  Citigroup, BNP Paribas  Maurel hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and BNP Paribas SA around April
2010 to search for partners for exploration permits it holds,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin said April 1. Paris-
based Maurel’s production from Gabon at the end of the year is
likely to be 20,000 barrels a day, Henin said last month.  India imported about 3.3 million barrels of crude a day in
the year ended March 31, equivalent to about 83 percent of the
total oil processed by the country’s refiners, according to oil
ministry data. Oil India produced 72,000 barrels a day in the
period, the ministry data show.  Oil India, based in Duliajan in India’s northeastern state
of Assam,  operates  an onshore oil field in Gabon, according to
the company’s website. It is a partner in areas in other nations
including  Nigeria ,  Sudan , Yemen, Timor Leste and  Venezuela .  Moody’s Rating  The company plans to sell debt outside India to fund an
acquisition and is in the process of getting rated by Moody’s
Investors Service, one of the people said.  Oil India had 127 billion rupees ($2.9 billion) in cash and
equivalents and no debt as of March 31, finance director T.K. Ananth Kumar said May 31. The explorer may use as much as 45
billion rupees for acquisitions, he said that day.  Indian energy companies are competing with Chinese firms
for deposits across the world to meet growing demand from the
two most populous nations.  Oil India, ONGC and Indian Oil Corp. joined Repsol YPF SA
and Petroliam Nasional Bhd. in February last year to pump and
refine oil from the Carabobo 1 region in Venezuela’s Orinoco
Belt. Oil India and Indian Oil withdrew a joint offer for
 Gulfsands Petroleum Plc (GPX)  in May last year after failing to get a
response to do due diligence on the U.K. explorer with assets in
Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  