-- 
London Police Force Adds 15 People to Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-20T18:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/london-police-force-adds-15-people-to-phone-hacking-probe.html
London’s Metropolitan Police said it
added 15 officers and staff to its investigation into phone-
hacking by journalists at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now defunct News of the
World tabloid.  It means 60 people now work on the probe, Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Sue Akers said today in an e-mailed statement. The
police opened a new investigation into the interception of phone
messages in January, four years after the paper’s royal
reporter,  Clive Goodman , was jailed for conspiring to tap
phones.  “Following a surge of enquiries and requests for
assistance from the public and solicitors, there has been a
significant increase in the workload of Operation Weeting,”
Akers said. “If the demand decreases, I will release officers
back to other duties.”  The move came 12 hours after Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee said it noted with “alarm” that only 170 potential
hacking victims, out of almost 13,000 possible targets, had been
informed their phone messages may have been accessed.  “At this rate it would be at least a decade before
everyone was informed,” the panel wrote in their  report .
“This timeframe is clearly absurd, but it seems to us to
underline the need for more resources to be made available.”  Lawmakers yesterday took evidence from Commissioner Paul Stephenson and Assistant Commissioner John Yates, both of whom
announced their resignations this week amid the scandal.  Police in 2009 concluded there were no grounds to reopen
the inquiry into phone-hacking at the News of the World after
Yates spent eight hours reviewing the evidence. Operation
Weeting  began  on Jan. 26, after new evidence that emerged in a
civil case involving the actress  Sienna Miller  was passed to the
police.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  