-- 
Exxon Mobil Oil-Sands Shipment Hits Roadblock in Montana

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-07-20T22:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/montana-judge-rules-against-exxon-mobil-in-transport-hearing.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s bid to ship
hundreds of tons of equipment to an oil-sands project in  Alberta 
hit another roadblock after a  Montana  judge said the company
can’t use a scenic highway through the state.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , Exxon’s Canadian subsidiary, can’t use
its preferred route along highway 12 through the sparsely
populated state, spokesman Pius Rohleiser said yesterday in a
phone interview. The ruling doesn’t affect a permit to use an
alternative route, he said.  The shipment has been held up since April, when opposition
groups filed petitions with officials in Idaho and Montana.
Imperial Oil purchased about 200 equipment modules to be used in
the construction of a new bitumen mining and refinery plant at
its Kearl oil-sands project.  “We’re disappointed,” said Rohlheiser. “It’s a lengthy
ruling, and we’re going to study it before talking about the
next steps.”  Exxon and Imperial have permission to use the portion of
Highway 12 in  Idaho , as well as permits to use an alternate
route on Interstate 90 and highway 95 through Idaho and into
British Columbia, avoiding Montana, said Rohleiser.  A trailer-load of pipes and boiler parts is parked at the
Lolo Pass hot springs on the Idaho-Montana border and watched
around the clock by two security guards. The shipment was halted
in April by authorities in both states after it clipped a wire
holding up an electrical tower, causing a local  power outage  for
several hours.  Lolo Pass  The hold-up at Lolo Pass is forcing the company to consider
other routes, including the Canadian ports of Vancouver and
Prince Rupert, to bring the remaining modules from  Korea . The
delays will cost the company tens of millions of dollars, said
Rohlheiser.  With  oil prices  hovering near $100 a barrel, investment in
 Canada ’s oil sands is approaching $20 billion this year,
according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.
That growth made it difficult for Exxon to find local suppliers
near  Edmonton  when it tendered an offer for the equipment in
2008, said Rohlheiser. Sourcing the equipment from  Asia  was the
best alternative, he said.  Since the equipment arrived at the Port of Lewiston, Idaho,
Exxon has fought opponents in its bid to use Highway 12, which
winds through the Bitterroot Mountains and follows the 1806
 Lewis and Clark Trail . Opponents have highlighted the risks to
the scenic character of the route.  ‘Narrow Strip’  “Exxon did not understand that Highway 12 in Idaho is more
than simply a narrow strip of pavement,” said Linwood Laughy,
who lives in the Clearwater Valley along the proposed route, in
a telephone interview. “Many people care deeply about this
special place.”  Allowing more transportation of heavy equipment would ruin
the natural beauty of the region, Laughy said.  Opposition to Exxon’s plan includes local landowners and
residents as well as Idaho Rivers United, Friends of the
Clearwater and the Natural Resources Defense Council. The groups
filed a legal challenge in Montana and Idaho for temporary
restraining orders to stop the shipments.  The company on June 27 won a recommendation by an Idaho
Department of Transportation official to use that state’s
portion of Highway 12 leading to the border with Montana.  The first 33 modules, each of which is as tall as 30 feet
(9 meters) and 100 feet long, arrived from Korea at the port of
 Vancouver ,  Washington , in October. From there, they were floated
up the Columbia and Snake Rivers to begin the final leg of their
journey along Highway 12 through Idaho and Montana to Alberta.  The equipment is being dismantled and reduced in size to
make it easier to transport, Rohlheiser said. A test shipment
using the alternative route has already been transported along
Interstate 90 and Highway 95 to Alberta, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 