-- 
Tour de France’s Schleck Brothers Help Luxembourg Shed Sports Loser Image

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-21T17:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tour-de-france-s-schleck-brothers-help-luxembourg-shed-sports-loser-image.html
Luxembourg , smaller than  Rhode
Island  and with fewer residents than  Milwaukee , is outperforming
the U.S. at the Tour de France.  Brothers Andyand Frank Schleck are second and third
overall after today’s 18th stage as they lead Leopard-Trek, the
first squad based in the landlocked central European nation to
enter cycling’s premier event. The top-ranked American is
Garmin-Cervelo team’sTom Danielson, who is ninth with three
stages left.  Luxembourg was winless in 87 straight international soccer
games from 1995 to 2007 and hasn’t had an Olympic gold medal
since the 1952 Helsinki Games. The nation, which is known for
banking, has a gross domestic product of 41.6 billion euros
($59.4 billion) and a population of 500,000, giving it the
European Union’s highest GDP per capita, according to Eurostat.
It’s the best place to manage private equity funds because of
flexible tax rules, said a 2009 report by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.  “At soccer, we’re not so good,” said Marc Olinger, a
manager of a BNP Paribas SA bank branch who has taken all his
annual leave to follow the three-week cycling race. “If we lose
2-0 against France, it’s a good result.”  Andy Schleck  won today’s stage after attacking 37 miles
from the finish, cutting more than 2 minutes from the lead of
France’s  Thomas Voeckler . The 26-year-old is now 15 seconds off
the lead, while his 31-year-old brother is 1 minute, 8 seconds
behind Voeckler. Danielson lost a minute to the leaders today,
and is now 7 minutes, 8 seconds behind Voeckler.  Cycling Heritage  Bordering the cycling nations of France and Belgium,
Luxembourg has heritage in the sport. Charly Gaul of Luxembourg
won the event in 1958 with a team sponsored by Italian coffee
machine maker Faema SpA. The former slaughterhouse worker, who
died in 2005, was dubbed the “Angel of the Mountains” by
French newspapers for his ease riding steep climbs. The
Schlecks’ father and grandfather were cyclists who competed at
top-level events. Andy was runner-up the last two years, while
Frank finished fifth in 2009.  Blonde Andy and dark-haired Frank come from the spa town of
Mondorf and have a “boy-next-door” image, team manager Brian Nygaard said in an interview last month. Both still live in
Luxembourg. They speak fluent French and German and tell jokes
in English at news conferences. Andy was asked July 18 in
Soyons, France, if he would lean on Frank and “sacrifice” his
brother’s place in the standings for his own chance of victory.
“It sounds like I’m going to throw him into a volcano,” Andy
said.  The Schlecks are a marketing tool for the government. It
wants to use them to lure tourists and alter the perception that
Luxembourg is a place where “streets are paved with gold and
everyone is driving luxury cars,” Jean-Claude Knebeler, the
director of foreign trade at the  Economy Ministry , said in a
telephone interview last week.  Home Team  The brothers were racing for the Danish Saxo Bank-Sungard
team last year. Luxembourg sought out investors to set up a team
and gained support from real-estate developer Flavio Becca,
whose other interests include soccer and motorbike-racing teams,
according to the Schlecks’ father Johnny. Enovos Luxembourg SA,
a state-owned energy supplier, and national airline Luxair SA
are among its sponsors. Typically, Tour de France teams have a
budget of about $10 million.  Knebeler said he decided against paying 500,000 euros
($709,000) to put Luxembourg’s name on team jerseys, although
“the idea is still there,” he said. For now, the tourism
ministry is funding an advertising campaign at the  Tour de
France  to promote the country, whose attractions include
vineyards and rolling countryside.  “We want to avoid the view it’s some sort of little island
where people sit around counting other people’s money,”
Knebeler said.  Cycling Culture  Danielson, who was born and raised in East Lyme,
 Connecticut , is a former teammate of record seven-time champion
 Lance Armstrong , a Texan who retired for a second time after
last year’s Tour. Jonathan Vaughters, the manager of Danielson’s
Boulder, Colorado-based Garmin-Cervelo team, said he’s not
surprised Luxembourg has two contenders.  “They have more of a cycling culture than we do in the
U.S.,” Vaughters said.  To be sure, Leopard-Trek is a multi-national outfit and is
backed by Waterloo, Wisconsin-based Trek Bicycle Corp. The
Schlecks’ teammates come from  Australia ,  Switzerland ,  Denmark ,
 Germany ,  Belgium , Australia, and the Netherlands, said team
manager Nygaard, a Dane. The Leopard name comes from the animal,
rather than a sponsor. Trek competes with Cervelo SA to sell
high-end bikes.  “It’s not Luxembourg’s national team but it sometimes
takes that shape because people really identify with it,”
Nygaard said.  Frank said he’s “very proud” he’s representing a team
with links to his country, although he sees it as more like a
group of friends.  ‘Having Fun’  “I’ve done the Tour six times and the route, the weather
and the accommodation hasn’t been as good this time but I’m
having the most fun,” he said.  The tour  this year, the 98th in history, has 21 stages that
cover 3,430.5 kilometers (2,132 miles) over three weeks.
Participants pedal for as long as five hours a day on a course
that requires them to scale the Pyrenees and Alps mountain
ranges. There are six mountain stages, including today’s, which
climbed three mountains on a 125-mile ride between Italy and
 France .  Bank manager Olinger, 57, expects 5,000 compatriots -- 1
percent of the country’s population -- to be massed on the Alpe
d’Huez mountain tomorrow to support the brothers in the
potentially-crucial finish to stage 19.  “I have friends who have parked their caravan on the side
of the road for a week to secure a good spot,” Olinger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Soyons, France at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  