-- 
House Ethics Panel Names Outside Counsel in Maxine Waters Probe

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-20T18:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/house-ethics-panel-names-outside-counsel-in-maxine-waters-probe.html
The  House Ethics Committee  has hired
an outside counsel to help it conduct a probe of Representative
Maxine Waters, a California Democrat accused of trying to
improperly help a bank in which her husband owned stock.  The first task for the counsel, Billy Martin, will be to
investigate allegations that two former committee lawyers may
have improperly communicated with Republican lawmakers about the
Waters case, the panel’s leaders said today. Questions about the
actions by the lawyers were reported by Politico this week.  “The committee has not taken these allegations lightly,”
committee Chairman Jo Bonner, an Alabama Republican, and ranking
Democrat Linda Sanchez of California said in a  statement .  After Martin reports on the allegations, the panel will
decide how to proceed, Bonner and Sanchez said.  Martin is a  Washington  partner in the law firm of Dorsey &
Whitney LLP and formerly worked at the U.S. Justice Department
and the office of U.S. attorney for the  District of Columbia .  The ethics panel last August announced its plans to proceed
with the investigation of Waters, 72. The independent Office of
Congressional Ethics had said there was “substantial reason”
to believe Waters helped arrange a September 2008 meeting
between then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  and executives at
Boston-based OneUnited Bank, which was in financial difficulty.  Stock Owner  Waters’s husband, Sidney Williams, owned stock in the bank
and was a member of OneUnited’s board of directors until he
resigned in April 2008.  Waters said she was concerned about all minority-owned
banks and the impact of the recession on them, not only
OneUnited. Participants at the meeting, she said, included the
chairman-elect of the trade association representing minority-
owned banks.  In November, the committee  cancelled  a scheduled hearing on
the allegations against Waters and voted instead to recommit the
matter to an investigative subcommittee. The panel cited the
discovery of unspecified materials “that may have had an
effect” on the subcommittee’s findings.  A phone call to Waters’s office for comment today wasn’t
immediately returned. As the matter has dragged on, she has
called for the case to be dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 