-- 
House Lawmakers Seek to Bar Airlines From EU Carbon Program

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-07-20T19:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/house-lawmakers-seek-to-bar-u-s-airlines-from-eu-carbon-program.html
Members of the House of
Representatives are seeking to keep U.S. airlines, including
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AMR) , from being part of the
European Union’s cap-and-trade program for  greenhouse gases .  A bipartisan group of lawmakers today introduced a bill to
bar U.S. carriers from participating in the EU’s efforts next
year. The program, aimed at emissions such as carbon dioxide
that are linked to  climate change , would cost U.S. carriers $1.3
billion in its first year and may top $3.5 billion,
Representative John Mica, the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee chairman, told reporters in Washington.  The EU plan is a “cash grab,” said Mica, a Florida
Republican.  Starting next year, international airlines will have to
account for emissions on flights to and from EU airports, and
offset that amount with carbon permits from the bloc’s exchange.
The EU will give airlines free allowances in 2012  for 82
percent of their historic emissions, with 15 percent auctioned
and the remaining 3 percent held in a special reserve.  “The European Union plans to unilaterally thrust an
emissions trading scheme upon U.S. airlines in violation of
international agreements and laws,” said Representative Nick
Rahall of  West Virginia , the top Democrat on the committee.  The EU trading program is “a shell game,” Rahall said,
because “no one can say with certainty that the money will be
used for its intended purpose.”  International Law  The carbon rule is “compatible with the international
law,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, spokesman for EU Climate Action
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , said in an e-mail today.  The EU will not back down unless the U.S. adopts similar
measures with comparable environmental effects for its air
carriers, Valero-Ladron said.  The House bill would direct the U.S. Transportation
secretary to prohibit carriers from participating in the EU’s
Emissions Trading Scheme. U.S. officials also would be
instructed to negotiate or take action to make sure the carriers
aren’t penalized by the EU plan.  Aviation accounts for about 3 percent of the EU’s total
greenhouse-gas emissions and most of the atmospheric releases
come from international flights, according to the union’s
 website .  “It’s sad that the only thing both parties in the U.S.
 House of Representatives  seem to be able to agree on is to try
to stop EU action to tackle growing aircraft pollution,”
Hedegaard said in an e-mail. “In  Europe  we are looking forward
to the day where both parties, instead of criticizing what we
do, can agree on positive initiatives that benefit the global
climate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  