-- 
House Panel Approves Measure Repealing Asset-Backed Liability for Raters

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-20T19:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/house-panel-backs-repeal-of-credit-raters-liability-under-dodd-frank-act.html
A U.S. House panel approved a
measure to repeal a section of the Dodd-Frank Act blamed for
freezing the asset-backed  securities market  last year.  The House Financial Services Committee approved the bill
31-19 over the opposition of the senior Democrat on the panel.  The measure “provides certainty for the asset-backed
securities market,” said Representative Steve Stivers, an Ohio
Republican who sponsored the bill that would remove a so-called
“expert liability” requirement in the regulatory law.  The credit-rating change forced “the complete shut down”
of the U.S. securitization market after Dodd-Frank was signed
into law last year by President  Barack Obama  because firms
didn’t consent to have their ratings in prospectuses,  Tom Deutsch , the executive director of the American Securitization
Forum, said in congressional testimony in May.  To restore activity in the market, the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued two “no-action” letters allowing
issuers of asset-backed bonds to omit credit ratings.  The bill would remove a provision in Dodd-Frank that
subjects firms such as Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to expert liability, meaning they face
the same legal risks as accountants and other parties that
participate in bond sales.  Credit-rating firms were targeted by lawmakers after they
issued top rankings to mortgage-backed securities whose collapse
helped spark the financial crisis.  ‘Wrong-headed’  “Sending the message here that we want to cut back some of
the liability of rating agencies is absolutely as wrong-headed
as we could be,” said Representative  Barney Frank , the
Financial Services Committee’s senior Democrat.  In separate action, the committee also approved a bill to
require the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s inspector general
to conduct a study into the agency’s practices and procedures in
resolving failed banks.  The measure would require an examination of the FDIC’s use
of loss-sharing agreements to attract buyers for failed bank
assets. In those agreements, the FDIC agrees to bear a portion
of any losses on the assets. The study would also have to
contain details of the agency’s dealings with private-equity
firms looking to purchase failed banks.  The measure would require the FDIC inspector general to
work with the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve inspectors
general on the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  