-- 
Lovelorn Jesus, King Arthur Sing Blues in Canada: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-20T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/lovelorn-jesus-king-arthur-sing-blues-in-canada-jeremy-gerard.html
You have 58 chances left to catch
“Jesus Christ Superstar” at  Canada ’s  Stratford Festival  and
decide for yourself whether Des McAnuff’s chilling revival
deserves the hoopla that has made it the summer’s most talked-
about show.  “Superstar” charts the week before Jesus’s crucifixion,
as seen mostly from the perspective of Judas. In his view (or
the view of  Andrew Lloyd Webber  and Tim Rice), Jesus has bought
his own publicity and it has led Him astray. McAnuff strips the
show of Technicolor pageantry (except for the Vegas act that is
Herod’s court). Paul Nolan’s Jesus is vacant-eyed and monotone,
His charisma perhaps numbed by fear and doubt.  Chilina Kennedy’s gorgeous-voiced Mary Magdalene (“Could
We Start Again, Please” is even more moving than the familiar
“I Don’t Know How To Love Him”) only seems to harden the
reluctant savior, while Josh Young’s Judas grieves that no
amount of self-justification will alter his judgment by history.
Rating: ***  ‘Twelfth Night’  McAnuff, a rock composer himself, takes one of
Shakespeare’s best-known opening lines -- “If music be the food
of love, play on” -- charmingly to heart in his second
Stratford show, “Twelfth Night.”  He and writing partner  Michael Roth  have packed this comedy
of mismatched, cross-dressed lovers, separated siblings and
general carousing with a pastiche score that references the
blues, doo-wop, the E Street Band,  John Lennon  and more. One
minute a quartet of sax players is moving rhythmically together;
the next it’s a half-dozen strummers with black Johnny Cash
guitars.  Brian Dennehy  is the draw as the boisterous Sir Toby Belch,
but he’s outshone by Suzy Jane Hunt’s achingly tender Viola,
especially in her guise Cesario.  McAnuff doesn’t ignore the play’s dark undercurrent as Sir
Toby and his accomplices -- Sir Andrew Aguecheek (the very
funny, wormy Stephen Ouimette) and chamber maid Maria
(rambunctious Cara Ricketts) -- cruelly trick the pompous
steward Malvolio (Tom Rooney, underplaying beautifully). The
ending would be dark indeed were it not for the engaging Ben
Carlson, a tuneful Feste who makes the entire show sing.
Rating: ***  ‘Titus Andronicus’  The remarkable Darko Tresnjak, an off-Broadway regular,
directs a ruthlessly gory “Titus Andronicus.” No fey red
ribbons substitute for blood here. Ripped-out tongues and
chopped off hands bleed juicily from gaping holes, abused slaves
reach greedily through the cages containing them.  John Vickery plays the Roman general who discovers too late
that his fealty to power is no protection against brutal
betrayal. Vickery follows the likes of Christopher Plummer (in
the audience at the performance I attended) into the Stratford
pantheon with a melifluous baritone and a proud, if sometimes
stolid presence. Claire Lautier and Dion Johnstone are
spectacularly effective as Tamora, Queen of the Goths, and
Aaron, her Moorish lover and partner in carnage.
Rating: ***  ‘Camelot’  Yet no crimson rivers touched me as much during my weekend
at Stratford as Jonathan Winsby’s Lancelot singing the hoary
“If Ever I Would Leave You” as though it -- and “Camelot”
itself -- had been freshly minted.  Gary Griffin’s elegant staging, with superb fight
choreography by Todd Campbell, blows away the cobwebs on Lerner
and Loewe’s retelling of the Arthur legend, and all the
performances are first class: Kaylee Harwood as Guenevere, Brent
Carver in the dual roles of wise old Merlyn and quixotic
Pellinore and, especially Geraint Wyn Davies as the thoughtful
and only slightly dim king. As superstars go, he’s the one I’m
sticking with.
Rating: ****  The Stratford season runs through October 30 in Stratford,
Ontario, about 90 minutes west of Toronto by car. Information:
1-800-567-1600;  http://www.stratfordfestival.ca   (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 