-- 
Peru’s Humala Plans to Renegotiate ‘Harmful’ Gas Contracts

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-07-20T19:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/peru-s-government-companies-to-renegotiate-contract-changes.html
Peruvian President-Elect Ollanta Humala plans to renegotiate natural-gas contracts deemed
“harmful” to the country’s interests, his chief energy adviser
said.  Humala may also force gas companies including Hunt Oil Co.
to cut exports to  Mexico  if they can’t meet rising local demand
from  power plants  and petrochemical projects led by  Orica Ltd. (ORI) ,
adviser Carlos Herrera said today in a telephone interview.  “There were a lot of shady contracts that were negotiated
under the table,” Herrera, a former energy minister under
President Valentin Paniagua, said from  Lima . “The government
will allow exports only if the concessionaires make an effort to
find more gas reserves.”  Energy and mining stocks plummeted after former army rebel
Humala won the June 5 election on concern he would enact earlier
pledges to rewrite oil and mining contracts and halt gas
exports. The government will seek investment in gas pipelines
and petrochemicals on the south coast, Humala said June 9.  Humala is expected to appoint Herrera as his energy
minister today, Lima-based daily  La Republica  reported.  More than $50 billion in planned mining and oil investment
may be derailed if Humala changes investment rules, Pedro Martinez, president of the National Society of Mining, Petroleum
& Energy, said July 7.  Petrochemicals delays  Peru lined up $10 billion in energy investments through
2016, including projects by East Melbourne, Australia-based
Orica,  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  and Sigdo Koppers SA,
according to the Energy Ministry. Braskem SA, Odebrecht SA and
 SK Group  are also studying projects to produce polyethylene and
fertilizers.  Orica, the world’s largest industrial explosives maker,
plans to build a $500 million ammonium nitrate plant on the
south coast, said Herrera, who returned today from the port of
Ilo, where he held talks with Orica and local government
officials.  “President-Elect Humala has said his government will
provide incentives for a petrochemicals industry,” Herrera
said. “The natural priority is the domestic market.”  Peru’s oil and gas exports jumped 63 percent to $3.1
billion last year on the startup of Dallas-based Hunt’s $4
billion Peru LNG plant. The group, which includes Madrid-based
 Repsol YPF SA (REP) , began shipping liquefied natural gas to Mexico in
June 2010.  Daniel Guerra, spokesman for Camisea gas fields operator
Pluspetrol SA, and Peru LNG Chief Executive officer Juan Salazar
didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  Crude oil for August delivery rose 64 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $98.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Natural gas for August delivery fell 3.3 cents to settle at
$4.50 per million British thermal units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 