-- 
News Corp., Petrohawk, Madoff, SocGen, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-20T11:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/petrohawk-bhp-madoff-socgen-google-galleon-in-court-news.html
Rupert Murdoch and his son James
told U.K. lawmakers that resolution of a phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp.’s British unit was delayed because they relied on
a clean bill of health from the law firm Harbottle & Lewis LLP.  The law firm, based in  London , has clients including  Diageo
Plc (DGE) , Vodafone Group Plc and model Kate Moss, according to its
website. It was hired in 2007 to examine a file of News
International internal e-mails and found no evidence of illegal
activity beyond a private investigator and News of the World
royal reporter who were jailed after intercepting voice mails
for the tabloid, James Murdoch told lawmakers yesterday.  “We and the company rested on that opinion for a period of
time,” James Murdoch said at the hearing. “It is a key bit of
outside legal advice from senior counsel.” The company went to
police four years later, after a new internal review of the same
file uncovered evidence of additional wrongdoing, he said.  Ken Macdonald, the former U.K. director of public
prosecutions, told a separate group of lawmakers yesterday that
Harbottle & Lewis had evidence that indicated “serious criminal
offenses” by  News Corp. (NWSA)  workers. Lawmakers described the file
as “an enormous pile of documents” that sat at the law firm
for years.  The Murdochs cited the law firm’s report as they sought to
explain why News International failed to understand or
acknowledge the widespread use of phone hacking at the 168-year-
old newspaper, which was shut in an effort to contain fallout
from the scandal. James Murdoch said that previous denials of
wrongdoing were based on the outside study, as well as police
assertions there was no need to investigate further.  Harbottle & Lewis Managing Partner Glen Atchison said the
55-year-old firm asked News International to release it from
“professional duties of confidentiality” so that it could
respond to “inaccurate statements or contentions.”  The company refused, “so we are still unable to respond in
any detail as to our advice or the scope of our instructions in
2007, which is a matter of great regret,” Atchison said in a
phone interview yesterday.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Petrohawk Investor Sues Over $12.1 Billion BHP Acquisition  Petrohawk Energy Corp. was sued by a shareholder over
claims its proposed $12.1 billion cash sale to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
undervalues the company.  The deal creates a conflict of interest on the part of
directors that “colors their ability to make an unbiased
decision” regarding the fairness of the proposal, shareholder
Astor BK Realty Trust said in the complaint filed July 18 in
Delaware Chancery Court. Astor is seeking to represent all
Petrohawk shareholders in its request for a court order barring
the transaction.  “The board’s acceptance of BHP’s offer demonstrates the
company’s all-too-eager-to-sell mentality,” lawyers for the
trust said in the complaint.  BHP said last week it would pay $38.75 a share using cash
and debt for Petrohawk, its biggest acquisition. The offer is 61
percent more than Houston-based Petrohawk’s average price over
the past 20 trading days and compares with the 25 percent
average premium in 17 deals worth at least $5 billion for oil
and gas producers in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrohawk Chief Executive Officer Floyd C. Wilson will make
about $152 million from the deal on his roughly 3 million
shares, and will likely be eligible for a $10.4 million change-
of-control payment, according to the complaint. Stock options
could add $24.85 million, according to the complaint.  Joan Dunlap, a spokeswoman for Petrohawk, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Astor BK Realty Trust v.  Petrohawk Energy
Corp. (HK) , CA6675, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Toyota Can Appeal Part of Speed-Up Suit Ruling, Judge Says  Toyota Motor Corp. won the right to appeal a federal
judge’s ruling that car owners who hadn’t experienced unintended
acceleration could sue the company over economic losses related
to the alleged defect.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana,
 California , said yesterday Toyota could immediately challenge
part of his May decision rejecting the company’s bid to dismiss
the suits. Toyota can seek to appeal his ruling granting
“standing,” or the right to sue, to certain vehicle owners,
Selna said.  The appeal would focus on the issue “of whether each
plaintiff must allege that he or she has experienced a
manifestation of the product’s alleged defect in order to allege
that he or she suffered an injury,” Selna said. “An immediate
appeal” of the standing ruling “will materially advance the
ultimate termination of this litigation,” he said.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic-
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families alleging
injuries and deaths.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pretrial evidence-gathering.  An appellate court decision “could significantly reduce
the time, burden, and expense of litigating this case and, by
potentially decreasing substantially the number of claims
pending against Toyota, may help move the remaining cases
forward more quickly,” Brian Lyons, a spokesman for the Toyota
City, Japan-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Steve Berman, a lawyer for vehicle owners, didn’t return a
call for comment.  The cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  For copies of recent civil complaints, click here. For the
latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Madoff Investor Asks Appeals Court to Review Picower Deal  An investor in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme who
unsuccessfully challenged a $7.2 billion settlement by the U.S.
with the estate of Jeffry Picower asked a federal appeals court
to review the district judge’s decision.  Adele Fox filed the appeal July 18 in response to U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa’s decision in May to uphold the
settlement with the billionaire’s estate. Rejecting Fox’s
argument that Madoff investors had a right to recoup funds from
the estate themselves, he said that “victimhood does not create
an interest in forfeited property.”  The settlement struck in December by the U.S. and the
Madoff firm’s liquidator  Irving Picard  dwarfs the $2.6 billion
of other funds set aside to date for distribution to the con
man’s investors. The appeal means the Picower funds will
continue to be tied up in court.  Picower, one of the largest of Madoff’s investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a Ponzi scheme, according to
Picard. Picower drowned in 2009, and his estate forfeited the
money to the U.S. and Picard.  The settlement also is being challenged by lawyer Helen
Chaitman on behalf of investors.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for Madoff investors, has estimated the principal lost by all
Madoff investors at $19 billion. He and his law firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP, have collected about $179 million in fees since
Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
Fox district court case is U.S. v. $7.2 billion, 10-cv-09398,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Societe Generale (GLE)  Seeks $50 Million From  Saad Group   Societe Generale SA, France’s second-biggest bank, told a
U.K. trial judge that a unit of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group failed
to repay a $50 million loan guaranteed by its billionaire
founder Maan al-Sanea.  The unit, Saad Trading Contracting & Financial Services
Co., defaulted on the loan arranged in 2009, four months before
Saad Group said it would seek to restructure its debt, lawyers
for Societe Generale said yesterday at the High Court in London.
The lawsuit, filed in August 2009, seeks repayment of the loan
plus a commission and legal costs.  The trial comes as al-Sanea, deemed the world’s 62nd
richest person by Forbes Magazine in 2009, faces separate fraud
claims by another Saudi company, Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi &
Brothers Co., which alleges al-Sanea used fake documents to take
out billions of dollars in loans in Algosaibi’s name.  Units of Saad Group and Algosaibi, both based in the Saudi
oil city of Al-Khobar, defaulted after borrowing about $15.7
billion from more than 80 banks. Al-Sanea married into the
Algosaibi family before founding Saad Group, which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care.  Algosaibi last month admitted liability in a $250 million
lawsuit in London filed by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other
banks that loaned it money before the default.  Tim Robertson, a U.K.-based spokesman for al-Sanea,
declined to comment on the trial when reached yesterday by
phone. The company has consistently denied the allegations.  Verdicts/Settlement  R.J. Reynolds Loses Bid for Appeal of $28.3 Million Verdict  Florida’s Supreme Court declined to hear R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co.’s appeal of a $28.3 million verdict in a case that
the cigarette maker argued may affect thousands of so-called
Engle tobacco claims in the state.  The court, in a one-page order yesterday, turned aside the
company’s bid for an appeal of the 2009 verdict in favor of
Mathilde Martin, who claimed her husband, Benny Ray Martin, died
from a smoking-related disease. The decision leaves in place a
lower state appeals court ruling that affirmed the verdict.  Reynolds, a unit of Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , sought to have the Florida Supreme Court
review the lower appeals court ruling, arguing that the trial
court misapplied a 2006 decision by the Florida Supreme Court in
the Engle case. The Engle decision ended a statewide class
action filed on behalf of Florida smokers.  In the 2006 ruling, named after  Howard Engle , the lead
plaintiff in the class action, the court said that some jury
findings in the case could be applied by former class members
who file individual claims.  David Howard , a spokesman for R.J. Reynolds, said the
company is disappointed the Florida Supreme Court won’t review
the lower court’s decision, which he said deprived the company
of its constitutional right to a fair trial. Reynolds will try
to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, Howard said.  “This signals that Engle remains good law, now and
forever, in Florida,” said Matt Schultz, a lawyer for Martin.  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit, the biggest
U.S. cigarette maker, faces claims from about 8,900 Engle
plaintiffs, the company said in its most recent quarterly filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. About 8,600 have
filed claims against Reynolds, the company said in its quarterly
SEC filing. About half the claims are filed in state court, half
in federal court.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, SC11-483,
Florida Supreme Court (Tallahassee).  For more, click here.  Google Gets More Time for Book-Scan Settlement With Authors  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a group of publishers and authors got more
time to negotiate a possible settlement of a lawsuit over the
search-engine company’s digital reproduction of books.  “We are not there yet,” Michael Boni, a lawyer for the
authors, told U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin in Manhattan
yesterday. “They are very complicated, complex issues,
requiring us to delve into them in the dog days of summer.”  Google was sued in 2005 by authors and publishers who said
the company was infringing their copyrights on a massive scale
by digitizing books and allowing “snippets” of them to be seen
online. Chin objected to an earlier, $125 million settlement,
saying it would be unfair to authors.  Chin, who kept the case after he was elevated to the
appeals court bench from the U.S. District Court in April 2010,
set a new hearing for Sept. 15.  The judge told the lawyers yesterday that he was
“concerned” about the amount of time it was taking to come up
with a revised settlement and indicated that he expected
progress at the September hearing.  “If the matter is not resolved, or close to being
resolved, I’m going to give you a relatively tight schedule for
discovery,” Chin said. Discovery refers to the pretrial
gathering and sharing of evidence.  “We’ve been working closely with the authors and
publishers to explore a number of options,” Gabriel Stricker, a
spokesman for Mountain View, California-based Google, told
reporters after the hearing yesterday. “Regardless of the
outcome we’ll continue to make books more discoverable and
useful through Google Books and Google eBooks.”  Google has scanned more than 15 million books so far.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google Inc., 05-CV-8136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Straumur Ordered to Pay Stapi $44 Million by Icelandic Court  Iceland’s  ALMC hf , formerly Straumur-Burdaras Investment
Bank hf, was ordered to pay Stapi Pension Fund 5.2 billion
kronur ($44 million) by Reykjavik’s District Court yesterday.  Stapi  sued the bank after its claim was rejected by ALMC as
the fund had failed to meet a deadline to file claims against
the lender, which was at the time seeking a composition
agreement with its creditors.  “There’s no authorization in law to conclude that claims
are voided due to the fact that they weren’t announced during
bankruptcy or winding-down proceedings,” according to the
 ruling.  “In light of the above-mentioned, the demands of the
claimant are approved.”  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. Independent Directors Hire Debevoise Law Firm  News Corp.’s independent directors hired the law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, according to Mary Jo White, a partner
at the firm and the former U.S. attorney in New York.  Michael Mukasey, who served as U.S. attorney general under
George W. Bush, will join White in representing directors,
Suzanne Elio, a spokeswoman for the firm, said yesterday.  “Debevoise & Plimpton has been retained to advise Viet
Dinh in his supervision of the Management and Standards
Committee on behalf of the independent members of the board,”
Elio said in an e-mail. She declined to comment further.  Dinh, who runs a small law firm in  Washington  that
specializes in damage control, and venture capital executive Tom
Perkins are leading the efforts of independent directors, who
hold nine of 16 board seats. Dinh, also a professor at
Georgetown University and the chief architect of the USA Patriot
Act, represented Perkins, a former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  director,
during a scandal at that company.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch and his son James
appeared yesterday before a committee of the U.K. Parliament to
answer questions about the company’s role in phone hacking by
the News of the World tabloid. The Federal Bureau of
Investigation is looking into whether News Corp. employees tried
to hack the voice mail of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks in the U.S.  White, chairwoman of the litigation department at New York-
based Debevoise, spent 8 1/2 years as the top federal prosecutor
in Manhattan before entering private practice and representing
companies including Morgan Stanley and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
In February 2009, she wooed Mukasey to the firm.  Earlier this year, Mukasey was hired by the U.S. Chamber
Institute for Legal Reform to lobby Congress on foreign bribery
law, seeking changes that would limit companies’ liability and
exposure. U.S. lawmakers have asked the Justice Department and
the Securities and Exchange Commission to probe News Corp. for
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
alleging that company employees may have paid U.K. police or
other U.K. government officials for stories.  “There are questions about whether the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act has been violated by Rupert Murdoch and his news
empire,” said Democratic Senator Dick Durbin on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program.  Dinh didn’t return a telephone call and e-mail seeking
comment. Mukasey didn’t return two phone messages seeking
comment.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment.  Galleon Prosecutor Sees Closure as Rajaratnam Sentencing Nears  When former hedge-fund consultant Danielle Chiesi appears
at her sentencing for insider trading today, one lawyer who
helped build the case against her and Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  won’t be there, Bloomberg News’s David
Glovin reports.  Joshua Klein left the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office on
Jan. 19, 2010, exactly one year before Chiesi pleaded guilty to
three counts of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. Wiretaps
and other evidence Klein helped gather led to Chiesi’s guilty
plea and Rajaratnam’s conviction following a trial.  “I won’t be in the courtroom, but I’ll be watching,”
Klein, 43, said in an interview from Petrillo Klein LLP, the
Manhattan law firm he co-founded last year with former
prosecutor Guy Petrillo. “When you live with a case for a long
time, you cannot completely separate yourself from it.”  Rajaratnam, 54, will be sentenced on Sept. 27. A Manhattan
federal jury convicted him in May of 14 counts of insider
trading for using inside tips to make $63.8 million. He faces 15
1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in prison, prosecutors said at the
time of his conviction.  Chiesi, who worked at New Castle Funds LLC, admitted in
January that she passed Rajaratnam illegal tips that she got
from sources including Robert Moffat, a former International
Business Machines Corp. executive who has also pleaded guilty.
Chiesi, 45, faces as long as 46 months behind bars under U.S.
guidelines. She agreed this month to pay $540,000 to settle
related allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Since August 2009, federal prosecutors in New York have
charged 49 people with insider-trading crimes. Of those, 44 have
been convicted, according to the government. No one has won a
dismissal or acquittal. Five cases are pending.  Klein said he felt a sense of “closure” with the
Rajaratnam verdict.  “I congratulated the trial team,” he said. “I definitely
did feel a sense of having achieved certain goals, and of having
had an input in making a dent in combating a certain type of
activity that has proven difficult to identify and prosecute.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  AstraZeneca to Face 2012  Arkansas  Trial Over Seroquel Sales  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  must face a trial over claims by Arkansas
that the drugmaker hid health risks of its anti-psychotic drug
Seroquel when selling it to residents covered by the state’s
Medicaid program, a judge ruled.  London-based AstraZeneca, which agreed in March to pay
$68.5 million to resolve claims that it deceptively marketed
Seroquel in a number of states, will face a September 2012 trial
of a lawsuit filed by Arkansas Attorney General Dustin McDaniel
over sales of the drug, Circuit Judge Chris Piazza in Little
Rock ruled yesterday.  Arkansas officials, who opted out of the March Seroquel
settlement, contend AstraZeneca defrauded the state’s Medicaid
program by failing to properly outline the anti-psychotic
medicine’s risks in its warning label. The state seeks a $5,000
penalty for each Seroquel prescription written in Arkansas over
an 11-year period starting in 1997, according to Fletcher
Trammell, one of the state’s lawyers.  AstraZeneca officials are confident the drugmaker will be
“fully vindicated as the case progresses” in Arkansas,  Tony
Jewell , a U.S.-based spokesman for the company, said in an e-
mailed statement. AstraZeneca is the U.K.’s second-largest
drugmaker after GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  The case is State of Arkansas v. AstraZeneca
Pharmaceuticals LP, 08-5448, Pulaski County, Arkansas, Circuit
Court (Little Rock).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 