-- 
J&J Alzheimer Drug Shows No New Alerts in Longer Trial

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-20T07:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/pfizer-s-bapineuzumab-shows-no-new-safety-alerts-in-longer-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
experimental Alzheimer’s treatment bapineuzumab didn’t raise new
safety concerns in study participants monitored over a longer
period of time.  Researchers verified the compound’s safety and tolerability
beyond 78 weeks in people with mild to moderate  Alzheimer’s
disease  in an extension of a mid-stage trial. Results from an
interim analysis of the data are being presented today at the
 Alzheimer’s Association International Conference  in Paris. In
data released last year, bapineuzumab was linked to a side
effect similar to swelling of the brain when given at high
doses.  “The major finding is that there were no new safety
signals,” lead researcher Stephen Salloway, chief of neurology
and director of the Memory and Aging Program at Butler Hospital
in Providence,  Rhode Island , said in an interview at the
conference. “The types of adverse events that we saw in phase
2, we saw at about roughly the same rate in the open
extension.”  Hopes for a medicine to treat Alzheimer’s, which is the
most common form of dementia, hinge on bapineuzumab and a
similar drug being developed by Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY)  Both target beta amyloid plaque, considered by researchers a
main contributor to Alzheimer’s. At least a dozen potential
treatments designed to slow or stop amyloid plaques from forming
have failed in mid- to late-stage testing since 2003.  ‘Wait and See’  Bapineuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody designed to
target beta amyloid in the brain. Monoclonal antibodies, which
have broken new ground in cancer treatment, are made in the lab
to mimic natural substances that stimulate a patient’s immune
system to attack disease-causing cells.  “I am going to take a wait-and-see approach” on
bapineuzumab, Marc Gordon, associate professor of neurology and
psychiatry at the North Shore LIJ School of Medicine, said in an
interview. “Just because you remove amyloid from the brain may
not necessarily correlate with an improvement in the condition.
The jury is out. We don’t have sufficient data from the phase 2
studies to draw any conclusions on efficacy.”  Out of the 194 participants in the extension trial, some
received bapineuzumab for at least three years, some for at
least four years and others for five years, researchers said
today. Patients were administered bapineuzumab every 13 weeks
and there was no placebo group.  Chronic Treatment  The “fairly lengthy time period” is important because
bapineuzumab is being considered as a long-running treatment for
Alzheimer’s, said Salloway, who also is a professor at Brown
University’s Alpert Medical School. It’s not meant to be “just
a one-shot, for 18 months,” he said.  Ninety-one percent of the participants reported side
effects, and about 24 percent of the individuals reported
adverse events that were considered to have a link or possibly
have a link with bapineuzumab. Most side effects were mild to
moderate, such as headaches. About 35 percent of the patients
reported serious adverse events, including convulsion, hip
fracture and swelling known as cerebral vasogenic edema, an
accumulation of water in the brain tissue, researchers said.  “It continues to be unclear to us if these events are
harmful long-term or just short-term markers of drug efficacy,”
 Marc Goodman , an analyst at UBS AG in  New York , wrote in a July
14 note to clients.  Side Effect  Vasogenic edema was the most commonly reported side effect,
occurring in 9.3 percent of participants, in line with previous
bapineuzumab studies, the researchers said. The risk of
developing vasogenic edema appeared to be lower after multiple
infusions of the drug, according to the investigators.  “It tends to occur early and doesn’t seem to occur later
in the treatment, so that’s very encouraging,” Salloway said.
“Most of the vasogenic edema changes occurred with the first
three doses, and then over time it’s a much lower rate. I don’t
think we’ve seen it at all after two years of treatment.”  Alzheimer’s is a progressive illness that starts with mild
forgetfulness and eventually robs patients of memories and
independence. It afflicts about 36 million people worldwide, a
number that is expected to double by 2050, according to the
 Alzheimer’s Association , an advocacy group based in  Chicago .
Existing drugs temporarily ease symptoms and none cure the
condition.  Bapineuzumab is in the third and final stage of testing
generally needed for regulatory approval.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  has
said it plans to seek U.S. regulatory approval of bapineuzumab
in 2012 or 2013. Final-phase results are expected for mid-2012.  “We are getting more familiar” with bapineuzumab and
trial results next year will give a “clearer answer on how well
the drug works and much more information about safety,”
Salloway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  