-- 
Philippine Finance Minister Says Moody’s, S&P Out of Step on Debt Ratings

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-07-20T01:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/philippine-finance-minister-says-moody-s-s-p-out-of-step-on-debt-ratings.html
Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s should rate Philippine bonds at least one
level higher given the nation’s improving debt ratios and tax
revenue, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said.  “I really believe that at least those two are off line,”
Purisima, 51, said in an interview in Manila yesterday. “We
have a case to suggest to them that we should be at least a
notch higher.”  The  Philippines  moved closer to its goal of winning an
investment grade for the first time when  Fitch Ratings  raised
its assessment last month to BB+, the highest junk rating and on
par with Indonesia. Fitch said yesterday it was more likely to
raise Indonesia. Moody’s said its Philippine rating was
appropriate.  Purisima said his nation’s key financial ratios are “very
close” to those of peer countries. Debt is 56.5 percent of
gross domestic product, almost the same as 55.9 percent in
 India , which has an investment rating, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. In Indonesia, the ratio was 26 percent at the end of
last year. The Philippines aims to narrow the  budget deficit  to
2 percent of GDP by the end of 2013, from a 4 percent level last
year that was the same as India’s.  Investors demand an extra 127 basis points from the
Philippines’ 4 percent dollar note due January 2021 over U.S.
Treasuries, compared with 157 basis points for Indonesia’s 4.875
percent debt due May 2021, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
prices show.  Window of Opportunity  Emerging-market nations from  Brazil  to  Sri Lanka  have won
rating upgrades, highlighting the relative strength of
developing economies amid soaring deficits in advanced nations.
 Greece ’s debt is 144 percent of the economy, while  Japan ’s
shortfall is equivalent to 8 percent of GDP.  The Philippine government last week completed a record peso
bond exchange, extending maturities by an average of two years,
freeing up cash to build roads and schools. This month, Purisima
announced plans for the nation’s first exchange of dollar bonds
into global peso notes to reduce its foreign debt burden. The
yield on the 7 percent local-currency bond due January 2016 fell
to 4.68 percent on July 8, from 6.35 percent on Feb. 28.  “This is a window for us to really reduce our risk profile
as a country,” said Purisima. “Doing so will also improve our
chances in our quest of getting investment grade. We want that
as soon as possible. The sooner the better.”  Revenue Rises  Revenue increased 16 percent in the first five months,
government data show, as President  Benigno Aquino ’s
administration plugged tax leaks and tracked down cheats. The
deficit, which reached a record 314.5 billion pesos ($7.3
billion) in 2010, was 9.54 billion pesos in the  first five
months , or less than 6 percent of the level a year earlier.  The Philippines’ sovereign rating was increased to Ba2 from
Ba3 by Moody’s on June 15, two steps below investment grade.
 Standard & Poor’s  in November last year boosted its rating to
BB, also two notches below investment grade. Moody’s said the
Philippines was suffering from weaker growth prospects than
Indonesia’s.  “The growth momentum for Indonesia seems to be a lot
stronger,” Moody’s assistant vice president Christian de Guzman
said in an interview yesterday in  Singapore . “Moody’s thinks
the one-notch gap is justified for now.”  Track Record  Aquino, 51, who completed his first year in office on June
30, must show a track record of keeping state finances healthy,
as Indonesia’s President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, 61, did when
he was first elected in 2004, de Guzman said.  “Much of the things being said about Yudhoyono are the
things we say now about Aquino,” de Guzman said “He just got
into office, there’s not much of a track record. In 2004, when
Yudhoyono won the election, the debt to GDP was 55 percent. It’s
right around where we see the Philippines at now.”  The Philippines must boost revenue, investment and economic
growth to secure an increase in its  credit rating ,  Andrew Colquhoun , the head of Fitch’s Asia-Pacific Sovereigns team said
yesterday. Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, is
likely to win investment grade before the Philippines, Fitch
said yesterday.  The government estimates growth in the Philippines’ $161
billion economy may have quickened last quarter, following an
expansion of 4.9 percent in the three months through March from
a year earlier, which was the smallest gain since 2009.  Tax Revenue   The government will take its time to draw up a solid
process for seeking bids on contracts for about $16 billion
worth of roads, railways and ports, said Purisima.  Frankfurt-based Fraport AG helped build the Ninoy Aquino
Airport Terminal 3, which was 98 percent complete in 2002 and
supposed to open by the year-end. Former President  Gloria Arroyo 
questioned the contract and the  Supreme Court  nullified it in
2004.  “There is such a rush to come up with projects already,”
said Purisima. “We don’t want to be tempted into that, because
if we don’t do it well, we will hurt the potential
sustainability of the program. We want to make sure that
everything we do is right and will withstand scrutiny.”  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on Philippine debt
traded at 139 basis points yesterday, compared with 141 for
 Indonesia , according to data provider CMA which compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts insure debt against non-payment, and traders use them
to speculate on  credit quality .  The finance minister also pointed to the nation’s balance
of payments surplus, fuelled by remittances from overseas
workers, and strong financial ratios at the nation’s banks as a
reason for awarding the nation a higher rating.  “Purisima has to step up to achieve that goal,” said
Junie Banaag, who helps manage $563 million at Manila-based
First Metro Investment Corp. “Aside from maximizing the current
tax base, Purisima has to create other sources of taxes.
Expanding taxes will allow the government to cut the deficit and
pursue infrastructure projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  