-- 
Philippine Peso Rises to Two-Month High on U.S. Budget Optimism

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-20T08:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/philippine-peso-rises-to-one-week-high-on-u-s-budget-optimism.html
The Philippine peso rose to a two-
month high on optimism U.S. lawmakers will agree on a plan to
cut the  budget deficit  and help the nation avoid a default,
spurring appetite for emerging-market assets.  The peso and bonds also advanced as Finance Secretary Cesar
Purisima said yesterday Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  should rate the  Philippines  at least one level higher
given the nation’s improving debt ratios and  tax revenue .
Foreign funds have bought $151 million more Philippine stocks
than they sold this month, according to exchange data.  “Hot money continues to flow,” said Marcelo Ayes, senior
vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila.
“The Philippines’ fundamentals are good. In the U.S., it looks
like they can beat the deadline for the deficit-reduction
plan.”  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 42.713 per dollar as of
the 4 p.m. close in  Manila , its strongest level since May 3,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has gained 2.1
percent this year.  The Philippines’ sovereign rating was increased to Ba2 from
Ba3 by Moody’s on June 15, two steps below investment grade. S&P
in November last year boosted its rating to BB, also two notches
below investment grade.  President Barack Obama embraced a $3.7 trillion debt-
cutting plan by a bipartisan group of senators that would
combine tax increases and spending cuts, saying yesterday it
could offer a way out of the congressional deadlock over raising
the nation’s $14.3 trillion borrowing authority before a
threatened default on Aug 2.  Philippine 10-year peso bonds gained. The yield on the
7.375 percent securities due March 2021 fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.2 percent, according to Tradition
Financial Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 