-- 
Phoenix Solar Looks to the U.S. to Offset European Sales Slump

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-07-21T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/phoenix-solar-targets-u-s-market-to-offset-slumping-european-sales.html
Phoenix Solar AG (PS4)  is betting it can
boost U.S. sales that are zero right now to 300 million euros
($426 million) within two years as the German solar company
seeks to grow abroad to offset slumping sales in  Europe .  Phoenix Solar’s U.S. unit, which builds solar  power plants 
and was formed last August, plans to generate a “substantial”
share of the group’s sales by the end of 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Haenel said in Munich.  Solar companies must expand in foreign markets to counter
the “increasingly difficult” conditions in Europe and survive
a consolidation wave that is going to wash over the industry
during the next decade, Haenel said yesterday. “Growth is the
thing we have to do in all geographies,” he said. The U.S.
subsidiary is “to be our fastest-growing.”  Phoenix Solar is among a group of German solar companies
including Solarworld AG,  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and SMA Solar Technology AG
that are expanding in the U.S.,  Asia  or the Middle East to
counter falling demand in Europe, where the governments of
 Germany , Italy and  France  reduced solar subsidies the past 12
months. They’re also coping with competition from Chinese rivals
including JA Solar Holdings Co. and Suntech Power Holdings Co.  Phoenix Solar, whose shares have dropped 41 percent this
year, said July 19 that it won its largest foreign contract to
date, an order from Paris-based Akuo Energy to build two solar
parks in France with a combined capacity of about 24 megawatts.  Last month, it won a contract to build two solar plants in
 Thailand  with a combined capacity of 16 megawatts. It scored its
first deal in the Middle East on Feb. 14, when it said it signed
a contract to build  Saudi Arabia ’s largest solar farm.  With a 7.5 percent share drop yesterday, Phoenix Solar’s
market value is now 103 million euros.  ‘Right to Expand’  Germany, the world’s largest solar market, installed about
1,000 megawatts in the first five months of this year compared
with 1,700 megawatts a year earlier. Germany won’t return to the
2010 levels, Haenel said. “So it was right to expand abroad.”  The company is expecting to win its first order in the U.S.
“before the end of the year,” said Paul Caudill, CEO of
Phoenix Solar’s  San Ramon , California-based unit. Near-term
targets include “a couple” of projects larger than 5
megawatts, he said.  Because Germany last year eliminated subsidies for plants
on farm land and reduced above-market rates for rooftop panels,
hurting Phoenix Solar’s power plant and components wholesale
businesses, “it makes sense that Phoenix Solar tries to expand
abroad,” Michael Tappeiner, an analyst with Unicredit Bank AG,
said yesterday in a telephone interview from Munich.  “The U.S. market is attractive but it’s a real challenge,
because pretty much every major solar company is fighting for a
piece of it,” Tappeiner said.  Phoenix Solar “has developed a good brand name that should
help them in the  Middle East  and the U.S.,” said Katharina
Cholewa, a solar analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany.
“While it’s easy to start off well in new markets, it will be a
challenge for this small company once several large orders come
in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  