-- 
Playtech Signs Gala Coral Contract, Acquires Mobile-Bet Company

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-20T08:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/playtech-signs-gala-coral-contract-acquires-mobile-bet-company.html
Playtech Ltd. (PTEC) , the Internet gambling
software maker and content developer which has a joint venture
with  William Hill Plc (WMH) , said it signed a long-term contract with
Gala Coral Group Ltd., and acquired Mobenga AB, a mobile-phone
sports-betting company.  Playtech will pay as much as 15.8 million euros ($22.4
million) for Mobenga, the Isle of Man-based company said in a
statement. Playtech also said second-quarter revenue rose 7
percent to 39.6 million euros over the same period a year
earlier, led by online casino games.  Gala Coral, which has 2,000 betting shops in the U.K. and
 Italy , should become one of Playtech’s top three clients within
a year after its software is transferred, in 2012, Playtech’s
Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer said in a telephone
interview. Mobenga will help Playtech expand in mobile telephone
gambling, which generates 30 percent of bets for some companies,
he said.  “This is a very important win for us,” Weizer said. “We
already have most of the established operators in the U.K., and
Gala Coral we were after for a long time.”  Playtech gained 18.25 pence, or 5.4 percent, to 356.75
pence at 8:47 a.m. in  London , after earlier rising as much as
6.3 percent. The shares have fallen 16 percent so far this year,
giving the company a market value of 866.3 million pounds.  Stockholm-based Mobenga will give Playtech the ability to
combine sports-betting, casino and poker games in one mobile-
phone application, Weizer said.  Playtech generates more than 10 million pounds ($16.1
million) from its biggest client, Imperial E-Club Ltd., Weizer
said.  ‘Players’  Most of the company’s clients attract players through
sports, though they make most of their money through games, so
they’re always seeking to convert sports betters to game
players, he said.  Second-quarter casino revenue gained 9 percent to 27.3
million euros, and bingo sales increased 32 percent to 3.6
million euros, the company said.  Poker sales dropped 32 percent to 5 million euros, the
company said. The poker business declined even though the U.S.
charged founders of online poker companies still accepting games
in the country with  money laundering  in April.  Weizer said the companies still had cash to lure poker
players. Poker numbers have been “picking up” since the end of
June, when one of the companies stopped play, he said. Full Tilt
Poker, then the world’s second-biggest poker site, lost its
license from Alderney on June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  