-- 
Pledging Allegiance to the Special Interests: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/pledging-allegiance-to-the-special-interests-margaret-carlson.html
Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman 
may be trailing the pack in the Republican presidential primary,
but he is a leader in one important regard: Unlike his
colleagues, Huntsman has refused to sign any of the special-
interest pledges that are increasingly turning political office
into an ideological straitjacket.  Huntsman has been joined by  Mitt Romney  and  Tim Pawlenty  in
rejecting one particularly odious pledge -- the  Marriage Vow  put
forward by  the Family Leader , a conservative values group run by
Bob Vander Plaats, a power player in the Iowa Republican
caucuses. Those who sign the Family Leader pledge -- including
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and former
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum -- promise to oppose
“intimate unions which are bigamous, polygamous, polyandrous,
same-sex, etc.”  Although the pledge is largely devoted to the Godzilla-like
terrors associated with all things gay and lesbian, it doesn’t
stop there. It also demands that signatories oppose the
deployment of women in forward combat roles and commit to
protect women and “the innocent fruit of conjugal intimacy” --
otherwise known as children -- “from seduction into promiscuity”
and other instances of “stolen innocence.”  Bachmann received a round of bad press over the pledge’s
assertion -- since modified -- that certain innocent fruit of
conjugal intimacy had been better off as the fruit of slaves.
“Slavery had a disastrous impact on African-American families,
yet sadly a child born into slavery in 1860 was more likely to
be raised by his mother and father in a two-parent household
than was an African-American baby born after the election of the
USA’s first African-American President,” the pledge stated. (As
with the apposition of the words “holocaust” and “but,” the
combination of “slavery, yet” is a sure sign that you’ve run off
the rails.)  Yet critics who argue that Bachmann lacks the judgment to
be president are missing a key point. If Bachmann, a serial
pledge signer, were to become president, she wouldn’t have a
prayer of thinking for herself. She’d be locked into special-
interest pledges for every occasion. She has also signed the
 Susan B. Anthony List  pro-life pledge, which imposes an anti-
abortion litmus test on virtually all of a president’s federal
appointments, and the  Cut Cap Balance pledge , a pet project of
Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, and former
House majority leader Dick Armey.  The  Cut, Cap and Balance bill , which the House passed 
yesterday, proposes to cut federal spending in the next fiscal
year by $111 billion, eventually cap spending at less than 20
percent of gross domestic product, amend the Constitution to
require a balanced budget every year and make it almost
impossible to raise taxes.  As policy, it has no chance of ever being enacted. But in
order to curry favor with its ideological champions, including
the powerful anti-tax group  Club for Growth , which eagerly
attacks Republicans who don’t fall in line, Republican
presidential candidates have pledged to support the fantasy.  Democrats have their own pledges.  Naral  Pro-Choice America,
the abortion-rights organization, demands that candidates fill
out a written questionnaire. The same is true of  Emily’s List ,
which requires its candidates to possess two X chromosomes, a
pro-choice position and a viable chance to win election as a
Democrat. When two Emily’s List-backed senators,  Blanche Lincoln 
of Arkansas and  Mary Landrieu  of  Louisiana , supported a
Republican bill to ban late-term abortion, they promptly lost
lucrative support.  The mother of all pledges is  Grover Norquist ’s Tax
Protection Pledge. First issued in 1986, it has been signed by
countless Republicans over the past quarter century, including
236 current House members and 41 current senators. Yet
Norquist’s success is perhaps the best argument against rigid
pledges, which infantilize officials, giving them no leeway to
exercise judgment.  Republicans had a miracle deal in their grasp earlier this
month, but like children they rejected the ice cream cone they
would have otherwise devoured -- $3 trillion in federal spending
cuts -- because it had the wrong kind of sprinkles on top -- $1
trillion in revenue increases. In effect, Republicans passed on
the conservative deal of the century -- huge spending cuts with
no increase in tax rates -- in part because they had signed
pledges to Norquist, who views every increase in government
revenue as a personal affront.  To enforce his pledge, Norquist threatens free-thinking
Republicans with political ruin, a threat he backed in 2010 with
$7.5 million in campaign spending. But where are all the dead
bodies? Norquist did help to defeat a few state legislators last
year, along with California Lieutenant Governor Abel Maldonado,
who had offended Norquist by supporting Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s 2009 budget. Norquist takes credit for the
defeat of President  George H.W. Bush , who broke his no-new-taxes
promise, but the claim is patently ridiculous.  Fortunately, not every Republican office holder is a
scaredy cat. Rock-ribbed conservative Senator  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma , who has just rejoined the Senate Gang of Six seeking a
budget compromise, has spent much of this year trying to break
Norquist’s hold on the Senate Republican caucus. Norquist
responded by claiming Coburn “lied his way” into office. The
senator’s crime? Putting public policy -- curtailing a foolhardy
$6 billion tax subsidy for ethanol among other things -- ahead
of Norquist’s brand of ideological warfare.  Republicans looking to escape their straitjackets would do
well to emulate Coburn. He has upheld the only pledges that any
member of Congress should ever make: to his conscience, his
constituents and the Constitution.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns.   To contact the writer on this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 