-- 
Polish Companies to Invest Less as Optimism Dims, Poll Shows

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-07-20T10:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/polish-companies-to-invest-less-as-optimism-dims-poll-shows-1-.html
Polish companies plan to invest less
in the third quarter than the previous three-month period after
optimism about their prospects showed a “clear” drop.  The WPSE index, which captures the results of the Warsaw-
based Narodowy Bank Polski’s quarterly business confidence
 survey , fell 7.6 percent on the quarter and 1.8 percent on the
year to 12.7 points, the  central bank  said today on its website.
Entrepreneurs are concerned  market sentiment  will worsen during
the next year, it added.  “Despite increasing capacity utilization, fewer companies
plan to launch new investment projects in the third quarter”
because of “uncertainty about business operations and the
environment,” the central bank said. “The investments planned
for 2011 in many cases aren’t enough in terms of spending and
won’t cover companies’ investment needs.”  The central bank lowered its 2011 economic-growth forecast
to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent last week amid signs the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis is spreading and may damage the
bloc’s recovery. Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, dropped to its lowest level in 18 months in June
as new orders fell and exports declined.  Capacity utilization increased to 80.9 percent in the
second quarter from 80 percent in the first and 79 percent a
year earlier, the survey showed.  Demand Concerns  Still, the number of companies planning new investments in
the third quarter fell to 21.2 percent from 22.6 percent in the
second as optimism over demand, order volumes and production
faded, according to the report. Of those companies polled, 46.2
percent envisage larger investments.  A lack of positive signals on the economy and higher labor
costs may discourage companies from adding new jobs, the central
bank said. Planned hiring in the third quarter fell 4.3
percentage points to -0.7 from the April-June period.  At the same time, faster inflation boosted wage demands and
the planned pay rise in the third quarter will be higher than in
the previous quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 