-- 
Polish Debt Yields Below Spain’s Spur Sale of Longest Bond in Four Months

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-07-20T14:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/polish-yields-drop-below-spain-s-first-time-in-12-years-as-deficit-shrinks.html
Polish debt costs are falling below
 Spain ’s for the first time in at least 12 years as steps to trim
the central European nation’s budget gap spur confidence it will
avoid contagion from the euro region’s credit crisis.  Poland, which will offer its longest-dated bonds since
March tomorrow, is attracting investors after the government
said last month its deficit may be lower than planned. Ten-year
yields fell to as low as 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage
point, below same-maturity Spanish debt this week and stood 15
points lower at 5.835 percent today by 4 p.m. in Warsaw,
according to bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg. The yield was
6.215 percent at the last auction of 10-year notes in January.  “Certainly in terms of the fiscal news,  Poland  has
surprised the market on the positive side,” said Ronald Schneider, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2 billion in
emerging-market debt at Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna.  Polish debt is outperforming as  Europe ’s finance ministers
struggle to agree on a plan to prevent the debt crisis in  Greece 
from spilling over to Italy and Spain. While Poland is rated A2,
three steps below Spain, at Moody’s Investors Service, traders
in the market for credit-default swaps demand double the risk
premiums to protect against non-payment by Spain and Italy.  Poland’s concern that funding costs could rise prompted the
government to cover more than 75 percent of 2011 borrowing needs
in the first six months, amassing more cash than needed to repay
debt coming due this year. The  Finance Ministry  canceled sales
of Treasury bills in the third quarter and limited auctions of
bonds to one per month from as many as two in the previous
quarter, according to its statement on June 30.  Record Cash  The Finance Ministry had a record 51 billion zloty ($18
billion) in cash at the end of June,  Piotr Marczak , the head of
the ministry’s public debt department, wrote in a statement last
week. Poland has a total of 47.97 billion zloty of debt maturing
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The available cash and lower borrowing needs allow us to
reduce the supply of  government securities  by the end of the
year and improve the structure of debt,” Marczak wrote. The
government has met “far more” than 75 percent of its borrowing
needs this year, he said.  The ministry will offer between 1 billion and 3 billion
zloty of bonds due in October 2021 tomorrow, according to
government data on Bloomberg.  Foreign Purchases  The pace of foreign investors’ purchases of Polish bonds
has “comfortably exceeded net issuance,” Michael Trounce, head
of rates and currency strategy for emerging Europe,  Middle East 
and  Africa  at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a July 12 report.  International investors increased holdings of zloty-
denominated debt by 22.9 billion zloty to a record 147.6 billion
zloty in the five months through the end of May, according to
the Finance Ministry’s  website . Foreigners are the biggest
holders of Polish debt, ahead of local pension funds and banks.  Poland’s budget deficit may be 30 billion zloty this year,
or 10.2 billion zloty less than planned, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dominik Radziwill  was cited as saying in an interview in
Dziennik Gazeta Prawna on June 21.  The gap last year grew to the widest since at least 1995 as
rising unemployment lifted social-security costs and the country
ramped up spending on roads and stadiums before the European
soccer championship it will co-host with Ukraine in 2012.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds dropped 16 basis points to 276
basis points last quarter. For  Hungary , the EU’s most-indebted
eastern member, the spread rose 45 basis points to 428.  Polish credit-default swaps traded at 171 basis points
today, compared with 277 basis points for  Italy  and 331 basis
points for Spain, according to CMA data. Default swaps rise as
perceptions of the borrower’s creditworthiness deteriorate. The
zloty strengthened 0.7 percent to 3.9924 per euro, heading for
its biggest two-day advance in more than three months.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on a
credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “With Poland we are seeing these crossover flows,” George Christou, emerging-market strategist at  Barclays Capital , said
by phone from  London . “These are the euro periphery investors
who are looking to reallocate away and looking for a stepping
stone into emerging markets and Poland fits that bill.”  Inflation Watch  Poland’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at the highest level since 2008 on July 6 as policy
makers wait to see whether four increases this year are enough
to tame inflation. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year
earlier in June, slowing from the fastest pace in almost a
decade in May at 5 percent, the statistics office said last
week. The figure came in below the 4.8 percent median estimate
of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The frontloaded nature of the central bank’s hiking
cycle, and news that the Finance Ministry is well ahead of its
initial 2011 issuance plan, could help sustain this trend,”
said JPMorgan’s Trounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  