-- 
WTO: Preferential Accords Don’t Boost Trade

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/preferential-trade-accords-don-t-mean-more-commerce-wto-says.html
An “explosion” of preferential
trade accords that are becoming more complex isn’t being matched
by greater commerce flows enjoying such treatment, the  World
Trade Organization  said.  A growing number of preferential trade agreements involve
deals between regions and countries or within regions, the WTO
said today in its World Trade Report 2011. While these PTAs meet
the need to regulate global production and can benefit non-
members, the WTO’s multilateral system also has a role in easing
the resulting complexity, according to the 256-page report.  “The explosion of PTAs is not being matched by an
expansion in trade flows that receive preferential treatment,”
the WTO said. “This report provides what is probably the most
systematic estimation of the magnitude of preferential trade and
the result proves to be an eye-opener. Only 16 percent of global
merchandise trade receives preferential treatment if trade
within the European Union is excluded.”  The proliferation of PTAs comes a decade after the Geneva-
based WTO began global trade talks that have failed to clinch a
deal in which wealthy economies such as the EU and the U.S.
would lower  farm subsidies  and tariffs in exchange for emerging
nations including  China ,  India  and  Brazil  opening up their
markets for industrial goods such as chemicals and cars.  Global trade will expand 6.5 percent this year after
growing a record 14.5 percent in 2010 as economies continue to
recover from the worst slump in six decades, the WTO estimated
in April.  Developing countries  including China will lead global
trade growth this year, with a forecast 9.5 percent increase,
compared with 4.5 percent for developed nations.  ‘Vital Questions’  Many PTAs are moving toward deeper integration that goes
beyond tariffs and other measures at national borders, according
to the WTO. A growing number include domestic policies such as
regulations on services and investment, intellectual-property
protection and competition policy, it said.  “These trends raise vital questions about the focus and
reach of the WTO, and the value assigned by governments to
globally based trade relations,” Director-General Pascal Lamy
said on the trade arbiter’s website.  At the same time, WTO members are taking more steps to
shield their domestic industries from foreign competition as
economic sentiment deteriorates, said the monitoring group
 Global Trade Alert , which estimates that almost 200 measures
that hurt trading partners have been introduced since the Group
of 20 summit in November even amid repeated pledges to avoid
protectionism.  G-20 countries are responsible for 80 percent of
protectionist measures taken since the Seoul summit, “a higher
percentage by far than in 2009 and 2010,” Global Trade Alert
said in its ninth report published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 