-- 
Qatar Islamic Second-Quarter Net Rises 27%, Beats Estimates

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-07-20T14:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/qatar-islamic-second-quarter-net-rises-27-beats-estimates-2-.html
Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK)  SAQ, the Persian
Gulf country’s biggest Shariah-compliant lender, posted a 27
percent jump in second-quarter profit, topping analysts’
estimates, as income from investments increased.  Net income rose to 382 million riyals ($105 million) from
301 million riyals a year earlier, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The average of five analysts’ estimates was 361
million riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First-half investment income rose to 311 million riyals
from 48 million riyals a year earlier, according to the
statement. Net financing income fell to 863 million riyals from
906 million riyals and fee income dropped to 125 million riyals
from 186 million riyals.  “At first glance this is a mixed set of results, with good
profitability, but without strong conviction, and with little in
the way of loan growth,”  Raj Madha , a Dubai-based analyst at
Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd., said in an e-mail today. “I
wouldn’t extrapolate this set of results into the future unless
we get further details.”  The value of the Islamic loan portfolio fell to 24.7
billion riyals in the first half of the year, from 28.6 billion
riyals a year earlier, the bank said in the statement.  Islamic Banking  Qatar’s central bank in February ordered all conventional
lenders to wind down their Islamic banking divisions by year end
on concern deposits may go toward Islamic loans. Qatar Islamic
may seek to buy Islamic units of conventional lenders, acting
Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Meshari said in February.  The bank has faced competition in recent years, with the
establishment of Masraf Al Rayan and Barwa Bank. The lender,
which has about 750 employees, recently hired more than 50
people, having made a somewhat lesser number redundant, to bring
in “new blood,” Ahmad Meshari said in an interview May 12.  “The announcement of the results comes on the back of a
strategic transformation program that the bank is implementing
with a view to restructuring both its local groups and its
affiliates abroad,” Jassim Bin Hamad J.J. Al Thani, chairman of
Qatar Islamic, said in the statement.  The shares increased 0.3 percent to 78.6 riyals on the
Qatar Exchange today before the results were released. The stock
has dropped 2.4 percent this year compared with a 3.4 percent
fall in the benchmark  QE Index. (DSM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  