-- 
Qualcomm Declines as Chip-Shipment Forecast Misses Analysts’ Predictions

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-21T00:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/qualcomm-predicts-sales-profit-above-estimates-on-demand-for-phone-chips.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, declined in late trading after issuing a
forecast for chip shipments in the current quarter that fell
short of some analysts’ predictions.  The company will ship 120 million to 125 million chips in
the period that ends in September, San Diego-based Qualcomm said
in a  statement  today. That was lower than the 130 million
projected by Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at MKM Partners LLC.  Results this quarter will be held back by weakness in
Europe, which is grappling with a 21-month sovereign debt
crisis. Consumers there are putting off phone purchases,
Qualcomm said on a conference call, explaining a shipment
outlook that overshadowed forecasts for sales and profit that
topped analysts’ projections.  “Chip units for autumn are light,” he said. “The blame
likely lies in  Europe . European inventory correction now seems
to be a fact instead of a theory.”  Qualcomm fell as much as 3.8 percent in late trading, after
earlier rising 32 cents to $57.30 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have risen 16 percent this year,
a sign of robust demand for mobile phones generally.  Qualcomm gets most of its profit from licensing code
division multiple access technology, or CDMA, technology.  “We reduced a bit our forecast for how many new CDMA-based
units would sell into Europe,” Qualcomm Chief Financial Officer
Bill Keitel said in an interview. “The situation demands that we
still be cautious. The consumer in many areas is a little bit
stretched.”  Forecasts Top Predictions  Profit excluding certain costs in the current period will
be as high as 80 cents a share on sales of $3.86 billion to
$4.16 billion, Qualcomm said. That exceeds forecasts for profit
of 75 cents and sales of $3.86 billion, the averages in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Qualcomm benefits as more consumers ditch traditional
mobile devices in favor of smartphones that deliver high-speed
 Internet access . The company’s radio chips are the most widely
used in the mobile phone industry. It also owns some of the
technology used in advanced, third-generation wireless services,
helping it collect higher licensing revenue as more consumers
move to handsets that connect to the Internet.  “Qualcomm’s reach is global and unsurpassed,” said Alex Gauna, a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities. “They
are designed into everywhere that matters.”  Snapdragon  Third-quarter net income was $1.04 billion, or 61 cents a
share, compared with $767 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier.
Revenue was $3.62 billion, up from $2.7 billion. The company was
expected to report profit of $1 billion and sales of $3.54
billion.  Apple Inc. began offering the iPhone in February through
 Verizon Wireless , whose network relies on CDMA. Apple said
yesterday it sold 20.3 million iPhones last quarter.  Qualcomm aims to expand the reach of its chips with a
microprocessor called Snapdragon. That chip is now running
smartphones that use Google Inc.’s Android operating system.
Qualcomm is also trying to sell Snapdragon to tablet makers.  Qualcomm said in  May  that it completed the $3.1 billion
acquisition of Atheros Communications Inc., which broadens the
company’s lineup of Wi-Fi networking technology. The company
said then that the purchase will reduce per-share earnings by 9
cents to 13 cents a share in the remainder of fiscal 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  