-- 
Randstad Will Buy Staffing Company SFN for $770 Million

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-07-21T08:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/randstad-holding-will-buy-staffing-company-sfn-for-770-million.html
Randstad Holding NV (RAND) , the
Netherlands-based human-resources company, will acquire
staffing-services provider  SFN Group Inc. (SFN)  for about $770 million
in cash, the companies said yesterday.  Randstad will pay $14 a share for SFN, a 53 percent premium
to the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based company’s closing price on
July 19. The deal will be financed through existing credit lines
and is expected to close in September, according to a company
statement released late yesterday.  After the deal, Randstad will be the third-largest provider
of human-resources services in North America, doubling its
presence in the U.S., according to the statement. The
combination will result in annual pretax savings of $30 million.  “The acquisition strategically fits very well as the
companies have a comparable service offering in  North America 
and a complementary geographic coverage,” Gert Steens, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note today.
He has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Randstad rose 55 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 30.45 at 10:17
a.m. in Amsterdam.  The company is being advised by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, and SFN is being advised by Foros LLC. Randstad also
agreed to a new credit facility at a minimum size of 1.05
billion euros ($1.5 billion), according to the statement, which
will become available when its current facility has been
canceled.  The Dutch company also reported organic revenue growth per
working day of 11 percent in the second quarter, slowing from 15
percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Wollman in  San Francisco  at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in London at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  