-- 
Rand Strengthens Against Dollar For Second Day on Stocks Rally, Inflation

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-20T15:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/rand-strengthens-against-dollar-for-second-day-on-stocks-rally-inflation.html
The rand advanced versus the dollar
for a second day as politicians moved closer to deals on U.S.
borrowing and  Europe ’s debt crisis, boosting demand for riskier,
emerging-market assets.  The rand strengthened as much as 1 percent to 6.8726 per
dollar, and traded up 0.9 percent at 6.8849 as of 5:25 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It climbed 0.5 percent to 9.7850 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks gained, commodity prices rallied for
a second day and the dollar fell to its lowest level in almost a
week versus the euro after President  Barack Obama  endorsed a
deficit-cutting deal proposed by a bipartisan group of senators.
European officials are considering steps, including the use of
precautionary credit lines, to prevent the spread of the
region’s debt crisis, a person close to the talks said before a
summit tomorrow.  “Global risk appetite is driving the rand,”  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan
said in a research note. “Risk appetite improved” on optimism
U.S. lawmakers will extend the nation’s debt ceiling and
European leaders will tomorrow agree on a second bailout for
 Greece , they wrote.  The rand maintained gains after a report showed  South
Africa ’s consumer price index rose to 5 percent in June, in line
with the median estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The annual inflation rate was 4.6 percent in May.  “We view the CPI as rand-positive because it could fuel
expectations for a rate hike sooner rather than later,” Shireen Darmalingham, an analyst at Standard Bank, said in a note. “It
could assist in maintaining the rand’s real yield
differentials.”  Record-Low Rate  The central bank said in May that price pressures were
intensifying even as policy makers left their benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent. The bank will
probably keep the rate unchanged tomorrow, according to all 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bonds gained for a second day, driving yields on 10-year
debt to the lowest in more than a week. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 rose 66 cents to 89.63 rand, driving the
yield down 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.33
percent, the lowest on a closing basis since July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  