-- 
Transatlantic to Pursue Better Validus Offer to Beat Allied

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-07-20T11:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/transatlantic-seeks-better-offer-from-reinsurer-validus-to-beat-allied-bid.html
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH) , the
reinsurer that agreed to merge with Allied World Assurance
Company Holdings AG, said it will ask  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  to
improve its counteroffer.  “The Validus proposal is reasonably likely to lead to a
superior proposal,” Transatlantic’s board said yesterday in a
statement, announcing its intention to enter into discussions
with Bermuda-based Validus.  Validus said last week it would pay about $3.5 billion in
stock and cash for New York-based Transatlantic. The reinsurer
agreed in June to merge with Allied in a stock deal valued at
about $3.2 billion. That was opposed by some of Transatlantic’s
largest shareholders, including Davis Selected Advisers LP,
which held a 24 percent stake as of July 5.  Validus today urged Transatlantic holders to vote against
the Allied deal. Validus remains “fully committed” to its
proposal, the company said in a statement.  The Validus offer “does not constitute a ‘superior
proposal’ under the merger agreement that Transatlantic entered
into with Allied World,” the Transatlantic board said.  Allied agrees “that the unsolicited proposal set forth by
Validus does not constitute a superior proposal,” Scott Carmilani, chairman and chief executive officer of the Zug,
Switzerland-based firm, said in a statement yesterday.  Reinsurers with less than $4 billion in market value have
been combining to gain scale and diversify their business mix.
Validus Chief Executive Officer Ed Noonan said that larger
reinsurers have an advantage over competitors.  Size Does Matter  “Size does matter in terms of your ability to take on risk
and manage risk,” Noonan said in an interview on July 13.
“Size and scale is an asset to the reinsurance business and it
seems like increasingly more so with the passage of time.”  Transatlantic would have to pay a breakup fee of $115
million if it backs out of the Allied deal, it said last month
in a conference call. Transatlantic was previously owned by
American International Group Inc., which divested its stake to
help repay a 2008 U.S. bailout.  Validus focuses on property coverage, including protection
against catastrophes. Transatlantic provides medical-malpractice
protection and guards corporate officers against lawsuits
through so-called directors-and-officers coverage. Allied offers
professional-liability coverage.  Validus is getting financial advice from Greenhill & Co.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Moelis &
Co. are financial advisers to Transatlantic and Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP is acting as legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  acted as financial adviser to Allied, and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided U.S.
and Swiss legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  