-- 
Treasuries Decline Amid Optimism on European Crisis, Concern on U.S. Debt

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-20T21:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/treasuries-decline-before-report-that-may-show-home-sales-climbed-in-june.html
Treasuries fell, eroding yesterday’s
gains, on speculation European leaders are making progress on
the region’s debt crisis and concern U.S. officials have further
to go to cut the deficit and raise the borrowing ceiling.  U.S. 30-year bond yields rose after tumbling yesterday the
most since 2010 on optimism a bipartisan proposal would resolve
a stalemate and allow the debt limit to be increased before the
Aug. 2 deadline. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  met in Berlin before a European Union
summit tomorrow in Brussels on the crisis, a French government
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “What ultimately gets done is very uncertain still, but
some of the headlines were positive,” Michael Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, said of the
summit. A deficit-cutting proposal by six U.S. senators is “a
step in the right direction, but it doesn’t change the landscape
a whole lot in terms of whether a grand plan is likely to be
passed in the near term,” he said.  Yields on 30-year bonds climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.25 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They dropped
yesterday as much as 13 basis points, the most since December
2010. The 4.375 percent security due in May 2041 fell 1 2/32
today, or $10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 2/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose five basis points to
2.93 percent after decreasing five basis points yesterday.  German Bonds  The difference between yields on German 10-year notes and
Treasuries of comparable maturity narrowed to 16 basis points,
the least in a week.  The gap between 10-year yields on Italian and German debt,
which is considered a refuge for European investors, narrowed to
2.84 percentage points, from 3.32 percentage points July 18, the
most since the debut of the euro in 1999. The spread between 10-
year yields on Spanish and German notes shrank to 3.21
percentage points, down from a euro-era record 3.67 percentage
points on July 18.  “It’s more optimism about what’s going on in  Europe  and
the ability of the EU to come together and reach some sort of
agreement and stave off this crisis from affecting Italy and
 Spain ,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader at  Societe Generale  in
New York, one of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers.  European officials are considering steps previously
rejected by  Germany , including the use of precautionary credit
lines, to prevent the debt crisis from spreading, a person close
to the talks said. Other options include allowing the main 440
billion euro ($624 billion) rescue fund to lend to recapitalize
banks, said the person, who declined to be named because the
talks are in progress.  Republican Resistance  A bipartisan proposal from six senators for a $3.7 trillion
debt reduction plan, praised yesterday by President  Barack Obama , now faces resistance from  House Republicans  as lawmakers
intensify efforts for a compromise on  government spending .  Treasuries surged yesterday when the plan, which combines
spending cuts with a smaller amount of tax increases, was
revived.  “Yesterday was probably a bit of an over-reaction to the
news and we’re getting a pull back, a reasonable pullback,”
said Pond of Barclays, a primary dealer.  While House Republican leaders indicated a willingness to
consider the proposal, they and other members of their fiscally
conservative caucus continue to stress opposition to a debt
compromise that includes more taxes.  ‘Complicated Plan’  “You do have a little bit of a retracement of what we saw
at the end of the day yesterday, which is somewhat natural when
you see a big move like that,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-
rate strategist in New York at the primary dealer Credit Suisse
Group AG. “It’s a complicated plan. Is there really time to get
this through Congress in time?”  The Obama administration signaled it may accept a short-
term increase in the U.S. debt limit if it is combined with a
major agreement to cut the deficit.  Obama “must have a firm commitment to something big” on
cutting the deficit before he would sign a short-term rise in
the debt ceiling, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told
reporters. The president met with top congressional Democrats at
about 3 p.m. Washington time, and was to meet later with
Republican leaders.  Treasuries have returned 1.3 percent this month, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, amid investor demand
for refuge. The MSCI World Index of stocks has dropped 0.5
percent after accounting for reinvested dividends.  Yield Difference  The difference in yields between U.S. two- and 30-year debt
widened to 3.87 percentage points, from 3.82 percentage points
yesterday. It touched 3.95 on July 5, the most since February.
The five-year average is 2.32 percentage points.  The yield gap between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices known as the break-even rate, was 2.31
percentage points, up from 1.71 percentage points a year ago.
The five-year average is 2.07.  The U.S. will auction $13 billion of 10-year TIPS tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  