-- 
Bank Commission Must Review Firebreaks, Parliamentarians Say

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-07-20T09:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/treasury-panel-faults-bank-commission-plan-for-firewalls-at-retail-units.html
A British parliamentary committee
urged the  Independent Commission on Banking  to give greater
consideration to the risks of erecting firewalls around lenders’
retail units and said it hadn’t thought enough about breaking up
institutions that are too big to fail.  The cross-party  House of Commons Treasury Committee  said
the firebreak proposals set out in an April interim report by
the commission “contain little detail” and fail to weigh up
the costs and benefits of such an overhaul to Britain’s banks.  The ICB, led by  John Vickers , 53, recommended that the
U.K.’s biggest banks should boost capital, implement plans for
an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around consumer
units to boost financial stability. The largest banks should
have a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of at least of 10 percent, the commission said.  Vickers “needs to come out and demonstrate that his
proposals will not have the negative or unintended consequences
his critics assert,”  Andrew Tyrie , committee chairman, said in
a statement published on Parliament’s website in London today.
“Full structural separation of retail and investment banking
was dispatched in just one page of the interim report. This is
not a convincing demonstration that full consideration has been
given to this option.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month said
he backs Vickers’s proposals, even as lenders including  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
said the plans might harm their business and that the ICB should
consider delaying implementation.  HSBC said its economists had estimated that fire breaks may
cost the British economy about 30 billion pounds ($48 billion) a
year, or 2 percent of gross domestic product.  Vickers, an Oxford University academic and former Bank of
England chief economist, was asked by the government last year
to make recommendations to boost stability and competition in
the British banking industry. Its final report is due on Sept.
12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  