-- 
Record Gold Price Fails to Deter Buying in India, Jeweler Says

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T05:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/record-gold-price-fails-to-deter-buying-in-india-jeweler-says.html
Consumers in  India , the world’s
biggest gold user, are boosting purchases of the metal for
investment, undeterred by record prices, according to jeweler
Joyalukkas India Ltd.  “Our sales have only gone up even though the price is
going higher,” Chief Operating Officer P.P. Jose said in an
interview from the company’s headquarters in the southern city
of Kochin. “Gold has become so strong, people are investing
more in gold.” Joyallukas has 24 stores in India and 50 in the
UAE, he said.  Gold touched an all-time high of $1610.10 an ounce
yesterday as debt woes in  Europe  and the U.S. spur demand for a
protection of wealth. Bullion demand in India, at a record 963.1
metric tons last year, will top 1,000 tons this year, Jose said.  Demand “will definitely be higher than last year,” he
said in a phone interview yesterday. People “are very confident
in gold, they are sure they can get the money back with a profit
if they sell it,” Jose said.  Bullion has advanced 12 percent this year, heading for an
11th annual gain, as investors sought a haven amid rising
inflation and currency debasement. Spot gold rose 0.2 percent to
$1,591.55 an ounce at 8:32 a.m. in Mumbai. In India, futures
reached an all-time high of 23,320 rupees ($524) per 10 grams on
the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. yesterday.  “Nowadays people invest in gold, because gold is stronger
and as long as the European and the  U.S. economy  are weak, gold
will become strong,” Jose said. “Many people these days have
come to invest in gold, earlier they were buying ornaments for
customs like marriage, or births.”  Record Investment  Investment demand, consisting of bars, coins and bullion-
backed funds, jumped 60 percent to a record 217.4 tons last year
in India, and jewelry demand advanced 69 percent to 745.7 tons,
according to the producer-funded  World Gold Council . It rose 8
percent to 85.6 tons in the first quarter, the council said in a
report in May.  Demand for gold as an investment will keep climbing driven
by growing incomes in India, Reliance Capital Asset Management
Ltd. said last week.  “The rising middle class with higher purchasing power has
started accumulating gold at all  price levels ,” Sundeep Sikka,
the Mumbai-based chief executive officer of the  money manager ,
said July 11. “Demand is likely to rise as Indians become more
and more prosperous,” said Sikka, whose company operates the
country’s second-biggest gold-backed fund according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 