-- 
Inflation Tough to Digest for Asia as Food Costs Soar From Pork to Onions

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-21T08:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/rice-prices-up-70-make-asian-inflation-tough-for-central-banks-to-digest.html
Asian cuisine may be too much of a
good thing for some of the region’s central banks as policy
makers grapple with the challenge of responding to spikes in the
cost of staples from rice and pork to onions and chilies.  Pork prices jumped 57 percent in June in  China , leading
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to vow to curb inflation even as growth slows.
 India  had to buy onions from arch-rival  Pakistan  this year for
curries and Indonesia told spice lovers to grow their own chili
as shortages stoked prices. A wider variety of diet and greater
purchasing power for non-food items leave wealthier nations less
vulnerable to food-cost spikes.  Food makes up more than 30 percent of inflation indexes on
average in Asia, compared with about 15 percent in  Europe  and
less than 10 percent in the U.S., according to Rabobank Groep NV.
The sensitivity of their economies to swings in meat and
vegetable costs means emerging-market policy makers need to
raise  interest rates  more to stem inflation when global
agriculture prices soar.  “People can’t change their diets overnight,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore who has
analyzed Asian economies for more than two decades. “All
monetary policy can do is to try to contain what is perhaps a
supply disruption issue from broadening to the wider economy.”  Rice, the staple food for about half of the global
population, has surged 70 percent in the past year according to
futures traded on the Chicago Board of Trade. The export price
of rice from  Thailand , the world’s biggest exporter of the grain,
has jumped 23 percent.  Share of Prices  Within  Asia , home to 60 percent of the world population,
food’s weighting in consumer-price indexes varies from about 45
percent in the  Philippines  and India, to more than 30 percent in
China and about 10 percent in  South Korea , Rabobank says.  “For low-income countries, food expenditures normally
account for a larger share of the consumption basket,” said Yao
Xianbin, director general for the Regional and Sustainable
Development Department at the  Asian Development Bank  in  Manila .
“As countries get wealthier, food expenditure will account for
a declining share of total expenditure.”  Outside of Asia,  Mexico  has also seen challenges from
reliance on a relatively limited diet -- an increase in the cost
of tortillas, a staple of the nation’s diet since the Maya ruled
1,000 years ago, in 2007 stoked a slump in Mexican bonds and the
peso. President Felipe Calderon arranged a price freeze with
tortilla makers and the central bank boosted rates into 2008
even as the global financial crisis took hold.  Companies to Buy  Higher food costs have benefited some Asian food companies.
Bloomberg’s Asia Pacific Food Index of 50 stocks is up about 8
percent in 2011, while the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP)  index is down
0.7 percent. Pork prices have boosted producers such as Henan
Chuying Agro-pastoral Co., which has risen 15 percent this year.
Twelve of 13 analysts rate Henan, China-based Chuying a buy,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  In China, the rise in pork prices made up more than a fifth
of June’s overall inflation rate. An average Chinese will eat an
estimated 38.8 kilograms of pork in 2011, compared with 9.6
kilograms of chicken and 4 kilograms of beef, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Inflation has breached the Chinese government’s 4 percent
target for 2011 every month this year, with consumer prices
rising 6.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the most in
three years. The nation has raised lending rates five times
since mid-October.  Hog Research  The nation should invest in research for hog producers to
help steady costs, Shenggen Fan, director general of the
Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute,
said in an e-mail.  World food prices held near a record in June as the cost of
sugar, meat and dairy increased. An index of 55 food commodities
rose to 233.8 points from 231.4 points in May, the  United
Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization said July 7. The
gauge climbed to an all-time high of 237.7 in February.  A fivefold jump in Indonesian chili prices last year made
the spice costlier than beef, the Jakarta Globe reported in
January. Indonesian’s Agriculture Minister Suswono said at the
beginning of 2011 that the government will distribute chili
seeds to 100,000 households, the paper said. Bank  Indonesia ,
while trailing counterparts from Thailand to  Malaysia  this year,
raised rates in February.  India’s Onions  In India, where the price of onions has at times become an
election issue, the central bank has raised rates 10 times since
the start of 2010. The world’s second-biggest onion grower said
in December it would buy the vegetable from abroad and banned
exports after excess rainfall damaged crops and stoked prices.  About 42 percent of Indian households are vegetarian and
rely on pulses -- edible seeds of leguminous plants -- for
protein, according to a  report  submitted to the FAO by the
International Food Policy Research Institute. The country
accounts for 73 percent of the world’s  production  of tur dal,
one of its staple seeds.  “Some part of food inflation is due to higher prices of
staple pulses which are very specific to India,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. “It is very
specific consumption and there is no adequate supply of these
commodities in the global market.”  Indian food-price inflation quickened to a three-week high
of 8.31 percent in the week ended July 2, before easing to 7.58
percent the following week. The nation’s benchmark wholesale-
price index climbed 9.44 percent last month from a year earlier,
after a 9.06 percent pace in May.  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , an
adviser to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , said this week it will
take “several months” to bring inflation to an acceptable
level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  