-- 
Rice From India at $400 a Ton May Cut Global Prices, Group Says

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-07-20T09:02:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/rice-from-india-at-400-a-ton-may-cut-global-prices-group-says.html
Global rice prices may tumble after
 India  authorized the first private exports in three years at
cheaper price than competing shipments from  Thailand  and Vietnam,
the biggest traders, according to an exporters’ group.  Private companies in India can export 1 million metric tons
of non-basmati rice at a minimum price of $400 a ton, the
Directorate General of  Foreign Trade  said in a notification on
its website yesterday.  “This policy will affect rice farmers everywhere in the
world,” Vijay Setia, president of the All India Rice Exporters
Association, said in a phone interview today. In Thailand, the
biggest shipper, the rice-export benchmark was set last week at
$555 a ton, according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
 Vietnam ’s rice prices gained 6.5 percent to $493 a ton in July
from June, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Cheaper supplies from record stockpiles in India may
undermine efforts by Thailand and Vietnam to boost shipments and
cap global food costs tracked by the  United Nations  that
advanced in June for the 10th time in the past 12 months.  Thai rice prices, the benchmark for  Asia , have surged on
speculation the newly elected government led by Pheu Thai Party
may implement a pledge to buy the grain from farmers above
market rates. Export prices may surge to $810 a ton by Dec.
31, according to the median estimate of six millers, exporters
and traders who commented after the Pheu Thai party’s victory.  Rice on the Chicago Board of Trade gained as much as 2.1
percent to $16.895 per 100 pounds and traded at $16.725 at 2:24
p.m. in Mumbai. Futures have surged 70 percent in the past year.  Production Gains  India banned private companies from shipping wheat in early
2007 and non-basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster domestic
supplies amid a global food crisis. Rice production gained 7
percent to 95.32 million tons in the year ended June 30, from
89.1 million tons a year earlier, farm ministry said yesterday.  Record stockpiles with government agencies may not prevent
an increase in open market prices as private companies will
compete to secure grain for exports, Setia said.  The minimum export price “will push up prices of rice
meant for poor people in the country, increasing inflation,”
Setia said.  The benchmark wholesale price inflation in India
accelerated to 9.44 percent in June, staying above 8 percent
since December 2009. It will take several months to reduce
inflation to “an acceptable level,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia ,
the deputy chairman of India’s planning commission, said in an
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  