-- 
Rozario to Leave Fullerton Financial in Latest Temasek Unit CEO Departure

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-20T03:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/rozario-to-leave-fullerton-unit-adding-to-temasek-units-ceo-departures.html
Temasek Holdings Pte said Francis
Rozario resigned as chief executive officer of Fullerton
Financial Holdings, the  Singapore  sovereign firm’s unit which
invests in banks.  Rozario, who will leave Fullerton Financial at the end of
July, will be replaced by Gan Chee Yen, Temasek’s co-chief
investment officer and senior managing director of special
projects, said Tan Yong Meng, a Temasek spokesman. Rozario will
remain as adviser to Fullerton Financial’s board, Tan said.  Two other Temasek units also face changes in leadership.
Seatown Holdings Pte, its global  investment company , is losing
its co-heads two years after it was set up, while Temasek’s
executive director and president, Hsieh Fu Hua, is helping to
oversee the Singapore-owned investment company’s Fullerton Fund
Management Co. as the unit seeks a CEO.  Fullerton Financial  invests  in financial institutions in
emerging markets and its holdings include stakes in  China 
Construction Bank Corp. and  India ’s ICICI Bank Ltd. Gan will
retain his senior managing director role at Temasek, Tan said.  Charles Ong and Nasser Ahmad are quitting as co-chief
executive officers of Seatown, funded with more than S$4 billion
($3.2 billion) from Temasek, two people with knowledge of the
matter said this week. The  succession plan  is being completed,
the people said.  Increasing Assets  Ong, who is also senior managing director of special
projects at Temasek, will continue in that role, said the
people, asking not to be identified because they are not
authorized to comment publicly before an announcement. Ahmad,
co-founder of DiMaio Ahmad Capital LLC, a New York-based asset
manager specializing in credit markets, will be returning to
 fund management , the people said.  Temasek said this month the value of its assets climbed 3.8
percent to a record S$193 billion in the year to March 31, and
profit more than doubled on increased contributions from its
holdings. The Singapore-based company spent more in emerging
markets including China, India,  Brazil  and Mexico, as developing
nations led the global economy’s recovery from its worst
recession since World War II.  The percentage of financial services in Temasek’s portfolio
rose to 36 percent from 35 percent last fiscal year.  Reuters reported Rozario’s departure yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  