-- 
Russia RTS-Index Futures Fall as Traders Await European Signals

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-20T20:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/russia-rts-index-futures-fall-as-traders-await-european-signals.html
Russia  RTS stock-index futures fell
for the first time in three sessions on concern that European
policy makers meeting today in Brussels won’t be able to stop
the sovereign-debt crisis from spreading across the region.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.2 percent to 192,150 yesterday.  Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer,
fell 0.1 percent and those on OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-
biggest oil producer, rose 0.1 percent. Futures on OAO Gazprom,
the world’s largest gas producer, were little changed.  European officials aim to prove to markets that  Europe  has
the will and the tools to prevent the 21-month sovereign debt
crisis from extending to Spain and  Italy . European officials are
considering the use of precautionary credit lines, a step that
Germany previously rejected, to staunch the debt crisis, said a
person close to the talks who declined to be named because
negotiations are in progress.  “The focus right now is on Europe,” Yan Gloukhovski, a
trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York branch of
Russia’s Alfa Bank, said in a phone interview. “As long as
there’s a lack of consensus in Europe, there’s not going to be a
strong rally in the Russian market. Europe is an overhang right
now.”  Crude for August delivery advanced 0.7 percent to settle at
$98.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after a
report showed that U.S. supplies dropped as refineries bolstered
fuel output. Oil and gas account for 17 percent of Russia’s
gross domestic product.  The euro rose to the highest level in almost a week versus
the dollar, climbing 0.5 percent to $1.4220. Some investors buy
dollar-denominated assets to protect value when the dollar
weakens against the euro and sell them when the dollar gains.  U.S. stocks fell as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
slipped 0.1 percent. The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.1 percent
to 1,701.37 in Moscow yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  