-- 
Russia Detains Former Rosatom Deputy Chief in Embezzlement Probe

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-07-20T17:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/russia-detains-former-rosatom-deputy-chief-in-embezzlement-probe.html
Russia  detained a former deputy
chief of state-controlled nuclear holding company  Rosatom Corp. 
on suspicion of fraud and embezzlement, the Interior Ministry’s
economic security department said.  Yevgeny Yevstratov, who oversaw nuclear safety at the
company between December 2007 and April this year, is accused of
embezzling 110 million rubles ($3.9 million) in state funds, the
ministry said on its  website  today.  Rosatom is working closely with law-enforcement agencies
and supplied the evidence that prompted the criminal probe, the
Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Yevstratov
didn’t answer his mobile phone when called for comment by
Bloomberg today.  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption Perceptions
Index  issued in October, sliding to 154th among 178 countries,
alongside Tajikistan and  Kenya . President  Dmitry Medvedev , a
former lawyer, has made tackling graft and bureaucracy key goals
of his presidency, advocating stronger legal institutions and
greater respect for the law.  Rosatom fired 35 top managers linked to corruption last
year and a further 12 officials were dismissed in the first half
of 2011, according to the statement.  Yevstratov and his associates are accused of
misappropriating 60 million rubles earmarked in 2009 to build
two nuclear-waste storage sites and another 50 million rubles
intended for research.  Law-enforcement officials are investigating other cases of
attempted embezzlement at Rosatom, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  