-- 
TSA to End Person-Specific Body Scan Images

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a
-- 
2011-07-20T20:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/tsa-to-end-person-specific-body-scan-images.html
Body scanners at U.S. airports will
stop creating person-specific images for passenger screening
after complaints by privacy advocates.  The TSA will install software that will use a generic body
outline in scanning for items that could pose a threat to
passengers, the Washington-based U.S. Transportation Security
Administration said in a statement today. Passengers will be
able to view the same outline as TSA officers. If a potential
threat is detected, additional screening will be required.  “This is a positive step forward to improve TSA’s
screening procedures at U.S. airports through increased privacy
for individual travelers,” Representative Mike Rogers, an
Alabama Republican who chairs the House Homeland Security
subcommittee that oversees TSA, said in an e-mail. Rogers has
called for more risk-based screening procedures at airports.  Privacy advocates and passenger-rights groups have raised
concerns about the images generated by body scanners, which show
non-metallic items under clothing. Last week, a federal appeals
court rejected a claim by the Electronic Privacy Information
Center that the scans violate constitutional and federal
protections against unreasonable searches. The “naked” images
are too graphic, the group has said.  The TSA will install the software on so-called millimeter
wave scanners, which use radio-frequency energy, in U.S.
airports in “the coming months,” Greg Soule, a TSA spokesman,
said by telephone. The agency will test the software on
backscatter scanners, which use low-intensity X-ray energy,
later this year. Almost 500 body scanners are in service in 78
U.S. airports.  ‘Pretty Substantial Change’  Eliminating the use of person-specific images “represents
pretty substantial change in agency policy,” Ginger McCall,
open government counsel for the Washington-based Electronic
Privacy Information Center, said in a telephone interview.  The group, a research and advocacy group focusing on
personal privacy and civil liberties, wants the TSA to make the
technical specifications of the software public, McCall said.  The TSA’s Soule declined to comment on publishing the
technological specifications.  The agency should stop using the scanners entirely, said
Brandon Macsata, executive director of the Washington-based
Association for Airline Passenger Rights.  “We feel there are better ways to balance security and
privacy,” Macsata said in a telephone interview.  The TSA uses body scanners made by L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. and OSI Systems Inc.’s Rapiscan Systems Inc.
division. Any additional machines that the TSA purchases will
come equipped with the technology, the agency’s Soule said.  The announcement won’t change Rapiscan’s manufacturing
plans, Rapiscan Executive Vice President Peter Kant said in an
e-mail. Torrance, California-based Rapiscan Systems, a closely
held division of Hawthorne, California-based OSI Systems, makes
security-detection technology for airports.  L-3 is upgrading the software on its 241 ProVision machines
in U.S. airports under a contract with the TSA, Jennifer Barton,
a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. New York-based L-3
makes military and homeland-security technology for the U.S.
government.  L-3 rose 64 cents to $82.17 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. OSI Systems added 11 cents to $43.86
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  