-- 
Sappi to Close Swiss Paper Mill After Failing to Find Buyer

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-07-20T12:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/sappi-to-close-swiss-paper-mill-after-failing-to-find-buyer-1-.html
Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest
maker of glossy paper, opted to close its Biberist mill in
 Switzerland  after failing to find a buyer for the operation.  The closure will reduce the company’s production capacity
by 500,000 tonnes a year, said the Johannesburg-based company.  “Production at paper machines 8 and 9 has already ceased and
production on the uncoated paper line will halt at the end of
August,” said Sappi in a regulatory statement today.  The company initially said on March 31 that it was
considering closing the Biberist plant as raw materials and
energy costs made it unprofitable. It later said it would try to
sell the plant, an option that has now failed, according to the
statement.  Sappi’s European operations produced 2 million metric
tonnes of paper in the six months through March, out of a total
4 million metric tonnes. The closure will affect 550 employees,
said Sappi.  “The process to find a suitable purchaser included
numerous discussions with interested parties and involved close
cooperation between local mill management and Sappi’s European
and global management teams to make the purchase as attractive
as possible,” said Sappi Fine Paper Europe CEO Berry Wiersum in
the statement.  Sappi said on May 23 that it had begun a process to close
the Adamas Mill in  South Africa ’s eastern city of  Port Elizabeth 
in order to minimize overhead costs and to reduce capacity.  Mondi Ltd. (MND) , Stora Enso Oyj and UPM Kymmene Oyj are among
papermakers to have closed mills as weaker sales lead to a glut.  Sappi shares fell 1.9 percent to 31.72 rand by 1:25 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 Kwong11@bloomberg.net  