-- 
Sarkozy’s Fight on Debt Crisis May Need French Dimension as Deficit Lags

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/sarkozy-s-crisis-fight-may-need-french-dimension-as-deficit-lags.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is
flying between Berlin and Brussels this week to fight  Europe ’s
debt crisis just as another challenge in shoring up the euro
waits for him back home.  France, Europe’s second-largest economy and the second-
largest contributor to the region’s bailout funds, is also among
its deficit laggards. The nation’s budget shortfall was the
sixth-biggest among the 16 countries that were euro members last
year. Excluding those now receiving bailout funds, only Spain
and Slovakia did worse.  With Greece’s debt crisis threatening contagion across the
region, Sarkozy flew to meet German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
yesterday to discuss the turmoil before leaders meet today in
Brussels. The pivotal role he’s seeking to maintain for France,
along with a top  credit rating , remains tarnished by its budget
shortfall and the prospect of a record trade deficit this year.  “On our current trajectory, we’re driving straight into the
wall,” said Jacques Mistral, an economist at the Paris-based
IFRI research group and member of the French prime minister’s
council of economic advisers. “There’s no room to maneuver.’’  The surge in borrowing costs for  Italy  shows investors are
ready to pounce on signs of economic weakness and puts France
one step closer to the front line of Europe’s debt crisis.
Italian 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era record exceeding
6 percent this week.  Crisis ‘Worry’  “I worry it will actually move to France,” said  David Blanchflower , a professor at Dartmouth College and former member
of the  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee.  While France has a AAA credit rating and its national debt
of 1.6 trillion euros ($2.3 trillion) is on a par with Germany,
its  budget deficit  amounted 7.1 percent of gross domestic
product last year. That compares with 4.6 percent for Italy, 9.2
percent for Spain and 3.3 percent for Germany.  Sarkozy, whose five-year term as president ends next May,
has repeatedly vowed to meet the government’s commitment to
slash the deficit to 4.7 percent next year and 3 percent in
2013. With pressure from investors mounting, Budget Minister
Valerie Pecresse said this week that Sarkozy is even willing to
drop a pledge not to raise taxes to meet them if necessary.  “We’ll keep this promise, and we’ll keep it whatever the
economic circumstances, whatever the growth and inflation
rates,” she said July 17. “If necessary, we’re ready to find
additional revenue.”  Socialists’ Promise  Even the opposition Socialists promise to improve public
finances if they win next year’s election. “We have to balance
the public accounts without delay,” said  Francois Hollande , the
leading contender to become Socialist candidate for president,
on the same day that Pecresse tried to reassure the markets.  France ’s budget shortfall may remain a challenge for
Sarkozy as long as the nation struggles to compete on overseas
sales. The nation’s share of European exports has dropped to
12.5 percent in the first five months of this year, down from
15.6 percent in 2000, according to Coe-Rexecode, an economics
consultancy that advises the French government.  France’s trade deficit exceeded 7 billion euros in both
April and May, more than in any previous month, and is on track
to reach a record for this year, according to Michel Martinez,
an economist at  Societe Generale  in Paris. Exports are below
their pre-recession level and “the contrast with Germany, which
has taken full advantage of the world recovery, could hardly be
more striking,” says Martinez.  Twin Deficits  To tackle France’s twin deficits, Sarkozy has started
easing  labor laws , raising the  retirement age , and investing in
research and education. Yet he or his successor needs to go
further and faster, by limiting increases in the minimum wage,
reducing spending on health care and unemployment benefits, and
improving its competitiveness, according to economists including
 Eric Chaney  at insurer AXA in Paris.  “France has a real problem,” Chaney, AXA’s chief economist,
said in an interview. “If you have competitiveness, you have
growth, and the public finances then become very easy to fix.
You enter into a virtuous cycle in terms of borrowing costs
because markets prefer countries with growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net  