-- 
Scene Last Night: Analeigh Tipton, Emma Stone, Tomei, Blige

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-20T19:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/scene-last-night-analeigh-tipton-emma-stone-ryan-gosling-steve-carrel.html
The world premiere of “Crazy,
Stupid, Love” last night featured free popcorn, bottled water
and some eye-catching outfits.  One backless number drew quite a few glances inside the
Ziegfeld Theatre, where the snazziest thing to look at is
usually the red velvet on the walls.  Guests included theater director and playwright George C. Wolfe, a slimmed-down Jonah Hill, and fashion and music mogul
 Russell Simmons , who will honor Mary J. Blige during a benefit
at his house in the Hamptons on July 30 for his Rush
Philanthropic Arts Foundation.  The stars arrived in a little parade:  Steve Carell ,
Julianne Moore, Ryan Gosling,  Emma Stone , Marisa Tomei and the
ethereal Analeigh Tipton channeling  Audrey Hepburn  with a tiara
and a taupe A-line dress. They took seats toward the back of the
center section.  The lights went down and  John Legend ’s “Save Room”
provided music as the first of several love stories began to
unfold.  Moore and Carell are long married but estranged, their son
loves the babysitter, and Gosling is the sexy single man who
helps Carell get his game back.  On the red carpet, Moore described the film as “more of a
dramedy than a romantic comedy,” and Carell called it
“moving.” The moral of the story, delivered brilliantly in a
middle-school auditorium: Everyone has a soul mate worth
fighting for.  Gosling Preens  That’s an old-fashioned message that left everyone in an
old-fashioned good mood. Though crammed in the aisles, the stars
patiently posed for iPhone and Blackberry photographs with
guests. Gosling in particular behaved as movie stars should.  When he left the theater, at around 10 p.m., greeted by
peals of high-pitched screams from fans across the street, he
smiled, raised his arm and waved as he walked slowly, like a
prince or a politician, to his car.  The after-party was at Tao. Outside it was Tipton’s turn to
pose with fans, and her big smile never dimmed. Inside, the
midtown-Manhattan restaurant’s giant Buddha looked down on an
auspicious movie launch. The film arrives in theaters on July
29.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 