-- 
SEC Sues Michigan Man for Insider Trading in Brink’s Home Security Shares

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-20T16:55:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/sec-sues-michigan-man-for-insider-trading-in-brink-s-home-security-shares.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a Michigan man, claiming he traded on
information he learned from a houseguest about the impending
acquisition of Brink’s Home Security Holdings Inc.  The SEC, in a complaint filed yesterday in  Manhattan 
federal court, claimed that Robert Doyle, 64, made $88,555 in
profits trading in Brink’s Home Security stock after an
investment banker for Tyco International Inc., the buyer,
inadvertently left behind a draft presentation on the deal.  According to the complaint, the unnamed Tyco banker visited
Doyle’s Michigan home from Aug. 23 to Aug. 27, 2009. While
there, the banker worked on a presentation to Tyco’s management
about a proposal to buy Brink’s Home Security, an installer of
security alarms operating as Broadview Security. Months later,
in December 2009, Doyle discovered the draft, according to the
SEC.  “On Jan. 13, 2010, during phone conversations with the
banker, Doyle gleaned from changes in the banker’s travel
schedule that the transaction was imminent,” according to the
complaint.  Doyle profited from trading in Brink’s Home Security stock
after the Jan. 18, 2010, public announcement of the deal caused
its price to jump 30 percent, according to the SEC.  Case Settled  Henry Putzel, Doyle’s lawyer, said his client has settled
the case and will turn over his profits and pay a fine. Putzel
declined to name the banker or identify the banker’s
relationship to Doyle.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was the financial adviser to Tyco on the
deal.  Brink’s Home Security was spun off from Brink’s Co. in
2008. Tyco closed the acquisition May 14, 2010, paying $2
billion in cash and stock. Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,
 Switzerland , combined the Brink’s Home Security business into
its ADT unit.  The case is U.S. v. Doyle, 11-CV-4964, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  