-- 
Capital Gains Tax Break Threatened by Bipartisan Senate Plan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/senate-debt-cutting-plan-yields-tax-cut-tax-increase-in-yardstick-shuffle.html
The bipartisan deficit-reduction
plan gaining momentum in the  U.S. Senate  would likely require
lawmakers to curtail or end the preferential tax treatment of
 capital gains  and dividends.  The proposal from the so-called Gang of Six doesn’t mention
capital gains and dividends. The plan’s goals for income tax
rates, federal revenue and progressivity would likely require
Congress to raise tax rates on investment income, said tax
analysts who favor and oppose preferential tax rates on capital
gains and dividends.  The proposal, which would lower income tax rates and
broaden the tax base, is similar to plans issued over the past
year by a bipartisan  fiscal commission  and the  Bipartisan Policy
Center  in Washington. Those plans suggested taxing capital gains
and dividends as ordinary income for the first time since 1990.  “You cut marginal tax rates and you still want to have a
progressive tax system, you have to tax capital gains,” said
Leonard Burman, a professor of public affairs at  Syracuse
University  in  New York  who helped write the Bipartisan Policy
Center’s report.  Individual and corporate income is taxed at a top rate of
35 percent. Dividends and capital gains on most assets held
longer than one year are taxed at 15 percent, under tax laws set
to expire at the end of 2012. The 2010 health-care law included
a new 3.8 percent tax on capital gains, dividends and other
passive income reported by high-income taxpayers, and that extra
tax is scheduled to take effect in 2013.  Addressing Revenue  The bipartisan proposal, as outlined in a five-page
document obtained by Bloomberg News, would require Senate
committees to produce legislation that would reduce spending and
raise revenue.  The Senate Finance Committee would be instructed to lower
tax rates, eliminate the alternative minimum tax and “reform”
tax breaks for health care, charitable giving and homeownership.  The outline calls for three individual income tax brackets
with a top rate between 23 percent and 29 percent, and the
corporate rate would drop to a single rate of between 23 percent
and 29 percent. The tax system would need to retain its current
progressivity and keep benefits for low-income workers such as
the earned income tax credit.  To make up the revenue and to offset lowering top income
tax rates on high earners, lawmakers will look at investment
taxation. The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation
estimates that preferential tax rates for capital gains and
dividends will cost the Treasury $84.2 billion in forgone
revenue this year. Eliminating the preference wouldn’t
necessarily raise that much money, because capital gains
realizations are sensitive to tax rates.  Capital Gains Benefits  More than 90 percent of the benefits of the lower  tax rate 
on capital gains go to the top 20 percent of taxpayers, with
almost half of the benefit going to the top 0.1 percent,
 according to the Tax Policy Center .  “As I read between the lines of the plan, the cap gains
and dividend rates are likely to rise,” said Alex Brill, a
research fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute , a
Washington policy center that supports free enterprise. Brill
was chief economist at the House Ways and Means Committee under
Republican Chairman  Bill Thomas .  Equalizing the rates for capital gains and wage income
would mirror the result of the last major overhaul of the  tax
code  in 1986. Later increases in the income tax rate and cuts in
the capital gains and dividends rates created today’s gap.  Burman said the change would discourage tax shelters that
take advantage of the gap between tax rates on wages and
investments.  ‘Rich People’  “If you can make wages look like capital gains, you’ve
saved a lot of money, and that’s what rich people do,” he said.  Mark Bloomfield, president and chief executive of the
American Council for Capital Formation, a  Washington  group that
advocates lower taxes on investments, said the congressional
conversation is focused too narrowly on lowering tax rates
rather than on what should be taxed.  “Don’t put taxing savings and investment in the same
category as special-interest provisions,” he said.  The senators’ proposal also calls for the Finance Committee
to create a territorial tax system, under which U.S.
multinational companies wouldn’t face taxes on income they earn
outside the country. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other
business groups have been urging Congress to make such a change.  Overall, the senators behind the plan are claiming to raise
$1 trillion in new revenue even as they cut taxes by $1.5
trillion by using different yardsticks in the same plan.  Revenue, Tax Cuts  The plan would generate more revenue than the U.S. would
collect if Congress were to extend all of the income tax cuts
scheduled to expire at the end of 2012. That makes it similar to
proposals released over the past year by President  Barack Obama 
and his bipartisan fiscal commission.  At the same time, it would be considered a tax cut under
official congressional scoring rules, which assume that the
Bush-era tax cuts expire as scheduled.  The numerical and ideological gap over the proper level of
revenue may be difficult for Congress to bridge. The House
Republican budget sets revenue at a level assuming all of the
expiring tax cuts are extended permanently and the health-care
law is repealed. That’s about $4.2 trillion less than the
Congressional Budget Office baseline over the next decade, and
about $2.7 trillion less than the senators’ proposal.  A report  from the House Budget Committee and Chairman  Paul Ryan  said the proposal lacks sufficient detail about how it is
measuring savings.  “It does not provide annual spending and revenue totals by
category, relying instead on savings relative to three different
baselines,” the report said. “So, it is unclear what exactly
the spending and tax proposals are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  