-- 
Senators Demand Answers on U.S. Cyber Warfare Policy

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T19:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/senators-demand-answers-on-u-s-cyber-warfare-policy.html
The Defense Department has failed to
deliver to Congress a report on U.S. cyber warfare policy that
would clarify the legal authorities and rules of engagement to
be used in the event of a cyber attack, the leaders of the
Senate Armed Services Committee said today.  “The continued failure to address and define the policies
and legal authorities necessary for the Pentagon to operate in
the cyberspace domain remains a significant gap in our national
security that must be addressed,” wrote Senators  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, and  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, in a
letter to Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  By law, the Pentagon was to report to Congress by March 1
on its cyber warfare policy, outlining a number of “critical
questions” that must be addressed in the new battlefield of
cyberspace, the senators said.  The Defense Department last week released a new “Strategy
for Operating in Cyberspace” that focuses on improving defenses
instead of threatening retaliation for attacks.  Levin, the committee chairman, and McCain, the ranking
Republican, said the policy fails to answer all the questions
demanded by Congress.  Among the unresolved issues, they wrote, are how to
preserve the president’s freedom of action in a crisis, the
rules of engagement for commanders, and what would constitute an
act of war in cyberspace.  Major Breaches  Congressional interest in cyber warfare has been growing as
reports proliferate of major breaches in cyber security. Deputy
Defense Secretary William Lynn disclosed last week that foreign
hackers stole 24,000 U.S. military files in a single attack on a
defense contractor in March.  Panetta, who took office this month, warned at his
confirmation hearing in June that “the next  Pearl Harbor  we
confront could very well be a cyber attack.”  Levin and McCain told Panetta in their letter that he
should explain why their unanswered questions are not yet
resolved if no report is forthcoming.  “We are aware of the letter and are reviewing for comment
back to the Senate,” said Lt. Col. April Cunningham, a Defense
Department spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 