-- 
Serbia Arrests Fugitive Commander Hadzic in Last Croatia War Crimes Case

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-07-20T15:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/serbia-arrests-fugitive-commander-hadzic-in-last-croatia-war-crimes-case.html
Serbia  arrested Goran Hadzic, the
last top commander sought by the International Criminal Tribunal
for the former Yugoslavia following its bloody breakup, meeting
an important condition to start European Union entry talks.  Hadzic, 52, a leader of Serbs in  Croatia  during
Yugoslavia’s 1990s dissolution, is accused of killing hundreds
of Croats, including more than 250 prisoners in Vukovar. He
faces 14 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity at the
tribunal in  The Hague . His lawyer said he wouldn’t appeal
extradition, allowing for his transfer to The Hague no earlier
than Saturday after being on the run since 2004.  “We did it for our people, for reconciliation’s sake,”
President Boris Tadic told reporters today. “We just closed a
dark chapter of our past.”  The arrest comes two months after the capture of  Europe ’s
most-wanted fugitive, Ratko Mladic, the top general during the
siege of Sarajevo and the Srebrenica massacre. Mladic, 69, who
was on the run since his 1995 indictment, was found in a Serbian
village near Belgrade using a false name. He was extradited to
the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague to stand
trial on similar charges.  Hadzic’s arrest completes the list of suspects sought by
the tribunal from Serbia. Since Oct. 5, 2000, when a pro-Western
and reform-oriented bloc of parties toppled President  Slobodan Milosevic , the western Balkan country has arrested and
extradited 45 people to The Hague.  EU Bid  Before the arrests, Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s government had been criticized by the EU for
dragging its feet on capturing Mladic and refusing to recognize
the independence of the breakaway province of Kosovo.  Serbia plans to follow its former Yugoslav partners
 Slovenia , an EU member since 2004, and Croatia, which concluded
entry negotiations on June 30. Croatia is set to join the
world’s largest trading bloc in 2013.  “This is a further important step for Serbia in realizing
its European perspective and equally crucial for international
justice,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in an e-mailed statement. “We
salute the determination and commitment of Serbia’s leadership
in this effort.”  Tadic said that Serbian talks to join the EU “won’t be
easy,” though he believes the country will win candidate status
in December.  Kosovo  Dilemma  “Serbia is making good progress to catch up with Croatia,
but I still think that the EU would want to see a broader Balkan
expansion next round,” Timothy Ash, chief economist for
emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London ,
said in an e-mailed comment. “Obviously the Kosovo issue is
still something of a dilemma for the EU.”  The dinar weakened for a third day, retreating 0.56
percent to 104.67 per euro by 5:07 p.m. in Belgrade.  Hadzic was arrested today at 8:24 a.m. in the region of
Fruska Gora, northwest of the capital Belgrade, by state
security agents, Tadic said.  He was armed with a handgun, had fake identification and
was hiding under a false identity. Security services from other
countries also cooperated with the arrest, officials said.  Out of Money  Serbia’s chief  war crimes  Prosecutor, Vladimir Vukcevic,
said police findings of various paintings last December,
including a photo of an Amadeo Modigliani painting, helped
security services arrest Hadzic after he “ran out of money to
hide.”  In December, police said Hadzic may be trying to finance
his life in hiding through the sale of art, including a
Modigliani painting worth millions of dollars.  “With the arrest of Hadzic now and Mladic earlier this
year, Serbia has closed an important chapter in the pursuit of
justice for the many victims of the tragedy of conflict and wars
in this region” and “advancing the European integration
aspirations of Serbian citizens,” U.S. Ambassador to Serbia
Mary Warlick said in a statement.  Serbia wants to use its improved relations with the EU to
close the gap with the 10 former communist countries in eastern
Europe that have joined the trading bloc since 2004.  Gross domestic product per capita was $5,260 last year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , compared with
$13,527 in Croatia, a former  Yugoslavia  partner that is in talks
to enter the EU, and $38,600 in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 Msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
NI BALKANS
NI EEU
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI GEN
NI GOV
NI POL
NI SERBIA
NI EU
NI CROATIA
NI SLOVENIA
NI MONTENEGRO
NI BOSNIA
NI MACEDON
NI ECO
NI UN
NI BENELUX
NI CRIME
NI GEN 