-- 
Slash Rocks, Rufus Mumbles, Swinging Sixties: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-20T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/slash-rocks-swinging-sixties-rufus-wainwright-mumbles-london-weekend.html
Rufus Wainwright is coming to the
end of his five-night marathon at the Royal Opera House.  Tonight, he’ll be joined by father Loudon Wainwright III,
with Judy Garland songs on Friday. On Saturday, he sings his own
material after Janis Kelly stars in a concert version of his
opera “Prima Donna.”  “House of Rufus: Five Nights of Velvet, Glamour and
Guilt” runs until July 23. Some tickets are still available.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  Close by in Covent Garden, you’ll find excellent,
inexpensive food at the new Opera Tavern. (Try the bar or a
ground-floor table.) Meat skewers and mini-burgers are a must
for carnivores; stuffed courgette flowers will please others.
Information:  http://www.operatavern.co.uk  and +44-20-7836-3680.  For some revolutionary fun, meet the Tahrir Square
troubadours who helped bring about regime change in  Egypt ,
including Suez band El Tanbura and singer-songwriter Ramy Essam.  They play the Barbican Hall on Friday for a “Night on
Tahrir Square.”  Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or
+44-20-7638-8891.  The concert is part of the Mayor of London’s Shubbak
Festival of Arab culture:  http://www.london.gov.uk/shubbak .  Saturday  Learn how to fashion your very own Renaissance altarpiece.  A free exhibition at the National Gallery shows how
altarpieces were originally used, how they were put together and
framed, and how they were dismembered into exquisite fragments
that now stand alone as museum displays.  Bringing it all to life is a reconstituted church interior
with a 15th-century cross, flickering candles and choral music.
The wall-to-wall altarpieces inside include Luca Signorelli’s
circumcision of Christ.  “Devotion by Design: Italian Altarpieces Before 1500”
ends Oct. 2 at the National Gallery. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  or +44-20-7747-2885.  The nearby Massimo restaurant in the new Corinthia Hotel
serves gourmet Italian food in opulent surroundings. Just check
your credit-card balance first.  Information:  http://www.corinthia.com  and +44-20-7930-8181.  Saturday Night  London’s summer music festival season breaks the sound
barrier with High Voltage starting Saturday. The event is topped
by Slash, whose music has been getting louder, heavier and
faster since his time in Guns N’ Roses.  Heavy-metal rockers  Judas Priest  play their final London
date on a “Farewell” world tour. The 40-year-old band blasts
out “Grinder” and other songs that have helped it sell 50
million copies of albums and singles.  Information:  http://www.highvoltagefestival.com .  Sunday  David Bowie  poses for an album cover with a lightning flash
across his face. John Lennon grins.  Michael Caine  lights up.  All are portraits in a show by the late photographer Brian
Duffy, who captured London in the swinging 1960s and ‘70s. Duffy
might have been as famous as fellow East Enders Terence Donovan
and David Bailey had he not quit the business and burned lots of
his negatives in 1979.  Organizers have trawled the archives to present Duffy shots
of everyone from Prime Minister Harold Wilson to Jean Shrimpton,
Brigitte Bardot, Sidney Poitier and William Burroughs.  Idea Generation Gallery, 11 Chance Street, Shoreditch,
London E2 7JB, through Aug. 29. Open weekdays 10 a.m.-6 p.m.;
weekends 12 p.m.-5 p.m. Limited-edition prints are for sale.
Information:  http://www.duffyphotographer.com/  +44-20-7749-6850,
 http://www.ideageneration.co.uk .  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 