-- 
Slovakia Has Until Aug. 18 to Answer EU Questions on Carbon-Permit Tax

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-07-20T15:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/slovakia-has-until-aug-18-to-answer-eu-questions-on-carbon-permit-tax.html
Slovakia has until Aug. 18 to
provide the European Union with more information about the one-
off 80 percent tax on excess carbon dioxide allowances under the
bloc’s  emissions trading  system, according to the EU.  Slovak lawmakers approved in December the introduction of
the tax, which may raise as much as 70 million euros ($99
million). They overruled a veto by President Ivan Gasparovic,
who said the move is retroactive and not in line with the
country’s commitment to reduce  greenhouse gases  blamed for
global warming.  The tax is preventing some trade in the nation, including
swapping more-valuable EU allowances for cheaper United Nations
Certified Emission Reduction credits, said Jan Pravda, director
of Dublin-based CO2 brokerage Carbon Warehouse.  “This tax has totally paralyzed the ability of Slovak
companies to execute swaps as the proceeds from the sale of EU
allowances are taxed regardless whether they are used for the
purchase of CERs or not,” Pravda said today by e-mail from
 Prague . “It is complete nonsense.”  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, in June
sent a letter to the Slovak government to seek “further
clarification with regard to the tax” and its compatibility
with the bloc’s law on emissions trading, Isaac Valero-Ladron,
climate spokesman for the commission in Brussels, said today.  “To date, no formal infringement procedure has been
initiated,” he said by e-mail. “A decision on this will only
be taken in the light of the Slovak reply.”  The EU emissions trading system imposes pollution limits on
more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturers, including
Electricite de France SA,  Europe ’s biggest power generator and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the continent’s largest oil company,
allowing those that emit less than their quota to sell surplus
permits. One permit gives the right to discharge one metric ton
of carbon dioxide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 