-- 
South African Fuel Worker Strike Eases as De Beers Faces Mines Walkout

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-20T16:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/south-african-fuel-worker-strike-eases-as-de-beers-faces-mines-walkout.html
South Africa ’s Solidarity union,
among labor groups whose oil industry members have been on
strike, said they would return to work, easing the threat of
fuel shortages. De Beers, the largest producer of diamonds, and
coal companies face disruptions after pay talks failed.  Solidarity has suspended industrial action because it’s
“the responsible thing to do,” Secretary General Dirk Hermann
said by phone from Johannesburg today. In contrast, the General
Industries Workers Union, or GIWU, said it may intensify the
strike, now in its second week. The Chemical, Energy, Paper,
Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union said it plans an
announcement on the stoppage tomorrow.  Oil companies  have improved their wage offer to an 8
percent increase from 7 percent, and are offering 10 percent for
entry-level workers. The unions are demanding increases of 11
percent and 13 percent.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s South African
unit said supplies at its filling stations in Gauteng, the most-
populous province, are showing a “steady improvement.”  Solidarity’s decision to send members back to work
indicates that “some aspects of the strike are losing steam,”
said Ivan Israelstam, who heads Labour Law Management Consulting
in Johannesburg. “The parties still seem far apart,” he said.  The GIWU has told  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest producer
of liquid fuel from coal and the main employer of its members,
that workers will march to the company’s head office in
Johannesburg on July 27 if no agreement is reached, negotiator
Edson Ntsibande said by mobile phone.  Inflation ‘Skyrocketed’  De Beers workers plan to start striking July 22 after talks
with the  National Union of Mineworkers  failed to secure an
agreement, the NUM said in a statement today. Workers are
demanding an increase of 15 percent, while  De Beers  is offering
7.5 percent plus a one-time payment of 2,500 rand ($362), it
said in an e-mailed statement.  The NUM said its members had to cope with a 31 percent
increase in electricity prices, while food inflation had
“skyrocketed.” South Africa’s annual inflation rate is
currently 4.6 percent.  South African coal-mine workers may strike after unions
declared a dispute with the Chamber of Mines, which represents
most major coal producers, the employers’ group said in an e-
mailed statement today.  A strike can be called with 48 hours notice, the Chamber
said. The body improved its pay offer to between a raise of 7
percent and 8.5 percent, depending on the worker’s job grade.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are
members of the Chamber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in London at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  