-- 
Shell, BP Pay Talks Set to Resume in South Africa Tomorrow to End Walkout

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-20T07:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/south-african-oil-strike-to-continue-today-labor-union-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
other  oil companies  operating in  South Africa  will probably
resume pay talks to end a 10-day strike that has caused fuel
shortages.  “We are consulting our members with a view to going back
to the negotiating table tomorrow,” Clement Chitja, a spokesman
for the  Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied
Workers Union , said today by mobile phone. While the union, one
of four on strike, may temper some demands, it won’t settle for
pay increases of less than 10 percent, he said.  Shell, BP and Petroliam Nasional Bhd’s  Engen Ltd.  unit have
reported shortages at gas stations in Gauteng province, which
consumed 37 percent of the country’s gasoline in 2009, as
protests by striking workers hampered truck deliveries.  Sasol
Ltd. (SOL) , the country’s largest producer of motor fuels, reduced
production at its Secunda plant.  Employers are offering an 8 percent wage increase,
exceeding consumer inflation of 4.6 percent. The inflation data
can’t be used as a benchmark because the calculation used to
compile it is flawed, underestimating price gains, Chitja said.  Mxolisi Ratsibe, chairman of the National Petroleum
Employers Association, didn’t immediately respond to a message
left on his mobile phone today.  South Africa has six refineries with a combined processing
capacity 692,000 barrels a day. They distribute fuels, mainly
gasoline, by pipelines, rail, sea and road to about 200 depots,
which in turn send fuel to about 4,600 gas stations, according
to the South African Petroleum Industry Association’s  website .  The country consumed about 11.3 billion liters (3 billion
gallons) of gasoline and 9.1 billion liters of diesel in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 