-- 
South Africa May Keep Benchmark Interest Rate at 5.5% to Help Spur Economy

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-21T08:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/south-africa-may-keep-key-rate-at-5-5-to-help-spur-economy.html
South Africa ’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today to
support the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy and as the
rand’s gains help keep price pressures under control.  Governor Gill Marcus will leave the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent, according to all 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
She is due to announce the decision in a televised press
conference starting at 3 p.m. local time.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the key rate unchanged this year,
after lowering it three times in 2010, even as it forecast
rising fuel costs may push inflation above the bank’s 3 percent
to 6 percent target range next year. Growth in retail sales was
stagnant in May, while manufacturing rose just 0.6 percent in
the same month, according to the statistics office.  “Even though the inflation rate increased quite
vigorously, the Governor will paint a picture of a weak growth
story,” said Ilke Smit, an economist at Metropolitan Asset
Managers in  Cape Town . “An interest rate increase now will hurt
consumers and we’ll probably see more retail numbers” such as
those published yesterday.  A government report yesterday showed inflation accelerated
to 5 percent in June from 4.6 percent in the previous month, in
line with the median forecast of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Retail sales fell 4.7 percent in May from the
previous month, after gaining 2.6 percent in April, the
statistics office said in a separate statement.  Falling Fuel  Rising food and fuel costs will probably push inflation
above 6 percent in the first quarter of next year, peaking at
6.3 percent before returning to within the target by the second
quarter, Marcus said after the last Monetary Policy Committee
meeting on May 12.  Since then, crude oil has dropped 1.9 percent in  New York ,
the government cut the price of gasoline by 3 percent on July 6,
and the rand has gained 2.1 percent against the dollar to trade
as high as 6.8428 in Johannesburg today. A debt crisis in  Europe 
has also worsened since last month, spreading to Italy and
 Spain .  “The benign inflation print should combine with the recent
weakness in Europe to give the Reserve Bank enough comfort to
leave policy rates on hold for the rest of this year,” Michael Kafe, an economist at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg, said in a
note to clients. Morgan Stanley on July 13 changed its forecast
for an increase in the bank’s rate to the first quarter of 2012,
from September.  Manufacturing rose 0.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
after expanding 0.2 percent in the previous month, the
statistics office said on July 12. The economy shed 14,000 jobs
in the first quarter, pushing up the  unemployment rate  to 25
percent, the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  