-- 
South Korea’s $3.7 Billion Olympic Train Set to Reverse Construction Slump

-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-20T15:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/south-korea-s-3-7-billion-olympic-train-set-to-reverse-construction-slump.html
South Korea ’s hosting of the 2018
Olympics is triggering an $8.4 billion building boom that will
expand the nation’s high-speed rail network and create a winter-
sports destination targeting millions of Chinese tourists.  Organizers  will spend $3.7 billion on a train running from
the central city of Wonju to host cities Pyeongchang and
Gangneung in the east. Another $1.4 billion is earmarked for six
athletics venues, accommodations and media facilities, according
to International Olympic Committee documents.  Those plans may benefit the largest Korean construction
companies, which are grappling with weak home sales and
tightening credit. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., the
largest builder;  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , the second-biggest; and
Hyundai Rotem Co., the nation’s biggest maker of train cars, all
expressed interest in bidding for Olympic contracts.  “The domestic  construction industry  has been going through
hard times in recent years because of the slump in the housing
market,” said Byun Sung Jin, an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Seoul. “It will not only breathe some life
into the region but also to the entire nation.”  Revenue from the Olympics may help builders fund new
projects after banks pared lending for real-estate developments
by 26 percent in the three years through 2010 on concerns about
bad loans, according to data from the Financial Supervisory
Service, the financial regulator.  $60 Billion Benefit  The average price for new homes fell 8.9 percent last year,
the biggest decline since 2002, Byun said. The economy is likely
to expand 4.3 percent this year, down from an earlier estimate
of 4.5 percent, the central bank said July 15.  Hyundai Engineering has gained 2.3 percent, compared with a
0.75 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi Index, since South
 Korea  was awarded the games July 7. Samsung C&T has gained 9.7
percent and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co. 5.3
percent in the same period.  The 2018 Olympics will generate 21.1 trillion ($19.8
billion) directly for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, with
another 43.8 trillion won in investment, tourism and branding
coming in the decade after, said Park Tae Il, a senior research
fellow at Hyundai Research Institute in Seoul.  Other cities have struggled with the aftermath of hosting
the Olympics, prompting an  IOC  study.  Vancouver , site of the
2010  winter games , reduced prices on condominiums in the former
athletes’ village by an average of 30 percent to spur flagging
sales, the  Canadian Press  reported in February.  Avoiding White Elephants  Beijing , host of the 2008 summer games, built a shopping
mall and underground tunnel near its Olympic stadium to help
cover operating costs, the state-run China Daily newspaper
reported last year.  “The government will have to be prudent in what projects
they spend on so they don’t gather dust after the games are
over,” Byun said. “We’ve seen that happen before and I’m
pretty sure that is on the top of the list of things the
government doesn’t want to repeat.”  South Korea was chosen over Munich and Annecy,  France , in
its third try for the winter games. The nation previously hosted
the 1988  Summer Olympics  in  Seoul .  Most athletic events -- including skiing and bobsledding --
will be in Pyeongchang, about 130 kilometers (80 miles) east of
Seoul in the Taebaek mountains. Skating and hockey competitions
will be held further northeast in Gangneung on the east coast.  High-Speed ‘Catalyst’  More than $1.4 billion was spent preparing Pyeongchang for
unsuccessful bids for the 2010 and  2014  winter games. Seven
venues were built, and two of them -- for curling and
snowboarding -- need upgrades for the 2018 Olympics.  The centerpiece of the forthcoming plan is a 113-kilometer
train connecting Wonju with Pyeongchang and Gangneung. The
existing  railroad  bypasses Pyeongchang, so travelers from Seoul
must get off at Wonju and take a bus the rest of the way.  That journey takes about two hours. The new train, which
can travel at speeds up to 250 kilometers per hour, will cut
that to 68 minutes, according to the IOC’s bid assessment.  Going to Gangneung will take another 12 minutes.
Construction could start later this year, with completion
scheduled for 2017.  “This rail line is absolutely necessary for the games,”
said Lim Jong Il, deputy director of the high-speed rail
division at the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs.
“The new Wonju-Gangneung railway can act as a catalyst to
expedite the national rail-line projects.”  Decade-Long Plan  South Korea has embarked on an 88 trillion-won plan this
decade to extend passenger and cargo networks by 39 percent to
4,934 kilometers. About 16 trillion won is for high-speed trains,
including the Olympic line and another linking Seoul with Mokpo
to the south.  Existing service between Incheon Airport and Seoul will be
upgraded so Olympic visitors can take one high-speed train all
the way from the airport to the venues.  The government plans to move about 27 percent of the
population by trains by 2020, compared with 16 percent now. The
percentage of cargo moving by rail would increase to about 19
percent from the current 8 percent.  “Korea needs to build up its rail network because it will
help to move not only people but cargo faster and more
efficiently,” said Heu Moon Wook, an analyst at KB Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Construction companies will play a
big role because they will not only have to lay down the tracks
but they will have to build bridges and make tunnels to go
through mountainous areas.”  Targeting Chinese  Hyundai Engineering, Hyundai Rotem and Doosan Heavy, South
Korea’s biggest maker of power equipment, said in e-mails they
believe the Olympics will generate business for them.  “With the recent decrease in public bidding projects, we
are definitely interested in the related projects,” said Sohn
Soo Keun, a spokesman for Samsung C&T.  Organizers will spend $927 million on Olympic villages and
broadcast centers, and $461 million on new venues -- two hockey
rinks, two skating rinks, an alpine ski run and a track for the
bobsled and luge, according to the bid. The venues should be
ready for testing by the end of 2016, said Jeong Hong Sub, a
spokesman for the Olympic bid committee.  South Korea told the IOC it wants the games to leave behind
a winter-sports destination for Asian tourists. The primary
target should be the Chinese, James Rooney, chief executive
officer of Market Force Co. in Seoul, said on Bloomberg
Television.  About 8.8 million people visited South Korea last year,
including almost 1.88 million from  China , according to the  Korea
Tourism Organization . The number of Chinese visitors may reach 3
million by 2012, according to the Ministry of Culture, Sport and
Tourism.  South Korea’s tourism sector is “significantly
underdeveloped” because the nation has concentrated on its
“tangible goods” sectors, Rooney said. Because of the Olympics,
the nation may attract as many as 50 million visitors by 2025,
potentially generating $50 billion-$100 billion in annual
spending, he said.  “The tourists that are going to be active in this part of
the world are going to be Chinese tourists,” Rooney said.
“They like to spend money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 Bmiller30@bloomberg.net  