-- 
Climate Change Capital Shelves Plans to Buy SSE Wind Farm Share

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-07-20T16:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/sse-won-t-complete-wind-farm-sale-to-climate-change-capital.html
Climate Change Capital Ltd., the
London-based environmental investor and advisory group,
postponed fundraising to buy a wind-farm stake owned by  Scottish
& Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , citing the financial climate.  Climate Change Capital tabled the fundraising due to
difficult market conditions, Daniel Cremin, a marketing
communications manager at the company, said today in an e-mail.
He declined to give details.  SSE, the U.K.’s second-largest power producer, agreed to
sell its 50 percent share in the 72-megawatt Braes of Doune wind
farm near Stirling in  Scotland  to Climate Change Capital in June
for 61.3 million pounds ($98.9 million). SSE, based in Perth,
said today in a separate  statement  that the sale of the 36-
megawatt share in question wouldn’t go ahead.  The decision was not related to the wider industry, which
is an excellent investment area, Cremin said. “We will continue
to explore opportunities to support the development of the wind
industry, which we see as a rapidly growing sector, vital for
the U.K.’s future economic success and security of  energy
supply ,” he said.  “It’s quite strange,” Ronan O’Regan, the London-based
director of energy and renewables at consultant PWC, said in an
interview by telephone. “Somebody’s got a bit of egg on their
collar.”  “When the original deal was announced you would have
thought Climate Change Capital would have had their funding in
place,” he said. “I assume what’s happened is some of their
backers must have had a change of heart and decided to pull out
of the project.” CCC declined to comment on his remarks.  The project financing market for operational wind assets
remains active, O’Regan said.  Continuing Discussions  The Braes of Doune investment was part of a new fundraising
and not an investment by the 200 million-euro ($284 million)
fund that Climate Change Capital manages,  the Climate Change
Capital Private Equity fund , according to Cremin.  “We continue to look to sell Braes of Doune and there are
interested parties that we will continue to be in discussions
with,” Justyn Smith, a spokesman at SSE, said today by phone.
SSE sold three wind farms to Infinis Plc, a renewable energy
company owned by  Guy Hands , in April.  The Climate Change Capital Private Equity fund the company
manages said on July 12 it led an 8 million-euro investment in
the French industrial wastewater-treatment company Orege SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  