-- 
ST-Ericsson Second-Quarter Net Loss Widens as Sales Decline

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-07-20T21:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/st-ericsson-second-quarter-net-loss-widens-as-sales-decline.html
ST-Ericsson , the semiconductor joint
venture between Ericsson AB and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , said its
second-quarter loss widened from a year earlier as sales fell.  The net loss was $221 million compared with a loss of $139
million a year earlier, the Geneva-based company said in a
statement today. Net sales fell to $385 million compared with
$544 million a year earlier and from $444 million in the
previous quarter.  “While the present financial situation is very tough, we
are on track to complete the transition to our new product
portfolio in order to realize our aim of profitable
leadership,” Chief Executive Officer Gilles Delfassy said in
the statement.  ST-Ericsson, which makes chips for mobile phones, has
struggled to turn profitable since it was formed in 2009 to
increase ties with handset makers and cut research costs. The
company is working on a line of processors for smartphones, the
fastest-growing handset category, as its older business in chips
for midrange feature phones declines. ST-Ericsson’s clients
include  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s top
two handset makers.  ST-Ericsson last month announced cost cuts aimed at saving
$120 million a year and pushed back the date at which it expects
to become profitable. The cuts will affect as many as 500 jobs,
the company said. It didn’t give a new target date for breaking
even, which it previously predicted for the second quarter of
2012.  The joint venture’s net financial position at the end of
the second quarter was “negative $427 million,” compared with
$43 million a year earlier, it said today.  ST-Ericsson expects net sales “to be about flat
sequentially,” in the third quarter, reflecting increased
revenue from new products “offset by lower R&D services sales
for advanced modem development and a continued decline in legacy
product sales,” it said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 