-- 
Summers Calls Senators’ Plan ‘Constructive Start’ Toward Reducing Deficit

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-20T16:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/summers-calls-senators-plan-constructive-start-toward-reducing-deficit.html
The so-called “Gang of Six” plan
in the Senate is a “very constructive start” to reducing the
deficit and solving the debt-ceiling crisis, said former U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers .  “It’s got a long way to go,” Summers, a professor at
 Harvard University , said of the proposal in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “In Business” with Margaret Brennan.
“There’s a lot that needs to be worked out underneath that
plan.”  President  Barack Obama  endorsed the bipartisan plan in the
Senate to cut the  budget deficit  by $3.7 trillion by using a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. While House
Republican leaders indicated a willingness to consider the
proposal, they and other members of their caucus stress their
opposition to a debt compromise that includes more taxes.  Summers called the plan “a remarkably constructive effort
at bipartisanship, at ambition, at balance in terms of both
expenditures and revenues and tax reform -- those are very
favorable developments.”  Obama said he will renew talks at the White House this week
with congressional leaders as the Democratic-led Senate and
Republican House pursue divergent paths toward ending the
stalemate over lifting the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.
If lawmakers don’t raise the ceiling by Aug. 2, the U.S. will
default on some of its obligations, according to the Treasury
Department.  “If you look at the fine print there’s an element there of
having a plan to have a plan,” Summers, 56, said of the “Gang
of Six” proposal in an earlier interview today on CNBC
Television.  “No one should suppose that this agreement on procedures
in the Senate means we’re there, or that we can breathe easily,
or get rid of the knots in our stomach about the debt limit
passing, but it’s an important first step,” he told CNBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  