-- 
Swap Rules Face Delay Without Bigger SEC Budget, Schapiro Says

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-20T23:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/swap-rules-face-delay-without-bigger-sec-budget-schapiro-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will delay rules for the derivatives markets and will
have only a “skeleton crew” tracking hedge funds if it doesn’t
receive a 2012 budget increase, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  “The new responsibilities assigned to the agency under the
Dodd-Frank Act are so significant that they cannot be achieved
solely by wringing efficiencies out of the existing budget,”
Schapiro said in testimony prepared for a hearing of the Senate
Banking Committee on the anniversary of Dodd-Frank enactment
tomorrow.  Citing its many new duties under Dodd-Frank, Schapiro
requested a $1.4 billion 2012 budget for her agency after a 2011
budget debate resulted in a $74 million increase to $1.2
billion. A budget bill crafted by  House Republicans  would keep
the SEC at its current spending level next year.  In the SEC’s new responsibility to oversee security-based
swaps, Schapiro said, market participants will face “further
delays and uncertainty” without more staff to process
registration requests. A “handful of staff” would monitor 750
advisers to  hedge funds  and private-equity funds.  At the same Dodd-Frank hearing, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Acting Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg will tell lawmakers
that banks deemed too big to fail must hold additional  capital
requirements  to cushion any losses during a failure and minimize
any reliance on the government for bailouts.  “Capital allows an institution to absorb large unexpected
losses while maintaining the confidence of its counter parties
and continuing to lend,” Gruenberg said in testimony prepared
for the committee. “Strong capital minimizes the likelihood
that large institutions will become troubled and need to be
resolved in some way by the federal government during an
economic downturn.”  The agency expects to report in its second-quarter results
next month that the deposit insurance fund balance will be
positive. The fund stood at a negative $1 billion as of the
first quarter this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 