-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb for a Second Day as Banks, Insurers Advance

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-20T16:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/swiss-stocks-climb-for-a-second-day-as-banks-insurers-advance.html
Swiss stocks climbed for a second
day, led by a rally in financial shares, as speculation mounted
that U.S. lawmakers will agree to raise the debt ceiling of the
world’s largest economy.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest
banks, advanced more than 3 percent in Zurich before tomorrow’s
European Union Summit on the region’s debt crisis.  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  also rallied.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, climbed 1.2 percent to 5,966.54 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also rose 1.2 percent.  “News that there was progress being made in raising the
U.S. debt ceiling along with some bumper earnings news has
helped cheer investor sentiment,” said Ben Critchely, a London-
based sales trader at IG Index.  Swiss stocks yesterday rose for the first time in four days
after Novartis AG reported profit that beat analyst estimates.
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) , Actelion Ltd. and ABB Ltd. are among companies
scheduled to report results tomorrow.  Stocks in Europe climbed today after U.S. President Barack
Obama praised a bipartisan Senate proposal for a $3.7 trillion
debt-cutting plan as lawmakers intensify efforts for a
compromise on government spending less than two weeks before a
threatened default.  Talks in Brussels  Separately, European leaders are meeting in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss measures to restore confidence in the euro
region’s creditworthiness. Officials are considering steps
previously rejected by Germany, including the use of
precautionary credit lines and enabling the main 440 billion-
euro ($624 billion) rescue fund to lend to recapitalize banks,
according to a person close to the discussions who declined to
be named as the talks are in progress.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, climbed 3.7
percent to 29.08 francs, the first gain in five days, while UBS,
the country’s largest lender, rallied 4.1 percent to 13.87
francs.  Julius Baer , the 121 year-old Swiss wealth manager, climbed
4.1 percent to 33.99 francs, Zurich Financial rose 2.3 percent
to 196.4 francs and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, increased 2.3 percent to 44.96 francs.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, increased 2.9 percent to 8.57 francs, extending
yesterday’s 5.8 percent advance. The company said today it has
acquired Mirial, a U.K. video-conferencing service for an
unspecified sum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  