-- 
U.K. Lawmakers Say News Corp. Obstructed  Police in Hacking Investigation

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-k-lawmakers-criticize-police-news-corp-over-phone-hacking.html
A panel of U.K. lawmakers said it
“deplored”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International unit for
obstructing a 2006 police probe into phone-hacking and is
“appalled” that detectives gave this as a reason for not
investigating further.  The Home Affairs Committee’s report into the News of the
World phone hacking scandal published today, was released within
hours of the committee’s final hearing into the scandal
yesterday. The committee wants the report, which focuses on
police investigations into the scandal starting in 2006, to
inform a parliamentary debate on the scandal later today, the
report said.  Paul Stephenson, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan
Police, and one of his deputies, John Yates, resigned this week
over their force’s handling of the case. As well as criticizing
the police, the report censured News International for not fully
assisting with the investigation.  “We are astounded at the length of time it has taken for
News International to cooperate with the police,” the report
said. “But we are appalled that this is advanced as a reason
for failing to mount a robust investigation. The failure of
lawbreakers to cooperate with the police is a common state of
affairs.”  Original Probe  Following the 2006 arrests of Clive Goodman, the News of
the World’s royal reporter, and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private
investigator who worked with him, the police asked News
International for details about who Mulcaire had worked for and
reported to, and a record of his work, according to the
committee’s report. While the company’s lawyers replied that
they wished to assist, “very little material was produced,”
the report said.  The report said that  Peter Clarke , the detective who led
the original investigation, told the committee: “I was as
certain as I could be that they had something to hide.”  A telephone message left with News International outside
business hours was not immediately returned.  The committee said the government needed to give more
resources to continuing investigations into the scandal, saying
that with 12,800 phone numbers identified as potential hacking
targets, it will take police “at least a decade” to notify all
victims.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with 
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net .
NWSA US <Equity>
BSY LN <Equity> 