-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Declines as Outlook for Economy, Spending Worsens

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-20T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-k-consumer-confidence-declines-as-outlook-for-economy-spending-worsens.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell in
June as Britons grew more pessimistic about the outlook for the
economy and spending,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  An index of sentiment declined 4 points to 51 from May,
when it rose because of a boost from an extra public holiday for
the royal wedding and warm weather, the customer-owned lender
said in an e-mailed report today.  “Confidence returned to a more subdued level in June as
the index again failed to build any sustained momentum to lift
it from its current low level,” Mark Saddleton, head of
economic and market analysis at Swindon, England-based
Nationwide, said in the report. “It is unlikely that we will
see a significant change in confidence while the recovery
struggles to develop momentum.”  U.K. inflation is outpacing wage growth, squeezing
consumers whose confidence is being undermined by concerns about
the government’s budget cuts. Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club cut
its forecast for 2011 U.K. economic growth this week to 1.4
percent from 1.8 percent as  Europe ’s debt crisis and weak
 consumer spending  weigh on the recovery.  A gauge of whether Britons think it is a good time to buy
household goods or major purchases such as a car or a home fell
6 points to 74 in June, Nationwide said. An index of
expectations for the economy in six months’ time dropped 7
points to 70.  Today’s report showed that Britons became less pessimistic
about the housing market last month. They expect the value of
their home will remain unchanged over the next six months,
compared with a prediction of a 0.2 percent decline in May.  Nationwide questioned 1,000 people for the survey between
May 23 and June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  