-- 
U.S. to End Contracts, Reassign Staff in Data-Center Closure

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-07-20T21:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-to-end-contracts-reassign-workers-in-data-center-closure.html
U.S. agencies plan to close 373 data
centers by the end of 2012, terminating contracts and moving
federal employees at the centers to new jobs.  The Obama administration is decommissioning the hardware
and software at the centers and will terminate contracts with
companies that operate the facilities for the government,  Vivek Kundra, U.S. chief information officer, said in a call with
reporters today.  The closures are part of a previously announced plan to
shutter 800 of the government’s more than 2,000 data centers by
2015, which the White House estimates will save $3 billion.
Agencies have closed 81 data centers since the initiative
started in February 2010 and will next month release details of
savings realized so far, Kundra said.  Cost savings will not result from laying off federal
employees, as “part of what we’re doing is making sure that
government employees are retooled,” Kundra said. Some contract
employees may be dismissed because “where we see duplication
and where we see no need for the contracts” being used to run
and support the centers, “they shall be terminated.”  “With data centers that run as large as three and a half
football fields, shutting down excess data centers will save
taxpayers billions of dollars by cutting costs for
infrastructure, real estate and energy,” Kundra said in a
statement today.  The federal IT community has expressed skepticism that the
data-center consolidation effort, led by Kundra, will retain its
momentum after he steps down in August. Agency officials
responsible for closing centers have also said it will be hard
to identify the source of the savings.  An example of the “the challenge in terms of determining”
savings is electricity costs, Kundra said. Sometimes the costs
are part of the budget of a building used for other purposes or
a broader contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  