-- 
U.S. Moves Toward Home ‘Rentership Society,’ Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-07-20T19:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-moves-to-rentership-society-as-owning-tumbles-morgan-stanley-says.html
The U.S. homeownership rate has
fallen below 60 percent when delinquent borrowers are excluded,
a sign of the country’s move toward a “rentership society,”
Morgan Stanley said in a report today.  The national rate, which stood at 66.4 percent at March 31,
would be 59.7 percent without an estimated 7.5 million
delinquent homeowners who may be forced into renting, according
to Morgan Stanley analysts led by Oliver Chang. The lowest U.S.
homeownership rate on record was 62.9 percent in 1965, the first
year the Census Bureau began reporting the data.  The homeownership rate reached an all-time high of 69.2
percent in 2004 as relaxed lending standards fueled home sales
and President  George W. Bush  promoted an “ownership society.”
Mortgage delinquencies, foreclosures and tighter credit for
housing loans are reducing property buying, Chang said.  “Taken together they are forcibly moving the country away
from being an ownership society,” Chang, based in  San
Francisco , said in an e-mail. “This change is only beginning,
and is moving the country towards becoming a rentership
society.”  U.S. existing-home sales dropped 0.8 percent in June to an
annual pace of 4.77 million, a seven-month low, the National
Association of Realtors reported today. The median projection in
a Bloomberg News survey called for an increase to 4.9 million.  Apartment Demand  The shift provides opportunities for builders of
multifamily homes and investors in single-family houses leased
to renters, Chang said in a phone interview. The U.S. apartment
vacancy rate fell to 6 percent in the second quarter, the lowest
in more than three years, research firm Reis Inc. said July 7.  Most Americans still aspire to own their houses and don’t
want to be renters forever, said Rick Davidson, president and
chief executive officer of Century 21 Real Estate LLC in
Parsippany,  New Jersey .  “It isn’t about the financial aspects, but about building
a family and having a part of the American dream,” Davidson,
whose company is a unit of Realogy Corp., said today during an
interview at Bloomberg’s offices in  New York . “What really
drives purchases at the end of the day is emotional and has to
do with lifestyle.”  There were 112.2 million U.S. households at the end of
March, according to the Census Bureau. Almost one-third of the
country’s 76 million homeowners had no debt or mortgage on their
home as of 2009, the most recent year for which the data are
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 