-- 
U.S. Commercial Property Prices Increased 6.3% in May, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-20T15:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-commercial-property-prices-increased-6-3-in-may-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices
increased in May for the first time in six months as a rebound
in distressed real estate helped boost values, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index rose 6.3
percent from April, the largest gain since the measure began in
2000. It’s down 11 percent from a year earlier and 46 percent
below the peak of October 2007, the company said today.  The index, which measures broad price trends, had fallen to
a record low in April as sales of distressed properties
undermined real estate values. Distressed deals in May began
contributing to rather than delaying a price recovery, according
to the Moody’s report.  “A number of transactions that were recorded in May had
their most recent prior sales in 2009 as the market was
beginning to bottom and subsequently traded for substantial
returns,” Tad Philipp, director of commercial real estate
research at Moody’s, said in a separate statement. “We are
likely to see a pickup in post-peak repeat sales and expect such
transactions to play an important role in helping drive the CPPI
higher.”  The index tracks repeat sales, which totaled 174 in May.
About 27 percent of deals involved distressed properties, which
Moody’s defines as assets in which a default, foreclosure
proceeding or bankruptcy of the owner has occurred. The share
was down from 30 percent in April. The dollar volume of repeat
sales of all properties jumped 33 percent, Moody’s said.  CoStar Report  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)  also reported rising prices in May.
Values of investment-grade commercial properties in the U.S.
rose 4.4 percent from the previous month and 5 percent from a
year earlier, the Washington-based data company said July 13.
Prices were down 35 percent from the peak of August 2007.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions of less than
$2.5 million. The company’s measure of values for all commercial
properties rose 1.6 percent from April. It is down 6.8 percent
from a year earlier and 34 percent from its highest point.  The dollar volume of sales increased along with the average
transaction size, CoStar said in its report. Investment-grade
deals averaged $33.2 million in May, almost double April’s $16.9
million.  Green Street Advisors Inc. , a real estate research company
in  Newport Beach ,  California , reported commercial property
values were little changed in June from the previous month and
up 20 percent from a year earlier. Prices are down 10 percent
from their peak, the company said July 7.  Green Street’s index is weighted by asset value and
includes deals that are in negotiation or under contract.
Moody’s tracks completed sales, which are equally weighted in
calculating the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  