-- 
U.S. Bancorp, PNC Post Higher Net Income as Loan Losses Ease

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-20T14:11:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-bancorp-pnc-post-higher-net-income-as-loan-losses-ease.html
U.S. Bancorp and  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) , ranked among the 10 biggest U.S. commercial
banks, reported higher second-quarter profit after setting aside
less money to cover bad loans.  U.S. Bancorp, the fifth-largest lender, said its 57 percent
increase in net income was aided by a 50 percent cut in loss
provisions. Its stock gained as much as 4.8 percent in New York
trading. PNC, ranked sixth, said profit rose 14 percent after
slashing provisions by two-thirds.  “Everybody built up these enormous reserves during the
crisis and despite the macroeconomic recovery being pretty weak,
credit trends, especially at the largest banks, are improving,”
R. Scott Siefers, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
New York, said today in an interview. “Virtually every company
I follow has had a much lower-than-expected provision.”  Lenders are draining reserves as overdue loans and defaults
drop from records set during the recession. While this boosts
income, bankers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  have said this doesn’t amount to “quality”
earnings. Investors focused instead on metrics such as revenue,
with Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp reporting a 3.8 percent
increase and Pittsburgh-based PNC posting a 7.9 percent decline.  U.S. Bancorp advanced $1.01, or 4 percent, to $26.04 at
10:06 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock is down 3.5 percent in 2011. PNC slid 25 cents to $55.58,
a drop of 8.5 percent for the year.  Loans Increase  Profit at U.S. Bancorp, led by Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis, 53, was $1.2 billion, or 60 cents a share.
Average total loans rose 4 percent from a year earlier, and net
interest income increased 5.6 percent.  “We expect net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to be
lower in the third quarter of 2011 and would expect to, once
again, release reserves if the current trends and our longer-
term credit outlook remain positive,” Davis said in a
statement.  PNC, run by Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 62, earned
$912 million, or $1.67 a share. The bank agreed in June to pay
$3.62 billion in cash and stock for Royal Bank of Canada’s U.S.
retail banking unit and related credit-card assets.  Profit at PNC’s existing retail business swung to a
$44 million second-quarter profit from an $18 million loss in
the first three months of 2011. It earned $80 million in the
year-earlier period. Net interest income fell 12 percent to $2.2
billion.  Credit Quality  “Our earnings in a soft economy benefited from improving
credit quality,” Rohr said in the statement.  U.S. Bancorp’s net interest margin, the difference between
what a bank pays on deposits and charges for loans, narrowed to
3.67 percent from 3.9 percent in the same period last year. PNC
dropped to 3.93 percent from 4.35 percent. Excluding provisions
and taxes, U.S. Bancorp’s profit rose only 5.7 percent and PNC’s
fell 25 percent.  “I’m afraid we’re not seeing a ton of revenue growth
anywhere,” Siefers said. “It’s degrees of ‘not good’ as
opposed to how much of a lift it’s going to bring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  