-- 
U.S. Bancorp Shares Rise as Earnings Top Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-07-20T20:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-bancorp-shares-rise-after-earnings-beat-analysts-estimates.html
U.S. Bancorp,  Minnesota ’s biggest
bank, rose the most in more than eight months in New York
trading after second-quarter profit beat estimates on a drop in
loan-loss provisions.  U.S. Bancorp gained $1.11, or 4.4 percent, to $26.14 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
increase since Nov. 4. The shares rose after Minneapolis-based
U.S. Bancorp said net income climbed to $1.2 billion, or 60
cents per share, from $766 million, or 45 cents, in the same
period a year earlier. The average estimate of 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 53 cents per share.  U.S. Bancorp, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis, 53, cut the provision for credit losses 50
percent during the second quarter as more customers paid on time
and charge-offs eased. The bank also benefited as lending
increased, including a 4 percent rise in average total loans
compared with the second quarter of 2010.  “Credit quality continued to improve during the second
quarter, as evidenced by favorable trends in net charge-offs,
nonperforming assets, delinquencies and criticized assets,”
Davis said in the statement. “We expect net charge-offs and
nonperforming assets to be lower in the third quarter of 2011
and would expect to, once again, release reserves if the current
trends and our longer-term credit outlook remain positive.”  U.S. Bancorp released $175 million from reserves, compared
with $50 million in the first quarter. The provision for credit
losses dropped to $572 million from $1.14 billion a year
earlier, while charge-offs fell 7.2 percent from the first
quarter and nonperforming assets decreased 6.2 percent.  Revenue climbed 3.8 percent to $4.69 billion.  Interest Income  Net interest income increased 5.6 percent to $2.54 billion
from $2.41 billion in the second quarter last year, the bank
said. The net interest margin, the difference between what a
bank pays on deposits and charges for loans, narrowed to 3.67
percent from 3.9 percent in the same period last year.  Federal regulators’ limits on debit-card “swipe” fees
could cost about $300 million a year in revenue, including $75
million in the fourth quarter this year, U.S. Bancorp said in a
presentation. The  Federal Reserve  capped debit-card swipe fees
at 21 cents a transaction June 29, reducing fees from an average
of 44 cents. The decision almost doubled the 12-cent ceiling
that the central bank first suggested in December.  The company had estimated before the regulation was
announced that caps on debit-card fees alone could cost $400
million in annual revenue. The lender said it will try to recoup
some of the projected revenue impact by imposing new fees for
checking accounts and other services.  Market Share  Davis has vowed to counter slow industry growth by taking
market share. The bank expanded during the credit crisis, adding
employees, upgrading technology and buying failed lenders in
government-backed deals.  The company said last month it will focus on boosting the
dividend after regulatory  capital requirements  become clearer.
The lender is aiming for a payout ratio of 30 percent to 40
percent in the long term, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cecere
said last month. U.S. Bancorp raised the quarterly payout 150
percent to 12.5 cents in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  