-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 15 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-20T14:36:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-july-15-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.6 million barrels per
day during the week ending July 15, 403 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 90.3
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging nearly 4.6 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.3 million barrels per day last
week, up by 343 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged just
under 9.3 million barrels per day, 269 thousand barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 881 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 92 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 3.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 351.7 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by 0.8
million barrels last week and are in the middle of the average
range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 3.4 million barrels last week and are
in the upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 2.0 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 3.8 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just under 18.9 million barrels per day, down by 1.6
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about
9.2 million barrels per day, down by 2.2 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
3.5 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by
2.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 1.8 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  