-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Corn Advances on Hot, Dry Weather

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-20T11:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-corn-advances-on-hot-dry-weather.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Corn Gains for Second Day as Hot Midwest Weather May Hurt Yields  Corn rose for a second day on speculation that hot, dry
weather in the U.S., the biggest grower and shipper of the
grain, will cut yields. Wheat gained as rain in Europe delays
harvest of the crop.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Liberia Won’t Let Shipowners Waive UN Carbon-Emission Rules  Liberia, which has the world’s second-biggest register of
ships after  Panama , won’t let vessel owners delay implementing
new rules designed to cut the industry’s carbon emissions.  Congo in Talks With Chevron, Petrobras on Oil, Gas Investment  The Democratic Republic of Congo is in talks with Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and Chevron Corp. about investing in the country’s
budding hydrocarbons industry, Oil Minister Celestin Mbuyu said.  Phoenix Solar Hopes to Win First U.S. Orders By End of Year  Phoenix Solar AG is confident it can win its first solar
plant order in the U.S. before the end of the year, said Paul
Caudill, chief executive officer of the German company’s U.S.
unit.  Ethanol Rebounding on Tax Credit, Price Discount: Energy Markets  Ethanol’s rebound from its worst quarter since early 2010
shows no sign of ending as refiners boost blending to capture a
tax credit that may expire at the end of July and the biofuel
enjoys a discount to gasoline.  Hedge on ‘Reckless’ Policies Drives Gold Price: BGOV Barometer  Record gold prices are an indication investors expect
governments will be slow to correct “reckless” fiscal
behavior, according to economist  Edward Yardeni .  Gold to Extend Gain If U.S. Raises Debt Limit: Chart of the Day  Gold may rally further from this month’s record if
President Barack Obama wins lawmakers’ agreement to raise the
U.S.’s debt ceiling, weakening the dollar and boosting demand
for the precious metal as a store of value, according to Korea
Investment & Securities Co.  China Soy-Import Binge Ending After Price Gain: Chart of the Day  China, the world’s largest soybean consumer, may be ending
a four-year binge on imported supplies from the U.S. after a
surge in prices to the highest level since 2008, according to
 Dale Durchholz  at Agrivisor LLC.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Stockpile Withdrawals Climb on Increases in New Orleans  Orders to withdraw copper from warehouses tracked by the
 London  Metal Exchange rose to the highest in three weeks on
bookings in New Orleans.  Copper Drops as Investors Sell After Climb to Three-Month High  Copper fell in London for the first day in four as some
investors sold the metal after it reached a three-month high
yesterday, along with zinc and lead.  Zinc Trades Near Three-Month High as Supplies May Be Limited  Zinc traded near a three-month high in London amid
speculation less of the metal may be available to users than
figures indicate.  MINING:  KazakhGold May Spend $1.4 Billion on Polyus Buyout, UralSib Says  KazakhGold Group Ltd., the mining company seeking to take
over its Russian parent OAO Polyus Gold, may have to spend $1.4
billion buying out minority shareholders who are against the
deal, according to UralSib Financial Corp.  Zijin Mining Falls in  Hong Kong  After Holder Offers Stake (3)  Zijin Mining Group Co.,  China ’s biggest gold producer by
market value, fell the most in a year in Hong Kong trading after
a shareholder offered a 5.6 percent stake for sale at a
discount.  BHP Fourth-Quarter Iron Ore Output Rises 14% on Expansion (3)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, said
fourth-quarter iron ore output rose 14 percent, driving an 11th
straight annual production record as Chinese demand pushes
prices to all-time highs.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Record Gold Price Fails to Deter Buying in India, Jeweler Says  Consumers in India, the world’s biggest gold user, are
boosting purchases of the metal for investment, undeterred by
record prices, according to jeweler Joyalukkas India Ltd.  Gold to Extend Gain If U.S. Raises Debt Limit: Chart of the Day  Gold may rally further from this month’s record if
President Barack Obama wins lawmakers’ agreement to raise the
U.S.’s debt ceiling, weakening the dollar and boosting demand
for the precious metal as a store of value, according to Korea
Investment & Securities Co.  Gold May Decline in London on U.S., European Debt Optimism  Gold may decline for a second day in London as optimism
policy makers are moving closer to resolving debt woes in  Europe 
and the U.S. cuts demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Advances to Four-Week High on Increasing Ramadan Demand  Palm oil climbed for a second day to the highest level in
four weeks after exports from  Malaysia , the second-largest
producer, grew on increased demand ahead of the Muslim fasting
month.  Argentina  Seeks to Export Corn to China From Next Year (1)  Argentina, the world’s second-largest corn exporter,
expects to begin shipping the grain to China next year, offering
an alternative to U.S. supplies, Undersecretary of Agriculture
Oscar Solis said.  Japan  Can’t Rule Out Possibility Contaminated Beef Was Exported  Japan’s government said it can’t rule out the possibility
beef contaminated with radioactive material has been exported,
as consumers and lawmakers accused authorities of negligence on
food safety.  Coffee Falls in London as Supplies May Be Adequate; Sugar Rises  Coffee fell for a fifth day in London on signs supplies
will be enough to meet demand even as top producer  Brazil  enters
a low-cycle production year. Sugar advanced.  FAO Calls for $120 Million to Respond to Horn of  Africa  Drought  The  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization said
it appealed for $120 million in response to a drought in the
Horn of Africa region to provide agricultural emergency
assistance.  SHIPPING:  Crude Oil-Tanker Surplus Swells in  Middle East , Survey Shows  The supply of oil tankers seeking 2 million-barrel cargoes
of crude from Middle East ports expanded in the past week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of shipbrokers and owners.  Adnoc to Keep Crude Supply Focus on China, India as Demand Rises  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state producer known as
Adnoc, will remain focused on exporting crude oil to  Asia  as
demand from China and India increases, a company official said.  ECONOMIES:  China Signals More Yuan Moves Before Anniversary of Policy Shift  China said that it can allow more yuan moves without
jeopardizing its foreign-exchange reserves after letting the
currency rise today to a 17-year high against the dollar.  China Leading Indicator Shows Economic Growth Quickening (1)  A Chinese leading indicator climbed, adding to evidence
that the world’s second-biggest economy is maintaining momentum
as Premier Wen Jiabao extends a campaign to cool inflation.  China Inflation Peaking to Bolster Stocks, JPMorgan Asset Says  Chinese government measures to curb property-price gains
and tame inflation are “at or close to the peak,” bolstering
the outlook for stocks, according to JPMorgan Asset Management.  Money Rates to Stay Near Record as Cash Drained: China Credit  China’s benchmark money-market rate will remain at about a
record high this quarter as the central bank drains cash from
the financial system to damp the fastest inflation in three
years, according to a survey of bond analysts.  Merkel, Sarkozy Seek Debt-Crisis Solutions Before Summit (1)  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet today to seek common ground on
fighting the debt crisis before a European summit that their
Greek counterpart says could make or break the euro.  BOE Voted 7-2 as Most See Less Need for Near-Term Rate Rise (2)  Bank of England  officials voted 7-2 to keep the benchmark
interest rate on hold this month as a majority of policy makers
said recent developments meant there was less need for a near-
term tightening.  Debt Compromise Pressure Intensifies as Obama to Resume Talks  A bipartisan Senate proposal for a $3.7 trillion debt-
cutting plan praised by President  Barack Obama  faces resistance
from House Republicans, as lawmakers intensify efforts for a
compromise on  government spending  less than two weeks before a
threatened default.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Rise on Apple as Treasuries Fall; Spanish Bonds Gain  Stocks rose for a second day as Apple Inc. led companies
reporting improved results. Treasuries and the dollar fell on
speculation the U.S. is close to a debt- ceiling compromise,
while Spanish and Italian bonds rallied before a European Union
summit.  Dollar Weakens as Stocks Rise on U.S., European Debt Optimism  The dollar fell against the euro for a second day as stocks
rose amid speculation policy makers are moving closer to
resolving a deadlock on U.S. borrowing and to finding an
agreement on Europe’s debt crisis.  European Stocks Rise for Second Day; BHP Billiton, ARM Advance  European stocks gained for a second day as speculation grew
that U.S. lawmakers will agree to increase the nation’s debt
ceiling and Apple Inc.’s profit topped estimates. Asian shares
and U.S. index futures climbed.  Asian Stocks Climb on Possible U.S. Debt Deal, Apple Earnings  Asian stocks rose, with the regional benchmark index set to
close at its highest level in a week, on optimism U.S. lawmakers
are moving toward a deal to help the government avoid a debt
default and after Apple Inc.’s profit topped estimates, boosting
the earnings outlook for exporters.  Oil Gains a Second Day on Shrinking Crude Stockpiles, Economy  Oil advanced for a second day in  New York  as investors bet
that shrinking stockpiles and signs of economic recovery in the
U.S. indicate fuel demand will increase in the world’s biggest
crude-consuming nation.  Cameron Faces Lawmakers in Bid to Limit Phone-Hacking Damage  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron will attempt today to
stop the News of the World phone-hacking scandal inflicting
further damage on his government as he faces the biggest crisis
since he came to office last year.  SPORTS:  Bolton May Bid $8 Million for Barcelona Winger Jeffren: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Suarez Double Lifts Uruguay Into Copa America Soccer Final (1)  Luis Suarez  scored twice as Uruguay beat Peru 2-0 to reach
the Copa America final, where it will try for a record 15th
South American soccer championship.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  