-- 
U.S. May Impose Sanctions on Iceland for Hunting Whales

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-20T15:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-may-impose-sanctions-on-iceland-for-hunting-whales-1-.html
The  United States  may impose
sanctions on  Iceland  because of the north Atlantic island’s
whale hunting.  “Iceland’s harvest of whales and export of fin whale meat
threaten an endangered species and undermine worldwide efforts
to protect whales,” U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  said in
an e-mailed statement. “It’s critical” that “Iceland take
immediate action to comply” with the ban on commercial whaling
imposed by the  International Whaling Commission .  The U.S. should push Iceland to change its policy by
linking Arctic cooperation projects to commercial whaling and
persuade other countries to do the same, as well as examine
“other options” for responding, Locke said in the statement.  Iceland has given permits to its whalers to catch as many
as 216 minke whales and 154 fin whales this year, the island’s
 Fisheries Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. So far,
whalers have caught 38 minke whales out of a stock of 70,000
animals. No fin whales, which number 20,000, have been caught
this year, according to Bjarni Hardarson, a spokesman for
Iceland’s Ministry of Fisheries.  The commercial whaling quota is “based on sound scientific
grounds and is unquestionably sustainable,” the ministry said.
Iceland, which doesn’t consider the two species endangered,
exported $814,000 worth of whale meat in 2008, most of it to
 Japan .  The U.S. hunts bowhead whales off the coast of  Alaska  with
Icelandic support, the Reykjavik-based ministry said.
“U.S. authorities are not consistent when they criticize
Icelandic fin whale hunting,” which is “no less sustainable
than U.S. bowhead whaling,” the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  