-- 
U.S. Bancorp Beats Estimates as Loan-Loss Provisions Drop

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-07-20T11:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-bancorp-beats-estimates-as-loan-loss-provisions-decline.html
U.S. Bancorp,  Minnesota ’s biggest
bank, posted a 57 percent increase in second-quarter profit as
provisions for loan losses declined.  Net income rose to $1.2 billion, or 60 cents per share,
from $766 million, or 45 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for 53 cents.  U.S. Bancorp, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Davis, 53, cut the provision for credit losses 50
percent during the second quarter as more customers paid on time
and charge-offs eased. The bank also benefited as lending
increased, including a 4 percent rise in average total loans
compared with the second quarter of 2010.  “Credit quality continued to improve during the second
quarter, as evidenced by favorable trends in net charge-offs,
nonperforming assets, delinquencies and criticized assets,”
Davis said in the statement. “We expect net charge-offs and
nonperforming assets to be lower in the third quarter of 2011
and would expect to, once again, release reserves if the current
trends and our longer-term credit outlook remain positive.”  U.S. Bancorp released $175 million from reserves, compared
with $50 million in the first quarter. The provision for credit
losses dropped to $572 million from $1.14 billion a year
earlier, while charge-offs fell 7.2 percent from the first
quarter and nonperforming assets decreased 6.2 percent.  Revenue climbed 3.8 percent to $4.69 billion.  Interest Income  Net interest income increased 5.6 percent to $2.54 billion
from $2.41 billion in the second quarter last year, the bank
said. The net interest margin, the difference between what a
bank pays on deposits and charges for loans, narrowed to 3.67
percent from 3.9 percent in the same period last year.  U.S. Bancorp said June 2 that federal regulators’ limit on
debit-card “swipe” fees could cost more than $1 billion a year
in revenue. The  Federal Reserve  capped debit-card swipe fees at
21 cents a transaction June 29, reducing fees from an average of
44 cents. The decision almost doubled the 12-cent ceiling that
the central bank first suggested in December.  The caps on debit-card fees alone could cost $400 million
in annual revenue, Davis said before the cap was announced. He
said the bank could try to recoup about 40 percent of the
projected revenue impact by imposing new fees for checking
accounts and other services.  Market Share  Davis has vowed to counter slow industry growth by taking
market share. The bank expanded during the credit crisis, adding
employees, upgrading technology and buying failed lenders in
government-backed deals.  U.S. Bancorp rose 2.5 percent to $25.03 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, paring this year’s
decline to 7.2 percent.  The company said last month it will focus on boosting the
dividend after regulatory  capital requirements  become clearer.
The lender is aiming for a payout ratio of 30 percent to 40
percent in the long term, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cecere
said last month. U.S. Bancorp raised the quarterly payout 150
percent to 12.5 cents in March.  U.S. Bancorp was sued in March by insurer Woodmen of the
World over $47 million in losses tied to investments in
mortgage-backed securities. Woodmen of the World, an Omaha,
Nebraska-based insurer, contended that U.S. Bancorp failed to
act in the best interests of investors when its mortgage-backed
investments plummeted in value during the 2008 economic crisis,
according to a lawsuit filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  U.S. Bancorp said it acted properly in managing the
portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  