-- 
U.S. House Passes Short-Term Extension of Aviation Authority

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 
2011-07-20T20:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/u-s-house-passes-extension-of-aviation-authority-correct-.html
The U.S. House passed a short-term
extension for the  Federal Aviation Administration  that ensures a
showdown with the Senate over provisions to cut funding for the
Essential Air Service program.  The bill advanced on a largely party-line vote of 243-177,
with 171 Democrats voting against it.  It would keep the FAA operating beyond Friday until Sept.
16, averting the need to furlough about 4,000 workers. Air
traffic controllers, who make up about three-fourths of the
agency’s workforce, would be exempt because they are considered
essential employees.  The bill would restrict eligibility for subsidies for
flights to small airports, cutting $16.6 million to 13 sites.  Ten airports would lose service under the bill’s
restrictions on subsidizing locations less than 90 miles from a
hub airport. Another three would be cut from the program under
the bill’s per-passenger subsidy limits, according to the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  Airports that would lose subsidies are in Ely, Nevada;
Alamogordo/Holloman Air Force Base in  New Mexico ; Glendive,
Montana;  Athens ,  Georgia ; Hagerstown,  Maryland ; Jackson,
 Tennessee ; Jamestown,  New York ; Jonesboro, Arkansas; Morgantown,
West Virginia; and four Pennsylvania towns: Bradford,
Franklin/Oil City, Johnstown and Lancaster.  The cuts are “badly needed,” said Republican Tom Petri of
Wisconsin. The provisions are a “small effort to reform” what
has become an “accumulation of earmarks” over the years, he
said.  “Some changes may need to be made to the Essential Air
Service program,” but that debate should be reserved for
another time, said Jerry Costello of  Illinois , the top Democrat
on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s aviation
panel.  The White House prefers a plain extension with no policy
provisions while stopping short of a veto threat. The bill
“includes controversial provisions that, because they have not
been negotiated, needlessly threaten critical FAA programs and
jeopardize thousands of public and private sector jobs,” the
administration said in its official policy statement.  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller, a  West
Virginia  Democrat, has said he wants a “clean” extension with
no additional provisions. The House bill is “unclean and shows
a lack of good faith for the House to spring it on the Senate
after months of bipartisan conversations about finding a
compromise,” said Vince Morris, a committee spokesman.  John Mica, chairman of the House transportation committee,
said the language he added shouldn’t pose a problem because it
is similar to a provision in a Senate-passed bill. “We took
their language on EAS,” the Florida Republican said in an
interview. “The only thing that was added would affect three
airports which are subsidized more than $1,000 a flight.”  The FAA’s last multiyear authorization expired in 2007.
Since then, Congress has approved 20 extensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  