-- 
Hugh Grant Wins Order to Get Evidence of Tabloid Phone-Hacking From Police

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-20T11:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/hugh-grant-wins-order-to-get-tabloid-phone-hacking-evidence-from-police.html
British actor Hugh Grant won a court
order requiring  London ’s Metropolitan Police to hand over
documents with any evidence that his voice mails were hacked
into by a private investigator for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News
of the World tabloid or other newspapers.  Grant, who starred in the romantic comedy “ Notting Hill ,”
and Jemima Khan, a columnist for the Independent newspaper, made
the request July 14 in London and it was unopposed by the police
today.  The police contacted the claimants with evidence that
indicated their voice mails may have been accessed by  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator who was jailed for phone
hacking on behalf of the tabloid, Judge Geoffrey Vos said today.  There is “a clear inference that Mr. Mulcaire may have
accessed the claimants’ voice mail,” their lawyer,  David
Sherborne , said at a hearing today. “They need this information
in order to bring proceedings against Mulcaire or News Group,”
he said, referring to the publisher of The Sun and, formerly,
the News of the World.  Dozens of politicians, celebrities and athletes who believe
their phone was hacked have filed lawsuits against Mulcaire and
News Group. The evidence that has been produced in the civil
lawsuits triggered the latest police investigation, opened in
January.  Privacy Breach  “It is arguably the case that telephone interception and a
breach of privacy may have been carried out,” Vos said today in
granting the order. The judge said a test case in civil
litigation against the media company may go to trial in January.  The allegations have snowballed in the past two weeks as
evidence was disclosed that the tabloid may have hacked into the
voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl, and paid bribes to police.
The department, also known as Scotland Yard, has also been under
fire for its close ties to the tabloid and allegations that may
have led to previous investigations in the case being closed.
The police commissioner, Paul Stephenson, and the assistant
commissioner, John Yates, both resigned because of the scandal.  Grant secretly taped a former reporter for the News of the
World talking about phone hacking at the paper. The reporter,
Paul McMullan, had previously told Grant his phone had been
hacked, according to the actor. He  transcribed  parts of the
conversation and published them in April in the New Statesman.  McMullan told him phone hacking was committed on an
“industrial scale” at News of the World under former editor
 Andy Coulson , Grant  told the BBC  earlier this month.  Sherborne said that lawyers for the police weren’t present
because they agreed to the order.  The case is:  Hugh Grant  v. The Commissioner for the Police
of the Metropolis, case no. 11-02424,  High Court  of Justice,
 Chancery Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  