-- 
Forint Has Biggest 2-Day Gain in a Year; Zloty, Koruna Rally

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-20T16:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/hungarian-forint-stock-index-strengthen-for-second-straight-day.html
The forint rallied, posting the
biggest two-day gain against the euro in a year, on speculation
the U.S. and European governments may overcome their debt crises
and after earnings at Apple Inc. boosted bets on an economic
recovery.  The Hungarian currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 268.83
per euro as of 6:03 p.m. in Budapest, bringing its two-day gain
to 1.6 percent, the most since July 27 last year on a closing
basis and the biggest rally today among more than 20 developing-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The next biggest gains
were posted by  Poland ’s zloty and  South Africa ’s rand. The BUX
index of shares rose 0.7 percent to 21,503.95 by the 5 p.m. end
of trade in Budapest.  German bunds fell while securities from the euro region’s
most fiscally strained nations rose on optimism that European
leaders meeting tomorrow will take steps to contain the region’s
debt crisis. President Barack Obama endorsed a deficit-cutting
proposal by a bipartisan group of senators that may help avoid a
U.S. default. Apple, the industry’s biggest technology company
by value, said profit more than doubled.  “ Europe  has benefitted from the more constructive global
sentiment, with equities gaining” and currencies in emerging
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa strengthening, strategists at
 RBC Capital Markets  led by Toronto-based  Nick Chamie  ,wrote in a
report to clients today.  The forint strengthened 1.7 percent to 230.836 per Swiss
franc, compared with a record low of 238.455 on July 18.  Poland’s zloty appreciated 0.8 percent to 3.9899 per euro
and the Czech koruna traded 0.2 percent stronger at 24.475
against the common currency.  “The forint remains the most unstable currency in Eastern
Europe,” strategist at Commerzbank AG including Carolin Hecht
in Frankfurt wrote in a research report today. “If the outcome
of Thursday’s meeting disappoints we might see renewed all-time
highs” for the Swiss franc versus the forint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  