-- 
United Technologies Drops as Boeing Picks Pratt Rival on 737

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-20T21:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/united-technologies-drops-as-boeing-picks-rival-engine-for-737.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  dropped as
investors focused on  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s selection of a competing jet-
engine maker to upgrade its best-selling 737 model rather than
on higher quarterly profit.  The shares fell $1.60, or 1.8 percent, to $87.22 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The decline
was the biggest today on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Boeing offered to upgrade the 737 with more fuel-efficient
engines from  CFM International , a rival to United Technologies’
 Pratt & Whitney  jet-engine maker, in a pitch to keep business
from  American Airlines . The nation’s third-largest carrier said
today it would split an order for 460 single-aisle jets, the
industry’s biggest-ever, between Boeing and rival Airbus SAS.  United Technologies hadn’t counted on being included in the
upgrade, Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said in a telephone
interview today. CFM was the exclusive provider on existing
versions of the 737, and Pratt saw itself as the most efficient
choice for an eventual all-new successor to the jet, which
Boeing also considered.  “We still think there’s an opportunity for a new 737
aircraft,” Hayes said. “That’s probably an opportunity that’s
more than 10 years in the future.”  A320neo  A decision on which engine maker will power the A320neo
portion of American’s order is likely to come “in the next few
months,” Hayes said. Pratt’s geared turbofan power plant
competes with CFM’s Leap-X on the A320neo, which promises 15
percent greater fuel-efficiency regardless of engine choice. CFM
is a 50-50 joint venture of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA. (SAF)   Pratt & Whitney’s engineering and development expenses this
year may widen a decline in operating profit to $100 million
from $50 million, Akhil Johri, the vice president for financial
planning, said on a conference call to discuss second-quarter
earnings.  The engine-maker wants to stay ahead of planemakers’
production demands, Hayes said.  Still, Pratt posted a 5.3 percent sales gain in the quarter
as revenue climbed across all divisions of Hartford,
Connecticut-based United Technologies. The leaders were Otis
elevators, with a 12 percent increase, and Carrier air
conditioning and heating, with a 9.7 percent gain.  ‘Global Recovery’  “We are starting to see a global recovery in our
markets,” Hayes said in the interview. “It’s still a very
uneven recovery,” with emerging economies and  Asia  leading
growth, he said.  Sales in 2011 may be $58 billion, compared with a previous
forecast of at least $57 billion, the Hartford, Connecticut-
based company said in a statement. Full-year profit will be
higher than previously forecast at $5.35 to $5.45 a share, the
company said.  Investors had factored in the likelihood that United
Technologies would top analysts estimates and raise its forecast
before the company reported earnings, said  Deane Dray , a New
York-based analyst with Citigroup. He has a “hold” rating on
the shares.  The full-year prediction is in-line with analysts’
estimates of $5.44 a share in profit on revenue of $57.8
billion.  Second-quarter net income rose 19 percent to $1.32 billion,
or $1.45 a share, from, $1.11 billion, or $1.20, a year earlier,
the company said. That surpassed the $1.42 average estimate from
19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 9.2 percent to $15.1 billion, higher than the
average estimate of $14.7 billion. The company attributed 6
percentage points of the gain to growth of existing businesses.  ‘Solid’ Growth  “We are quite pleased with United Technologies’ quarterly
results,”  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit
for Brookfield Investments in  New York , said in an e-mailed
statement. “Organic growth of 6 percent, given the economic
backdrop, is really solid.”  United Technologies, which gets more than half its sales
from outside the U.S., benefited from conversion of foreign
currency into U.S. dollars, which the company said helped drive
the full-year forecast increase. The company garners more than
half its sales from outside the U.S.  United Technologies tapped William Brown to head mergers
and acquisitions earlier this year. The company expects to
increase purchases over the next several years, even as it
spends less than the $1.5 billion planned in 2011 because
targets are overpriced, Hayes said on the call.  “While it’s easy to buy back shares and not as easy to buy
companies we think we create value,” Hayes said. “Stay tuned:
More to come, and probably a stepped-up rate of M&A spend in the
next couple years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  