-- 
Murdoch Refusal to Take Responsibility May Dent Credibility

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-20T21:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/murdoch-s-refusal-to-take-responsibility-may-undermine-credibility-as-ceo.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s refusal to take
responsibility for the hacking scandal that has slashed $5.5
billion from the market value of  News Corp. (NWS)  may undermine his
credibility as chief executive officer.  Governance experts who heard Murdoch’s performance before
the U.K. Parliament yesterday said that by blaming underlings
and saying he wasn’t responsible he didn’t do enough as CEO to
acknowledge his accountability.  “If he didn’t know what was going on, he’s doing a lousy
job as CEO and the board should replace him,” said Jay Lorsch,
a Harvard Business School professor. “The board should be
asking, ‘Where were you?’ The buck stops with him.”  Chief executive officers who don’t hold themselves
responsible for crises at their companies often have stepped
aside under pressure. While Murdoch’s almost 40 percent voting
control makes an involuntary ouster unlikely, the weight of the
crisis may ultimately persuade him to give up the CEO post, said
Sydney Finkelstein, a professor of management at  Dartmouth
College ’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover, New Hampshire.  “Based on the pattern we’ve seen in other major scandals,
it’s likely we’ll see Murdoch resign,” said Finkelstein, author
of “Why Smart Executives Fail.” “They all end up resigning.”  Greenberg, Hayward  Murdoch, 80, withstood three hours of questioning yesterday
with his son James. He denied any knowledge of phone-hacking and
payments to police at the now-closed News of the World tabloid.
Both Murdochs said they didn’t know about employees intercepting
voicemails or paying police for stories.  “The News of the World is less than 1 percent of our
company,” Murdoch told Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport
Committee. He said he may have “lost sight” of the paper
because it was “so small in the general frame of the company.”  Murdoch showed parallels to  Hank Greenberg , the former
chairman of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , when he said he
is “the best person to fix” the scandal, Finkelstein said.  “That’s the same thing Greenberg said as AIG was going
down the drains,” he said.  Another CEO who was forced to resign was  Tony Hayward , who
ran London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  when the company had a massive oil spill
in the Gulf Coast last year. Hayward initially downplayed the
disaster, and he attended a yacht race in June 2010 while the
crisis was still unfolding. BP directors replaced him the
following month.  Costs of Scandal  Greenberg is still fighting a 2005 reinsurance fraud charge
brought by then- New York  Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer . Neither
Hayward nor Murdoch has been charged with wrongdoing.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for  News Corp. (NWSA) , declined to
comment.  The July 10 closure of 168-year-old News of the World cost
about 200 employees their jobs. The public outcry and political
backlash from the scandal also prompted News Corp. to drop its
7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 10 people have been arrested,
including former News International CEO Rebekah Brooks and ex- News of the World editor Andy Coulson.  News Corp. shares have declined 12 percent since July 4,
when the Guardian newspaper reported that the newspaper hacked
into the voicemail of a murdered teenager. The New York-based
media company’s market value has dropped to $42.2 billion,
including about a $650 million loss for Murdoch family members,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deflecting Blame  In what he described as “the most humble day of my life,”
Murdoch insisted that wrongdoing at the newspaper and efforts to
clear it up were far below his level.  The blame for the phone-hacking scandal lies with
employees, Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers.  “Do you accept that ultimately you are responsible for
this whole fiasco,” lawmaker Jim Sheridan asked.  “No,” Murdoch answered.  “You’re not responsible? Who is responsible?” Sheridan
said, according to a Roll Call transcript.  “The people that I trusted to run (the tabloid), and then
maybe the people that they trusted.”  When Murdoch was asked if he was guilty of “willful
blindness” or ignoring “knowledge that you could have had and
should have had,” he said: “We were not ever guilty of that.”  ‘Worried’  “What struck me yesterday was that so much wrongdoing
seemed to happen without the knowledge of the people at the
top,” Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt told BBC Radio today.
“That will have worried a lot of people.”  Murdoch’s testimony cast doubts about his leadership
abilities and judgment, said Finkelstein, the Dartmouth
professor.  “You can’t just say you’re humbled,” Finkelstein said.
“There’s no world-class company around that doesn’t want a CEO
who demands to hear about these types of things in real time.
Rupert didn’t seem the least bit concerned about that.”  Investors reacted positively to the testimony, which
produced no new headlines that were immediately damaging to the
company. News Corp. Class A shares rose 6.4 percent over two
days to close at $15.93 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  James Murdoch, 38, enhanced his credibility and put himself
in better position to eventually take the helm,  David Bank , an
analyst RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  ‘Ridiculously Cheap’  News Corp. Director Viet Dinh issued a statement after the
testimony on behalf of outside board members, saying they
supported Murdoch and the management team.  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) ’s Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al Saud,
the largest outside holder of News Corp.’s voting stock,
reiterated his support for Rupert and James Murdoch’s leadership
while saying U.K. lawmakers’ hearings are “part of a necessary
process to address the unacceptable practices that developed at
the now closed News of the World.”  “There is a lot of uncertainty that is going to continue
around the stock but I think basically the probability of it
being contained to the U.K. is pretty solid,” Bank said. “And
the assets are so ridiculously cheap that we just, we really
like the stock.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Murdoch’s testimony that he isn’t responsible for the
scandal isn’t acceptable, said  Julie Tanner , assistant director
of socially responsible investing for Christian Brothers
Investment Services in New York. The organization holds 30,755
Class B voting shares on behalf of Catholic institutions.  “He needs better policies in place and to have a better
grasp of what people in the company are doing,” Tanner said.  Splitting Roles  Christian Brothers filed a petition with News Corp. on July
15 that seeks to permanently split the CEO and chairman
positions, Tanner said. The firm made similar proposals at  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , she said.  News Corp. is considering elevating Chief Operating Officer
 Chase Carey  to CEO, people with knowledge of the situation said
this week. A decision hasn’t been made and Murdoch would remain
chairman, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  A change to Carey as CEO would “likely be applauded,”
said  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in
New York, said in a research note yesterday.  News Corp.’s dual-share structure also was criticized by
Calpers, the California state pension fund, according to reports
in the Financial Times and the Guardian.  “The situation is very serious and we’re considering our
options,” Anne Simpson, a Calpers senior portfolio manager,
told the Financial Times in an interview. “We don’t intend to
be spectators -- we’re owners.”  ‘Feet First’  Calpers owns 4.87 million nonvoting News Corp. shares and
1.49 million voting shares, according to Bloomberg data.  Voting control makes it likely Murdoch will survive as CEO,
said Yale School of Management professor  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld .  “If what he’s saying is true and he has that little
command of the facts, this is a terrible failure of management
oversight,” Sonnenfeld said. “Only his living mother and his
directors could love that testimony, but monarch CEOs like
Murdoch pack the board with cronies. He’ll only go out of office
feet first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  