-- 
Turkish Yields Drop to Lowest in Seven Weeks on Record-Low Rates Outlook

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-07-20T15:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/turkish-yields-drop-to-lowest-in-seven-weeks-on-record-low-rates-outlook.html
Turkish yields fell to the lowest in
almost seven weeks and the lira weakened on expectations the
central bank will hold borrowing costs at the cheapest ever
while speculation of a U.S. debt deal buoyed riskier assets.  The yield on two-year notes declined seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.75 percent, the lowest level since
June 2, as of the 5 p.m. close in Istanbul, an RBS Istanbul
Benchmark Bond Index showed. The lira depreciated 0.3 percent to
1.6632 per dollar, making it the worst performer among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg today.  Inflation slowed to 6.2 percent in June from 7.2 percent in
May, spurring speculation the bank will leave the main interest
rate at 6.25 percent. The central bank has added 10 percentage
points to the amount banks have to hold in reserves since
December to limit consumer loans and curb the current-account
deficit. Emerging-market stocks and bonds rebounded after
President  Barack Obama  endorsed a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting
plan that would combine tax increases and spending cuts.  In  Turkey , “the slowdown in credit growth is playing into
the hands of the central bank and the expectation is that there
will be no change in the central bank’s dovish stance,” Onur Aydogan, head of fixed-income trading at ING Bank AS in
Istanbul, said by telephone. “We are seeing the effect of a
general risk-positive attitude environment after Obama announced
he backed the plan.”  Credit growth may show more convincing signs of
deceleration after rates rose on consumer loans, helping to
restore confidence in central bank policies, BNP Paribas SA said
July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  