-- 
Suarez’s Second-Half Double Lifts Uruguay Into Copa America Soccer Final

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-20T07:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/uruguay-defeats-peru-2-0-to-reach-final-of-copa-america-soccer-tournament.html
     July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Luis Suarez  scored twice as Uruguay
beat Peru 2-0 to reach the Copa America final, where it will try
for a record 15th South American soccer championship.  Liverpool striker Suarez struck twice in five minutes
shortly after halftime last night in La Plata,  Argentina , to
send Uruguay to the July 24 title game in  Buenos Aires . Peru had
Juan Vargas red-carded with 22 minutes remaining.  Two-time world champion Uruguay, which shares the record of
14 continental championships with archrival Argentina, will face
Paraguay or first-time semifinalist Venezuela in the final.  “We must keep our feet on the ground,” Uruguay midfielder
Alvaro Pereira told the Copa America’s  website . “This team has
demonstrated an amazing hunger for glory. Hopefully we can win
this cup.”  Of the region’s top four teams in  FIFA ’s world rankings,
only No. 18 Uruguay made the semifinals of the 12-nation
tournament, following up its final-four appearance at last
year’s  World Cup  in  South Africa .  Uruguay ousted host Argentina in the quarterfinals in a
penalty shootout, while  Brazil ’s bid to win its fifth title in
the past six editions ended when it missed all four of its
penalty attempts following a scoreless draw against Paraguay.  Suarez’s goals last night lifted Uruguay into its first
final since 1999, when La Celeste, as the team is known, lost to
Brazil. Uruguay’s most recent title came in 1995.  Second-half Strikes  The Liverpool striker put Uruguay ahead in the 52nd minute,
finishing from a narrow angle at the near post after Peru
goalkeeper Raul Fernandez parried Diego Forlan’s long-distance
shot. Television replays showed that Forlan’s 35-yard effort was
going wide.  Suarez doubled the lead five minutes later after beating
the offside trap. He ran onto Alvaro Pereira’s pass before going
around Fernandez and rolling the ball into the unguarded net
from just outside the penalty area.  It was Suarez’s third goal of the tournament, putting him
atop the  goal-scorers list  alongside Argentina’s  Sergio Aguero .
Suarez also scored when  Uruguay  and Peru drew 1-1 in the group
stage on July 4.  Peru’s chances of a comeback were dented in the 68th minute
when Vargas was shown a straight red card for elbowing Uruguay
defender Sebastian Coates. Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez took
Suarez and Walter Gargano off three minutes later with both
players having picked up a yellow card in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  