-- 
Vale, Petrobras Said to Reach Gas-Supply Deal for Potash Mine

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-07-21T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/vale-petrobras-said-to-reach-deal-on-brazil-potash-mine-today.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore miner, and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  reached a gas-supply
accord as part of a plan to further explore a potash mine in
Brazil, said a government official familiar with the deal.  Vale plans to invest 1.5 billion reais ($958 million) to
explore the Taquari Vassouras mine in Brazil’s Sergipe state for
carnallite, a type of magnesium and potassium, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the accord
hasn’t been made public yet. State-run oil producer Petrobras
agreed to supply the gas for the project in a meeting with
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  yesterday, the person said in
a phone interview from Brasilia.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale is seeking to boost output of
potash and phosphate rock to meet rising demand for crop
nutrients in  Brazil , the world’s biggest grower of sugar cane,
coffee and oranges. The company acquired assets worth about $5.8
billion for its fertilizer unit last year.  The outlook for fertilizers is “excellent” because world
demand keeps rising, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira
said May 27, adding that he sees a “great future” in potash.  Petrobras said in March that it planned to build a $1.3
billion nitrogen-based fertilizer plant in Brazil’s Minas Gerais
state. Vale is already producing from the Taquari Vassouras mine
in Rosario do Catete, about 35 kilometers (22 miles) from the
state capital, Aracaju.  Vale’s press office declined to comment on the accord in an
e-mailed response to questions. A message to Petrobras’s press
office after regular business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 