-- 
Vale Says Giant Iron Ore Carrier, Sent to Italy, to Go to China as Needed

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-20T16:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/vale-says-giant-iron-ore-carrier-sent-to-italy-to-go-to-china-as-needed.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the Brazilian miner
building a fleet of the world’s largest iron-ore carriers, said
the first of its new vessels will go to  China  after being
diverted to  Italy  on its maiden voyage.  The 362-meter (1,187 foot)  Vale  Brasil, three times the
length of a football field, will “undoubtedly” go to China
whenever the miner needs to send iron ore to its biggest
consumer, Murilo Ferreira, Vale’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview in Rio de Janeiro yesterday. The ship was
diverted from its original destination of Dalian because of
draft restrictions at the Chinese port and a request from a
European customer that needed the steel-making ingredient.  “For commercial reasons our European customer needed the
material a lot and we can’t leave a customer without service,”
Ferreira said, speaking at Vale’s headquarters. The ship left
Brazil “earlier than expected” and “draft services” at the
Chinese port weren’t ready, he said.  The world’s largest  iron ore  producer is investing more
than $2.3 billion to build 19 of the carriers, and will control
another 16 under long-term contracts. The vessels are scheduled
to join the fleet by the end of 2013 as part of a strategy to
stabilize freight costs and iron ore prices, Vale said July 18.  Vale China, the second of the so-called Valemax vessels,
will start operating within two months, Ferreira said. The ship,
built by China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd.,
will have a Chinese port as final destination, Vale said in a
statement June 21.  Analyze Again  The miner may also revive plans to build an iron ore
distribution center in China, Ferreira, 58, said in the
interview.  “In the future we will analyze it again and reconsider
this issue,” he said, adding that he hasn’t discussed the idea
with the Chinese authorities yet.  Vale is investing $1.37 billion to set up a maritime
terminal in  Malaysia  with capacity to dock its Valemax vessels
and handle as much as 30 million metric tons of iron ore a year
starting in the first half of 2014, according to its Feb. 24
earnings report. Vale started production from a $1.36 billion
iron-ore pellets plant and distribution center in Oman this year
to supply clients in the  Middle East , North Africa and India,
according to a company news release April 30.  The company wants to increase sales in Asia as it competes
for clients in China,  Japan  and other countries in the region
with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, which ship most of
their ore from ports in Australia.  Brazil , where Vale produces
the bulk of its supplies, is three times further from Asian
markets than Australia.  A previous plan to establish a center to stockpile ore in
China “didn’t advance,” Eduardo Bartolomeo, Vale’s executive
director for integrated bulk operations, said in an interview at
company headquarters on June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  