-- 
Venezuela Bonds Slide on Speculation Sale Will Top $4 Billion

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-20T21:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/venezuelan-dollar-bonds-slide-as-investors-anticipate-4-billion-offering.html
Venezuelan bonds fell on speculation
the government will sell more than $4 billion of bonds to
finance government programs, swelling the supply of debt in
international markets.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bonds due in 2027 rose 13 basis points to 13.03 percent at 5
p.m. in  New York , after earlier rising as much as 19 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price on
the bonds fell 0.70 cent on the dollar to 74.75 cents.  Speculation is mounting that the offering will total about
$4.2 billion, more than some investors expected after a
government official said July 18 that Venezuela would sell at
least $3 billion of dollar-denominated debt this year, said
 Russell Dallen , a bond trader at BBO Financial Services Inc. in
Miami. The official, who’s not authorized to speak publicly on
the matter, said the sale may be as soon as August.  “There’s a widespread rumor on  Wall Street  that over $4.2
billion of a new Venezuela bond with a 12 percent coupon due in
2031 is coming,” Dallen said in an e-mail.  A Finance Ministry press official declined to comment on
the sale today.  Venezuela may sell $4 billion of 12 percent bonds due in
2031,  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin American strategy at RBS
Securities Inc., said today in a research note.  “We cannot disregard a step up in issuance to fund the
still obvious shortages of both consumer and other goods that
create systemic shortages, bottlenecks, supply side inflation
and lower growth,” Morden wrote in the report.  Venezuela sells dollar-denominated bonds to local
investors, who pay for the securities with bolivars, in part to
relieve pent-up demand for foreign currency. Investors can sell
the bonds in international markets for dollars, allowing them to
circumvent President  Hugo Chavez ’s currency controls. State oil-
company Petroleos de Venezuela SA has already issued about $8
billion of new debt this year.  The government last sold dollar bonds in August when it
issued $3 billion of securities due in 2022 with a 12.75 percent
coupon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  