-- 
Vietnam Inflation Challenge Handed to Binh

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-20T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/vietnam-plans-to-name-nguyen-van-binh-central-bank-governor.html
Vietnam ’s struggle to sustain growth
while containing  Asia ’s fastest inflation will be handed to
Nguyen Van Binh under succession plans for the central bank’s
leadership, according to three people with knowledge of policy
makers’ discussions on the matter.  The National Assembly is scheduled to confirm Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung for a second term in coming days. It
then holds votes on Dung’s personnel picks, with the State Bank
of Vietnam chief likely in early August, two of the people said
on condition of anonymity as the talks weren’t public. Leaders
of the Communist Party, which has dominated Vietnam since the
1970s, met to select candidates for top government positions
July 4-10.  Binh would succeed Nguyen Van Giau, inheriting the
challenge of building credibility for a central bank that cut a
key interest rate on July 4 even after inflation reached a 31-
month high. A former development bank executive, the Russian-
educated Binh, 50, is one of five deputy governors and has
worked at the central bank for more than two decades.  “I definitely hope he’s more willing to take a more
aggressive stance against inflation,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by
telephone. “They really need to clarify their stance over
what’s going to happen next. It looks like they’re taking a U-
turn too early.”  Stock Slump  The benchmark VN Index of stocks is down 18 percent in the
past year, the world’s third-worst slide, on concern price gains
will stanch spending, undermine the currency and hurt growth.
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
cut the nation’s sovereign-debt rating in 2010 deeper into so-
called junk status, in part citing policymaking challenges.  Demand for Vietnamese sovereign bonds slumped this month,
after a revival in the second quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, signaling investors were losing
confidence in the nation’s ability to contain prices. Vietnam
struggled earlier in the year to sell debt, with no securities
being sold in 10 of 26 auctions in January to March.  Binh, whose father was also a deputy governor at the
central bank according to government websites, has served as
vice-chairman of International Investment Bank, a Moscow-based
lender that counts communist and former communist nations among
its members. He received a doctorate studying in  Russia ,
according to his resume. Binh has said he’s attended training
courses at the  International Monetary Fund ,  World Bank  and  Asian
Development Bank .  Council Meetings  Binh often leads the Vietnamese delegation at council
meetings of the International Investment Bank, said Vladimir
Liventsev, the bank’s head of administration in Moscow.  “He’s more of a businessman than a bureaucrat,” said
Konstantin Ryzhkov, a managing director at the International
Investment Bank. “While some countries seek more of a political
stance, he’s always the one voicing solutions to develop the
bank’s businesses that would benefit all members rather than
sticking to certain political views.”  Vietnamese consumer prices climbed 20.82 percent in June
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008 and
the highest among 17 economies in the Asia Pacific region
tracked by Bloomberg.  Even so, the  State Bank  of Vietnam lowered its repurchase
rate for the seven-day term this month to 14 percent from 15
percent. The bank had boosted it from 7 percent at the start of
November 2010 to fight price gains. The rate appears to have
become the benchmark for monetary policy, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Vietnam’s central bank doesn’t release regular
policy statements that explain its monetary decisions.  Key Positions  The party’s  Central Committee  met July 4-10 and “approved
candidates for key positions in state agencies to submit to the
National Assembly for election or approval,” according to the
party’s online newspaper. Under a 2008 decree signed by Dung,
the central bank is a ministerial-level body of the government.  In an April note posted on the central bank’s website after
the bank boosted two key policy rates, Binh reiterated the
importance of staying committed to tackling inflation through
2015.  “At various points in recent times, we put forward the
issues of stabilizing the economy and containing inflation but
were not consistent and often times, they were sacrificed for
other economic goals,” he wrote. “That hurt confidence among
the investor and donor community.”  Containing inflation and “stabilizing the macroeconomy”
are tasks not only in 2011 but also throughout the upcoming
development period, Binh said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  