-- 
Wal-Mart, Walgreen Join First Lady’s Healthy Food Campaign

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-20T21:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/wal-mart-walgreen-join-obama-campaign-for-more-healthful-foods.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  SuperValu
Inc. (SVU) , Walgreen Co. and regional retailers are making fresh
commitments to expand the selection of more healthful foods in
underserved areas in conjunction with first lady Michelle Obama’s campaign to fight  childhood obesity .  During an event with retailers in the East Room of the
White House today the first lady called the commitments by major
U.S. companies “a really big deal.”  She said that while her “Let’s Move!” campaign provides
families with information about exercise and healthy recipes,
“if parents can’t buy the food they need to prepare those
meals, if their only options for groceries are in the corner gas
station or the local mini-mart, then all of that is just talk.”  Wal-Mart Inc., the world’s biggest retailer, is pledging to
open or expand as many as 300 stores by 2016 under Obama’s
campaign to provide more nutritious food in poor rural and urban
areas.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, plans to
convert approximately 1,000 of its 7,733 stores in the U.S. and
 Puerto Rico  to include selections of whole fruit and vegetables
at so-called “oasis stores.”  Walgreen’s president and chief executive officer, Greg Wasson, said in a statement that more than 45 percent of their
stores are “located in areas that don’t have access to fresh
food,” which makes Walgreens “uniquely positioned to bring
more food options to Americans and also provide needed pharmacy,
health and wellness services directly in those communities.”  Greater Access  Wal-Mart’s executive vice president of corporate affairs,
Leslie Dach, said in a statement the company is proud to partner
with the first lady and believes that “every single person
should have access to an abundant selection of fresh fruits and
vegetables at an affordable price.”  Dach said that more than half of Wal-Mart’s pledge will
involve opening new stores and the rest will be expansions and
relocations, including adding fresh fruits and vegetables to
stores that don’t sell a variety of fresh food.  Studies show that limited access to healthful food choices
can lead to poor diets, higher levels of obesity and other diet-
related diseases, she said.  Obama said that parents “shouldn’t have to take three city
buses” to “pack a piece of fruit” in their child’s lunch and
that these commitments will make healthier food available to
millions of Americans.  Lack of Stores  According to the White House about 23.5 million Americans,
including 6.5 million children, now live in low-income areas
that lack stores likely to sell affordable healthful foods.  SuperValu, the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based owner of Save-
A-Lot and Albertsons grocery stores, is pledging to open 250
Save-A-Lot stores in the next five years in areas with limited
access to healthy foods.  Domestic Policy Council Director  Melody Barnes  told
reporters in a conference call after the event that “tens of
thousands of jobs” will be created because of these
commitments.  “Additional retail activity anchored by supermarkets leads
to increased sales, income, and property tax revenue,” Barnes
said.  AFL-CIO’s Concern  Still, AFL-CIO president  Richard Trumka  and Change to Win
Federation president Joseph Hansen, who serve on the  president’s
Council on Jobs and Competitiveness , issued a statement after
the announcement saying the highlighting of Wal-Mart’s
participation undercuts the administration’s message on creating
jobs that will strengthen middle-income families.  “We call on the administration to remain focused on the
importance of a strong middle class and protecting and creating
good jobs on the scale that is needed,” they said a joint
statement. “We ask the administration to stand with communities
that have called on Wal-Mart to strengthen the communities it
enters rather than drive standards and wages down.”  Michelle Obama  said the pledges don’t solve the long-term
problem.  “The companies represented here today are only a tiny
fraction of the total number of retailers in this country,” the
first lady said. “And if they can step up and make these
investments, then there’s absolutely no reason why every food
retailer in this country can’t find some way to get involved as
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  