-- 
Wal-Mart de Mexico Slips to Lowest in Nine Months on Costs

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-20T20:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/wal-mart-de-mexico-slips-to-lowest-in-eight-months-on-profit-1-.html
Wal-Mart de  Mexico  SAB,  Latin
America ’s largest retailer, retreated to the lowest price since
October after costs related to store openings cut into second-
quarter profit.  The shares declined 3.2 percent to 32.98 pesos, the lowest
closing price since Oct. 21.  Wal-Mart de Mexico’s second-quarter profit fell 3.4 percent
to 4.49 billion pesos ($385 million), down from 4.65 billion a
year ago, the Mexico City-based company said yesterday. The
retailer ramped up store openings to 132 in the quarter, more
than double the 52 opened in the same quarter last year.  “The pace of store openings has been too fast,” said Raul Ochoa, an analyst at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City.
“The stores are starting to get very close to one another.
Aside from that, the competition is fierce.”  Efforts to increase sales come as competitors, such as
Organizacion Soriana SAB, Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB
and Grupo Comercial Chedraui SA, have learned to match Wal-Mart
de Mexico’s prices, Ochoa said.  Interacciones forecast profit of 5 billion pesos for the
quarter. Earnings were in line with estimates from Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit and Deutsche Bank AG.  Revenue rose 9.2 percent to 88.4 billion pesos even as
same-store sales disappointed, Chief Executive Officer Scot Rank
said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  ‘Tough One’  “This second quarter of the year certainly was a tough one
in terms of results,” Rank said. “Sales were below our
expectations, and we have taken steps to improve sales
immediately.”  Wal-Mart de Mexico’s same-store sales rose 2.4 percent in
Mexico during the quarter and 6.2 percent in Central America,
Rank said. The company spent 4.7 billion pesos on fixed assets
in the second quarter, 64 percent more than last year.  While the new stores temporarily squeezed profit, they may
pay off at the end of the year when the retailer has added floor
space for the  holiday shopping season , said Karla Pena, an
analyst with Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver SAB.  “We’re giving them a vote of confidence that it’s a change
in strategy,” Pena said. “They’ll take advantage of all the
consumption, the seasonal effects of the last quarter.”  The net income decline also reflects a “difficult”
comparison base from a year ago, when retailers benefitted from
sales of flat screen televisions and other electronics for
soccer’s  World Cup  games, Pena said.  Argentina  beat Mexico 3-1
on June 27, 2010 to knock them out at the round of 16 for the
fifth straight World Cup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  