-- 
Warren Asks Democrats to Fight Changes to Consumer Bureau

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-20T20:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/warren-calls-on-democrats-to-fight-house-bill-to-change-cfpb.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Treasury
Department and White House adviser assigned to set up the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, told House Democrats they
must keep fighting for the agency as it begins operations.  “We fought to get here and we’re going to have to fight to
stay here, but it’s a fight worth having,” Warren told
Democrats today before a meeting on the Dodd-Frank Act in House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ’s office.  Warren’s comments came a day before the Republican-led
House is scheduled to consider a bill to make changes to the
leadership structure and oversight of the bureau. Republicans,
who almost unanimously opposed the Dodd-Frank Act last year,
have pushed to restrict the agency’s authority.  The consumer bureau officially begins work tomorrow,
exactly one year after President  Barack Obama  signed Dodd-Frank
into law. Obama announced on July 17 that he had chosen  Richard
Cordray , the former Ohio attorney general, as his nominee for
director of the bureau.  The president’s advisers would recommend that he veto the
bill if it were to reach his desk, the Obama administration said
today in a statement of policy.  Significant Interference  The measure “would significantly interfere with the CFPB’s
charge to make consumer financial markets operate more
efficiently and effectively, facilitate innovation in the
marketplace, protect consumers’ interests, and ensure that
consumers have the information they need to make prudent
financial decisions,” the administration said in the statement.  Republican lawmakers have argued for replacing the director
position with a five-member board and lowering the threshold for
bank regulators to veto the bureau’s rules.  “It’s ironic that tomorrow there is another fight to try
and kill this agency, another fight to try and cut the legs out
from underneath it,” said Warren, who was surrounded by
Democrats including Pelosi, Minority Whip Steny Hoyer of
Maryland and Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts .  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the senior Republican on
the Banking Committee, told reporters yesterday that Cordray’s
nomination to head the bureau would likely be stalled “unless
there are some fundamental changes in its structure.”  The Senate Banking Committee will hold a hearing on
Cordray’s nomination before the August recess, a Senate
Democratic aide said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  