-- 
Wells Fargo Will Pay $85 Million Fine to Settle Fed’s Subprime-Loan Claims

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-20T20:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/wells-fargo-fined-85-million-by-fed-for-pushing-subprime-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, agreed to pay a record $85 million fine to settle
 Federal Reserve  claims it steered borrowers into costlier loans
and falsified data in mortgage applications.  Employees at Wells Fargo Financial, the lender’s consumer-
finance unit, pushed customers who may have been eligible for
prime  interest rates  into loans carrying higher rates intended
for riskier borrowers, the Fed said today in a statement
announcing the settlement. Separately, sales personnel used
false documents to make it appear borrowers qualified for loans
when their incomes made them ineligible.  Wells Fargo will “work closely with the Federal Reserve to
provide restitution to customers who may have been harmed, and
to reinforce our internal controls,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said in a separate statement.  The company shuttered Wells Fargo Financial in July 2010,
eliminating 3,800 jobs and ceased making non-prime home loans.
The business was overseen by Mark Oman, 56, who has announced he
will retire by year-end. The San Francisco-based bank didn’t
admit wrongdoing in agreeing to today’s action.  The civil penalty is the largest issued by the Fed in a
consumer-protection case, according to the Fed’s statement. The
accord requires Wells Fargo to re-evaluate qualifications of
borrowers who received a subprime, cash-out refinancing loan
between January 2006 and June 2008.  Compensating Borrowers  Wells Fargo must compensate borrowers harmed by the
practices, which may exceed 10,000, according to the Fed. Less
than 4 percent of the about 300,000  mortgage loans  made by the
lender between January 2004 and September 2008 are eligible for
restitution, the company said.  Wells Fargo said it will submit a plan to the Fed within 90
days laying out certain oversight and lending procedures.  The Fed also issued consent orders against 16 Wells Fargo
employees that bar them from working in the banking industry,
the regulator said in the statement. The employees have been
fired, Wells Fargo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 