-- 
Wipro Profit Meets Estimates, Forecasts 2% Rise in Computer Services Sales

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-07-20T06:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/wipro-first-quarter-net-meets-estimates-on-rising-software-services-demand.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s third-largest
software exporter, posted profit that met analyst estimates and
forecast revenue from computer services may rise as little as 2
percent as clients hold off from outsourcing larger projects.  Net income was little changed at 13.3 billion rupees ($299
million) in the fiscal first quarter ended June 30, Bangalore-
based Wipro  said  today. Profit compared with the 13.1 billion-
rupee median of 41 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue from outsourcing contracts may grow to between
$1.44 billion and $1.46 billion in the second quarter from the
previous three months as customers hold back from signing deals
amid global economic uncertainty. Wipro was set for its biggest
fall in three months in  Mumbai  trading on concern reorganization
of the information technology business by its new Chief
Executive Officer T.K. Kurien may take time to yield results,
according to MF Global Sify Securities Pvt.’s Vihang Naik.  “Growth in IT services is well below street, and our,
estimates,” said Naik. “More importantly, for the second
quarter, which is typically the strongest for all the IT
companies, they’ve guided for slower growth than their peers.”  MF Global, based in Mumbai, may cut Wipro’s rating from
the current “neutral” after the results, he said.  Wipro fell 3 percent to 402.65 rupees as of 11:02 a.m. in
Mumbai, poised for its biggest drop since April 15. The stock
was the worst performer on  India ’s 30-company benchmark
Sensitive Index, which was little changed.  Sales Forecast  The forecast for second-quarter revenue at its information-
technology unit compares with sales of $1.41 billion in the
three months ended June. Overall first-quarter sales grew 18
percent to 85.6 billion rupees, according to the statement.  Infosys Ltd., India’s second-largest software exporter, on
July 12 forecast second-quarter sales may climb 3.5 percent to 5
percent from the preceding three months to range between $1.73
billion and $1.76 billion. Still, the stock fell the most in
almost three months that day after the company’s projection for
annual sales missed analysts’ estimates.  Wipro was seeing some slowdown in orders from companies in
the financial services industry, which contributed 27 percent of
Wipro’s revenue in the year ended March, Kurien said today.  ‘See Weakness’  “In terms of demand in  investment banking , we see
weakness, whether that’s going to spread to retail banking, that
we still don’t know,” Kurien said in a Bloomberg-UTV interview.  Wipro doesn’t give sales or profit forecast for all its
businesses combined. The company also makes  light bulbs ,
hydraulic equipment, soaps and other consumer products.  The software exporter, which provides services such as
designing and building software programs, product-engineering
and back-office support to companies including  BP Plc (BP) , and
Verizon Communications added 49 customers in the quarter.  The company’s information-technology division hired 4,105
employees last quarter and had 126,490 workers at the end of
June, according to the statement.  “We are seeing early signs of positive momentum after the
reorganization,” billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  said in the
statement.  Wipro said on Jan. 21 that Kurien would take over as chief
executive officer of its information technology business after
Girish Paranjpe and Suresh Vaswani resigned as joint CEOs.
Kurien has  worked  at Wipro for more than 10 years and earlier
served as president of its eco-energy business and head of the
consulting and business process outsourcing businesses.  The  software company  in February said it would reorganize
its technology business into industry-focused units, including
divisions devoted to banking and financial services, healthcare,
and media and telecommunications. The reorganization was a
“long-term play” for Wipro, that would start to yield benefits
only from the second half of the year, Kurien said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  