-- 
World Bank Sees South African Economic Growth Accelerating to 3.5% in 2011

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-20T10:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/world-bank-sees-south-african-economic-growth-accelerating-to-3-5-in-2011.html
South Africa ’s economic recovery is
gathering pace as it benefits from rising commodity prices and a
global rebound, the World Bank said.  Growth in  Africa ’s largest economy is likely to accelerate
to 3.5 percent this year from 2.8 percent last year, and to 4.1
percent in 2012, the Washington-based lender said in its
inaugural South Africa Economic Update, released in Johannesburg
today.  “Consumer spending is expected to remain strong, and gross
fixed capital formation is forecast to grow after declining for
two consecutive years,” the bank said. “As businesses demand
more labor, employment should rise and further strengthen
consumer spending.”  The bank’s estimates are in line with those of South
Africa’s National Treasury, which on Feb 23 forecast 3.4 percent
growth this year and 4.1 percent in 2012. The government is
targeting 7 percent annual expansion in a bid to halve the 25
percent unemployment rate by 2020, double the  World Bank ’s
estimate of the economy’s long-term growth potential under the
prevailing economic policy framework.  Faster growth would require the current low rates of
investment and savings to be lifted, labor to be used more
intensively and productivity levels to be enhanced, the World
Bank said.  Current Account  “Unlike the majority of other developing countries, South
Africa is still not operating close to full capacity, so
inflation pressures are less severe,” the bank said.  It identified a widening current-account deficit as the
biggest cause for macroeconomic concern in South Africa over the
medium term.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, expanded to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the first quarter from a revised 1 percent
in the previous three months, the  Reserve Bank  said in its
Quarterly Bulletin released on June 21.  “The lurking risk is a sudden stop in the inherently
volatile portfolio flows” that help fund the deficit, the World
Bank said. That would undermine the rand “and add to
inflationary pressure, triggering higher  interest rates  and
dampening domestic consumption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 