-- 
Hynix Profit Drops 34% as Slump in Computer Demand Drives Down Chip Prices

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-21T03:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/hynix-profit-drops-34-as-slump-in-computer-demand-drives-down-chip-prices.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the
world’s second-largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported
a 34 percent drop in second-quarter profit after slowing
personal-computer sales drove down chip prices.  Net income fell to 473 billion won ($448 million) from
718.7 billion won a year earlier, Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
said today in a statement. That compares with the 417.8 billion
won average of 21 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hynix, on sale by its creditors, joins  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU)  in reporting a slump in profit as demand for consumer
electronics products slows. Chip sales in the third quarter may
remain weak as consumers delay purchases of electronics goods
amid a slow global economic recovery and a debt crisis in  Europe ,
the chipmaker said.  “The market’s expectations for the third quarter are
already pretty low,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund
manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $29 billion. “Chip prices are continuing to fall
in July,” he said.  Hynix fell 1.2 percent to 23,900 won at 12:25 p.m. in  Seoul ,
while the benchmark Kospi index declined 0.7 percent.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative costs, declined 56 percent to 446.9 billion won
and sales fell 16 percent to 2.76 trillion won.  Intel Forecast  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM fell 30
percent in the second quarter, according to data from Taipei-
based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of  Asia ’s largest
spot market for semiconductors.  Global personal-computer shipments rose less than forecast
in the second quarter amid a sluggish economy and consumer
preference for smartphones and tablet computers, according to
IDC and  Gartner Inc. (IT)   Chip demand will continue to shift toward mobile devices
and servers from PCs, Shin Hyun Joon, an analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co. wrote in a July 5 report. Sales of DRAM chips for
servers needed to deliver computing, software and storage over
the Internet may grow 77 percent, while demand for
semiconductors for mobile devices may rise 88 percent this year,
Shin wrote.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker, yesterday
forecast third-quarter revenue may be $14 billion, exceeding the
$13.5 billion average estimate compiled by Bloomberg, buoyed by
corporate computer upgrades and first-time purchases by
consumers in emerging markets.  Price Pressure  Still, supply of chips for mobile devices and servers
may outpace growth in demand, damping profit margins, said Seo
Won Seok, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  At the end of the second quarter, about 70 percent of
Hynix’s DRAM products were for non-PC devices, the company said.  “Price pressure’s increasing for the non-PC DRAM segment
too,” Park Seong Hwan, head of the investor relations team at
Hynix, said during a conference call today.  Hynix shareholders led by  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  are seeking
to sell all or part of their 15 percent stake in the chipmaker,
with SK Telecom Co. and STX Group having submitted preliminary
bids. The deal may be the largest share sale of a South Korean
technology company since July 1999, when Hynix bought a majority
holding in Hyundai Microelectronics Co. for 2.56 trillion won,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 