-- 
Zillow Surges on First Day After Pricing IPO Above Range

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-20T20:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/zillow-shares-triple-to-60-in-trading-debut-after-ipo-prices-above-range.html
Zillow Inc., an online real estate
information service, surged in its trading debut after selling
shares above an increased price range in its initial public
offering.  The Seattle-based company’s stock, trading on the  Nasdaq 
Stock Market under the symbol Z, climbed 79 percent to $35.77 as
of 4 p.m. New York time, after earlier tripling to $60. Zillow
raised $69.2 million yesterday selling 3.46 million shares at
$20 apiece, above the offering range of $16 to $18.  Zillow joined website operators such as LinkedIn Corp.,
Yandex NV and HomeAway Inc. in gaining at least 49 percent in
first-day trading after IPOs this year. Investors are flocking
to a limited number of Internet offerings after some of them
have far outpaced the average gain of about 7 percent in all
U.S. IPOs in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is another one of those deals which are unique and
which are in high demand, at least for the time being,” said
Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC,
which oversees about $2.5 billion. “Based on how HomeAway and
LinkedIn have been doing, I think there was a lot of
indiscriminate participation in this deal.”  LinkedIn gained 124 percent through yesterday since its IPO
and HomeAway’s stock rose 53 percent.  Zillow, whose  website  allows home buyers, sellers, renters
and managers to list and search for properties, home-price
estimates and other information, saw sales more than double to
$11.3 million in the quarter ended March 31. The net loss in the
same period narrowed to $826,000 from $2.8 million, its IPO
prospectus showed.  Smaller, Cheaper  At the IPO price, Zillow’s market capitalization was about
$540 million, based on the total number of shares outstanding
following the offering. The company also completed a $5.5
million private placement to existing investors that may have a
small effect on the total number of shares.  That market value makes Zillow much smaller than
professional-networking site LinkedIn or Internet-radio site
Pandora Inc. were when they completed their IPOs earlier this
year. LinkedIn’s offering valued it at about $4.3 billion, and
Oakland, California-based Pandora’s IPO gave it a market value
of about $2.6 billion.  For buyers in the IPO, Zillow was also cheaper. At $20 a
share, Zillow was valued at about 12 times 2011 sales, assuming
revenue for the first quarter holds true for the rest of year.
That compares with ratios of 26 for LinkedIn, 13 for Pandora and
16 for HomeAway, as of yesterday’s closing share prices.  ‘Flat-Lined’ Economy  In May, 22 million unique users visited Zillow through its
website and mobile applications, more than double the number a
year earlier. Zillow’s sales growth will attract investors even
though the company isn’t profitable, said  Francis Gaskins ,
president of IPODesktop.com, in an interview today.  “They showed incredible quarter-to-quarter growth going
into the IPO, and I think that internal growth can be
maintained,” Gaskins said. “The market is super hungry for
companies that can have a high internal growth rate in this
flat-lined economy.”  Zillow raised 43 percent more in its IPO than it originally
sought. The company increased the price range after initially
proposing to sell the shares at $12 to $14 each.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
was the lead underwriter for the offering.  LinkedIn, based in  Mountain View ,  California , more than
doubled in its May 19 debut after raising $352.8 million in its
IPO. HomeAway, the Austin, Texas-based operator of a vacation-
rental website, surged 49 percent on June 29, the day after its
$216 million IPO.  ‘Attractive Growth’  “Companies like Zillow, with a very attractive growth
profile, with revenue growing over 100 percent year-over-year,
are being received very warmly by investors,” Zillow Chief
Executive Officer Spencer Rascoff, 35, said in a phone interview
from Nasdaq today. “The fact that we raised the range during
the road show and then priced above the range is a pretty good
indicator of just how anxious investors are for growth
companies.”  All of the shares in the IPO were offered by Zillow. The
company sold 274,999 shares of Class A common stock at $20 each
to existing investors in the private placement, according to the
statement. In its IPO prospectus, Zillow said it planned to sell
the shares to Technology Crossover Ventures and PAR Investment
Partners.  In other IPO news, Skullcandy Inc., a maker of fashion
headphones, was unchanged at $20 as of 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq, trading under the symbol SKUL. Earlier, the shares
rose as much as 17 percent to $23.40.  Skullcandy raised $188.8 million yesterday in an expanded
IPO after increasing the number of shares and pricing them above
the marketed range.  The Park City, Utah-based company sold 9.44 million shares
at $20 each, according to a statement, after offering 8.33
million for $17 to $19 apiece. Bank of America Corp. and Morgan
Stanley managed the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  