-- 
Zimbabwe to ‘Kick’ Out Miners Who Don’t Meet Ownership Law, Minister Says

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-20T13:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-20/zimbabwe-to-kick-out-miners-who-don-t-meet-ownership-law-minister-says.html
Miners in  Zimbabwe  who don’t submit
an approved plan by Sept. 30 on how they will meet local
ownership laws will see the government “kick them out,” said
Indigenization Minister Saviour Kasukwere.  The government has rejected 175 proposals from companies on
how they will comply with the legislation, Kasukwere said in the
capital Harare today. Units of  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,
Aquarius Platinum Ltd.,  Rio Tinto  Plc and Anglo-American Plc.
are among companies mining in the country.  Zimbabwe’s new Indigenization and Empowerment Act gave
foreign and white-owned mines until June 2 to show how they
would cede or sell 51 percent of their companies to black
Zimbabweans or “state entities.” The law doesn’t make it clear
what a state entity is, or how payment would be made to
companies whose assets are acquired.  Kasukuwere said June 27 that all foreign miners had
submitted plans, adding that they “fell short” of government
expectations.  Mwana Africa Plc. and closely held Metallon Corp. also
operate in the country, which has the world’s second-biggest
reserves of platinum and ferrochrome after  South Africa .  Gold, nickel, diamonds, coal and emeralds are also mined in
the southern African nation, where political conflict led to
economic recession between 1998 and early 2009.  Investors Discouraged  Harare-based RioZim Ltd., subject to the 51 percent law,
said May 31 that foreign investors it had been courting to fund
expansion by the gold, nickel and coal producer had withdrawn
because of the ownership rules.  Bob Gilmore, a spokesman for Impala Platinum in
Johannesburg, said he was unable to comment immediately on the
the minister’s comments.  Calls to Pranhill Ramchander, an Anglo American spokesman
in Johannesburg, weren’t immediately answered. Tony Shaffer, a
spokesman for Rio Tinto, also didn’t immediately answer calls to
his office or mobile phones in  London .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg, South Africa at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  