-- ‘Paranormal 4’ Is Weekend’s Top Movie With $30 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-10-22T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/-paranormal-4-is-weekend-s-top-movie-with-30-million-in-sales.html
“Paranormal Activity 4,” the
latest in  Paramount Pictures ’ low-cost horror series, was the
top-grossing film at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada , generating
$30.2 million in ticket sales.  “Alex Cross,” Tyler Perry’s foray into an action-hero
role, was fifth with sales of $11.8 million, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  “Paranormal Activity 4” renews one of Hollywood’s most
profitable franchises. The first three films cost about $8
million to produce and generated $576.6 million in worldwide
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo . The latest picture,
about a family tormented by a demon, cost about $5 million and
is forecast to take in $42.1 million, according to the website.  The film “was below expectations, but still a solid
opening given the modest production budget,”  Paul Sweeney , an
analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said in an e-mail.  Like its predecessors, “Paranormal Activity 4” is filmed
in the “found-footage” style as characters set up cameras
throughout the house to record strange happenings. In this
edition, a neighborhood becomes the setting for terrifying
events after a woman and a mysterious child move in.  “Paranormal” is forecast to be a box-office success even
though many critics panned the film. Of 62 reviews compiled on
Rottentomatoes.com, 44 were negative. Paramount Pictures is a
unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)   ‘Alex Cross’  In “Alex Cross,” Perry, creator of the “Madea”
comedies, plays the protagonist from author  James Patterson ’s
crime novels. An older version of the character was played by
 Morgan Freeman  in “Kiss the Girls” and “Along Came a
Spider.” “Alex Cross” is set in an earlier period of the
character’s life while he is working as a homicide detective. In
subsequent novels, he becomes a FBI agent and later begins a
private psychology practice. The film is from  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s Summit unit.  Perry is better known to audiences for playing Madea, the
matron of a large Southern family, in drag. His five films
featuring the character have generated $323.4 million in
domestic ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  “Alex Cross” was expected to take in $14.5 million this
weekend, according to the website.  “While I doubt ‘Alex Cross’ will bounce back significantly
next week, Tyler Perry films have a loyal audience, which should
give this film some legs,” Sweeney said.  ‘Argo’  Among returning films, “Argo,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
 Warner Bros ., had sales of $16.6 million, retaining second place
for a second weekend, “and should play well for the next few
weeks given good word of mouth and the star power of  Ben Affleck ,” Sweeney said.  Affleck directed the film and stars as Tony Mendez, a real-
life CIA operative who entered  Iran  at the height of the anti-
American revolution to rescue six diplomats who escaped the
takeover of the U.S. Embassy. With the help of the Canadian
government, Mendez disguised the diplomats as members of a
Canadian film crew scouting locations for a sci-fi film called
“Argo.” Alan Arkin and John Goodman co-star as the makeup
director and producer who helped make the scheme work.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Hotel Transylvania” rose to third from
fourth with $13.5 million. The animated film features the voice
of  Adam Sandler  as Dracula, who invites famous monsters to
celebrate his daughter’s birthday. The gathering is complicated
by the arrival of a human who falls for the vampire’s daughter.  Sales, Attendance  “Taken 2,” a sequel to the 2009 Liam Neeson action film,
was the fourth-highest-grossing movie at cinemas, collecting
$13.4 million in sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 13 percent to
$124.1 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 4 percent to $8.59
billion, with attendance up 2.8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Oct. 19 and Oct. 20 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  