-- ADM Targets GrainCorp to Tap Asia’s Food Demand, Topeka Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-21T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/adm-targets-graincorp-to-tap-asia-s-food-demand-topeka-says.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s biggest corn processor, is targeting  Australia ’s
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  to add agricultural assets that will help it tap
growing demand in  Asia , according to Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  ADM raised its stake in eastern Australia’s largest grain
handler by 10 percent to 14.9 percent, and aims to win board
support for a cash takeover of the “well-managed company,” the
Decatur, Illinois-based company said in an Oct. 19 statement.  GrainCorp, with a current market value of A$2 billion
($2.1 billion), will help ADM boost sales in Asia, the second-
biggest  region  for GrainCorp’s products and services. Last year,
revenue from Asia more than doubled compared with the previous
12 months. ADM last year earned 52 percent of its revenue in the
U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “This appears to be a well-placed asset for ADM in helping
them penetrate the faster growing Asian markets,”  Ian Horowitz ,
an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc., said in an Oct. 19
note.  GrainCorp operates seven of the eight ports that ship grain
in bulk from Australia’s east coast. The company, which also
produces more than 1 million metric tons of malt annually,
handles as much as 60 percent of the grain crop in eastern
Australia, the world’s second-largest wheat exporter. The
Sydney-based company has about 20 million tons of storage at
more than 280 inland grain-handling sites, according to the
company.  ‘Well-Managed’  “GrainCorp is a well-managed company, and together with
ADM would be better positioned to connect Australia’s farmers
with growing global demand for crops and food, particularly in
Asia and the  Middle East ,” ADM said in the statement.  The move underscores a push by companies including  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and Hong Kong-based commodity trading company
Noble Group Ltd. to target agricultural assets, betting on
growing demand from Asia as living standards rise and diets
improve. GrainCorp is the only major publicly traded crop
handler still in Australian hands since AWB Ltd. was stripped of
its grain export monopoly in 2006.  Angus Trigg, a spokesman for GrainCorp, declined to comment
on the potential talks with ADM when contacted by phone
yesterday.  ADM acquired the additional stake at A$11.75 a share, 33
percent higher than GrainCorp’s last closing price, Australian
stock exchange data shows. A takeover bid at that price would
value GrainCorp at A$2.7 billion.  ADM  declined  1.9 percent to $28.52 at the Oct. 19 close in
 New York . GrainCorp fell 2.1 percent in Sydney on Oct. 18 to
A$8.85. Its shares have gained 14 percent this year.  GrainCorp is trading at a  multiple  of 8.12 times to
earnings, the lowest among 11 comparable companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  1916 Roots  There have been $44 billion of takeovers this year in
Australia, the biggest exporter of  iron ore , coal and alumina,
and the second-biggest shipper of wheat. That compares with deal
volume of $100 billion last year.  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, has seen its revenue surge since Australia’s 2006
decision to strip AWB of its export monopoly. An inquiry found
AWB was among firms that made illegal payments to win contracts
from the former Iraq regime of  Saddam Hussein  under the  United
Nations ’ oil-for-food program.  GrainCorp’s profit  will rise  26 percent to A$217 million in
the year to March 31, according to the average of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  