-- ADM Offers A$2.7 Billion for GrainCorp to Tap Asian Demand
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-22T00:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/adm-makes-a-2-7-billion-cash-offer-to-buy-australia-s-graincorp.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
biggest corn processor, offered A$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) in
cash for  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  to gain agricultural shipment assets in
Australia, sending the target to a record high.  ADM made a non-binding A$11.75 a share bid, Sydney-based
GrainCorp said today in a statement, 33 percent more than its
close before the Decatur, Illinois-based company revealed last
week it held a 14.9 percent stake. GrainCorp  rose  as much as 43
percent to A$12.69, indicating expectations of rival bids.  “The offer price isn’t high enough,”  Belinda Moore, an
analyst at RBS Morgans Ltd. in Brisbane, said today in an e-
mailed note. “GrainCorp is now clearly in play and a bidding
war could emerge. We wouldn’t rule out another party bidding for
the company given the scale and strategic nature of its
assets.”  Buying GrainCorp, the only major publicly traded grain
merchant in  Australia  left after the nation deregulated its
wheat export system, would help ADM boost sales in Asia, the
second-biggest  region  for GrainCorp’s products and services.
Australia is the world’s second largest wheat exporter.  Moore  values  GrainCorp at A$9.77 a share, implying a
takeover price of A$12.70 per share when including a takeover
premium of about 30 percent, she said. GrainCorp has three buy,
six hold and five sell recommendations, with a mean 12-month
price target of A$9.33, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other Bidders  Glencore International Plc and Hong Kong-based commodity
trading company Noble Group Ltd. are among groups that have
targeted agricultural assets recently, betting on rising demand
from Asia as living standards rise and diets improve.  Companies that may be interested in GrainCorp’s assets
include Cargill Inc., Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV, Gavilon LLC,
Bunge Ltd., Wilmar International Ltd., Olam International Ltd.,
Noble, COFCO Hong Kong Ltd., China Foods Ltd. and Bright Foods
Group, JPMorgan Chase & Co analyst Stuart Jackson wrote in an
Oct. 19 note.  “The GrainCorp board is reviewing the proposal and has not
yet formed a view on its merits and will keep the market
informed of any material developments,” the company said in the
statement. The offer is subject to due diligence, exclusivity
and approval by ADM’s board, GrainCorp said.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Greenhill & Co Inc. (GHL)  are advising
GrainCorp while Citigroup Inc. is acting for ADM. Decatur,
Illinois-based ADM last week paid A$269 million for a 10 percent
stake in eastern Australia’s largest grain handler to raise its
holding to 14.9 percent.  ‘Well-Placed’  GrainCorp operates seven of the eight ports that ship grain
in bulk from Australia’s east coast. The company, which also
produces more than 1 million metric tons of malt annually,
handles as much as 60 percent of the grain crop in eastern
Australia. It has about 20 million tons of storage at more than
280 inland grain-handling sites, according to the company.  “This appears to be a well-placed asset for ADM in helping
them penetrate the faster growing Asian markets,”  Ian Horowitz ,
an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc., said in an Oct. 19
note.  Last year, GrainCorp’s revenue from Asia more than doubled
from the previous 12 months. ADM earned 52 percent of its
revenue in the U.S. in fiscal 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ADM declined 1.9 percent to $28.52 at the Oct. 19 close in
New York. GrainCorp traded at A$12.41 at 11:15 a.m. in Sydney.  Australian Deals  There have been $44 billion of takeovers this year in
Australia, the biggest exporter of iron ore, coal and alumina,
and the second-biggest shipper of wheat. That compares with deal
volume of $100 billion last year.  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, has seen its revenue surge since Australia’s 2006
decision to strip AWB Ltd. of its wheat export monopoly. An
inquiry found AWB was among firms that made illegal payments to
win contracts from the former Iraq regime of Saddam Hussein
under the United Nations’ oil-for-food program.  GrainCorp’s  profit  will rise 26 percent to A$217 million in
the year to March 31, according to the average of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  