-- Anti-Syria Rally Held in Lebanon on ‘Day of Rage’ Over Bombing
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-21T11:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/anti-syria-rally-held-in-lebanon-on-day-of-rage-over-bombing.html
Thousands of supporters of Lebanon’s
opposition March 14 coalition poured into Beirut for today’s
funeral of an assassinated security official and for a “day of
rage” against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The bloc also called on supporters to demand the
resignation of Prime Minister  Najib Mikati , whom it blames for
the Oct. 19 car bombing that killed Brigadier General Wissam al-
Hassan. Al-Hassan, who headed the information branch of the
Internal Security Forces, had investigated several bombings and
plots that the March 14 group blamed on the Syrian regime.  Three people died and 126 were injured in the explosion
that killed al-Hassan, according to a final casualty count
carried by Lebanon’s official National News Agency. The recent
violence has raised concerns about a possible spillover of the
conflict in neighboring Syria. March 14 supporters gathered at
the rally’s venue in Beirut’s Martyrs’ Square, waving Lebanon’s
flag and that of the Syrian rebels fighting Assad’s government.  “We’re expressing our support for the Syrian people and
opposition to Bashar,” said Ali Majzoub, 16, holding the rebel
Syrian flag.  “From the rebels in  Syria  to Wissam al-Hassan, one
murderer, one weapon,” read a banner raised at the scene.  “Let tomorrow be a national day of rage at the killers and
their protectors,” March 14 said, specifying Assad, in a
statement read yesterday by lawmaker Nouhad Mashnouq.  Hariri Assassination  The rally took place at the scene of demonstrations that
followed the 2005 assassination of Sunni Muslim former Prime
Minister  Rafiq Hariri , an act that March 14 officials also have
blamed on Syria. Public anger over Hariri’s killing forced pro-
Syria Prime Minister Omar Karami to step down 14 days later and
Syria to withdraw its troops from Lebanon after a 29-year
presence.  March 14 politicians including former Prime Minister  Saad Hariri , Rafiq’s son, were quick to accuse Syria of carrying out
al-Hassan’s assassination.  The bombing has exacerbated tensions simmering in Lebanon
since the uprising against Assad began in Syria in March 2011.
Lebanon is divided into pro-and anti-Assad groups that have
fought intermittently in the northern city of Tripoli and
Beirut. A clash in Tripoli hours after al-Hassan’s death left a
Sunni Muslim cleric dead. Six others have been injured since
then, NNA said.  Future Movement  The unrest has prompted concern that Syria’s civil war may
spill over the border. Some of the protesters today carried the
blue flag of Hariri’s Future Movement and expressed anger at
what they see as a systematic targeting of  Sunni Muslims ,
underlining the sectarian tensions in the country.  “I am a Sunni and we are being targeted because we’re
saying ‘no’ to Syria,” said Aya Rifai, a 20-year-old student.
“I’m here to say we’ve had enough.”  Hariri urged supporters yesterday to join the rally to
honor al-Hassan as a man “who protected Lebanon from dangers
and exposed himself to an explosion so that you won’t explode
and so Lebanon won’t explode.”  Al-Hassan’s investigations included the 2005 Hariri
assassination. The security official also was instrumental in
the probe that led to the arrest in August of former Information
Minister Michel Samaha, an Assad ally who has been charged with
plotting to assassinate religious and political figures. More
than 20 bombs found with Samaha were prepared by Syrian security
agents, NNA said at the time.  Mikati said yesterday that al-Hassan’s assassination was
linked to his exposure of the Samaha plot. He said that he had
offered to resign so that a national unity government could be
formed in the aftermath of the bombing. President Michel Suleiman urged him to stay on while Suleiman consults the
country’s top officials about the attack and so the country
won’t slip into a political vacuum, Mikati said.  Mikati’s Cabinet is backed by the Shiite Muslim militant
Hezbollah group, an Assad ally and the main bloc in the pro-
Syria March 8 coalition. The March 14 protesters also demanded
the disarming of Hezbollah, the only group that has refused to
lay down its arms since Lebanon’s 1975-1990 civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  