-- Australia to Announce Cuts at Budget Review Tomorrow, Swan Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-21T05:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/australia-to-announce-cuts-at-budget-review-tomorrow-swan-says.html
The Australian government will
announce “significant” cuts at a budget update tomorrow as it
remains committed to restoring a surplus, according to Treasurer
 Wayne Swan .  “The toughest conditions in the global economy in
generations have cut a swathe through traditional sources of
revenues,” Swan said today in his weekly economic note. “This
will require more savings to be found. The savings will be
significant.”  The federal government is preparing to reveal A$4 billion
($4.1 billion) in spending cuts and other measures, the Sydney
Morning Herald said yesterday. Increased charges for visa
applications will boost revenue by about A$500 million, the
Sunday Telegraph reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government has committed to
restoring a  budget surplus  this fiscal year after four years of
deficits even as growth slows.  Australia ’s economy is succumbing
to a slowdown in world growth that the  International Monetary
Fund  predicted this month would decelerate to the weakest pace
since the 2009 recession.  “I have no doubts whatsoever about the critical importance
of our budget strategy,” Swan said. Returning to surplus was
“appropriate” because of the Australian economy’s strong
fundamentals including low unemployment, inflation in check and
a robust investment pipeline, he said.  Abandon Commitment  The government could abandon its surplus commitment and
consider rate cuts if the global economy gets worse, the
International Monetary Fund said Sept. 20. The country recorded
its widest trade deficit since 2008, with exports falling for
the third straight month in August, the Bureau of Statistics
said in an Oct. 3 report.  Australia, the biggest exporter of  iron ore  and coal, has
managed to avoid recession for 21 years as China’s
infrastructure-led economic stimulus fueled demand for
commodities. Slower demand growth for commodities this year has
weighed on prices, denting projected tax revenues. The price of
 iron ore  has fallen 14 percent since July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  