-- Australia Set for Budget Savings Amid Sturdy Economy, Swan Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-21T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/australia-set-for-budget-savings-amid-sturdy-economy-swan-says.html
Australia  is set to announce
“significant” savings in a budget review today to meet its
goal of returning to surplus as Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the
nation’s “sturdy fundamentals” allow for fiscal discipline.  The nation has “low unemployment, contained inflation,
strong business investment and a triple-A  credit rating ,” Swan
said yesterday in his weekly economic note. “The toughest
conditions in the global economy in generations have cut a
swathe through traditional sources of revenues,” Swan wrote.
“This will require more savings to be found. The savings will
be significant.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government has committed to
restoring a budget surplus in the fiscal year ending June 30
after four years of deficits even as growth moderates.
Australia’s economy is succumbing to a slowdown in world
expansion that the  International Monetary Fund  predicted this
month would be the weakest since the 2009 recession.  The federal government is preparing to reveal A$4 billion
($4.1 billion) in spending cuts and other measures, the Sydney
Morning Herald said on Oct. 20. Increased charges for visa
applications will boost revenue by about A$500 million, the
Sunday Telegraph reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information.  “I have no doubts whatsoever about the critical importance
of our budget strategy,” Swan said.  Budget Surplus  The government could delay a return to a budget surplus and
the central bank could consider rate cuts if the global economy
deteriorates, the International Monetary Fund said in a Sept. 20
report. Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of  iron ore  and
coal, recorded its widest trade deficit since 2008 in August,
with exports falling for the third straight month, an Oct. 3
report from the Bureau of Statistics showed.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has reduced the overnight
cash rate target five times in the past year as signs emerged of
a slowdown.  “With unemployment rising and with the resources sector
slowing down it is becoming clearer that lower-than-expected
revenue may make achieving a surplus in 2012-13 difficult
without taking steps that will jeopardize growth over the medium
term,” Tony Shepherd, president of Australia’s Business Council,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Australia has managed to avoid recession for the past 21
years as  China ’s infrastructure-led economic expansion fueled
sales of commodities. Slower growth in demand this year has
weighed on prices, denting projected tax revenues. The price of
 iron ore  has fallen 14 percent since July 1.  Delayed Projects  The pace of China’s iron ore demand has slowed by more than
half, Alberto Calderon, chief commercial officer of the world’s
biggest miner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , said at a conference in
Canberra last month.  Melbourne-based BHP has delayed an estimated $68 billion of
projects, including an iron ore port expansion at Australia’s
Port Hedland, the world’s biggest export harbor for the
commodity, as prices slumped. BHP, Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  have all shed jobs in Australia, particularly in the coal
sector where falling prices have rendered some operations
uneconomical.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  