-- San Miguel Plans to Make $5 Billion Purchase, Ang Says
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-22T04:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/brewer-san-miguel-plans-big-transaction-with-5-billion-offer.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the Philippine
food and drinks company that expanded into energy and aviation,
has bid to make a $5 billion acquisition, according to President
Ramon Ang.  The Philippines’ largest  company  made an initial offer for
a deal that may be completed this year, Ang told reporters in
Manila on Oct. 20. San Miguel is competing with other regional
companies and hopes to make it to the final list of three
potential buyers, he said, declining to identify the target
company or say what industry it’s in.  “This is going to be a big transaction,” Ang said of the
target. “We’re also conducting due diligence on several
regional airlines for a possible acquisition.”  San Miguel , brewer of the century-old namesake beer brand,
has diversified from food and drinks to industries including
oil, power and infrastructure to meet a goal of doubling sales.
The company bought almost half of Philippine Airlines Inc. and
low-cost affiliate Air Philippines Corp. in April to boost sales
to almost $20 billion this year and $30 billion by 2017, Ang
said in an interview that month.  San Miguel shares fell 0.3 percent to 109.7 pesos as of the
midday trading break in Manila. The stock has declined 6.1
percent this year, compared with the 24 percent gain in the
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  Company ‘Vision’  “The company has a vision of what it wants to do,” said
Jose Vistan, research head at AB Capital Securities in  Manila .
“So far, the market doesn’t seem to share that vision and sees
the risks more than the potential benefits.”  San Miguel was invited to bid for an investment in a
company it can’t name and is not in a position to disclose
features of the “opportunity” because of confidentiality
rules, it said in a filing to the stock exchange today.  Philippine Airlines signed an agreement in Manila on Oct.
20 to buy 10 A330 jets from Airbus SAS, increasing its purchases
from the company to 64. The carrier, known as PAL, is in talks
with Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  for 35 more wide-body   aircraft to
complete a 100-plane fleet, Ang said on Oct. 20.  The airline will start flying to Toronto on Nov. 30,
giving it a direct link to  Canada ’s largest city, the carrier
said in a statement today.  San Miguel owns the Southeast Asian nation’s largest oil
company,  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , and is the country’s biggest electricity
producer. It bought most of Esso Malaysia Bhd in March, a month
before it announced the investment in PAL. San Miguel and
billionaire Lucio Tan, its partner in PAL, may invest $6 billion
to build a new airport in Manila, Ang said on Sept. 28.  35 Deals  A San Miguel unit plans to add 600 megawatts of coal-fired
generating capacity in Visayas and Mindanao, islands in central
and southern Philippines, where investment is estimated at $1.5
million per megawatt, Ang said on Oct. 20. That would mean a
$900 million expansion, based on Bloomberg calculations.  The company has announced 35 deals worth more than $7
billion in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The brewer is expanding into heavy industries to
triple the return it previously earned from food and drinks.  “The Philippines’ food and beverage business has matured
and there’s been minimal growth,” said AB Capital’s Vistan.
“Ramon Ang is taking a different route, and that’s the route to
growth.”  In April, Ang talked about “several big” potential
acquisitions, including two businesses with combined revenue of
$6 billion that may be purchased this year.  Safety Issues  San Miguel’s other  investments  include stakes in power
retailer  Manila Electric Co. (MER) , a toll-road venture, a company
that has the contract to build the Philippine capital’s metro
railway, an airport on the resort island of Boracay, and 10
percent of Indophil Resources NL, which has holdings in the
Tampakan gold and copper mine in the southern Philippines.  Acquiring a regional carrier would help PAL pursue long-
haul expansion amid aviation safety issues in the Philippines,
Ang said in June. The country is blacklisted by the European
Union and has a Category 2 rating from the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration , meaning it doesn’t meet international
regulations.  “We’re hoping the prime minister can help us lift the EU
ban,” Ang said during the signing of the deal with Airbus. He
was referring to French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who
was on a three-day visit to the  Philippines .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  