-- Consumer Spending Probably Lifted Growth: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-21T04:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/consumer-spending-probably-lifted-growth-u-s-economy-preview.html
Spending by American consumers
probably picked up in the third quarter, helping the world’s
largest economy overcome a slump in business investment that is
holding back the expansion.  Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
after expanding at a 1.3 percent pace the prior quarter,
according to the median forecast of 66 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of Commerce Department data Oct. 26. It would be
the first back-to-back readings lower than 2 percent since the
U.S. was emerging from the recession in 2009.  An improving housing market is helping boost household
confidence just as companies cut back on replacing outdated
equipment on concern about the so-called fiscal cliff. Federal
Reserve policy makers will meet this week for the first time
since announcing another round of stimulus in August aimed at
shoring up growth that may help reduce unemployment.  “The economy is still in recovery mode,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “The consumer is looking better than we’d
anticipated. Business spending is a concern.”  Consumer spending  is projected to have increased at a 2.1
percent annual rate last quarter following a 1.5 percent gain
from April through June, according to the survey median.  Retail sales in September and August had the best back-to-
back showing since late 2010 as shoppers snapped up goods from
cars to Apple Inc.’s iPhones, a sign demand was heading into the
year-end holidays on a high note.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-
biggest U.S. discounter, was among chains whose same-store sales
last month topped analysts’ estimates.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.9 million  annual pace in
September, the most since March 2008, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group. Chrysler Group LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
reported gains.  A drop in  joblessness  and firming  home prices  mean  consumer
confidence  may keep strengthening this quarter. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of sentiment, also
due on Oct. 26, jumped to 83 in October, the highest level since
September 2007, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Payrolls rose 114,000 in September after a 142,000 increase
the prior month, while the  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-
year low of 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent, according to Labor
Department figures.  Employment and the economy are central themes in the
campaigns of President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  ahead of the Nov. 6 presidential elections. The two
candidates will have their third and final debate tomorrow, this
time on foreign policy.  Fed Action  To spur growth and reduce unemployment, Fed policy makers
last month began an open-ended quantitative easing program, for
the first time not specifying how long it would last or its
total size. The central bank’s statement after the Oct. 23-24
meeting may shed more light on its latest assessment of the
economy and the labor market.  “Economic activity generally expanded modestly since the
last report,” the Fed said in its Beige Book survey released on
Oct. 10. Consumer spending was “flat to up slightly,” while
“residential real estate showed widespread improvement.”  Manufacturers, on the other hand, may be hesitant to invest
amid the looming fiscal cliff of more than $600 billion in tax
increases and  government spending  cuts set to take effect early
next year unless Congress acts. In addition, slowing global
growth is also hurting exports.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  lowered its full-year sales
forecast on weaker demand for aerospace parts and falling auto
production in  Europe . The  Morris Township , New Jersey-based
maker of turbochargers and cockpit controls joined industrial
peers General Electric Co. and Parker Hannifin Corp. in cutting
forecasts last week.  ‘Conservative Planning’  “Turning to 2013, the clarity on the macro side is still
murky,” Honeywell Chief Executive Officer Dave Cote said on an
Oct. 19 conference call with analysts. “There’s nothing out
there to suggest anything but continued conservative planning at
best.”  Disappointing results at companies like GE and Microsoft
Corp. announced on Oct. 19 triggered the biggest one-day decline
in stocks since June. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7
percent to close at 1,433.19.  A Commerce Department report on Oct. 25 may show orders for
durable goods grew 7 percent in September after falling 13.2
percent the prior month, the biggest drop since January 2009,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Excluding
transportation equipment, where demand is often volatile,
bookings advanced 0.9 percent after falling a combined 5.1
percent over the previous three months.  Home Sales  Reinforcing evidence of a rebound in housing,  new-home
sales  climbed last month to a 385,000 annual rate, the highest
since April 2010, economists in the Bloomberg survey projected
ahead of Commerce Department figures Oct. 24.  A day later, the National Association of Realtors may
report more Americans  signed contracts  to purchase previously
owned homes in September. The index of pending home sales rose
2.5 percent following a 2.6 percent drop in August, economists
predicted.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  