-- Yen Falls for Eighth Day After Exports Slump; Euro Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-22T21:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/dollar-holds-gains-as-stock-losses-boost-haven-demand.html
The yen dropped for an eighth day
against the dollar, the longest streak in seven years, as a
report showing  Japan ’s exports fell the most since the 2011
earthquake fueled bets the central bank will add more stimulus.  The euro rose versus most major currencies after Spanish
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy extended an electoral majority in
his home region of Galicia. It remained higher after Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded five Spanish regions. The yen slid
versus all of its 16 most-traded peers after Japan’s economy
minister,  Seiji Maehara , pressed the central bank yesterday for
more stimulus and as yields on U.S. Treasury two-year notes rose
the most since June versus their Japanese counterparts.  “You had weak trade numbers, Treasury yields are higher,
and there’s speculation that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is going to need
to come with more stimulus,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “There are a lot of factors that are
weighing on the yen.”  Japan’s currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 79.94 per
dollar at 5 p.m. New York time after dropping earlier to 79.96,
the weakest level since July 6. The yen slid 1.1 percent to
104.41 per euro and touched 104.46, the weakest since May. The
euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3060 after falling 0.7
percent over the previous two trading days.  Treasury two-year notes yielded 0.31 percent, 21 basis
points  more  than Japanese two-year government debt, making the
U.S. securities more attractive to Asian buyers. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Rupee Strengthens  India ’s rupee climbed 0.7 percent against the dollar, the
most among an extended list of 31 major counterparts, before an
auction of bond-purchase permits to overseas investors that may
increase inflows to the nation’s fixed-income market. It traded
at 53.4762 to the greenback. Russia’s ruble lost the most among
all of the currencies except the yen, dropping 0.7 percent to
31.115 per dollar.  Australia’s dollar weakened versus most major peers before
a report this week that may show inflation held near the slowest
in 13 years, providing scope for the country’s central bank to
cut  interest rates . The Aussie depreciated 0.1 percent to
$1.0320. It rose 0.7 percent to 82.50 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to 81.77 U.S.
cents and climbed 1.1 percent to 65.37 yen.  The rand rose for the first time in three days against the
greenback as foreign investors resumed purchases of South
Africa’s bonds. Prospects of an interest-rate cut fell after
retail sales grew more than expected in August.  The South African currency gained as much as 0.7 percent to
8.5971 per dollar before trading at 8.6418, up 0.2 percent.  Low Volatility  Implied  volatility  among Group of Seven currencies, which
signals the expected pace of price swings, touched 7.54 percent,
almost a five-year low, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index showed. The
gauge fell to 7.47 percent a week ago, the lowest since October
2007. Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark lending rates more attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profit. The
index’s average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Japanese  exports  slid 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, leaving a trade deficit of 558.6 billion yen ($7
billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo . The decrease was
the most since May 2011, two months after a magnitude-9 quake
struck northeastern Japan.  ‘Real Problem’  “The slide in exports is a real problem for Japan,”
 Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with  Deirdre Bolton . “We’ve been maintaining a short bias in the yen for the
last couple of weeks. It maintains the case that you should
probably be short yen until the BOJ meeting.” Short positions
are bets a currency will weaken.  The BOJ announces its next policy decision on Oct. 30 and
will also issue its revised economic projections for the 2012
and 2013 fiscal years and its first set of forecasts for 2014.
After the  Federal Reserve  announced open-ended bond purchases
last month to spur U.S. economic growth, its Japanese
counterpart responded by expanding its asset-buying program by
10 trillion yen on Sept. 19.  “The deterioration in the export figures caught the
market’s attention and pretty much accelerated the expectation
that the central bank may do something fairly soon,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a phone interview.  Canada, Mexico  More stimulus from the American central bank will probably
benefit the Mexican and Canadian currencies, according to
Sebastian Galy, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New  York. The U.S. is the biggest trading
partner of both countries.  “It will probably be the case that we continue to see the
dollar weaken against the Canadian dollar and the  Mexican
peso ,” Galy said in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“Bloomberg - The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “These are
economies which will benefit from activity from the Fed and the
steady rebalancing of the  U.S. economy .”  The loonie, as  Canada ’s currency is nicknamed, gained 0.1
percent to 99.24 cents per  U.S. dollar . It appreciated 2.1
percent versus the dollar in the past three months. The peso,
which rose 0.2 percent to 12.8582, strengthened 3.9 percent.  The greenback may gain more than 5 percent against the yen
after the U.S. currency exceeded its 200-day moving average,
Morgan Stanley analysts said, citing trading patterns. The
average was 79.44 yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Strength  Another technical indicator showed the yen may be poised to
strengthen against the dollar and euro. The 14-day relative-
strength index for the Japanese currency versus the greenback
increased to 73.5, and the gauge for the yen versus the euro
rose to 70.8. Readings of more than 70 may indicate an asset has
moved too far, too quickly and may be due for a correction.  Moody’s cut the credit ratings of five Spanish provinces,
citing fundamental economic and financial weaknesses, according
to a statement. It confirmed the ratings of five other
provinces.  The euro gained earlier for the first time in three days
against the dollar after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
extended an electoral majority in his home region of Galicia.
Rajoy’s  People’s Party  won 41 of the 75 seats in the regional
assembly in Galicia, vindicating Spain’s austerity program and
extending the party’s majority in the northwestern region.  Leaders at a European Union summit in Brussels last week
committed to agreeing by year-end on a legislative framework for
a single bank supervisory mechanism, a deal Moody’s Investors
Service said is negative for credit ratings of weaker nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  