-- ECB’s Knot Backs Schaeuble Call for Stronger EU Budget Power
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-10-21T12:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/ecb-s-knot-backs-schaeuble-call-for-stronger-eu-budget-power.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Klaas Knot backed German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble’s proposal for a commissioner that has power
over European Union nations’ budgets.  “National budgets within a monetary union not only affect
national economies, they also touch on other economies,” Knot
said in an interview today with Dutch television program
Buitenhof. “Hence it is a logical consequence of having a
monetary union that there is more coordination in the area of
budgets.”  Asked about Schaeuble’s proposal, Knot said “more power is
important as the euro crisis has shown.”  Finland and the Netherlands backed  Germany  at an Oct. 18-19
summit of European leaders in maneuvering that will climax at a
Dec. 13-14 meeting to set deadlines -- possibly as long as a
decade -- for a more united economy with more disciplined budget
management and central oversight.  The EU has struggled to maintain the momentum of its June
plan to spur investor confidence by putting the ECB in charge of
lenders across the euro area and other nations that choose to
sign on. Divisions have flared over the scope of the ECB’s
authority and how losses would be shared.  The ECB is set to become the bloc’s main financial
supervisor by Jan. 1, raising the prospect of direct aid to
Spain’s banks during 2013, the 27 EU leaders agreed at the
summit this month. The system will phase in and could cover all
6,000 euro-area banks by Jan. 1, 2014.  Bank Plan  “Everybody is in agreement with what needs to happen --
with the banking union we aim to break the cycle between the
sovereigns and national banks,” Knot said. “Banks will become
gradually under supervision in 2013 but the emphasis will be
more at the end of 2013 than in the beginning as this is a very
complex operation.”  Knot also said it is up to Spain to decide whether to apply
for a bailout that would enable the country to use the ECB’s
bond-purchasing program.  “A call from Spain on the rescue fund wouldn’t necessarily
need to be seen as adding to the crisis,” Knot said. “At the
moment, it is useful for the solution of the crisis that Spain
seeks help here and there,” though “this is really up to
Spain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  