-- Hedge Funds Cut Bets to 12-Week Low as Prices Drop: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-10-22T20:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/hedge-funds-cut-bets-to-12-week-low-as-prices-drop-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish commodity
bets to the lowest since July as speculation that governments in
 China  and  Europe  aren’t doing enough to boost growth drove
prices to the biggest loss in five weeks.  Speculators reduced net-long  positions  across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 4.4 percent to 1.18 million contracts in
the week ended Oct. 16, the lowest since July 24, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show. Gold bets slid 7 percent,
the first decline since Aug. 14, and those in silver fell 5.8
percent, the first drop in 12 weeks.  China, the biggest buyer of everything from coal to cotton
to copper, slowed for a seventh straight quarter, the government
said Oct. 18. The state won’t provide large economic stimulus,
Song Guoqing, an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said the
same day. The 17-nation euro area will contract 0.4 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9, cutting its
2013 global growth forecast to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent.
Europe consumes 22 percent of the world’s oil,  BP Plc (BP/)  estimates.  “Global growth in general is showing some degree of
weakening,” said Bill Greiner, who helps oversee $13 billion of
assets as chief investment officer at Mariner Wealth Advisors in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri . “In China, as far as the economy is
concerned, GDP growth is pretty weak. People are looking for
some signs of economic stability.”  GSCI Slumps  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell 1.4 percent last week, the most since Sept. 21. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities rose 1.2 percent, and the
dollar was little changed against a basket of six major trading
partners. Treasuries lost 0.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows. The S&P GSCI gauge dropped 1.2 percent to settle at
648.50 today.  Fourteen of the commodities tracked by S&P slumped last
week. Gasoline prices tumbled 6.8 percent. Silver declined 4.7
percent, the most since June. Copper lost 2.8 percent on Oct.
19, the biggest one-day drop in six months.  China’s economic growth has slowed to its weakest pace in
more than three years. Gross domestic product in the third
quarter slid to 7.4 percent from a year earlier. China’s
population of 1.34 billion people consumes 42 percent of the
world’s copper, Barclays Plc estimates.  French President  Francois Hollande  said additional help for
 Spain  wasn’t discussed at the summit of European leaders in
Brussels. There’s no certainty  Greece  will remain a member of
the euro, he told journalists Oct. 19. Europe accounts for about
18 percent of global copper consumption, Barclays estimates.  U.S. Outlook  An improving outlook for the  U.S. economy  and resilient
global demand for raw materials will help boost prices in the
long-term, said Jeffrey Sica, the president and chief investment
officer at SICA Wealth Management LLC.  Housing starts in the U.S. surged 15 percent in September
to the highest in four years, Commerce Department figures showed
Oct. 17. American manufacturers produced more appliances,
clothing and construction supplies last month as output at
factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4 percent, according to
data from the  Federal Reserve  on Oct. 16.  “I’m definitely bullish commodities long-term,” said
Sica, who helps oversee more than $1 billion in assets in
Morristown, New Jersey. “We still see an exorbitant amount of
demand for commodities.”  $90 Million  Money managers added $90 million to commodity funds in the
week ended Oct. 17, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. Gold and precious metal funds saw a net
outflow of $158 million, snapping 11 consecutive weeks of
inflows, he said.  Metals demand in China is “really slow” as economic
growth cools, Pengjiang (Richard) Fu, the head of Asian
commodities trading at Newedge Group SA, said in an interview in
London on Oct. 19. Slack demand for raw materials from China may
last as long as 18 months, he said.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the maker of cockpit controls
and thermostats, is forecasting 2013 economic growth in China
may decelerate to less than 7 percent, the slowest pace since
1990. The euro area will remain in recession next year, Dave
Anderson, the chief financial officer of the  Morris Township ,
New Jersey-based manufacturer, said Oct. 19.  Crude Wagers  Bets on higher crude-oil prices rose 3.3 percent to 166,278
contracts as of Oct. 16, CFTC data show. Futures in  New York 
dropped 2 percent last week, the fourth loss in five weeks.  Gold holdings fell to 184,404 contracts, the lowest since
Sept. 18. Prices in New York tumbled 2 percent last week, the
biggest drop since June. Improving U.S. economic growth has
reduced pressure on the Fed to enact more stimulus measures
after announcing a third round of debt-buying last month.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 7 percent to 616,508
contracts. That’s the sixth straight decline, the longest
stretch in a year. Wagers on corn dropped 1.5 percent to the
lowest since July 17, while those for soybean lost 5.5 percent
to the least since March 6.  Planting of corn, soybean and wheat in the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter of all three crops, will increase next
year, Informa Economics Inc., the Memphis, Tennessee-based
researcher, said in a report on Oct. 19. Prices surged this year
after the worst drought in 56 years reduced production. Corn
jumped 19 percent last quarter.  McDonald’s Costs  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain by
sales, expects U.S. commodity-cost increases to be smaller in
2013 than this year’s gains of as much as 4.5 percent, Peter J.
Bensen, the chief financial officer of the  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based, company said on a conference call with analysts Oct. 19.  “ China’s economy  is still slowing,” said Adrian Day, who
manages $170 million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset
Managmenet in Annapolis,  Maryland . “In Europe, they’ve made a
lot of noise, but not a lot of action. The market is waiting for
something to happen. We had a strong rally, and there’s nothing
to keep it going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  