-- Everton, Newcastle Hold Out for Away League Ties After Red Cards
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/ten-man-newcastle-draws-1-1-at-sunderland-everton-ties-at-qpr.html
Everton held on for a 1-1 draw at
the Premier League’s bottom club Queens Park Rangers after
having  Steven Pienaar  red-carded. Ten-man Newcastle secured a
point with a 1-1 tie at northeast rival Sunderland.  Yohan Cabaye scored for Newcastle in the third minute at
the Stadium of Light yesterday, and Demba Ba’s own goal made it
1-1 in the 86th. Cheick Tiote was sent off in the 25th minute.  Junior Hoilett gave QPR a second-minute lead before an own
goal by goalkeeper Julio Cesar tied it. Everton manager  David Moyes  criticized Pienaar’s sending-off for a second yellow card,
which forced his team to play the last half an hour a man down.  “It was a rubbish decision by the referee, he had a poor
game,” Moyes said in an interview with  Sky Sports . “I’m happy
with the point. We went down to 10 men and the players dug in.
Overall it was a hard point.”  Everton stays in fourth place with 15 points, though lost
ground on the top three, who all won at the weekend. QPR,
winless after eight games, remains last with three points. Both
managers said they had valid penalty appeals turned down.  “Ideally we would have preferred to take the maximum
because I feel our performance warranted that,” said QPR’s  Mark Hughes . “Overall I thought some of our play was excellent.”  Hoilett’s goal came when he broke out of his own half
before his shot took a deflection off Leighton Baines and beat
goalkeeper  Tim Howard .  Defensive Lapse  QPR was punished for a defensive lapse in the 33rd minute.
Unmarked Sylvain Distin had a clear header on goal and Cesar
knocked the ball into his net after it came off a post. Then
 Phil Jagielka  headed against the QPR bar.  In the 61st minute, Pienaar was shown a second yellow card
after fouling  Jose Bosingwa . Although QPR pressed for the win,
Jagielka was prominent in defense as Everton held out.  “Once we went down to 10 men I thought we did a very good
job and limited them to very few chances,” Jagielka said. “It
shows the spirit we’ve got.”  QPR’s Hoilett, Shaun Wright-Phillips and Anton Ferdinand,
in common with his brother Rio of  Manchester United  and a number
of other players, chose not to wear “Kick It Out” anti-racism
T-shirts this weekend. They were protesting at what they saw as
the Football Association’s lenient punishment of  John Terry  for
using racially-abusive language against Anton Ferdinand in a
QPR-Chelsea game last year, the Mail on Sunday reported. The F.A.
banned Terry for four games and fined him 220,000 pounds
($352,000) for racial abuse.  Cabaye Strikes  At Sunderland, Cabaye slammed the ball into the net after
Simon Mignolet blocked Ba’s shot. Tiote was red-carded for a
foul on  Steven Fletcher .  Even with the one-man advantage, Sunderland rarely put
pressure on the Newcastle goal. Ba hooked the ball over the
crossbar when well placed to increase Newcastle’s lead.  After 82 minutes, substitute  Louis Saha  could have made it
1-1 against his former team though shot into the side netting
following a corner. Four minutes later, Ba diverted  John O’Shea ’s header into his own net.  Newcastle moves up a place to 11th and Sunderland stays
14th in the 20-team league.  Two days ago, Chelsea won 4-2 at Tottenham, Manchester
United defeated Stoke 4-2 and defending champion Manchester City
won 2-1 at West Brom. There were 1-0 wins for Liverpool and
Fulham, while Arsenal lost by the same score at Norwich. Swansea
beat Wigan 2-1 and West Ham defeated Southampton 4-1.  Chelsea leads with 22 points, four ahead of Manchester
United and Manchester City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 