-- Falcao Pulls Atletico Level With Barcelona in Spain; Inter Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-21T23:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/falcao-pulls-atletico-level-with-barcelona-in-spain-inter-wins.html
Radamel Falcao scored a last-minute
free kick as  Atletico Madrid  won 1-0 at Real Sociedad to keep
pace with Barcelona atop Spanish soccer’s La Liga.  The Colombian striker curled in his 10th league goal of the
season last night to give Atletico its seventh straight league
win that moved it level with Barcelona on 22 points.  “It was a very tough and difficult match settled by a
delicious free kick,” Atletico coach Diego Simeone said on his
team’s website. “Falcao has been practicing hard with his free
kicks and today it paid off.”  Falcoa’s strike put him one behind  Lionel Messi  in the
Primera Division’s goal-scoring list this season. Messi scored
three goals two days ago for Barcelona, which went 3-0 up before
winning 5-4 at Deportivo La Coruna.  Jordi Alba, Cristian Tello and Messi struck before
Deportivo pulled back two goals through Luis Pizzi and Alex
Bergantinos. Messi made it 4-2 before half time and he scored
again in the second half, in between a Pizzi strike and an Alba
own goal. Barca’s  Javier Mascherano  was red-carded.  Gonzalo Higuain and  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored as Real Madrid
beat Celta Vigo 2-0.  Italian league leader Juventus defeated Napoli 2-0 two days
ago in a matchup of unbeaten teams in Serie A.  Jose Caceres and Paul Pogba scored in the final 10 minutes
as defending champion Juventus won for the seventh time in eight
games to move to 22 points, three ahead of Napoli.  Inter Milan  beat Catania 2-0 yesterday to pull even on 18
points with Lazio, which defeated AC Milan 3-2 two days ago.  Antonio Cassano  and Rodrigo Palacio got the goals that
secured Inter’s fourth straight league win.  Bundesliga Record  German league leader  Bayern Munich  set a Bundesliga record
with its eighth straight win to open a season, a 5-0 victory at
Fortuna Dusseldorf. Bayern has a five-point lead over Eintracht
Frankfurt, which beat Hannover 3-1.  Third-placed Schalke’s 2-1 win at Ruhr rival and defending
champion  Borussia Dortmund  was marred by fan violence that led
to about 150 arrests,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported.  In France, Marseille fell to a 1-0 defeat at last-place
Troyes last night, leaving Paris Saint-Germain atop the
standings on goal difference. Both teams have 19 points.  Benjamin Nivet’s 88th-minute goal earned Troyes its first
league win this season and moved it off the bottom.  FC Twente  leads the Dutch Eredivisie by a point over  PSV
Eindhoven  and Vitesse after a 1-1 draw at  Roda JC  two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  