-- Fannie Mae Limiting Loans Helps JPMorgan Mortgage Profits
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-10-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/fannie-mae-limiting-loans-helps-jpmorgan-mortgage-profits.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Ginnie Mae are
seeking to protect taxpayers as a flood of new lenders apply to
do business with them. That’s also helping big banks’ profit and
blunting Federal Reserve efforts to boost housing.  Fannie Mae, the government-supported mortgage financier,
has begun limiting how many loans annually it will guarantee or
buy from certain firms. Ginnie Mae has moved slowly with
responses to applications, according to David Lykken, an
industry consultant. The U.S.-owned bond insurer has gotten
tougher this year about approving lenders even as it’s signed up
about 50, Ginnie Mae President Ted Tozer said in an interview.  Limited competition in the industry and a lack of capacity
to meet demand is helping  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co. Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon get “ very high ” mortgage margins. That’s
frustrating central bankers such as William Dudley, the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York president, who said this month that
mortgage rates are higher than they could be after the Fed said
it plans to acquire $40 billion of home-loan securities a month.  “More direct access to Fannie would end up in more
mortgage companies getting a better price and consumers would
benefit,” said John Robbins, head of Bexil American Mortgage
Inc., who founded two lenders later sold to banks now part of
JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “The problem is, if you’re
Fannie you just can’t let all these companies have unlimited
access. You don’t want to give a high-speed, temperamental race
car to someone who just got a driver’s license.”  Taxpayer Conflict  The conflict between protecting taxpayers and encouraging
more lending to help the real estate market recover from the
worst slump since the Great Depression shows the challenges
facing the government and the industry as about 3,500 people
attend the Mortgage Bankers Association’s annual conference in
 Chicago  that started yesterday.  U.S.-backed mortgages still account for about 90 percent of
new lending in the almost $9.6 trillion home-loan  market  four
years after Fannie Mae and rival Freddie Mac were rescued by
taxpayers.  The companies “are playing an outsized role: in a properly
functioning market, Fannie Mae should not have such a
significant share,” Chief Executive Officer Timothy J. Mayopoulos said yesterday in a speech at the conference. “We
see little evidence of substantial private capital ready to meet
the very significant market needs.”  Changing Rules  David Stevens, the MBA president, former Federal Housing
Administration head and ex-Freddie Mac executive, says his
organization is worried that the company and Fannie Mae are
changing a broad range of rules without first going through the
same steps to seek public input as other arms of the government.  “No matter how much they say they’re being transparent
with the customers, it really pales in comparison to the process
required by other rulemakers,” he said.  Fannie Mae, which has more than 1,000 approved lenders,
won’t disclose how many have been capped or its total
applications and approvals this year for customers that
originate and service mortgages, or so-called seller-servicers.  The delivery limits affect a “relatively small number” of
lenders, “primarily” new ones, according to Zach Oppenheimer,
a senior vice president who heads customer engagement.  Fannie Mae’s volume limits, based on the net worth and
business profile of counterparties, add to steps by U.S. and
international lawmakers and regulators that may hurt competition
and “consumer access,” Stevens of the MBA said.  Government Seizure  The mortgage industry remains in flux six years after
mortgage defaults began climbing, reaching unprecedented levels
that would freeze private markets and cause hundreds of lenders
to collapse. Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., the top underwriters of so-called non-agency mortgage
bonds connecting investors with homeowners, imploded in 2008.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  were  seized  by the government
that year and have received $137 billion of aid since then,
enabling them to finance about two-thirds of new loans. Even
with steps to reduce their dominance, including increases to how
much they charge for mortgage guarantees, there are few signs of
progress on legislation that might shrink their role.  “Reform is not going to happen next year and probably not
until 2015,” said Isaac Boltansky, a Washington-based policy
analyst for Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  The “uncertainty” over their future is bad for the
companies as they seek to hire and retain qualified employees
and make decisions such as technology investments, Freddie Mac
Chief Executive Officer Donald Layton said during a panel at the
conference in Chicago.  Fannie Future  The development of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has been on
the backburner this year amid a presidential election and a
recovery in housing, including higher prices, home sales and
construction. That’s being driven in part by the Fed’s policy of
buying mortgage bonds to push down borrowing costs. The Obama
administration also adjusted rules to allow more borrowers to
tap record-low rates.  Refinancing applications soared to a three-year high with
30-year mortgages reaching 3.36 percent  this month , straining
staffs of lenders, which held rates higher than they could offer
in part to reduce demand.  Mortgage rates could be more than 0.4 percentage point
lower based on the average gap between bond yields and borrowing
costs over the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. New expenses and legal risks contribute to the higher
spread, said Bexil’s Robbins, also a former chairman of the
mortgage-bankers group.  Production Margins  At JPMorgan, mortgage-production margins are “very high”
at “well over” 2 percent, up from less than 1 percent
historically, Dimon said on an Oct. 12 conference call about its
record $5.7 billion in quarterly earnings. The bank’s home-loan
business lends directly to consumers and buys mortgages from
about 800 firms.  “Obviously one day that will normalize,” Dimon said.
“And in the meantime, you get volume and higher spreads.”  Three days later, the  New York  Fed’s Dudley  explained  in a
speech that only part of the drop in debt yields created by the
central bank’s actions was being passed on to consumers, the
flip side of Dimon’s expanded profits.  The factors behind the wider spreads “warrant ongoing
attention from policymakers,” Dudley said.  Dudley cited “a concentration of mortgage origination
volumes at a few key financial institutions” as part of the
cause. At the same time, Mayopoulos said that “we’ve seen
significant deconsolidation in the industry as major players
pulled away or withdrew completely.”  Smaller Lenders  Over the past year, more companies have been taking market
share as firms including  Bank of America Corp.  and MetLife Inc.
abandoned roles buying loans from smaller lenders, getting them
guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae and selling
them to investors.  Those middlemen were “absorbing a lot of risk” that
Fannie Mae must take on itself when dealing directly with
smaller firms, Mayopoulos said. “We very much want to serve
smaller lenders but we want to do that in a prudent way,” he
said. “We’re also serving the taxpayers.”  During the second quarter, 47 percent of Fannie Mae’s
business came from its top five customers, down from 65 percent
a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing. A decline that
began last year “accelerated sharply” this year, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote in an Oct. 18 report.  Still, Wells Fargo & Co. has a record market share. The San
Francisco-based lender made or bought 33.1 percent of home loans
originated in the first half of 2012, according to newsletter
Inside Mortgage Finance. That’s almost twice the 16.8 percent
share recorded by Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2007. That
year, Wells was second with 11.2 percent.  JPMorgan Share  JPMorgan is now in second place with 11.1 percent. The rest
of the top five -- now U.S. Bancorp,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- also are smaller than five years ago.  Fannie Mae’s new delivery caps, which it may increase as
companies gain capital and prove their operations, can affect
existing customers with financial trouble or poor performance as
well as new clients, Oppenheimer said. Newsletter  National
Mortgage News  earlier reported the restrictions.  Under its previous policy, a lender with a $2.5 million net
worth, its minimum, could “theoretically deliver billions of
dollars of loans,” Oppenheimer said. If the lender was forced
to buy back loans because of faulty underwriting, it wouldn’t
“take that many bad loans to add up to substantial costs and
wipe you out. Ultimately if those institutions fail, it would be
the taxpayer who would be paying.”  Loan Costs  Fannie Mae’s Oppenheimer said the caps may not have much
effect on the cost of loans because borrowers often turn to
their servicers to refinance and Fannie Mae is already doing
business with more than 1,000 lenders.  “I’m not certain that the addition of many new originators
would have a material change to margins in today’s market.”  Rob Hirt, chief executive officer of RPM Mortgage Inc., a
Walnut Creek, California-based lender, understands the decision.  “If you’re looking at it from Fannie’s perspective, I
don’t see how you can blame them,” he said. Still, “the small
guys are really getting whacked in some ways, which at the end
of the day is bad for the consumer.”  Hirt said his firm, which will sell about half of its $6
billion of loans this year to Fannie Mae, has been told to
expect that “what you’re selling to us you can keep selling to
us,” he said.  Direct Relationship  A direct relationship with Ginnie Mae, whose bond
guarantees help lenders sell off FHA loans allowing low-down
payments and mortgages for veterans, is also in demand. The
agency, which has more than 300 approved issuers, relies on the
companies to do work including advancing payments missed by
borrowers to bond investors as they service outstanding loans.  Lykken, the managing partner of consultant Mortgage Banking
Solutions, is doing work for four lenders seeking Ginnie Mae
approval, which he said should be considered a “privilege”
requiring scrutiny. One has been waiting for more than a year.  “You send in your application and you don’t really hear
anything for months, nada,” he said. “People are up in arms
about it. They’re frustrated, but they’re afraid to say
anything.”  Ginnie Mae’s Tozer said it’s not changing its minimum
standards, which represent a “starting point” to getting its
approval.  Holistic View  Instead, it’s looking at lenders in a more “thoughtful”
and “holistic” way, often leading to more back and forth. For
example, a company that plans to outsource servicing work to a
less established firm may need to prove it has an executive
experienced in the field on its own staff, he said.  “There’s no value to me or them in getting people in the
program that aren’t going to be successful,” Tozer said in an
interview at the conference.  Lenders forced to sell mortgages they originate to bigger
companies, instead of directly tapping government programs, must
usually give up contracts to manage outstanding debt created
with new loans. Prices for those servicing rights have dropped
as lenders such as Bank of America stopped buying them.  Even with rates on new loans at record lows and their
default risk small, buyers pay three to four times the
contract’s annual payments, down from five to six times
historically, said Norcom Mortgage’s Philip DeFronzo. The yearly
payments typically equal 0.25 percentage point of loan balances.  “It’s just not as competitive a marketplace right now,”
said DeFronzo, president of Avon, Connecticut-based Norcom,
which is among lenders holding on to more of those contracts.
Firms that have to sell the servicing rights cheaply lose
revenue that can be used to offer less-expensive mortgages.  Lenders also face loan standards from so-called aggregators
that are stricter than they can get when dealing directly with
government programs, said John Fearon, the majority owner of
Fearon Financial LLC. The company, which also lends under the
name Smarter Mortgages, is now seeking Fannie Mae approval.  “We’d probably not be as tight as some of the larger
institutions in making our own underwriting decisions,” he
said. “It would give us the ability to serve a lot more of the
market in the 11 states we’re in,” including Ohio and  Texas .  Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said this month the economy
needs more small lenders and that new regulation may drive more
out of business. These firms historically have been willing to
give more consideration to good borrowers with unusual
situations that bigger lenders don’t want to deal with, she
said.  “You need to make sure you can still make the irregular
loan, the one that doesn’t fit exactly in a box,” Duke said.  Regulators are writing rules such as national servicing
guidelines that will be relatively more costly for smaller
lenders to comply with, said Robert Bostrom, who served as
general counsel for Freddie Mac for five years through 2011.  “There’s just not enough capacity in the marketplace,”
said Bostrom, who is now at law firm SNR Denton. “And we all
know who’s going to end up paying for it: the consumer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ; and
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 perlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at +1-202-654-7360 or
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 