-- FGB Price Estimate Raised at JPMorgan on Dividend Expectation
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-21T06:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/fgb-price-estimate-raised-at-jpmorgan-on-dividend-expectation.html
Investors should buy  First Gulf Bank
PJSC (FGB)  shares before year end as the lender controlled by Abu
Dhabi’s ruling family will offer a 7 percent dividend yield,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said, raising its price estimate.  JPMorgan, which has a buy rating on the stock, increased
its price forecast for the Abu Dhabi-based lender’s shares to
13.5 dirhams from 13 dirhams, analysts including Naresh Bilandani said in a report dated Oct. 19. That represents a 36
percent upside from last week’s closing price.  The analysts’ projected dividend yield for First Gulf Bank
exceeds the 4.6 percent average for banks traded on the
benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares of First Gulf Bank have rallied 29 percent
 this year  through Oct. 18, compared with a 10 percent advance
for the  Abu Dhabi  gauge and a 13 percent gain for the  ADX Banks
Index. (ADBF)  First Gulf Bank  trades at  7.7 times earnings compared
with 9.3 times for Abu Dhabi’s measure.  “We see FGB’s current valuation not fully pricing in scope
for attractive dividend from this name and we recommend that
investors buy FGB shares ahead of year-end” to benefit from the
dividend yield, JPMorgan said. “FGB will maintain its strong
shareholder value-driven approach and focus on unlocking value
by returning capital through higher dividends.”  The lender is set to increase its dividend yield to 7.7
percent in 2013 and 8.9 percent in 2014, according to JPMorgan
estimates.  First Gulf Bank may tomorrow report a  10 percent advance  in
third-quarter profit to 1.01 billion dirhams ($275 million),
according to the mean estimate of five analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank’s stock was unchanged at 10:32 a.m. in Abu
Dhabi today.  Sixteen analysts  recommend investors buy the shares, while
one has a hold rating on the stock, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  