-- Fiat Says Jeep Output May Return to China as Demand Rises
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-22T15:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/fiat-says-china-may-build-all-jeep-models-as-suv-demand-climbs.html
Fiat SpA (F) , majority owner of Chrysler
Group LLC, plans to return Jeep output to  China  and may
eventually make all of its models in that country, according to
the head of both automakers’ operations in the region.  Fiat is in “very detailed conversations” with its Chinese
partner,  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , about making Jeeps in
the world’s largest auto market, said  Mike Manley , chief
operating officer of Fiat and Chrysler in  Asia . Chrysler hasn’t
built Jeeps there since before Fiat took control in 2009.  “The volume opportunity for us is very significant,”
Manley, who is also president of the Jeep brand, said in an
interview at Chrysler’s Auburn Hills,  Michigan , headquarters.
“We’re reviewing the opportunities within existing capacity”
as well as “should we be localizing the entire Jeep portfolio
or some of the Jeep portfolio.”  Chrysler, which entered an alliance with Turin, Italy-based
Fiat as part of its U.S. government-backed bankruptcy, is
relying on growth in China to counter weakness in  Europe ’s auto
market. The automaker is targeting  500,000  annual sales outside
North America by 2014, more than triple its overseas deliveries
in 2009.  Chrysler currently builds all Jeep SUV models at  plants  in
Michigan, Illinois and Ohio. Manley referred to adding Jeep
production sites rather than shifting output from  North America 
to China.  Asia’s Strength  International sales for Chrysler climbed 22 percent to
153,154 this year through September, according to the company.
The Jeep brand accounted for more than three of every four of
those deliveries, with sales surging 54 percent to 117,189.  “We’ve grown much stronger in Asia to make up or
compensate for some of the difficulties in Europe,” Manley
said. Europe will be in “very difficult, tough times” through
at least 2013, he said.  Boosted by strong demand for the Grand Cherokee and Compass
sport-utility vehicles, Jeep sales in China have more than
doubled to 33,463 this year through September. The brand topped
total deliveries for all of 2011 by July of this year.  Chrysler’s 2014 international sales target is “certainly
within reach,” Manley said. The European auto market is on
track to plunge in 2012 by the most in 19 years, according to
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  “Given what we see around the world, it is stretching for
sure, but it’s not something we’ve given up on,” he said.  Fiat and Guangzhou’s plant in Changsha in central China has
initial annual capacity of 140,000 cars and is capable of
eventually assembling 500,000 vehicles per year. The automakers
will add production of a new vehicle to the factory roughly
every 12 months and began building the Fiat Viaggio compact
there in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  