-- Fighting Hand-to-Hand for So-Goes-the-Nation Ohio
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-10-21T14:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/fighting-hand-to-hand-for-so-goes-the-nation-ohio.html
Only a risk-taker with the guts of a
cat burglar, or someone with lots of money to burn, would bet
the ranch on this year’s close U.S. presidential race.  A better bet: whoever wins Ohio,  Barack Obama  or  Mitt Romney , will win the presidency.  It’s the only state that has voted for the victor in the
past 12 presidential elections. It is the embodiment of Middle
America and swings back and forth from Republican red to
Democratic blue. Right now, it looks blueish purple.  If either candidate gains some momentum in the home stretch
and wins by two, three points or more, the Electoral College
won’t matter. If this year resembles one of the razor tight
contests -- 1960, 1968, 1976 and 2000 -- it’s the Electoral
College, awarding votes by states, that will settle the outcome.  Under that scenario, it’s almost impossible to see a
pathway to a Romney victory without Ohio’s 18 electoral votes.
It’s more feasible, though still unlikely, that the president
could win 270 electoral votes without the Buckeye state.  The centrality of this state is reflected in the campaigns’
heavy presence. In the past seven weeks, Obama has had nine
events in Ohio and Vice President  Joe Biden  has had five.
Romney, in that stretch, has made 20 Ohio appearances and his
running mate, House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , has had
14.  Clinton, Springsteen  Almost every day, the creme de la creme of surrogates
descend on the state. Last week, it was former President  Bill Clinton  and  Bruce Springsteen  for the Democrats. Ryan arrived
the day after the Oct. 16 presidential debate, accompanied by
former Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice .  Both sides are flooding the airwaves. Over just the past 30
days, Obama and his super political action committee have spent
$26 million on  television advertising  in Ohio. Romney, his
super-PAC and  Karl Rove ’s outside group have spent $20 million
over that period. Separately, huge amounts are being disbursed
by the campaigns and others on efforts to turn out the vote.  The intensity was evident at campaign appearances last
week. In Berea, Ryan told the crowd that Ohio is “the
battleground of the battlegrounds.”  A few hours later, at a rally at Ohio University in  Athens ,
the president mentioned his opponent and the crowd booed.
“Don’t boo, vote,” he replied.  The two parties’ state chairmen, among the best in the
country, realize the stakes, though their perspectives are
different.  “We’re now up by a couple,” says Bob Bennett, the
Republicans’ Ohio chief.  “We’ve got a lead in the middle single digits,” says
 Chris Redfern , his Democratic counterpart.  Both boast about unprecedented organization and
infrastructure resources. Republicans believe they have their
best-ever turnout operation. The Obama organization, far
superior in 2008, never left the state and has a markedly more
sophisticated operation this time.  For Bennett, “it’s all going to come down to the
economy.” Redfern says the election can be summed up in four
words: “Let Detroit go bankrupt,” a paraphrase of Romney’s
position on what proved to be the successful bailout of the  auto
industry , which is a big employer in Ohio.  The state’s economy is like the proverbial glass half full,
or half empty, depending on your perspective. The jobless rate
is  7 percent , below the national average and down sharply from
the 10.6 percent level it reached shortly after Obama took
office. At least 11,100 jobs, according to Bloomberg Government,
have been saved by the auto rescue and indirectly, probably
considerably more. There are elements of real economic vibrancy.  Job Creation  At the same time,  Ohio  has lost 239,800 jobs over the past
four years and there are pockets that reflect a durable and deep
recession. Almost one-quarter of  home mortgages  are underwater,
meaning the debt is larger than the value of the home.  Thus, Obama has to be careful in heralding a resurgent
economy. Nevertheless, he was buoyant in Athens a few days ago:
“We’ve added more than 5 million new jobs, more manufacturing
jobs than any time since the 1990s,” he said. “The
 unemployment rate  has fallen from 10 percent to  7.8 percent .
Foreclosures are at their lowest in five years. Home values are
on the rise. Stock market has doubled. Manufacturing is coming
back. Assembly lines are putting folks back to work.”  Romney dwells on the glass that’s half empty, yet he also
faces a conundrum on the economy. Even as the candidate runs
around Ohio talking about difficult times, Republican Governor
 John Kasich , who craves higher office someday, is bragging about
the state’s  recovery .  Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster with more than 40 years
of experience surveying Ohioans, recently conducted a focus
group of a dozen undecided voters in suburban Columbus. The
session crystallized the ambivalence toward the two candidates
among these voters who may hold the balance in the most
important state. Hart says they’ll decide in the final weeks and
will be looking ahead, not back, “based on who will best get
the  economy  moving and who will fight for them.”  If they split, Ohio tilts Obama, given his superior
political infrastructure.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 