-- Fracking Needs Rules, Not Flawed Studies
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-21T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/fracking-needs-rules-not-flawed-studies.html
New York officials have again put
off a  decision  on whether to allow hydraulic fracturing in the
shale-gas-rich state, saying more research is needed to
determine the  public health  effects.  It’s wise to ensure that fracking -- which enables the
extraction of gas and oil trapped underground -- doesn’t pose
unnecessary social, economic or health risks. Unfortunately,
much of the research to date has been tainted by conflicts of
interest -- real and imagined -- that have colored findings to
provide ammunition for supporters or opponents.  Can one more study provide unquestionable evidence that
fracking is safe? It’s doubtful. Already environmental groups
are agitating over New York Environmental Conservation
Commissioner  Joseph Martens ’s rejection of an independent health
study in favor of one done by the state’s health commissioner.  Rather than wait for absolution, policy makers should allow
drilling to proceed under strict regulation and supervision. The
risks posed by fracking -- already well-enough known -- can be
addressed by crafting tough rules governing well construction,
wastewater treatment and chemical disclosure.  Anyone looking for concrete evidence of fracking’s impact
will probably come away confused by the conflicting research.
One can find studies linking fracking with water contamination
and others concluding there is zero evidence. An oft-cited
Cornell University study depicts natural gas as dirtier than
coal, while other peer-reviewed studies find the opposite.
Economic studies are similarly polarized, detailing both huge
employment and revenue gains from drilling and large economic
costs from pollution, infrastructure strain and plunging real-
estate values.  One constant is that much of the research is funded by
those with  skin in the game  -- oil and gas interests on one hand
and environmental groups on the other. While that doesn’t
necessarily delegitimize the findings, it does undermine
people’s trust in them. Some of the science has been found
lacking.  Sponsored Research  In 2011, Cornell University Professors  Robert Howarth  and
 Anthony Ingraffea  upended the environmental world with a  paper ,
published in Climatic Change Letters, declaring that natural
gas, far from being a “clean” fuel, contributes to global
warming even more than coal. The researchers based their
conclusions largely on estimates of how much methane escapes
from natural gas operations over 20 years, compared with  carbon
emissions  from coal. The study was funded in part with a $35,000
grant from the  Park Foundation , an environmental advocacy group
that has spent more than $1.5 million on efforts researching and
opposing natural gas drilling.  A year later, another Cornell professor,  Lawrence Cathles ,
published a  study  debunking his colleagues’ work. Cathles called
Howarth and Ingraffea’s estimate of methane leakage “impossible”
and said the 20-year time frame skewed the results. While
methane is a more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, it
leaves the atmosphere more quickly than CO2, which can persist
for centuries.  Proponents of fracking have funded studies that arrive at
favorable conclusions yet don’t reveal industry sponsorship. As
 Bloomberg News  reported, a February study by a  University of
Texas  professor found no evidence of groundwater contamination
from fracking but failed to disclose that the author sat on the
board of a gas-producing company with fracking operations in
 Texas , for which he received more than $400,000 in compensation.
Academics at  Pennsylvania State University  and the  State
University of New York  at Buffalo have also produced fracking-
friendly reports and failed to disclose industry ties.  Disputed Findings  New York has already produced two environmental impact
 studies  on fracking of its own, and elicited more than 80,000
comments on them. Now, Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s administration is
bowing to  environmental groups  who say another study is needed
to assess potential public-health impacts. Joseph Martens handed
the job to New York’s  health commissioner , saying it would be
almost impossible to find outside experts with no conflict of
interest.  If history is any guide, rather than provide greater
clarity, New York’s study will be picked apart by those who
disagree with the findings. That’s what happened in Garfield
County,  Colorado , where a  health impact assessment  by the
Colorado School of Public Health was abandoned after the oil and
gas industry attacked its findings. Similarly last year, when
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  linked  fracking with
water contamination in Pavillion,  Wyoming , the oil and gas
industry and Wyoming officials questioned the federal agency’s
methods and interpretations, prompting a retest by EPA and the
 U.S. Geological Survey . (Last month, the USGS released findings
largely mirroring EPA’s original ones.)  Perhaps New York’s aim is to research fracking to death,
ensuring it never comes into practice. We hope that’s not the
case. A moratorium on drilling in place since 2010 has already
cost the state jobs and  tax revenue .  It doesn’t take a scientist to recognize that pumping
chemicals underground to extract methane can pose risks. But
there is little hard evidence to date that fracking, when done
appropriately and safely, has a deleterious effect. Policy
makers should look to science not to let them delay fracking but
to help them craft strict regulations to prevent problems.  New York  should make use of the existing public-health
research to expedite its review and meet its previously
scheduled -- and now unlikely -- Nov. 29 deadline for a fracking
decision and move swiftly to implement tough  regulations .
Granted, low natural-gas prices and a  shift  to oil production
have somewhat damped the shale-gas drilling boom, giving New
York some breathing room. Yet it will take time to craft rules
and solicit public input, and the state should not unnecessarily
delay its decision.  Even more important than a single state’s effort is the
need for uniformity, and that means the federal government
should step in and craft regulations for well casing and
construction, which would ensure energy companies adhere to the
same standards across the U.S. and prevent leaks that can
contaminate groundwater.  Regulators should also require that companies disclose
every ingredient in their fracking fluids, capture air emissions
from fracking operations and handle wastewater responsibly to
prevent toxic chemicals from spilling, leaching or evaporating.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  making the most of
Afghanistan’s minerals ; William D. Cohan on why it’s too late to
seek  justice for the economic meltdown ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
questions for  the foreign-policy debate ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 ground battle in Ohio ; Michael Bordo on why this  recovery is
slower ;  Brad Miller  on using  stand-alone subsidiaries  to break
up banks.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 