-- George McGovern, Libertarian Hero
-- B y   N i c k   G i l l e s p i e
-- 2012-10-21T12:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/george-mcgovern-s-legacy-as-a-libertarian-hero.html
The venerable former senator and
failed presidential candidate George McGovern, who died today at
90, is being remembered by many friends and foes alike as the
archetypal ultraliberal.  McGovern, they say, effectively turned the  Democratic Party 
over to wild-haired incompetents and left-wing dreamers whose
extremism ultimately set the stage for the Reagan “revolution”
and the rise of a right-of-center America.  There’s truth in that. McGovern’s early criticism of the
 Vietnam War  (he first spoke against it as a newly elected
Democratic senator from  South Dakota  in 1963) was out of step
with a bipartisan  Cold War  consensus that smothered serious
debate for too long.  Yet when you take a  longer view  of his career -- especially
after he got bounced from the Senate in 1980 during the
Republican landslide he helped create -- what emerges is a rare
public figure whose policy positions shifted to an increasingly
libertarian stance in response to a world that’s far more
complicated than most politicians can ever allow.  Born in 1922 and raised during the Depression, McGovern
eventually earned a doctorate in American history before
becoming a  politician . But it was as a private citizen he became
an expert in the law of unintended consequences, which elected
officials ignore routinely. He came to recognize that attempts
to control the economic and lifestyle choices of Americans
aren’t only destructive to cherished national ideals, but
ineffective as well. That legacy is more relevant now than ever.  Republican Target  McGovern’s loss against incumbent President  Richard Nixon 
in 1972 was the second-biggest electoral-college blowout up to
that point, and he managed to lose even his home state. His
campaign was run by future Colorado Senator  Gary Hart , a
greenhorn whose poor judgment was later made fully public in his
own 1988 presidential bid (which ended after he was photographed
with a young woman not his wife on a pleasure boat called
“Monkey Business,” of all things).  The  standard analysis  was that it was a liability to be
described as “another McGovern,” which meant “unelectable.”
In August, the Republican magazine the Weekly Standard licked
its chops in a story titled  “Barack Hussein McGovern:  The
specter of 1972 is haunting the Obama campaign.”  Among the horrors of that convention 40 years ago? Support
for  Title IX , which banned discrimination against women in
federal education funding, and the Equal Rights Amendment. Other
delegates spoke out in favor of gay rights, legal contraception
for unmarried couples (still a touchy issue in 1972), and
abortion rights.  At the center of McGovern’s campaign, though, was his
attack on  U.S. foreign policy , especially in  Southeast Asia .
“Come Home, America,” read his iconic posters and buttons,
calling for a swift end to American involvement in  Vietnam  and
surrounding countries. From his first years in the Senate, he
believed that the U.S. was mistaking a civil war for a new front
in the Cold War, and he stressed even before President  Lyndon Johnson ’s massive troop buildup that U.S. involvement was “a
clear demonstration of the limitations of military power.”  His understanding of military action wasn’t theoretical. A
decorated World War II veteran whose harrowing experiences
piloting a B-24 bomber colored his views toward war. He famously
snapped at fellow Democratic Senator  John Stennis , “I’m tired
of old men dreaming up wars for young men to fight.”  That emphasis on lived reality -- and the failure of
government interventions to make the world stand at attention to
the desires of politicians -- later turned McGovern to
libertarian positions on more than foreign policy. He
scandalized liberals in a  1992 letter  to the Wall Street Journal,
detailing his travails as the proprietor of a Connecticut hotel.  Regulatory Overkill  Having sunk most of his savings into the venture, it went
belly up, he said, partly because of a bad economy but also due
to “federal, state and local rules that were all passed with
the objective of helping employees, protecting the environment,
raising tax dollars for schools, protecting our customers from
fire hazards, etc.”  Lamenting his lack of business experience while he was a
legislator and presidential contender, McGovern concluded that
“ ‘one-size-fits-all’ rules for business ignored the reality of
the marketplace.”  As he explained, “setting thresholds for regulatory
guidelines at artificial levels -- for example, 50 employees or
more, $500,000 in sales -- takes no account of other realities,
such as profit margins, labor intensive vs. capital intensive
businesses, and local market economics.”  In 2008, also in the Wall Street Journal, he  attacked  what
he called “economic paternalism” from right-wing and left-wing
politicians who were seeking to ban subprime loans and the pay-
day lending business. Such laws don’t actually help people of
limited means, he stressed, even as they reduce everyone’s
ability to deal with their finances. He also took aim at
“health-care paternalism” that made it impossible for
consumers to shop across state lines for insurance and stuck
them with unwanted or unaffordable gold-plated plans. “I’ve
come to realize,” he wrote, “that protecting freedom of choice
in our everyday lives is essential to maintaining a healthy
civil society.”  To his credit, he extended that insight even to choices
that can become self-destructive. His 1996  memoir , “Terry,”
details the life and death of his youngest daughter, an
alcoholic who froze to death in a Wisconsin snowbank after a
heavy bout of drinking.  The short book is a miles-deep
examination of family dynamics, theories of addiction, and human
struggle that is both universally accessible and intensely
personal. (He writes of his wife’s response to the news of their
child’s death as “a cry heartrending and terrible. I can
neither describe not forget it.”)  Freedom First  In a 1997  New York  Times op-ed article, he  emphasized  that
simply because some people abuse freedom of choice is no reason
to reduce it. “Despite the death of my daughter,” he argued,
“I still appreciate the differences between use and abuse.” He
rightly worried that lifestyle freedom, like economic freedom,
was everywhere under attack: “New attempts to regulate behavior
are coming from both the right and the left, depending only on
the cause. But there are those of us who don’t want the tyranny
of the majority (or the outspoken minority) to stop us from
leading our lives in ways that have little impact on others.”  McGovern believed that attempts to impose single-value
standards were profoundly un-American and “that we cannot allow
the micromanaging of each other’s lives.” But as governments at
various levels expand their control of everything from health-
care to mortgages to the consumption of soda pop and so much
more, that’s exactly what’s happening.  In 1972, McGovern was out of step with the American public.
Not anymore. Large majorities see the long wars in Afghanistan
and  Iraq  as the mistakes and failures they plainly were. And his
criticism of paternalism is wildly popular with everyone but our
rulers. An August 2012  CNN /ORC International Poll  found  that
only 40 percent of registered voters want the government to
“promote traditional values,” a finding that is down from 57
percent in 2008. CNN also found that “six in 10 say that
government is doing too much that should be left to businesses
and individuals.”  These days, it’s politicians of both parties who are out of
step with the voting public. As the nation prepares to pay its
last respects to George McGovern, we can only hope that our
leaders will learn from his example and become less confident in
telling us how to live our lives.  ( Nick Gillespie  is the editor in chief of Reason.com and
the co-author of “ The Declaration of Independents : How
Libertarian Politics Can Fix What’s Wrong with America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nick Gillespie in Washington at  gillespie@reason.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 