-- German September Tax Revenue Climbs as Growth Picks Up
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-22T07:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/german-september-tax-revenue-rises-4-2-as-growth-picks-up.html
German tax revenue rose in September
as the pace of economic expansion quickened, the  Finance
Ministry  said, cautioning at the same time that growth is set to
slow in the fourth quarter.  Tax collection rose 4.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, led by intake at the level of  Germany ’s 16 states, the
ministry in Berlin said in its monthly report today. Revenue in
the first nine months rose 5.6 percent from a year earlier.  “There was likely an increase in overall economic activity
in the third quarter,” the ministry said. The final quarter
will probably see “a clear economic weakening,” mainly due to
stagnation and recession in some euro-area economies, it said.  While there are signs that the sovereign debt crisis is
damping growth, the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, is still
outperforming its euro-area counterparts. German investor
confidence gained for a second month in October, buoyed by the
 European Central Bank ’s announced bond-purchase program.  Revenue from income and sales tax posted “surprisingly
high gains” in September, the report said. The figures confirm
the ministry’s expectation that the economy’s expansion will be
mainly driven by  consumer spending , it said.  German wages will grow a 0.3 percent in real terms this
year, while pay will decline 0.5 percent in the 27-member
European Union, the labor union-affiliated WSI institute  said  on
its website. The  unemployment rate  has held at a two-decade low
since December as companies including Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG expect to achieve record sales in 2012.  Deficits Shrinking  The euro region is reversing the trend of “increasing
macroeconomic imbalances” that existed before the crisis,
Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen said in a comment with
the report. Current account deficits are shrinking “quickly,”
Steffen said, urging governments to stay the course.  “The achievements made so far suggest that we should stay
on the chosen path, although a good bit of the journey to
overcoming the debt crisis still needs to be traveled,” Steffen
said. “It would be tragic to change the direction now. Budget
deficits would rise again and confidence that is slowly gaining
would again be threatened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  