-- Groundwater Extraction Set Off Deadly Spain Quake: Study
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-10-21T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/groundwater-extraction-set-off-deadly-spain-quake-study.html
Groundwater extraction from
agriculture and industry that lowered a nearby aquifer helped
spark a quake in  Spain  last year that killed nine people,
according to a study published today in Nature Geoscience.  The May 2011 earthquake in Lorca, which measured 5.1 on the
Richter scale, was Spain’s deadliest since  1956 . It was
triggered following a 250-meter (820-foot) drop in groundwater
from pumping since the 1960s ruptured the Earth’s crust along
the Alhama de Murcia faultline, according to the study led by
Pablo J. Gonzalez of the  University of Western Ontario .  The shallow-depth quake at 2-4 kilometers (1.2 to 2.5
miles) in one of the highest seismic risk areas in Spain was
“human-induced” by groundwater changes, the study said. The
results imply that anthropogenic or manmade activities “could
influence how and when earthquakes occur.”  Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, blasts water mixed with
sand and chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from
shale formations. The disposal of saltwater and used fracking
fluids in deep injection wells sometimes impacts  fault lines  and
has caused small quakes in such places as  Ohio  though no deaths.  The Nature Geoscience study suggests “that the stress
change induced by water extraction in the Guadalentin basin may
have done more than advance the time of an earthquake that would
have happened anyway,” Jean-Philippe Avouac from the  California
Institute of Technology  in  Pasadena  said in an e-mail.  The Lorca quake has a “tectonic origin due to the slow
relative motion of Africa and Eurasia plates in this part of the
western Mediterranean area of southeast Spain,” Gonzalez said
in an e-mail. “It means that even without the human-induced
additional stress of that fault, the earthquake would certainly
have happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  