-- Middle East Conflicts Engulf Hezbollah as ‘Killing Machine’ Ally
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-21T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/middle-east-conflicts-engulf-hezbollah-as-killing-machine-ally.html
In the Lebanese village of Mleeta,
 Hezbollah  displays war booty captured from Israeli soldiers at a
shrine to showcase the group’s rise from obscurity in 1982 to
the country’s most influential force.  With backers in Syria and Iran mired in civil war or
economic sanctions, the organization is now trying to show it
can retain that power. Chief  Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah  claimed his
militants launched a drone assembled from Iranian-made parts
that flew over Israeli territory on Oct. 6 and Hezbollah’s
support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is unwavering.  Almost two years since the start of what became known as
the Arab Spring, the turmoil in the Middle East is engulfing
Hezbollah and keeping its three decades of ascendancy in check.  “The crisis now certainly has the potential to be the
toughest predicament Hezbollah has ever faced,” said James Petretta, principal analyst at Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk
consultant. “The conflict in  Syria  and the pressures mounting
on Iran will certainly test Hezbollah’s resilience and maturity,
and this will only get harder for the organization.”  Opponents in Lebanon are posturing to seize on weakness in
Hezbollah’s traditional Shiite Muslim power-base as Assad clings
to power and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad contends with
protests over the economy. The anti-Syria March 14 coalition is
demanding that Lebanon’s Hezbollah-backed Cabinet step down
after an Oct. 19 car bombing in Beirut killed a security chief
who had investigated several attacks and plots the group blamed
on Syria.  Coming of Age  Several March 14 politicians have accused Syria of being
behind the assassination of Brigadier General Wissam al-Hassan.
One of them, Ahmed Fatfat, told Future TV that anyone who
supports Assad is an accomplice. When contacted for comment, the
group’s media office in Beirut said the policy is to release a
statement when the party has something to say. Calls to the
mobile telephones of two Hezbollah lawmakers weren’t answered.  The U.S., which labels Hezbollah as terrorist, designated
it for  further sanctions  in August because of support for Assad.  International efforts have failed to end 19 months of
bloodshed in Syria and more than 30,000 people have been killed,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Hezbollah fighters are part of Assad’s “killing machine”
and Hezbollah leaders continue to coordinate with  Iran  to “prop
up a murderous and desperate dictator,” Susan Rice, U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations, said on Oct. 15.  Party of God  In Iran, the rial has slumped as much as 40 percent against
the dollar since August, leading to rampant inflation as U.S.
and European sanctions curb oil output and the flow of hard
currency. Police fired teargas in Tehran’s markets this month to
disperse protesters.  Hezbollah’s backing for the Assad regime has “reverberated
widely throughout the Arab world and fed the perception that
indeed Hezbollah, when push comes to shove, is part of an
Iranian-led strategic alliance and not as it claims a general
movement in support of the downtrodden and the oppressed,” said
Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace’s Middle East Center in  Beirut .  Arabic for Party of God, Hezbollah is the only group that
refused to disband following the end of Lebanon’s 1975-1990
civil war, swelling from a small militia to the most powerful
political group in Lebanon with seats in parliament, ministers
in the Cabinet. It also boasts a social development program,
with hospitals, educational facilities and news services.  It says it needs its arsenal of weapons to defend against
Israeli attacks. Hezbollah spearheaded the fight against
Israel’s occupation of an enclave in south Lebanon. Israel
withdrew in 2000 after 18 years, a move Hezbollah claimed as a
victory.  Burn the Flag  While ties with Iran are more crucial, any new Syrian
government is going to be less friendly toward Hezbollah,
weapons will be more difficult to get and the group’s influence
will diminish, Michael Stephens, a researcher at the  Royal
United Services Institute , said in an interview from Qatar.  “In terms of the stability of the party, Hezbollah will
stay intact,” said Stephens. “If Assad goes they’re in
trouble, but it’s not a critical blow.”  Hezbollah portrays itself as a pan-Islamic, rather than a
sectarian Shiite, party. Its inconclusive war against  Israel  in
2006 earned it popularity across the region, including in
overwhelmingly Sunni Gulf countries, despite its ties to Shiite
Iran. Today, Syrian rebels regularly burn Hezbollah’s yellow
flag and stomp on its leaders’ pictures.  The group has been open about its support for Assad, 47,
who belongs to the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam,
from the start of the March 2011 insurrection in Syria.  Iran Support  Nasrallah, 52, has made a distinction between Assad and
other Arab leaders undermined by a wave of protests that was
initially welcomed by his group.  In a speech on Feb. 7  as
fighting escalated, he referred to an “American-Western-
Israeli-Arab decision” to bring down Assad.  In the same speech, Nasrallah for the first time said his
party has received financial and military support on top of
moral and political help from Iran.  The increasingly direct involvement of Hezbollah in the
Syrian conflict is exacerbating tension between Lebanese
supporters and opponents of the Syrian regime. The March 14
coalition said that Hezbollah’s claim of sending a drone over
Israel makes the Lebanese more convinced that they are being
used to do Iran’s dirty work.  ‘Scapegoat’  “They serve as a scapegoat in the current regional-
international conflict and are a shield for Iran,” the
coalition said in a statement on Oct. 17.  Relations between pro-and-anti-Assad groups in Lebanon have
already been strained by clashes in the northern city of Tripoli
and the capital Beirut. Thousands of supporters of Lebanon’s
opposition March 14 coalition poured into Beirut for yesterday’s
funeral of an assassinated security official and for a “day of
rage” against Assad.  The extent of Hezbollah’s support for the Assad government
is not known. Syria’s opposition says the group is sending
fighters to crush the uprising and shelling rebels from Lebanese
villages along the Syrian-Lebanese borders.  Nasrallah this month denied sending members to fight
alongside the Syrian regime though he did not preclude the
possibility of this happening in the future.  “This will place a spotlight on Hezbollah’s divisive
role,” said Petretta in  London . Hezbollah’s support for “the
increasingly unpopular Assad regime may prove to be its biggest
source of weakness,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  