-- Imagine Greg Smith’s Gall Asking Goldman For Raise: Books
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-10-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/imagine-greg-smith-s-gall-asking-goldman-for-more-money-books.html
It’s not easy being  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   Senators grill you. Reporters compare you to blood-sucking
ocean creatures. Ungrateful former employees trash you in the
pages of the  New York  Times.  Now,  Greg Smith , Goldman’s most famous opinion writer, has
produced “ Why I Left Goldman Sachs .” It tells the story of his
12 years at the firm, from an internship in the New York City
office in 2000 to the roughly $500,000-a-year job as an
 executive director  he walked away from in  London .  The book has everything from seven Goldman guys in a Las
Vegas hot-tub with a topless 23-year-old (“Ms. Silicone”) to
the perhaps less-electrifying image of chief executive Lloyd Blankfein “walking around the changing room au naturel to dry
off from his shower” in the Goldman gym.  Smith describes his journey with a Wall-Street caliber
perspective. That is to say, he has none.  He makes points worth reading, but to get something out of
“Why I Left,” you need to come equipped with your own
understanding of  Wall Street ’s long history of conflicts,
hype and fraud, which the author mostly skips.  Major Conflicts  Smith gets it right that Goldman (like its Wall Street
brethren) is ridden with conflicts and is flush with revenues
from confusing and hidden fees.  He’s also on target that Goldman has advanced an image of
itself as being more ethical and sympathetic to customers than
its competitors. It’s a pity Smith didn’t take a microscope to
the ambitious public relations work that has helped the firm
pull off such a farce.  Though he shows little sign of self-reflection, in fits and
starts he moves from Goldman cheerleader to whistle-blower-in-the-making.  When he learns in 2010 that his employer has been sued for
fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission, he’s a Kool-Aid-drinking Goldman cheerleader, assuring himself it must be a
“witch hunt.”  Muppet Clients  Later, though, Smith starts to notice that the firm’s
culture, featuring a revered set of “Business Principles,”
might not be operating as advertised. When he’s promoted to a
job in London, he observes that his U.K. coworkers regard
customers as quarry for the kill.  One colleague boasts that a clueless client didn’t bother
to check with competing brokers to see if a price was fair, so
he overcharged the “Muppet” $1.5 million on a trade.  When asked to respond, Goldman spokesman  David Wells  said,
“We conducted an extensive review of the claims Mr. Smith made
in his op-ed and found no evidence to support them.”  Even before the book was printed, Goldman taught Smith a
lesson that will resonate with would-be whistle-blowers weighing
the risks of going public. In a creepy corporate  Big Brother 
move, the firm made a point of letting Smith know it had caught
him on surveillance tape leaving the London office the night he
packed up.  Goldman also took the liberty of feeding select information
from Smith’s personnel file to  Bloomberg News . One of the more
hilarious revelations is that the 33-year-old pushed hard for
more money than he might have been worth. Can you imagine such
a thing happening on Wall Street?  Female Boss  Indeed, Goldman should have appreciated that Smith was in
some ways made in Wall Street’s image. He worked hard, loved the
trappings of top hotels and fine food and even hints that he has
the sort of attitude about women that can help a guy get ahead.  One female boss was very smart and, like other managers,
very tough. “With her, though, the toughness included a certain
callousness.” Really? Is callous what you get when the tough
manager is a woman?  In April 2010, the day after top Goldman executives were
publicly lambasted by a U.S. Senate panel investigating the
firm, Smith had an unfortunately timed meeting with a big client
in  Asia . The customer wasted no time giving his opinion, Smith
says.  Goldman wouldn’t be losing his business because he still
saw the benefit of doing some trades with an outfit that had so
many smart people. Let there be no mistake about one thing,
though, as Smith recalls.  “The truth is,” the customer said, “we haven’t trusted
you guys for a long time.”  “Why I Left Goldman Sachs: A Wall Street Story” is
published by Grand Central (276 pages, $27.99). To buy this book
in  North America , click  here .  (Susan Antilla is the author of “Tales From the Boom-Boom
Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial companies,
and a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 