-- Japan Needs More Monetary Easing, Policy Stimulus, Maehara Says
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   K e i i c h i   Y a m a m u r a
-- 2012-10-21T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/japan-needs-more-monetary-easing-policy-stimulus-maehara-says.html
Japanese Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  said the country needs more monetary easing and policy
efforts to encourage growth as the government prepares for
election against an opposition that has stronger public support.  The government plans to inject about 200 billion yen ($2.5
billion) into the economy, Maehara said yesterday on a Fuji
Television program, without giving details on the source of
those funds. Spending this fiscal year includes 910 billion yen
of stimulus programs requiring parliament’s approval, 400
billion yen for earthquake recovery and a further 347.8 billion
yen, he said.  “There are fiscal-easing moves worldwide, but on a
monetary basis  Japan  is falling short,” Maehara said. While
“easing is not a panacea,” without that and policy moves
“Japan’s sovereign credit rating may face a downgrade.”  The government on Oct. 12 issued a downgraded assessment of
Japan’s economy for a third month, the longest streak since the
2009 global recession, as gains in the yen and slowing overseas
demand hurt exporters. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who last
week ordered his Cabinet to draw up economic stimulus measures
by November, failed to reach agreement with the two largest
opposition parties on passing legislation needed to fund
spending amid a standoff over the timing of a general election.  Noda’s stimulus plans boost the odds that the Bank of Japan
will increase asset purchases when it meets on Oct. 30 to
present its semi-annual Outlook, said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior
economist at  JPMorgan Securities  in  Tokyo  and a former central
bank official.  ‘Continued Pressure’  “Continued pressure on the BOJ to ease further” is a
“certainty,” Adachi said in a report. The central bank will
probably add 10 trillion yen of government debt to its asset
purchases, and may also include an increase in equities, he said.  Noda met on Oct. 19 with  Liberal Democratic Party  leader
Shinzo Abe and New Komeito head Natsuo Yamaguchi. The two
parties supported legislation passed in August doubling the 5
percent  sales tax  in return for Noda’s pledge to call elections
“soon,” and are blocking authorization of deficit-financing
bonds until the prime minister follows through.  “It seems to me that ‘soon’ doesn’t mean next year,”
Maehara said, suggesting that Noda may call the election as
early as this year. “Prime Minister Noda is a person who honors
his promises.”  Noda is Japan’s sixth prime minister since 2006, and the
third for the  Democratic Party  of Japan since it defeated the
Liberal Democratic Party in 2009 after the LDP’s half-century
domination of government.  Sales Tax  He has been unable to reverse more than a decade of
deflation and his biggest legislative achievement was a sales
tax increase that risks damping consumption.  Noda’s approval rating was 34 percent in a Yomiuri
newspaper poll published Oct. 3, down from 65 percent when he
took office 13 months ago. Support for his DPJ was at 18 percent,
against 28 percent for the LDP. Almost 45 percent had no party
preference. Noda isn’t legally obliged to dissolve the lower
house of parliament and call an election until August 2013.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board held off
from easing monetary policy at a two-day meeting ended Oct. 5
even as it downgraded its assessment of the economy.  The BOJ has room to ease more, IMF Deputy Managing Director
Naoyuki Shinohara said Oct. 9, adding to calls from lawmakers
for additional action by the central bank. Maehara said this
month that buying foreign bonds is an option for monetary
stimulus.  Deflation Pledge  Noda pledged to defeat deflation within one year in his
successful campaign to be re-elected as party leader last month.
Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food slid 0.3 percent
from a year earlier in August. The so-called core inflation rate
hasn’t been above 1 percent for more than a year since 1993.  The BOJ board will update its forecasts for prices and
growth on Oct. 30. It now projects core consumer prices will
rise 0.7 percent in the year starting  April (APR)  2013.  Also weighing on Japan’s economic recovery is the yen
trading about 5 percent from its post-World War II low of 75.35
against the dollar. The currency traded at 79.32 on Oct. 19 in
Tokyo. A stronger yen makes Japanese products costlier overseas,
reducing the competitiveness of domestic exporters.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  is down 12 percent from this
year’s high in March. Exports are sinking, a boost from car
purchase subsidies is fading, and strength in the yen is hitting
producers. Large manufacturers became more pessimistic last
quarter, a BOJ report showed Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Keiichi Yamamura at 
 kyamamura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  