-- Jindal Nears Africa Mine Deal on Curbs, Bolivia: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-22T10:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/jindal-nears-africa-mine-deal-on-curbs-bolivia-corporate-india.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  is nearing
a deal to buy an  iron ore  mine in West  Africa  for at least $2
billion as curbs at home and a failed investment in Bolivia
drive  India ’s  second-biggest steelmaker  by value to look
elsewhere for supplies.  Jindal’s investment in the region will involve building a
transport line and developing a port, and the iron ore supplies
will feed its factories in Oman and back home, Executive
Director Manish Kharbanda said in an interview last week,
without identifying the seller. The spending will be staggered
over a period of time, he said.  Jindal, which wrote off more than $90 million after
abandoning a Bolivian project in July following a dispute with
the government, is struggling to get new mining permits in India
because of environmental regulations. A purchase agreement will
help the company secure reserves of at least 1 billion metric
tons.  “It’s becoming increasingly evident that getting a new
iron ore mine in India will be difficult,” said Prasad Baji, an
analyst with Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai, who
has a buy rating for the stock. “The investment is not too
large for Jindal Steel.”  Securing assets is crucial to the alloy maker controlled by
billionaire lawmaker Naveen Jindal as it plans to more than
quadruple capacity in the next two years and reverse a slide in
profit that dropped to the least in at least eight quarters.
 Vale SA (VALE5) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  are among companies
with projects in West Africa, a region that Oslo-based DNB Bank
ASA said in a research report is the “most important growth”
area for iron ore in the world.  Profit Drop  Jindal Steel  shares  fell 1.7 percent to 400.45 rupees in
Mumbai, extending this year’s loss to 12 percent, compared with
a 22 percent advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  X     Net
income at the New Delhi-based company unexpectedly dropped 58
percent to about 4 billion rupees ($74 million) in the quarter
ended June 30 from a year earlier because of an impairment
charge on its investment in Bolivia.  Jindal said in July that it was “forced to terminate” its
$2.1 billion contract signed in 2007 to develop 20 billion tons
of iron ore reserves at El Mutun because President  Evo Morales ’
government was “unwilling to fulfill” its obligations.
Bolivian Mining Minister Mario Virreira said July 18 that the
Indian company withdrew because it lacked funds and not because
of government pressure. That was the biggest project to be
canceled in Bolivia since Morales took office in 2006.  Debt to Equity  In addition to developing the El Mutun iron ore mines,
Jindal had planned to build a 1.7 million ton-per-year steel
plant in the South American country, a sponge-iron factory, a
pellet unit and a power project, according to the company’s
 website . Jindal had spent $90 million on the project, according
to the company.  Jindal and its units together had a long-term debt-equity
ratio of 0.75 as on June 30, according to an investor
presentation on their  website . Cash reserves and equivalent were
at 1.3 billion rupees as of March 31, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The question is not whether it can digest it financially,
but whether it can execute the project,” said Edelweiss
Financial’s Baji. “The investment in West Africa is manageable
from a debt-equity point of view.”  Jindal’s experience in Africa and its familiarity with the
local culture is luring the company to the continent, said
Kharbanda in the interview. The Indian company already operates
coal mines in  South Africa  and  Mozambique .  ‘Eggs in One Basket’  “The lesson we learnt from Bolivia is to not put all our
eggs in one basket,” he said. “One shouldn’t consider western
Africa if one is looking at a time span of less than eight to 10
years.”  The company has looked exhaustively at reserves in nations
including  Sierra Leone ,  Ghana , Mauritania,  Sudan , Gabon and
Liberia, Kharbanda said.  Projects in Sierra Leone,  Guinea  and Cameroon will increase
iron ore shipments from West Africa, DNB Bank said in its report
on Sept. 28. Total African ore deliveries will almost quadruple
from last year, while global exports of ore and coal will be
3.48 billion tons in 2017, compared with 1.76 billion tons last
year, according to the report.  “Being dubbed ‘the new Pilbara,’ the region is considered
by many to be the most important growth region for iron ore in
the world,” the bank said of West Africa, referring to the area
in  Western Australia  where Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton Ltd. have
ore mines.  Vale, Rio Tinto  Production at the Simandou project in Guinea is on course
to begin in 2015, according to Rio Tinto, the world’s second-
largest producer of iron ore. Jindal Steel’s potential
investment will follow Sesa Goa Ltd., a unit of Vedanta
Resources Plc, and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, both of which own mining rights in Liberia. Brazil’s
Vale, the largest iron ore miner, has assets in Guinea as well.  In August, five people were killed and three injured in
Guinea after gunmen attacked the village of Zogota, following
protests by locals to an iron ore mine that Vale is developing,
according to the Guinean Human Rights Oraganization.  Jindal Steel plans to spend as much as 350 billion rupees
in the next two years as it boosts capacity even as concerns
over illegal mining and environmental violations in India have
prompted the government to restrict mining in the biggest ore
producing regions of the country.  Mining Banned  India’s top court banned excavation in the southern state
of Karnataka last year and agreed to partially lift the ban this
year. Goa, the largest exporting state, halted mining after a
government-appointed panel reported damage to environment.  Goa is the first among seven mineral-rich states the panel
will probe, said Vishwapati Trivedi, former secretary at the
mines ministry, raising concerns the curbs may widen.  Jindal Steel ’s capacity will increase to 13 million tons by
2015, according to V.R. Sharma, chief executive officer of the
steel business. The company, which runs a 3 million ton steel
plant in the central state of Chhattisgarh, is building a mill
each in the eastern states of Odisha and Jharkhand and a factory
in Oman.  Challenges in Africa include uncertainty in reserve
estimates, lack of infrastructure to ship iron ore from the
mines and political instability, Kharbanda said. The scourge of
crime, drug and arms trafficking, terrorism and piracy threaten
West Africa’s slow march to stability, the  United Nations Office
for West Africa  said in an Oct. 8 press note on its website.  Jindal Steel in July acquired Canada’s CIC Energy Corp.,
which is developing a  coal mine  in Botswana, for $114 million.
CIC Energy, based in the British Virgin Islands, is developing
the Mmamabula coalfield in Botswana, estimated to hold about 2.4
billion tons of coal, according to the company’s website.  “As long as Jindal Steel doesn’t go overboard with the
price it pays, the overseas acquisitions should serve it well,”
said Chirag Shah, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Mumbai, who has
an overweight rating for the stock. “There are risks in western
Africa -- one has to be wise enough not to commit a lot of money
upfront.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  