-- Patriots Beat Jets 29-26 in Overtime as Giants Win Third in Row
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-22T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/new-york-giants-defeat-washington-redskins-27-23-in-nfl-week-7.html
The  New England Patriots  beat the
New York Jets 29-26 in overtime after blowing a 10-point fourth-
quarter lead, while the New York Giants overcame the Washington
Redskins 27-23 with the longest winning touchdown in the final
two minutes of a game in franchise history.  The Patriots got a 48-yard field goal from  Stephen Gostkowski  on the first overtime possession and sealed the home
win yesterday by forcing a fumble by Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez . The Jets had scored 13 straight points in the final six
minutes of the fourth quarter to lead 26-23 before Gostkowski’s
43-yard field goal as time expired forced overtime.  New England improves to 4-3 in the National Football League
and now sits alone atop the American Football Conference’s
Eastern Division. The Jets fall to 3-4.  “We talked about playing 60 minutes and it took a little
bit more than that but the players did a good job,” Patriots
coach  Bill Belichick  said at a news conference. “They really
fought hard, we had our ups and downs, and in the end, we just
made enough plays to win and that’s what it’s all about.”  Eli Manning threw a 77-yard touchdown pass to Victor Cruz
with 1:13 remaining as the Giants pulled out the win at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The winning score came
19 seconds after the Redskins had taken a 23-20 lead on Santana Moss’s second touchdown catch of the game. It marked the 22nd
time Manning has directed a winning drive in the fourth quarter
or overtime, and the eighth in the past two seasons.  “With our offense and with Eli at the helm, we’re never
really too worried,” Cruz said. “We know that, no matter what
situation we’re in, no matter how many points we need or a field
goal, we have the confidence that we can do it.”  Division Lead  The Pittsburgh Steelers beat the Cincinnati Bengals 24-17
last night as Chris Rainey scored the go-ahead touchdown 44
seconds into the fourth quarter. It was the first road win of
the season for the Steelers (3-3).  In a matchup of division leaders in the American Football
Conference, the Houston Texans routed Baltimore 43-13 to improve
to 6-1.  Arian Foster  rushed for two touchdowns and  Matt Schaub 
threw for two scores as Houston rolled up 420 yards against a
Ravens (5-2) defense that last week lost  Ray Lewis  and Lardarius Webb to season-ending injuries.  The Patriots are alone in first place atop the AFC East
after the Tennessee Titans rallied past the Buffalo Bills 35-34
on Matt Hasselbeck’s 15-yard, fourth-down touchdown pass to Nate Washington with 1:03 left.  The New Orleans Saints held on for a 35-28 win over the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers as  Drew Brees  threw four first-half
touchdown passes. Josh Freeman passed for 420 yards and three
scores for the Buccaneers (2-4), who had a touchdown on the
final play nullified when it was ruled receiver  Mike Williams 
stepped out of bounds before his catch in the end zone.  Packers Win  The Green Bay Packers won back-to-back games for the first
time this season by beating the St. Louis Rams 30-20 as  Aaron Rodgers  had 342 passing yards and three touchdowns.  Elsewhere in Week 7 of the regular season it was the
Indianapolis Colts 17, Cleveland Browns 13; Minnesota Vikings
21, Arizona Cardinals 14; and Oakland Raiders 26, Jacksonville
Jaguars 23 in overtime.  The Jets rallied from a 23-13 deficit in Foxborough,
Massachusetts with a 13-point run in the final six minutes that
included a 43-yard field goal by  Nick Folk  with 1:37 remaining
that gave them a 26-23 lead. The go-ahead field goal was set up
by a fumbled kickoff return at the  New England  18-yard line by
Devin McCourty, who earlier scored on a 104-yard kickoff return.  The Patriots then forced overtime by driving 54 yards to
set up Gostkowski’s field goal as time expired. In overtime, New
England drove 54 yards in 12 plays to regain the lead.  Sanchez Fumble  On the Jets’ overtime possession, Sanchez fumbled at the
New York 28-yard line when he was sacked by Rob Ninkovich.  Tom Brady  threw two touchdown passes to  Rob Gronkowski  for
the Patriots, while the Jets got touchdowns from Shonn Greene
and  Dustin Keller . Sanchez finished with 328 passing yards for
New York, with one touchdown and an interception. He also had a
fumble in the end zone that led to a New England safety.  “We had an opportunity to win the game, unfortunately
didn’t get it done,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said. “We kept
fighting. This is a tough place to play, a tough opponent to
play and we were right there.”  The Giants lost both regular-season meetings with
Washington last year and appeared in danger of another when
Redskins rookie quarterback Robert Griffin III threw a 30-yard
scoring pass to Moss with 1:32 to play.  Safeties Spread  Two plays later, Cruz and Manning said they noticed the
Redskins safeties were spread out and playing close to the line
of scrimmage, trying to take away the outside passing routes.
Cruz sprinted down the middle of the field, splitting the
defenders while Manning lofted a deep pass.  “I didn’t see the ball get caught,” Manning said. “I
just kind of heard the cheer and thought that’s probably a good
sign and I got up in time to see him run in the end zone. It was
a good feeling.”  The Giants improve to 5-2 with their third straight win to
remain on top of the National Football Conference Eastern
Division, while the Redskins dropped to 3-4.  Andre Brown and  Ahmad Bradshaw  also scored touchdowns for
the Giants, while Manning completed 26 of 40 passes for 337
yards, one touchdown and two interceptions.  Week 7 play, which began with a 13-6 win for the San
Francisco 49ers (5-2) against the Seattle Seahawks (4-3) on Oct.
18, concludes with the Chicago Bears (4-1) hosting the Detroit
Lions (2-3) tonight.  The Philadelphia Eagles,  Atlanta Falcons , Denver Broncos,
Kansas City Chiefs,  Miami Dolphins  and  San Diego Chargers  were
off this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  