-- Nobel Prize-Winner’s Stem Cells Help Glaxo Pinpoint Risks
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-22T16:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/nobel-prize-winner-s-stem-cells-help-glaxo-pinpoint-risks.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  is applying
Shinya Yamanaka’s Nobel Prize-winning discovery in stem cells to
identify heart risks linked to experimental drugs earlier in the
development process.  Yamanaka was awarded the Nobel Prize in medicine this month
for his work in turning ordinary skin cells into induced
pluripotent stem, or iPS, cells with the potential to become any
cell in the body. That breakthrough has enabled the London-based
drugmaker to study iPS cells transformed into heart-muscle cells
that may be used to test compounds for cardiovascular safety,
said  Jason Gardner , head of Glaxo’s early-stage regenerative
medicine research.  About half of all experimental drugs fail for safety
reasons, and half of those failures are due to toxic effects on
the heart, Gardner said. Finding that risk even before animal
testing could potentially save drugmakers millions of dollars in
clinical-trial costs and better protect patients, he said.  “I call this a low-risk, must-do approach to  stem cells ,”
Gardner said in an interview in Upper Providence,  Pennsylvania ,
where Glaxo has been building on research using iPS cells that
began in the U.K. in 2010. “It’s on the verge of being used now
for decision-making.”  Other applications include using the test, also called an
assay, to help discover new medicines that improve heart
function, where there is a “huge need,” he said. The iPS cells
can also be used to create motor-neuron cells, aiding
development of treatments for conditions such as  Parkinson’s
disease , and test for drugs’ damage to the nervous system.  Beating Cells  At a laboratory in Upper Providence, Glaxo scientists are
working with iPS-derived heart-muscle cells supplied from
Cellular Dynamics International of Madison,  Wisconsin . In a
petri dish, individual cells can be seen beating like a heart
under a microscope.  The new safety test may bring drugmakers closer to
“clinical trials in a dish” and enable them to reduce the
number of animal studies, Brian Donovan, an investigator of
platform technology science, said during a tour of the lab.  Drug testing may be one of the key applications of
Yamanaka’s work, said John B. Gurdon, the British scientist who
shared the  Nobel Prize  with him.  “If you can take cells from a patient, like a patient with
a neurodegenerative disease, and grow those in culture in the
laboratory, you can test drugs on them easily,” Gurdon said at
an Oct. 8 press conference in London. “But you wouldn’t be
allowed to test drugs that might have some health implications
on the individual, on humans. To be able to derive cells that
reflect a disease, in culture, is immensely important.”  FDA Talks  Glaxo and its peers have an “ongoing dialogue” with the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  as they work to validate the
test’s effectiveness, and it will probably be used across the
industry within a year or two, especially for development of
diabetes and cancer treatments, Gardner said.  While the test will help cut short some  drug development ,
it may also be used to continue with further trials while
highlighting any risk uncovered to regulators, Gardner said.  “We get asked a lot, what would Avandia do in this
assay?” Gardner said, referring to Glaxo’s diabetes drug. The
medicine is no longer sold in  Europe  and is restricted in the
U.S., where it has two black-box warnings about the risk of
congestive heart failure and heart attack.  Therapeutic Use  Glaxo has also been collaborating with the  Harvard Stem
Cell Institute  since 2008 to develop commercial medicines. One
area that shows promise is in regenerating tissue for muscle
wasting, which afflicts the elderly and for which no drugs
exist, he said.  While the use of iPS cells for weeding out cardiovascular
risk is imminent, transplantation of those cells as treatment
will require another three to five years of work in assessing
safety, Gardner said.  Scientists at the Riken Center for Developmental Biology in
Kobe plan to use iPS cells next year in a trial among patients
with macular degeneration, a disease in which the retina becomes
damaged, resulting in loss of vision, Yamanaka told reporters in
San Francisco Oct. 8.  “The next two to three years will be incredibly
exciting,” Gardner said. “This is a renaissance for stem cell
science.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  