-- Modiin, Israel Land Drop on ‘Dry Hole’ Gas Well Finding
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-21T12:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/modiin-israel-land-drop-on-dry-hole-gas-well-finding.html
Israel Land Development Co. Energy
Ltd. (IE)  plunged the most on record and  Modiin-LP (MDINL)  slumped after the
natural-gas exploration companies decided to abandon the Sara
1/348 well because data showed the site is a “dry hole.”  Israel  Land Energy, which owns a stake in the drilling
rights to the offshore well, tumbled as much as 67 percent to
0.068 shekel and was trading down 61 percent at 2:17 p.m. in Tel
Aviv in the biggest drop since the shares started trading in
Israel in 2010. Trading volume was almost five times the stock’s
three-month average. Modiin LP, also a partner, fell 46 percent
to 0.086 shekel, the lowest intraday price since June 1999, with
volume more than triple the three-month average.  The companies found high-quality sands at the drill, but
with water at the point of drilling, and no commercial
quantities of hydrocarbons, they said in a stock-exchange filing
yesterday. In September, Tel Aviv-based Israel Land Energy and
Modiin said no significant signs of petroleum were found at
their joint Myra 1 well.  “Finding a dry hole is entirely normal, and the industry
will continue drilling and searching for hydrocarbons at current
or deeper levels,”  David Kaplan , an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
Tel Aviv, said today by phone. “It is hard to measure what the
domestic market was counting on from Sara and Myra for local
use,” which may have to be supplied by a larger field, dubbed
Leviathan.  2013 Production  Natural-gas discoveries off Israel’s Mediterranean coast
over the past three years have given the country an opportunity
to become an exporter of the fuel. The Tamar and Dalit fields
are scheduled to start production next year and are big enough
to supply Israel with gas for two decades. The Leviathan site is
estimated to hold as much as 480 billion cubic meters of natural
gas, more than the U.K.’s remaining reserves.  Israel Land Energy’s 30-day historical volatility, a
measure of stock swings, jumped to 403.7 today from 260.5 on
Oct. 18, exceeding the 30-day historic volatility of 15.2 for
the TA-25 index today. A higher reading means the price of an
asset can move dramatically in a short period, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses. Tel Aviv-based Modiin’s 30-day
historical volatility rose to 218 today from 137.3 yesterday.  The  TA-Oil and Gas Index  dropped 4.3 percent, while the
TA-25 benchmark index retreated 1.5 percent.  IPC Oil & Gas
Holdings Ltd. (IPC) , a partner in the well, plunged 67 percent.  Israel
Land Development Co. Ltd. (ILDC) , also a partner in the well, fell 13
percent.  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) , which has a stake in the well via a
unit, dropped 5.1 percent.  Modiin said the partners in the Sara license are studying
the data to re-evaluate the oil and gas resources potential at
the license and the possibility to do additional exploration
drills in the future. Total drilling costs for the partners
amounted to $48.5 million whereas plug and abandonment costs of
the well are estimated at $7 million, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  