-- Hong Kong Dollar Forwards Rise Most Since March After Peg Tested
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-22T09:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/hong-kong-dollar-forwards-suggest-ackman-bet-against-peg-to-fail.html
Traders increased bets  Hong Kong 
will end a 29-year-old peg to the dollar after the currency
reached the upper limit of its permitted range and triggered
intervention by the city’s monetary authority.  Two-year forwards strengthened 0.11 percent to HK$7.74 per
dollar as of 4:46 p.m. local time, the biggest gain since March
9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hong Kong
dollar’s value is kept at HK$7.75 to HK$7.85. Hedge-fund
investor  William Ackman , the founder of New York-based Pershing
Square Capital Management LP, said Oct. 20 he is keeping a wager
that would profit if Hong Kong allows its currency to appreciate.  Even with today’s advance, the forwards are only near their
average level of the past three years and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predict an end-2013 exchange rate of HK$7.76. The
linked exchange rate has given Hong Kong companies stability in
commercial contracts while tethering monetary policy to that of
the U.S., where borrowing costs are being held down to spur
hiring and prop up the housing market. Hong Kong’s jobless rate
is near a four-year low and  home prices  are at all-time highs.  “Any change in the peg would have certain costs but highly
uncertain benefits,”  Robert Minikin , senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong, said
yesterday. A shift “is likely to be long-delayed and perhaps
come in the context of full yuan convertibility,” he said,
adding that  China ’s currency is unlikely to trade freely for
another 10 years or more.  Peg Pledge  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said it bought $603
million during  New York  trading hours on Oct. 19 after the local
currency’s move to HK$7.75 obliged it to intervene for the first
time since 2009. Sean Yokota, head of Asia strategy at SEB AB in
 Singapore , said today in a note he expects the peg to stay for
the “foreseeable future” and recommended investors buy the  U.S.
dollar  against its Hong Kong counterpart using 12-month forwards.  Two-year contracts touched this year’s high of HK$7.7392
today, 0.03 percent weaker than their average level of HK$7.7367
over the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Hong Kong officials have repeatedly said there are no
plans to adjust the peg and HKMA Deputy Chief Executive Arthur Yuen told reporters on Oct. 19 the authority sees no need to
alter the arrangement.  Ackman’s Bet  Ackman said in September 2011 that he was buying Hong Kong
dollar call options, which give investors the right to buy the
currency at a set price by a specific date. The easiest way for
the city to allow the currency to appreciate would be to change
the peg to HK$6 per dollar and then link to the Chinese  yuan 
over three to six years, he said at a conference last year in
New York.  “Yes we continue to have the bet on,” Ackman wrote in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions over the weekend. He
declined to say whether he would be adjusting the size of his
wager now that the upper limit of the peg is being tested.  The implied volatility on one-year options for the exchange
rate fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, today to
0.90 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge,
which traders use to set prices of options contracts, signals
the expected pace of swings in an underlying currency.  Hong Kong’s dollar was little changed today at HK$7.7505
versus its U.S. counterpart, after advancing 0.02 percent last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan
appreciated 0.2 percent last week, an 11th straight gain, and
South Korea’s won added 0.7 percent.  Regional Rally  “The recent increase in demand for the local currency is
related to a less strained European market, weakness in the U.S.
dollar and declining U.S. interest rates, which have prompted
capital inflows into currency and equity markets in the
region,” the HKMA said in an Oct. 20 statement that gave
details of the intervention, the first since December 2009.
“Upward pressures have similarly been observed in other Asian
currencies.”  Policy makers from around the world have bemoaned the
economic threat of stronger exchange rates as asset purchases by
the  Federal Reserve  boost the supply of dollars. At
International Monetary Fund meetings in  Tokyo  this month,
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  vowed to shield his
country from the “selfish” monetary policies of some developed
nations, while Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco
said the Fed was causing “challenges to monetary policy in
 emerging markets .”  Fed, BOJ  The Fed initiated a third phase of so-called quantitative
easing on Sept. 13, purchasing $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities per month, and said this will continue until the
outlook for jobs improves “substantially.”  The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan  have also added
to stimulus. The ECB pledged last month to buy the bonds of
governments that agree to austerity conditions while the BOJ
boosted its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($126 billion)
and abandoned a minimum yield for the bonds it purchases.  Donald Tsang , Hong Kong’s former chief executive, said in a
November interview that the local dollar’s peg will stay at
least until the yuan is freely traded. China ended a peg in 2005
and its central bank said last month it is moving toward full
convertibility “in a steady and orderly manner.” The goal is
likely to be achieved by 2020, Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to
the People’s Bank of China, said on Sept. 27 in Beijing.  Hong Kong linked its exchange rate to the U.S. dollar in
1983 when negotiations between China and the U.K. over the
city’s return to Chinese rule spurred capital outflows. In 2005,
policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline to
HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  Home prices that surpassed their October 1997 peak and
rising costs of food imports are boosting the risk of asset
bubbles in Hong Kong and fueling calls for a review of the peg.  Yam’s Call  Joseph Yam , the former Hong Kong Monetary Authority chief
who helped introduce the currency link and defended it against
speculators during the Asian financial crisis, said in June the
city should review the exchange-rate system. Alternatives
include widening the trading band or turning the range into a
“corridor” whose width, slope and center could be periodically
reviewed, he suggested.  Yam was the most senior serving or former Hong Kong
official to speculate on changes to the currency link. He fended
off a speculative attack to weaken the Hong Kong dollar and
break the peg during the Asian financial crisis in 1998, a
policy that involved $15 billion of stock purchases and proved
profitable for the city.  China Outlook  The rally in the Chinese currency, which touched a 19-year
high of 6.2446 per dollar on Oct. 18, has spurred demand for
Hong Kong dollars as investors bet the city’s economy and stock
market will benefit from a brightening outlook for China.  The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  of shares has risen
8.2 percent since the Fed’s September announcement of more asset
purchases and climbed 19 percent from this year’s low on June 4.
China released data last week showing pickups in industrial
production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment for
September, signaling growth may be rebounding after a seven-
quarter slowdown.  “Funds continue to flow into Hong Kong given the monetary
easing in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Kenix Lai, a currency
analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “That’s evident
by the rising stock market and property prices. I expect HKMA
will still have to intervene in the near term as capital inflows
continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  