-- Orascom Telecom Seeks Control of Canada Unit After Law Change
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-10-21T10:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/orascom-telecom-seeks-control-of-canada-unit-after-law-change.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (OTLD)  will
seek shareholder approval to gain control of Canada’s Globalive
Investment Holding Corp., taking advantage of a change in the
country’s foreign ownership laws this year.  Cairo-based Orascom will seek to exercise an option to
convert its  shares (ORTE)  with no  voting rights  in Globalive to common
shares, which will increase those rights to 65.1 percent from 32
percent, it said in a filing to  the Egyptian bourse  today. The
company also plans to restructure a loan to Globalive Wireless
Management and forgive returns on it totalling 450 million
Canadian dollars ($453 million).  Canada’s government eased foreign-ownership restrictions in
the telecommunications industry in March, allowing foreign
investors to own up to 100 percent of operators with less than
10 percent market share by revenue. Orascom, which said it is
taking advantage of the change, completed a merger last year
with  Russia ’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  that created the world’s sixth-
biggest mobile phone company.  “It makes sense that OT wants to match its economic
ownership with voting rights,” Amr El-Alfy, deputy director of
research at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.,
said by phone today. “It’s positive because it gives the
company more options in terms of making strategic changes.”  The approval of Canadian regulators is expected by year-end
or early 2013, Orascom said. The company held its shareholder
meeting in November, seeking approval for a mutual service
agreement with VimpelCom to cut costs and change its name to
Global Telecom Holding, it said.  Shares of Orascom fell 0.5 percent to 3.72 Egyptian pounds
at 12:09 p.m. in Cairo, valuing the company at 19.5 billion
pounds ($3.2 billion). The stock has surged 115 percent this
year, compared with a 59-percent gain for the benchmark  EGX 30
Index. (EGX30)   Link to statement: { http://tinyurl.com/8h345ks }  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  