-- Morgan Crucible Takeover Seen With Shares Sliding 33%: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-10-22T16:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/morgan-crucible-takeover-seen-with-shares-sliding-33-real-m-a.html
Morgan Crucible Co. (MGCR) , the U.K. maker
of ceramics used in wind-turbine blades, is vulnerable to
becoming the industry’s next takeover target after its valuation
sank to a three-year low and  3M Co. (MMM)  agreed to buy its rival.  Shares of Morgan Crucible tumbled 33 percent from an almost
14-year high reached in February as revenue growth slowed on
weakened demand and its  profit outlook  worsened. That left the
Windsor, England-based company at its lowest valuation relative
to earnings since 2009. Even based on analysts’ reduced
estimates for next year, Morgan Crucible is still cheaper than
81 percent of similar-sized specialty-chemicals producers for
the materials industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A buyer such as 3M, which agreed this month to acquire
 Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN)  to expand in ceramics, could now consider an offer
for Morgan Crucible to take advantage of its cheap valuation,
said Panmure Gordon & Co. While sales and orders may remain
depressed in the months ahead, Peel Hunt LLP says an acquirer
still may find value in the business. Morgan Crucible is a
leading  supplier  for industries such as aerospace and power
generation, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The short-term difficulties they face are obviously
reflected in the current valuation,” Dominic Convey, a London-
based analyst at Peel Hunt, said in a telephone interview.
Still, “Morgan Crucible has some very strong market positions
in niche segments. From that perspective, then it is an
attractive target.”  A spokesman for Morgan Crucible said the company doesn’t
comment on market speculation. Donna Fleming Runyon, a
spokeswoman for St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Tank Armor  Morgan Crucible, with a market value of 673 million pounds
($1.1 billion), makes ceramics used in everything from turbine
blades and  hip joints  to tank armor and insulation that protects
black-box data recorders found on airplanes. It also
manufactures carbon brushes that help power motors used by
producers of steel, food, paper and pharmaceuticals.  Shares of the 156-year-old company surged on Feb. 24 to 360
pence, the highest level since 1998, after the company said it
earned 73 million pounds last year on record sales. That  topped 
analysts’ average net income estimate of 71 million pounds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Morgan Crucible also said that it
was still “well placed to make further progress” on a three-
year goal to double pre-tax profit by 2013.  Since then, the stock has declined 33 percent as the
company’s growth rate slowed and it issued a profit warning.
Corporate  insiders  including Chief Executive Officer Mark Robertshaw, Chief Financial Officer Kevin Dangerfield and other
members of management, unloaded more than 1 million shares
between February and April, the data show.  Today, Morgan Crucible shares fell 0.4 percent to 239.6
pence.  Right Time  Morgan Crucible’s enterprise value sank on Oct. 15 to 5.17
times trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, its lowest multiple since July
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Based on reduced
Ebitda estimates for 2013, Morgan Crucible traded last week at a
multiple of 5.72, cheaper than 81 percent of specialty-chemicals
producers larger than $1 billion, the data show.  “Now is the time to strike,” Oliver Wynne-James, a
London-based analyst for Panmure, said in a phone interview.
“You have a lot of angry shareholders, you have a slightly
tarnished management team, and then you have a discounted
valuation.”  Ceradyne Parallels  Parallels can be drawn between the ceramics businesses at
Morgan Crucible and Ceradyne, which 3M agreed to buy Oct. 1,
said Peel Hunt’s Convey. 3M, the manufacturer of Post-it sticky
notes, is paying $860 million for Costa Mesa, California-based
Ceradyne to expand into ceramics as the material becomes more
popular across some industries. In September, 3M’s new CEO Inge Thulin had said the company was considering larger deals.  Ceramics are more heat-resistant and harder than metal,
according to William Blair & Co. analyst  Nick Heymann , who said
at the time of the Ceradyne deal that 3M needs acquisitions to
spur growth amid weak European markets and  China ’s slowdown.  3M or another buyer could look to Morgan Crucible next,
said Panmure’s Wynne-James. Gaining more scale in the market
would lead to increased pricing power and the ability to better
leverage relationships with clients globally, he said.  “This market is all cut up for all the players, sliced and
diced so each enjoys a nice market share in their niche,”
Wynne-James said. “Because it’s quite fragmented, there is room
for a large corporation to get into this high-end ceramics and
carbon market and roll up a decent market share.”  Cookson Combination  Morgan Crucible also could merge with the ceramics division
of  Cookson Group Plc (CKSN)  should the company split in two, he said.
Cookson, the world’s biggest maker of ceramic linings for metal
smelters, is considering a breakup, given the limited
operational overlap between its engineered-ceramics and
performance-materials divisions, the company said May 17.  A spokesman for London-based Cookson declined to comment on
deal speculation.  In 2006, Morgan Crucible held discussions with a potential
buyer. There also was speculation that it had rejected a buyout
offer from Wiesbaden, Germany-based SGL Carbon SE, the Sunday
Times reported in August 2006.  Now, a takeover is less likely, according to Royal Bank of
Canada’s Andrew Carter.  “Morgan is a very different company now to what it was
back then,” the London-based analyst said in a phone interview.
“We have in the past seen U.K. engineers warn on profits and
the share price very significantly overreact on the downside. I
don’t think that has happened in Morgan Crucible’s case this
time, however.”  Still Attractive  Before the Oct. 12 profit warning, analysts from Citigroup
Inc., JPMorgan and Panmure said Morgan Crucible may attract a
takeover price on average of at least 425 pence a share. While
the sales and profit outlook has weakened since then, Panmure’s
Wynne-James said the company could still fetch 400 pence a
share, 66 percent more than last week’s closing price.  “Morgan Crucible has some very good performance material
know-how,” Wynne-James said. “Because the shares are depressed
at the moment, this is a great time to go for Morgan Crucible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  