-- Hot-Blooded Carmen Joins Hard-Drinking Bohemians in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-10-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/hot-blooded-carmen-joins-hard-drinking-bohemians-in-paris.html
The contrast couldn’t be starker.
While the French government is closing gypsy camps and sending
many of the occupants back to  Romania , the Grand Palais in Paris
is devoting a large show to them.  That apparent contradiction is anything but new.  The oldest item in the exhibition, entitled “Bohemes”
 (Bohemias) , features a drawing by  Leonardo da Vinci  portraying a
man being cheated by gypsies.  A wall text informs us that Louis XIV had tried to get rid
of them. Still, that didn’t prevent him from dancing in a gypsy
disguise in a Moliere ballet.  The word “gypsy” is derived from “ Egypt ” which, for a long
time, was believed to be their country of origin. Today, most
scholars agree that gypsies trace their roots to  India .  The French called them “Tsiganes” or “Bohemiens,” the
latter being an ill-defined name for people from Southeastern
Europe. (In Shakespeare’s “The Winter’s Tale,” Bohemia has a sea
coast and deserts.)  Today, the official term in  France  is “gens de voyage,”
traveling people.  Their mysterious origins, incomprehensible language and
unconventional lifestyle invited suspicion and fear. On the
other hand, their free spirit and purported fortune-telling
skills were widely admired.  Fortune Tellers  The first part of the exhibition illustrates how these
outsiders fascinated painters, writers and composers. Paintings
including Georges de La Tour’s “The Fortune Teller,” Frans
Hals’s “Gypsy Girl” and Vincent van Gogh’s “The Trailers” are
among the show’s highlights.  French literature’s most famous gypsy girl is Carmen, the
heroine of Prosper Merimee’s 1845 novella. After Bizet adapted
Merimee’s “Carmen” for his opera by the same name, the hot
blooded gypsy conquered the world.  In the same year, Henri Murger began publishing in the
intriguingly-named magazine “The Corsaire de Satan” sketches
from the life of penniless writers and artists. Six years later,
he repackaged them in the novel “La Vie de Boheme.”  A new slogan was born. “Bohemian” became a label that
helped many a struggling artist endure their financial
difficulties.  Latin Quarter  The second part of the exhibition deals with the Bohemian
subculture in 19th-century Paris, which after 1860 had moved
from the Latin Quarter to Montmartre.  Unlike their 18th-century precursors, the Bohemians had
neither noble patrons, nor were they wined and dined in elegant
salons. Instead, they met in cafes with names like “Le Rat
Mort,” “Le Chat Noir” and “Au Lapin Agile.” (The Agile Rabbit, a
pun on the caricaturist A. Gill who had painted the store sign.)  Heavy drinking was the order of the day, and sexual mores
were by no means as innocent as Puccini’s opera “ La Boheme ”
leads us to believe: When Mimi, (the real life Lucile Louvet),
knocks at Rodolfo’s door, she has already a long string of
boyfriends to her credit.  The most notorious liaison of the time was between the
French poets Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud: In a drunken
quarrel, Verlaine wounded his lover with a revolver and was
sentenced to two years’ imprisonment.  Bohemian Lifestyle  The show is staged by opera director and set designer
Robert Carsen, who does his best to illustrate the Bohemian
lifestyle. Some may find his ideas -- torn wallpapers, cold
chimneys, stained easels -- a bit corny.  The final part of the show is a kind of melancholic coda to
a vanished era. We find nine portraits of gypsy girls by the
German Expressionist Otto Mueller. A wall text reminds us that
Mueller’s canvases figured prominently in the 1937 exhibition of
“Degenerate Art” and that at least 50,000 gypsies perished in
Nazi death camps.  When German filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl made her movie
“Tiefland” during World War II, she recruited 150 gypsies for
the opening scene. Once she finished filming they were sent back
to their concentration camp.  “Bohemes” runs at the Grand Palais through Jan. 14, 2013.
From Feb. 6 to May 5, 2013, it will be at the Fundacion Mapfre,
in  Madrid .  Information:  http://www.rmngp.fr ,
 http://www.mapfre.com/fundacion/es/home-fundacion-mapfre.shtml .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  James
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 