-- Lover Blackmailed in ‘Loserville’ Musical: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-10-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/lover-blackmailed-in-loserville-musical-london-stage.html
The geeky underdog triumphs over the
arrogant high school jock. Misfits find love. The perky heroine
even overcomes a blackmail attempt.  “Loserville,” the new London musical by Elliot Davis and
James Bourne (from the group Busted) ticks lots of musical-
theater boxes. That’s its problem.  We’re in suburban America in 1971. Nerdy Michael Dork
(Aaron Sidwell) is trying to create the first networked
computers and survive the attacks of preening bully Eddie
(Stewart Clarke). When clever love-interest Holly (Eliza Hope
Bennett) arrives at school, Michael plucks up courage to ask for
her help.  We’re rooting for the underdog. Tick. There’s a romantic
subplot. Tick. The acoustic soft-rock score trundles along
nicely. Tick. Up to the interval it fulfills genre expectations
pleasantly, if unadventurously.  Then, in the second half, evil Eddie reveals that he has
some old photos of Holly, and blackmails her to turn traitor.
She’s forced to develop the vital computer program for the glory
of Eddie instead.  What could be in those photos of Holly? A whole football
team in Nazi uniforms? A donkey at least?  No. It turns out that Holly used to be a party girl. She
now wants to be an astronaut. She worries that looking like a
cheerleader will turn  NASA  against her.  “Cursed with brains and looks,” she wails in one of her
numbers.  Plucky Heroine  If you’re wondering why she should worry, or why such a
supposedly sweet and plucky heroine should sing something so
narcissistic and vulgar, or why she doesn’t just tell Michael
the truth, I can only answer: me too. And since Eliza Hope
Bennett is pretty, but not exactly cursed, disbelief remains
even further unsuspended.  Those crucial boxes -- motivation, unexpectedness, a tiny
degree of plausibility -- stay unchecked, and dramatic torpor
prevails. It’s not so much a show with numbers, as a show by
numbers.  The score includes five songs from album “Welcome to
Loserville” by James Bourne and his group  Son of Dork . The rest
are newly composed for the show. If the album is as unvarying in
its pop-rock major-key style as the music here, then it would
hardly have made much difference.  The energetic young performers give it their all, and sing
attractively. Aaron Sidwell holds the stage with goofy charm as
Michael, and Stewart Clarke is a particularly enjoyable villain.  Designer Francis O’Connor uses cartoon sketches of doors,
trees and walls on placards to switch between locations, and it
works neatly and efficiently. Stephen Dexter’s direction, even
if it can’t disguise the gaping holes in the plot, keeps things
moving and achieves the requisite Day-Glo perkiness.  It doesn’t stop “Loserville” feeling like a bit too much of
a lost cause.  Rating: **.  “Loserville” is at the Garrick Theatre, 2 Charing Cross
Road, London WC2H 0HH. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com 
or +44-844-412-4662  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  James
Russell  on architecture.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 