-- How to Prevent the Plunder of Afghan Mineral Riches
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/how-to-prevent-the-plunder-of-afghan-mineral-riches.html
What do you get when you bless one
of the  most corrupt  countries in the world with newly discovered
bounties of natural resources? Answer: Afghanistan, perched
between prosperity and greater malefaction.  The Afghan government estimates reserves of coal, copper,
gold,  iron ore , gemstones and other riches -- many of which were
recently identified by the U.S. in a topographic  survey  using an
airborne imager -- could bring in as much as $1.5 billion in
annual revenue by 2016. In the unlikely event authorities manage
the wealth for the benefit of all, natural resources could prove
Afghanistan’s salvation. Otherwise, the blessing will become a
curse that fuels corruption and conflict, as it has in countries
such as  Angola , Myanmar and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  In these early days, before serious digging has begun, the
government has made many of the right commitments to responsible
oversight. What matters, though, is whether it codifies and
aggressively enforces those policies.  A case in point is President Hamid Karzai’s summer  decree 
requiring publication of all extractive industry contracts
signed in the previous three years. Transparency around
contracts will enable Afghans to scrutinize deals made on their
behalf. They need to know: Are officials awarding contracts to
cronies? Are royalty payments sufficient? Are provisions for
mitigating environmental damage and compensating local
populations for disruption in line with  best international
practices , notably the  Sustainability Framework  of the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp.?  Last week, the  Ministry of Mines   largely fulfilled  Karzai’s
promise, posting on its website more than  200 contracts , mainly
for small operations such as salt mines. Notably left out was
the 30-year, $3 billion lease of the giant Aynak copper mine by
a Chinese consortium, for which the government has published
only a  summary .  How transparent will future contracts be? Mining Minister
Wahidullah Shahrani has  promised  to publish them as well. Yet
rather than resting on one official’s pronouncement, contract
transparency should be the law of the land, perhaps a part of
the reformed mining regulations that Parliament is expected to
consider later this year.  Publishing contracts, within 30 days of signing, would put
Afghanistan in compliance with a  benchmark  established by the
 Independent Joint Anti-Corruption Monitoring and Evaluation
Committee . The committee is made up of equal numbers of
appointees of the Afghan government and its donors, who use the
group’s reports to assess  Afghanistan ’s anti-corruption efforts.  Yet contracts alone won’t provide the public sufficient
information to judge deals the government has struck. For major
concessions, important details  may be excluded  from the contract
document. In the case of the 2011  Qara-Zaghan gold concession ,
for example, the published contract guaranteed a healthy royalty
rate while leaving out provisions addressing the operation’s
environmental and social impacts.  Especially in a country as violence-prone as Afghanistan,
disputes over damaged cropland and livelihoods can lead to
unrest that disrupts mining operations and discourages
investors. The government needs to give its people all the
information they need to prevent such outcomes.  Resource transparency also has the power to yield genuine
benefits. In Liberia, local advocates, working with
international groups, compelled the government to renegotiate a
25-year iron ore mining contract. A similar strategy in  Sierra
Leone  won the country an additional $60 million from a diamond
mine. The models are out there for Afghanistan to adopt.  The resource curse thrives in darkness. Afghanistan’s
government has the power to let in the light.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  New York   should regulate,
not research, fracking ; William D. Cohan on why it’s too late to
seek  justice for the economic meltdown ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
questions for  the foreign-policy debate ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 ground battle in Ohio ; Michael Bordo on why this  recovery is
slower ;  Brad Miller  on using  stand-alone subsidiaries  to break
up banks.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 