-- Pan Pacific CEO Says Staff Shortage Threat to Asia Hotels
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-10-22T10:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/pan-pacific-says-staff-shortage-threat-to-hotels-southeast-asia.html
Pan Pacific (PPAC)  Hotels Group Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Imbardelli said retaining employees in
markets including Bali, Myanmar and Manila is the Asian
hospitality industry’s greatest challenge.  Competition among hotel operators, workers choosing to seek
jobs overseas and a lack of suitably trained employees have
contributed to the shortage, Imbardelli said. The industry also
loses workers to banks, insurance companies and airlines, which
are focusing more on service and presentation, he said.  “The single biggest challenge we have is the talent
crunch,” Imbardelli said in an interview in  Singapore  on Oct.
19. The shortage is across the board, from front-office managers
to top management, he said.  Pan Pacific,  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and
 Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  are among chains building more
hotels in  Asia  as travel to the region increases. More hotels
and a lack of experienced workers for the industry is “a big
squeeze on profitability,” said Robert Hecker, Singapore-based
managing director of Horwath HTL Asia Pacific.  Hotels in Asia will have to spend more money on marketing
to attract new workers and take on the costs of training them,
Hecker said.  “There is a huge pipeline of new hotels,” Hecker said.
“It probably means that market occupancies are going to be
coming down because supply is increasing faster than demand, so
that puts a crunch on the revenue side, combined with increasing
costs to staff.”  ‘Huge Outflux’  Pan Pacific, controlled by Singapore billionaire Wee Cho Yaw’s  UOL Group Ltd. (UOL) , was unchanged at S$2.26 at the close in
Singapore. The stock has advanced 22 percent this year and the
parent company has gained 45 percent, surpassing the 15 percent
increase in Singapore’s  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Manila sees a “huge outflux of people” for jobs overseas,
Imbardelli said. In Bali, independent hotels and villas compete
with established chains for workers, while Myanmar’s nascent
travel market lacks experienced employees, he said.  Pan Pacific owns about 30 hotels, resorts and serviced
apartments globally. In Singapore, where the group has eight
properties including those under its Park Royal brand, the
government’s tightening of rules on foreign workers has hurt the
industry’s ability to hire more workers, Imbardelli said.  More Expensive  The island city has made it more expensive for companies to
hire overseas workers by raising levies, and in the past year it
has increased salary thresholds and required better educational
qualifications for some categories of foreigners.  After a recent S$100 million refurbishment,  Pan Pacific
Singapore  had to open restaurants and bars in stages due to a
lack of staff, Imbardelli said.  Pan Pacific is conducting more training to retain workers,
“creating roles around people for them to learn,” Imbardelli
said. There is “a lot more focus on succession planning, a lot
more focus on developing the people,” he said.  Pan Pacific is focusing its expansion in Asia, he said. The
region’s carriers flew 7.9 percent more passengers on
international flights in the first eight months of this year,
according to the  Association of Asia Pacific Airlines . Growth in
Asian economies is still encouraging both business and leisure
travel in the region, the association said last month.  “Asia’s travel is growing at a faster rate than ever
before, the one region that grew so much over the past 10 years
and continues to grow,” Imbardelli said.  Starwood, Marriott  Starwood, owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, will
open a new hotel once every two weeks in  China  this year and
next, CEO Frits van Paasschen said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in September. Starwood will have 320 hotels in Asia by
2014, according to a Sept. 20  statement .  Marriott, the largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain,
plans to add about 110 hotels in the region, which Chairman Bill Marriott said in a June interview is a bright spot that
“continues to boom.”  Half of Pan Pacific’s properties in Asia are owned by the
hotel. The company plans to cut the proportion and manage more
hotels than it owns in future, Imbardelli said, without giving a
timeframe. “There are people who like our brands and want to
invest behind the brands,” he said.  Pan Pacific added an average of four to six hotels a year
and would like to continue at the same rate globally in the
“mid-term,” Imbardelli said. The chain runs a Park Royal hotel
in Yangon and Pan Pacific properties in  Manila  and Bali.  The group has two hotels under construction in Singapore
and three in China, he said, which will be completed in the next
six months.  “The hotels will proceed because the labor staffing is not
a consideration at that point and they will find a way,
effectively, to deal with that crunch,” Hecker said. “I don’t
think labor will slow down hotel growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  