-- Petronas Rejection Casts Doubt on Cnooc $15.1 Billion Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a ,   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-22T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/petronas-rejection-casts-doubt-on-cnooc-15-1-billion-bid.html
Canada’s rejection of a bid by
Malaysia’s state oil company for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) 
casts doubt on Beijing-based Cnooc Ltd.’s $15.1-billion takeover
of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and raises questions about the openness of Prime
Minister Stephen Harper’s government to foreign investment.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in a statement he
wasn’t satisfied the C$5.2 billion ($5.23 billion) acquisition
by Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as Petronas, is in Canada’s
interest. Harper’s Conservative government reviewed the bid
under its foreign takeover law, which says transactions must be
judged to have a “net benefit” to Canada.  “The implication now is that the government does not want
a foreign national oil company to acquire Canadian companies,”
said Eric Nuttall, a portfolio manager with Sprott Asset
Management LP in Toronto. “For a Conservative government to
make this decision is mind-boggling. The amount of capital that
that decision wipes out is stunning.”  The Petronas rejection marks the second time in two years
Harper’s administration has denied a multi-billion dollar
overseas bid. The government blocked  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40
billion hostile offer for  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. in
2010 after the province’s premier, Brad Wall, opposed it.  Shares Drop  Shares of Nexen dropped 5 percent to $24.14 in New York,
about 12 percent below Cnooc’s $27.50 offer price. Progress
Energy shares plunged 9 percent to C$19.64 in Toronto, 11
percent below the C$22 per share offered by Petronas.  The cost of insuring Nexen debt against default rose. Five-
year credit-default swaps tied to the company’s bonds traded at
111 basis points today compared with 98 basis points on Oct. 19,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Petronas has 30 days to appeal or provide additional
concessions, at which point the government will make a final
decision, according to the statement by Paradis. The company can
be given more time if both parties agree.  Petronas and Progress said today they will meet with
Canadian officials “to better understand Industry  Canada ’s
requirements” for the takeover bid. The two companies “will
work together to ensure that the Minister has the necessary
information to determine that the proposed acquisition of
Progress would likely be of net benefit to Canada,” according
to a statement released in Calgary.  Policy Framework  Harper told reporters today he wouldn’t “say anything that
would prejudice that particular discussion during this time,”
adding that his government would “fairly shortly” publish “a
clear and new policy framework” for foreign investment.  “Foreign investment, generally speaking, is of benefit to
the Canadian economy, and as a general rule, we obviously
welcome interest in the Canadian economy,” Harper said.  Canada’s ruling in this case shouldn’t be seen as a
precedent for other transactions, International Trade Minister
Ed Fast said.  “This decision does not set a precedent because every
single application is considered on its own merits,” Fast told
reporters in  Vancouver  yesterday. “Each application has its own
specific circumstances that are being brought to bear.”  The ruling undermines Harper’s message that Canada welcomes
foreign investment, investors said. Harper has called it a
“national priority” to sell more natural resources to Asia, to
boost growth in the world’s 11th-largest economy by diversifying
exports away from the slower-growing U.S. market, which  consumes 
three-quarters of Canada’s shipments abroad.  Canada’s gross domestic product of $1.74 trillion exceeds
 Malaysia ’s annual output of $279 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Proposed Projects  Current proposed projects in Canada’s oil-sands, part of
the third-largest oil deposits in the world, require investments
of C$220 billion, the Canadian Energy Research Institute said in
a March  report .  Progress Chief Executive Officer Michael Culbert said he’s
“hoping” the Canadian government will see a net benefit to the
sale.  “What we’re trying to do is really move forward,” Culbert
said in a phone interview today from the Calgary airport before
departing for Ottawa.  Peter Hunt, a spokesman for Cnooc, said in an e-mail that
“our regulatory application is proceeding as normal.” Patti Lewis, a spokeswoman for Nexen, did not return e-mails seeking
comment.  Strategic Acquisitions  Petronas has stepped up strategic acquisitions abroad while
investing more in domestic oil and gas exploration to replenish
Malaysia’s diminishing energy reserves. Tenaga Nasional Bhd.,
Malaysia’s biggest electricity generator, is among companies
that have complained of gas supply shortages.  The Southeast Asian nation’s underground gas holdings
should now last 37 years, two fewer years than previously
forecast, even after reserves grew 3.6 percent to 92.1 trillion
cubic feet, Malaysia’s finance ministry said in a Sept. 28
report. Natural gas output declined 5.3 percent to 5.62 billion
cubic feet a day during the first seven months of 2012, mainly
due to “operational challenges,” it said.  “We’ve seen price increases of between three and ten-fold
for certain  commodities  and investment has surged,” Jeffrey
Wilson, lecturer in politics and international studies at
Murdoch University in Perth, said by phone. “This has really
skewed the bargaining power in negotiations between
multinational resource corporations and governments squarely in
favor of the host governments.”  Decipher Intentions  Some investors say it’s hard to decipher the government’s
intentions without any explanation for the rejection. Investment
Canada Act rules prevent Paradis from commenting, aside from
saying the deal didn’t provide a net benefit.  The Globe and Mail newspaper reported Oct. 20 that Petronas
refused a last-minute request by the government to set a new
deadline for the review, citing three people familiar with the
discussions. According to the report, the government wanted more
time to consider concessions from Petronas that were needed to
meet the net benefit test.  The lack of transparency of the review process allows
politicians to treat controversial takeovers like a “pinata,”
said Perrin Beatty, president of the Canadian Chamber of
Commerce.  ‘Black Box’  “What we have today is completely a black box,” he said
in an Oct. 19 interview. Until the government provides more
clarity, every large deal is “subject to political debate.”  Opposition lawmaker Peter Julian, the New Democratic
Party’s spokesman on natural resource issues, said Paradis’ late
night announcement showed “not only a lack of transparency, but
a level of improvisation and incompetence that we’ve rarely
seen.”  “I’ve been in parliament for eight years and I’ve never
seen an announcement made at midnight on a Friday night,”
Julian told reporters.  The government has been seeking more ambitious commitments
from companies looking for approval of foreign takeovers, said
Dany Assaf, a partner with Toronto-based law firm Torys LLP.  “When I first started practice in this area in the
mid-90s, Investment Canada regulatory approval was really just a
matter of process,” Assaf said in an Oct. 11 interview.
“Today, the negotiations are more intense. Businesses are going
to have to offer more.”  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government reviews
foreign takeovers valued at more than C$330 million.  Net Benefit  The government considers six main factors in determining
whether an acquisition provides a “net benefit,” according to
Industry Canada. The criteria are the impact on economic
measures such as employment; the degree of participation of
Canadians in the business; the impact on productivity and
technology development; the effect on competition; the
compatibility of the investment with “national industrial,
economic and cultural policies”; and the contribution to
Canada’s ability to compete globally.  Canada issued additional guidelines in 2007 for investments
by state-owned enterprises, saying such companies are expected
to run the acquired business on a “commercial basis.” State-
owned firms may be required to appoint Canadian managers or
directors or list shares of the acquiring company or Canadian
business on a local stock exchange, Industry Canada says.  In announcing its offer July 23, state-owned Cnooc pledged
to follow through on Nexen’s capital spending plans and keep the
company’s employment level and management. It also promised to
make Calgary the head office of North American operations, and
list its common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Prior Rejections  Prior to the BHP rejection, Canada blocked the acquisition
of the aerospace division of  MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates
Ltd. (MDA)  by a U.S. company in 2008. Before then, the country hadn’t
rejected any foreign takeovers since the Investment Canada Act
took effect in 1985.  “After BHP’s purchase of Potash was rejected, this will
give the impression Canada isn’t open for business,” Geof Marshall, who manages $6.3 billion of fixed-income assets at CI
Investments Inc. in Toronto, said in an e-mail. “We’re entering
a new era of capital controls as part of the next phase of
global deleveraging and this will see governments even more
protective of national business interests.”  The bid by Beijing-based Cnooc for Nexen of Calgary has
raised questions about the degree of control state-owned
enterprises should be allowed to have. Fifty-eight percent of
Canadians oppose the Nexen takeover, according to a poll by
Angus Reid Public Opinion released Oct. 16.  Conservative Concern  One Conservative lawmaker, Rob Anders of Calgary, said last
month some of his colleagues are concerned about the sale of
Canadian assets to Chinese state-owned businesses.  “I know there are people inside my caucus who have
concerns about asset sales to  China ,” Anders told reporters.
“I’m never in favor of the whole state-ownership thing,
especially in the case of a non-benevolent country like China.”  “I would say the Petronas decision certainly makes the
case of betting on Nexen weaker than it was before this
announcement,” said Stephen Jarislowsky, CEO of Montreal-based
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., Nexen’s second-largest shareholder
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. “We believe that it
should go through. Whether it does go through, we don’t know.”  Harper said Sept. 6 he’s aware Canadians are wary of
Chinese investment. The government said Oct. 11 it had extended
its review of the Nexen takeover by a month.  “It could be the death knell of Nexen if the grounds are
around reciprocity and state-owned enterprises,” Jack Mintz,
director of the University of Calgary’s School of Public Policy.
Canada’s foreign-investment rules remain vague and “the
government needs to send a clear signal on what’s on and what’s
off in terms of foreign investment.”  ‘Intrinsic Value’  “It is unfortunate that this transaction was not approved
as anticipated,” said Linda Sims, a spokeswoman for Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board, which holds 16 percent of
Calgary-based Progress’s shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “CPPIB continues to believe that there is
substantial intrinsic value in Progress Energy and that this
proposed acquisition is of long-term benefit.”  The Petronas decision is “shocking” said Gordon Currie,
an analyst at Salman Partners in Calgary. “I don’t yet know
what the government’s reasoning is, but this has implications
for the Nexen and Celtic deals, and may cause a ’chill’ on
future transactions with foreign investors.”  Shale Gas  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest energy company by
market value, said Oct. 17 it had agreed to buy  Celtic
Exploration Ltd. (CLT)  for C$2.86 billion in cash and stock, adding
oil and gas production in Canada’s Montney and Duvernay shale.  Calgary-based  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s biggest natural gas
producer, fell 3.9 percent, NuVista Energy Ltd. fell 3.2 percent
and Cequence Energy Ltd., dropped 7.1 percent. NuVista and
Cequence both have operations in the Montney shale region of
British Columbia. Celtic Exploration Ltd. fell 1.4 percent to
C$25.84.  Investors should buy Progress shares if they fall as far as
C$17, said Catharine Sterritt, a Toronto-based risk arbitrage
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia, in an e-mailed report.  Most people in Canada’s oil and natural gas sector thought
the government would approve the bid by Petronas, said Mike Tims, chairman of Peters & Co., a Calgary investment bank.  The deal was viewed as positive because Progress is a small
company that couldn’t afford to extract resources quickly. A
liquefied natural gas terminal proposed by Petronas for Canada’s
west coast would create new gas markets, he said.  “We’ll see a bunch of stocks pull back because we’ve been
introduced, for a period of time, to new uncertainty until we
see what the policies actually end up being,” Tims said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  