-- Putin Balks at Pension Threats as Aging Russians Hold Trump Card
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/putin-balks-at-pension-threats-as-aging-russians-hold-trump-card.html
Nina Sultankina is telling Vladimir Putin to ignore  Russia ’s ticking pensions time bomb.  As the 50-year-old road supervisor counts the days until
she can retire and tend to her failing health in 2016, she is
refusing to work longer and not even the Russian president can
change her mind.  “I gave my whole working life to the government and now I
have another 15 years to live at the most,” said Sultankina,
who lives in Russia’s southern Urals and turns 51 next month.
“I don’t want to work until I drop dead.”  Sultankina -- and the legion of Russians who grew up with
the cradle-to-grave state care of the Soviet Union -- are
holding Putin, 60, hostage to his election promise to keep the
retirement age unchanged six months after he returned to
Russia’s presidency.  Pension spending will rise to 14 percent of gross domestic
product by 2030 from 9 percent, Standard & Poor’s said. There is
an “urgent need” for measures to curb the rise in retirement
costs, according to VTB Capital. Government debt may rise to 70
percent of GDP by 2030 from about 10 percent this year, if the
pension deficit is financed through borrowing, it said.  “Taking this decision now would enable a gradual rise in
the pension age to eliminate the deficit,” Maxim Oreshkin, the
bank’s chief economist, said by phone.  Putin is resisting pressure from within his Cabinet and
from investors to raise the retirement age, threatening to boost
state debt, hobble growth and undermine a rally in government
bonds that has led to record-low borrowing costs.  Government Plan  He is considering a plan he received this month from the
government, which calls for tapping into savings channeled to
individual nest eggs to pay for current obligations. The
proposal, to be submitted to lawmakers by Dec. 15, doesn’t
include raising the retirement age, amounting to a rejection of
such calls by the Health and Finance Ministries, leaked to the
media in  April. (APR)   After unprecedented anti-Putin unrest over alleged election
fraud, which was concentrated in Russia’s biggest cities and
driven by middle-class voters, the potential increase in the
retirement age is riling up a wider portion of society across
the country of 143 million people. That raises the risk of
another wave of unrest.  “Putin in the run-up to the election promised that there
wouldn’t be an increase in the pension age, so that’s why we
supported him,” said Mikhail Shmakov, head of the Federation of
Independent Trade Unions, which has 22 million members. “If we
want to provoke street protests, let’s go down that path. We’ll
end up like Libya.”  ‘Rise Sharply’  Hundreds of thousands of mainly elderly people protested
across Russia in 2005 when the government replaced in-kind
social benefits with cash payments. Russia’s 40 million
pensioners account for more than 36 percent of the electorate
“and that number is set to rise sharply,” said Jenia Ustinova,
an analyst at New York-based Eurasia Group.  “Such an unpopular decision as a rise in the pension age
would cause a collapse in Putin’s political support,” said
Sergei Markov, a former lawmaker in the ruling United Russia
party. “It would be an extremely dangerous step.”  Putin’s backing is at 44 percent, after bottoming out at 41
percent last month, according to a  survey  by the Moscow-based
Public Opinion Foundation, or FOM, published Oct. 11. The
Russian leader won the March presidential election with 64
percent of the vote. FOM polled 3,000 Russians Oct. 6-7. No
margin of error was given.  Stalin-Era Rule  Russia has one of the world’s lowest retirement ages, set
in 1932 during the Stalin era. Women can stop work at 55 and men
at 60. Average life expectancy, at 43 years in the 1920s, is 70
and will reach 80 by 2050, according to the United Nations.  Professions with a right to early retirement, a heritage of
Soviet times, include state bureaucrats, military personnel,
miners, geologists, and ballet dancers. The average pension age
is 54 for women and 58 for men, according to the IMF.  The IMF says Russia should raise the pension age uniformly
for men and women to 63 by 2030 and to 65 by 2050.  Five percent of Russians support a higher retirement age
and 42 percent want the government to spend more on pensions,
according to an Aug. 17-21 poll by the independent Levada
Center.  Not Enough  The Russian Cabinet proposals that fall short of raising
the retirement age won’t reach the government’s goal, said
former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, who oversaw nine
consecutive budget surpluses through 2008 and cut state debt
from 50 percent of GDP to 10 percent.  “The sooner” the retirement age is increased, “the
better it will be for pensioners, taxpayers and for the
country,” Kudrin, who runs the Committee of Civil Initiatives
research groups, wrote in an article in the journal Economic
Issues in March.  The health ministry and the Pension Fund circulated
proposals in April to raise the threshold to 60 for women by
2029 and to 65 universally by 2047, according to Russian
newspaper reports. The finance ministry proposed to gradually
raise the retirement age to 63 years from 2015 to eliminate the
deficit by 2029.  These reports alarm people like Sultankina and Nikolai
Belayev, 57, an employee for state-owned Russian Railways at a
carriage-making plant in Tambov, around 450 kilometers (280
miles) south of Moscow. A factory worker for 43, he also
complains that his health is failing though he doesn’t drink and
exercises regularly.  “My goal is survive until I retire,” said Belayev. “Half
of the people I know don’t live to 60. If they raise the pension
age, who will be around to get their pension? How can you
promise one thing to the world, and do another?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  