-- Traders Calling Singer’s Bluff on Intervention as Koruna Gains
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/traders-calling-singer-s-bluff-on-intervention-as-koruna-gains.html
Traders are ignoring Czech National
Bank Governor Miroslav Singer’s threat to intervene for the
first time in a decade to weaken the koruna and revive the
 economy  as the currency extends the biggest rally in  emerging
markets  after  Hungary ’s forint.  The koruna has strengthened 0.4 percent to the euro since
Singer’s comments on Sept. 27 and is up 1.1 percent this month,
second only to the forint among major developing-nation peers
tracked by Bloomberg. Options traders are paying on average in
October 1.7 percentage points more for the right to sell the
koruna rather than to buy it in three months, the lowest premium
since August 2011, so-called risk-reversal rates show.  After cutting borrowing costs to a  record  0.25 percent,
half a point below the euro area, Singer said he may use “the
exchange rate channel” next to relax monetary conditions. The
Czech economy, where exports account for 75 percent of output
and are dependent on demand from the European Union, shrank 0.2
percent in April to June, its third quarterly contraction.  “The koruna is more likely to test stronger levels as the
market will try to provoke the CNB,”  Jan Vejmelek , chief
economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in  Prague , said in an Oct. 17
phone interview. The Czech economy’s return to modest growth
next year while the euro area continues to struggle also gives
the koruna “a relative edge,” he said.  Trade Surplus  Koruna gains have been fueled by the country’s trade
surplus and cuts in the  budget deficit  that helped make Czech
bonds a “safe haven” in emerging  Europe , according to a report
by Moody’s Investors Service from Oct. 15. Falling  interest
rates  and demand from foreign investors pushed the  yield  on
benchmark 2017 koruna-denominated notes to a record-low 1.05
percent last week, generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rate setters in emerging Europe are easing policies along
with the  European Central Bank  to address an economic slowdown
triggered by the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The CNB seeks to prevent  inflation  from slowing to less
than the 2 percent target as cuts in household spending helped
fuel a second recession in three years. Policy makers have
lowered the benchmark two-week repurchased rate by a total of 50
basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, so far this year.  The premium traders are paying to insure against the
koruna’s weakening has shrunk from as much as 2.6 percentage
points in June, the risk-reversal data show.  ‘Little Room’  “We can further relax monetary policy in the little room
we have,” Singer told reporters in Warsaw on Oct. 18. “The
next tool in line will be the  exchange-rate  channel.”  Unlike the Swiss central bank, which set a cap last year on
the franc to stop its gains from hurting the country’s economy,
policy makers in Prague haven’t indicated any exchange rate at
which they may start to sell the koruna.  “The CNB targets inflation, not the exchange rate,” Marek
Petrus, the bank’s spokesman, said by phone Oct 17. “It’s up to
the central bank’s board to assess whether or not further policy
loosening is needed.”  The central bank last stepped into the market to weaken the
koruna 10 years ago, Singer said on Sept. 18. The bank bought
$438 million and 444 million euros ($580 million) in September
2002, records on its website show. The intervention followed a
9.5 percent rally that year, with koruna touching the then
strongest on record of 28.9 per euro two months earlier.  ‘Immediate Action’  The Czech currency had appreciated 2.3 percent against the
euro in the third quarter before Singer’s Sept. 27 comments, the
best performance for the period after the Chilean peso and
 India ’s rupee among major emerging markets. The koruna added 0.6
percent last week, the most among the peer group, touching the
strongest level in a month at 24.7 on Oct. 17.  The CNB may sell the koruna should the currency strengthen
“significantly beyond” 24.50, the recession deepen and
deflation pressure increase, Komercni Banka’s Vejmelek said.  “As long as the appreciation process doesn’t accelerate,
the CNB will stay on the sidelines,” Peter Schottmueller, who
helps manage the equivalent of $5.3 billion in emerging-market
debt, including Czech local-currency bonds, at Deka Investment
GmbH in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments on Oct. 19.
Singer’s words “don’t imply immediate action,” he said.  The Czech economy is suffering from weaker domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised sales taxes to
trim the budget  deficit . Export growth was the slowest since the
start of 2010 in the second quarter as the euro area’s crisis
curbed purchases of electronic goods and cars. The 27-nation EU
buys 80 percent of Czech exports, including cars from  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s unit, Skoda Auto AS.  ‘No Choice’  While  consumer prices  fell for three consecutive months
through September on a monthly basis, annual inflation has
remained above 3 percent this year because of factors outside of
monetary policy influence, including increases in tax rates and
commodity prices, according to the central bank.  The koruna will probably weaken to 25 per euro by Dec. 31,
or a 0.6 percent retreat, before rebounding to 24.5 per euro in
September 2013, according to the median forecast of 18 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  The CNB “has no other real option than to weaken the
currency given the fact that the fiscal policy is tight and the
interest rates are now near zero,”  Murat Toprak , chief currency
strategist for emerging Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  London , said on Oct. 5. “There is no other
choice but to intervene and ultimately help the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  