-- Rajoy Asserts Vindication in Galicia Elections
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-22T08:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/rajoy-wins-heartland-victory-as-spaniards-lift-bailout-obstacle.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s  People’s Party  said victory in regional elections
yesterday that extended its majority in Galicia vindicated his
austerity program.  “The steps that we have explained have to be taken to
resolve the crisis have had overwhelming support,” Carlos
Floriano, the party campaign chief, said in an interview on
public broadcaster Radio Nacional de Espana. “There is no
precedent in this crisis situation of a government not just
defending but increasing its majority.”  The PP won 41 of the 75 seats in the regional assembly,
adding three. The Socialists lost almost half of their votes and
a new leftist group took nine seats. In the Basque Country, the
 Basque Nationalist Party  won 27 seats, allowing it to lead a
government in the 75-seat chamber through alliances with other
parties including the 21 separatist lawmakers of Bildu.  The election result clears one obstacle from Rajoy’s path
as he mulls a bailout, putting Europe’s newest crisis-fighting
tools to the test in an economy that’s twice the combined size
of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . At a summit last week, European
Union leaders failed to fulfill pledges made in June for greater
integration, as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushed back
against demands from  France  and Spain.  “He’ll want to hold off a couple of weeks before asking
for the bailout to save face and show they weren’t waiting for
the elections,” said Ken Dubin, a political scientist who
teaches at IE business school and Carlos III University in
 Madrid . “It’s game on” for budget cuts, he said in a telephone
interview.  Budget Cuts  Spanish bonds fell with the yield on 10-year debt rising 5
basis points to 5.88 percent at 10:00 a.m. Madrid time. Even
after a rally last week, Spain still pays 378 basis points more
than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years; the  Ibex-35 (IBEX)  was little
changed.  The PP’s gain in Galicia reflected the collapse of its main
rivals. The Socialist Party’s 294,000 votes, just over half what
it received in 2009, reduced its representation to 18 lawmakers
from 25 while the Galician Nationalists’ vote dropped 46 percent
as they claimed 7 seats.  Nationally, support for the PP fell to 37 percent from 45
percent at the November election, a poll by state-run CIS showed
on Aug. 6. A Metroscopia poll for the newspaper El Pais last
month showed 84 percent of Spanish voters have little or no
confidence in Rajoy.  Galicia, run by Alberto Nunez Feijoo since 2009, was one of
the first regions to implement an austerity program and had one
of the smallest deficits last year. Feijoo, seen as a possible
successor to Rajoy, coupled cuts in health care with sales of
the administration’s luxury cars.  Catalan Vote  Rajoy’s next date with the electorate comes on Nov. 25,
when Catalonia holds an early election focused on whether the
region that accounts for a fifth of Spain’s economy should seek
independence. With nationalists set to govern in the Basque
Country, Rajoy will have to fight secessionist bids on two
fronts.  Artur Mas, president of the Catalan region, has pledged a
referendum on independence if he wins the vote next month while
Basque Nationalist Party leader Inigo Urkullu has said he’ll
join forces with Mas to push for greater autonomy for two of
Spain’s richest states.  “We think Rajoy should request European support before the
Catalan elections, since the market is likely to react quite
negatively to yet another nationalist success,”  Gilles Moec , 
co-chief economist at Deutsche Bank in  London , wrote in an 
e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  