-- Questions for the Foreign Affairs Debate
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/real-questions-for-the-foreign-affairs-debate.html
It’s almost inevitable that the
foreign policy debate between U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  will feature much useless
arguing about  who said what , and when, about the fatal attack on
the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi,  Libya .  Certainly,  the killing  of four Americans by terrorists
possibly inspired by al-Qaeda was a terrible thing. Yet it
represents one small defeat in a very long war. Debate moderator
Bob Schieffer would serve American voters by limiting the Libya
discussion and raising more important questions. Here are some I
would like to see asked of the two candidates.  For Obama:  -- Your administration has denied reports that it plans to
enter direct negotiations with Iran. Yet you have indicated a
continued willingness to talk directly with the Iranian regime.
What signs have you seen that suggest the Iranians may be
willing to give up their nuclear program, and why should the
U.S. enter negotiations, given the Iranian record of using such
talks as cover for advancing their nuclear program?  -- The U.S. successfully contained the Soviet Union, which
possessed a nuclear arsenal sufficient to kill all U.S.
citizens. A nuclear Iran would not have that capacity. Why have
you ruled out containment and threatened to use military force
to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon?  -- Neither the Israeli prime minister nor the Palestinian
president trusts you to be an effective broker in what is now a
comatose  Middle East  peace process. How did this come to pass?  -- Why have you not visited Israel once in four years as
president?  -- Why do you spend so little time building friendships
with foreign leaders, especially leaders of allied countries?  -- You’ve promised to withdraw U.S. troops from  Afghanistan 
by 2014. What would you do if U.S. intelligence informed you at
the end of 2014 that the Taliban was poised to capture Kabul and
once again assert control over most of Afghanistan?  -- Drone strikes you’ve ordered against targets in  Pakistan 
have killed, by some  estimates , several hundred innocent
civilians, including many children. Is this a moral strategy to
defeat terrorists?  -- You intervened to stop civilian massacres in Libya,
where no U.S. national security interest was at stake. In  Syria ,
far more people have been killed by their government, and U.S.
interests are clearly at stake. America’s Muslim allies,
including  Turkey , are asking the U.S. to do more to bring an end
to Bashar al-Assad’s regime. Why have you stayed on the
sidelines?  -- Arab liberals in  Egypt  and elsewhere believe the U.S.
has abandoned the cause of spreading American-style freedom in
the Middle East and is coddling the Muslim Brotherhood. Is
Muslim Brotherhood ideology dangerous to the U.S.?  -- Who will maintain global security if the U.S. Navy and
Army continue to shrink?  -- Was a common European currency a good idea?  For Romney:  -- In reaction to reports suggesting the U.S. and Iran may
soon negotiate face-to-face over  Iran’s nuclear program ,
Republican Senator Lindsay Graham of South Carolina said, “I
think the time for talking is over.” Do you agree?  -- You’ve said that on the first day of your presidency,
you will label  China  a currency manipulator. What will be your
response if, the next day, China announces that in retaliation
it will no longer buy airplanes from Boeing and instead move all
its business to Airbus?  -- You’ve  promised  that the first country you will visit as
president is Israel. Why not  Canada ,  Mexico  or the U.K.? Is
Israel America’s most important ally?  -- Can Israel survive as a Jewish democracy if it continues
to rule the West Bank?  -- Unlike President Obama, you’ve said you will act to
prevent Iran from gaining a nuclear weapons “capability,” rather
than a nuclear weapon. Right now, Iran has the  capacity  to
produce enriched uranium sufficient for several weapons, a
credible ballistic missile program, and, most likely, designs
for a nuclear warhead. Would you strike Iran today if you were
president?  -- Your running mate  Paul Ryan   accused  the Obama
administration of allowing  Russia  to water-down sanctions
against Iran. Do you believe it is possible to effectively
sanction Iran without Russian support?  -- In Mexico, more than 60,000 people have died in drug-
war-related violence over the past several years, yet drugs
continue to flow to U.S. markets essentially uninterrupted.
Would you continue to provide U.S. support to Mexico’s drug war?  -- You did not serve in the military. Did you encourage any
of your  five sons  to serve in the military?  -- How do you plan to keep Pakistan from imploding?  -- You  said recently , “America must have confidence in our
cause, clarity in our purpose, and resolve in our might.” What
is America’s purpose?  -- You and your running mate have no foreign policy
experience. Name the three people you would listen to most on
matters of foreign policy and national security if you become
president.  And a bonus question, for both men:  -- The Duchy of Grand Fenwick has just invaded Freedonia, a
stalwart U.S. ally. Do you seek United Nations Security Council
permission before intervening, do you build a coalition of the
willing to strike back, or do you call for an immediate cease-
fire?  By rights, this should be the most important and
substantive debate. Presidents don’t command the economy, but
they do command the military. I’m as interested as the next guy
in the arguments about the handling of Benghazi, but I’m more
interested in understanding how these two men would guide the
U.S. through what stands to be several very disorderly years.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)
Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  making the most of
Afghanistan’s minerals  and on why  New York   should regulate, not
research, fracking ; William D. Cohan on why it’s too late to
seek  justice for the economic meltdown ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 ground battle in Ohio ; Michael Bordo on why this  recovery is
slower ;  Brad Miller  on using  stand-alone subsidiaries  to break
up banks.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Lisa Beyer  at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 