-- Romney Tied With Obama at 47% in Latest NBC/WSJ Poll
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-10-21T16:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/romney-tied-with-obama-at-47-in-latest-nbc-wsj-poll.html
Mitt Romney , the Republican
presidential nominee, is tied at 47 percent with President
 Barack Obama  in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of likely
voters released 16 days before the election.  In a nationwide survey conducted Oct. 17-20, Romney pulled
even with the incumbent Democratic president for the first time
this year, showing the race continuing to tighten as the Nov. 6
balloting approaches. The poll of 816 likely voters has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  “This is going to be a very close race and we’ve said that
consistently,”  David Axelrod , senior political strategist for
the Obama campaign, said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”
Axelrod said the Obama campaign believes the president remained
ahead in battleground states.  Surveys taken during the past week have shown the former
Massachusetts governor narrowing or eliminating Obama’s lead in
most closely divided swing states. Romney picked up momentum
after winning the first debate on Oct. 3 in Denver.  Romney has erased a five-point lead that Obama held in the
same NBC/WSJ survey in mid-September, which had narrowed to a
three-point advantage by late last month. Among the larger pool
of 1,000 registered voters in the most recent survey, Obama is
leads Romney 49 percent to 44 percent, with a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Male, Female Support  The poll found Romney leads among men, 53 percent to 43
percent, and Obama leads among women, 51 percent to 43 percent.
Romney’s support among men has grown in the past month while
Obama’s advantage among women has fallen slightly, according to
a summary of the poll from the Wall Street Journal.  The poll shows Romney leading among likely voters in
Southern swing states and Obama ahead in  Nevada , NBC
correspondent Chuck Todd said on the Sunday morning talk show
“Meet the Press.” The two are “essentially tied” among
voters in the Midwest, a summary of the poll released today
said.  Polls have shown that more people say the president won the
second debate, which was held Oct. 16 in Hempstead,  New York .
According to a Gallup survey released Oct. 19, 51 percent of
Americans who viewed the town-hall-style event said Obama won,
while 38 percent favored Romney’s performance.  Voters in 11 states, including  Iowa  and  Ohio , already have
begun casting ballots. By week’s end, four of the nine most
competitive states will have started early, in-person voting.  Swing States  A separate poll this week of Iowa and  Wisconsin , two of the
nine states that strategists in both parties say will decide who
wins the White House, showed that Obama was maintaining his lead
over the Republican challenger. Obama led Romney 51 percent to
43 percent in Iowa and 51 percent to 45 percent in Wisconsin,
according to the NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College
survey released Oct. 18.  Obama and Romney are scheduled to meet for their third and
final debate tomorrow at Lynn University in  Boca Raton ,  Florida .
The last face-off between the men is to focus on foreign policy.  Frank Newport , editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, defended
data showing Romney gaining ground on “Fox News Sunday.”  “People come at you from either side if they don’t like
your results,” he said.  Gallup’s tracking poll, a seven-day average, shows 51
percent of likely voters backing Romney nationally and 45
percent backing Obama, Newport said on Fox.  Newport declined to make a prediction, saying “a week ago
we had it even and now we have Romney up.” That change
“suggests it could move the other way over the next week or
two,” he said.  “Things move in elections, Newport said. ‘‘That’s why they
are still spending hundreds of millions of dollars on both sides
to try to move voters.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  