-- Ropac Gallery Vies Gagosian With Cymbals, Live Horse
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-10-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/ropac-gallery-vies-gagosian-with-cymbals-live-horse.html
“Open the door and leave it like
that,” Thaddaeus Ropac tells one of his 60 employees as he
crosses the courtyard of his new gallery on the outskirts of
Paris.  The Austrian-born dealer has just inaugurated the French
capital’s biggest commercial contemporary-art space. He hopes to
encourage more visitors to follow him inside, now that the
French government has rejected a proposal to include artworks in
calculating  wealth tax .  Super-size galleries in  New York  and  London  are being
followed by Ropac’s mega-space, where he is showing works by the
German artists  Anselm Kiefer  and the late  Joseph Beuys .  Larry Gagosian  has also just opened a new space on Paris’s northern
rim with a Kiefer show, in a week when galleries at the Fiac
fair have been vying for the attention of choosy buyers.  “I was surprised Gagosian decided to open with Kiefer,”
says Ropac, who had been the first to approach the French-based
artist 18 months ago. “Actually, it turns out Paris has
profited from all the attention. I’m quite relaxed about it
now.”  Ropac, 52, has converted a former boiler factory at Pantin
-- a site on Paris’s eastern rim reachable by Metro -- into a
50,000 square-foot (4,645 square meter) complex. Gagosian has
chosen an old 17,760 square-foot industrial building in the
north of the city at the private-jet airport of Le Bourget.  Exodus Fears  France ’s Socialist government is planning a 75 percent tax
band on all income of more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million).
The country’s richest man,  Bernard Arnault , is seeking dual
Belgian citizenship.  “High taxation has scared people,” says Ropac, wearing a
dark suit and open-necked white shirt. “If these measures are
introduced there will be an exodus of wealth. Then again,
governments have been discussing this for the 22 years I’ve been
in France.”  Ropac maintains his original Paris gallery in the Marais
district -- where Beuys’s 1982 “Stag Monuments” have been
curated all over again by Norman Rosenthal -- as well as two
spaces in Salzburg in his native  Austria .  “We found we were limiting the vision of our artists,” he
says. “We couldn’t take four-ton sculptures by  Antony Gormley .
If you give them an ambitious space, they will produce their
best work, and that is easier to sell.”  The Pantin project, designed by Buttazzoni & Associates,
combines a main building of four hall-like galleries with a
smaller structure for performance works.  Creative Hub  Though the area has long been a hub of cultural activity --
Pierre Boulez’s Ensemble Intercontemporain is based nearby --
Ropac is keen to emphasize that he is an  art dealer , not a
museum curator.  “We are a commercial gallery, and we have artists we
represent,” he says. Ropac is offering original elements that
were first used in Beuys’s 1969 performance, “Titus Andronicus/
Iphigenie,” sourced directly from the artist’s estate.  The specially made cymbals that were used in the piece are
priced at 1 million euros.  The original performance had a  white horse  that stood in
the background. An understudy has been placed in the gallery and
spends the day happily munching hay. The animal isn’t for sale.
Ropac is asking 2.5 million euros each for vitrines containing
further pieces crafted and appropriated by Beuys, whose
influence on 21st-century artists is due for reassessment, he
believes.  Ropac is optimistic about the “mega-gallery” model,
despite the expense of running such spaces, diminishing demand
from French-based collectors and certain other buyers, and
concerns about overproduction by artists such as Kiefer.  Auction Figures  Global auction sales of contemporary art from June 2011 to
June 2012 were 859 million euros without fees. That was 55
million euros down from the year-earlier period, according to
the French-based analysts  Artprice  in a report published earlier
this month.  “This is a good sign,” Ropac says. “When the middle and
lower ranges are inflated, I’m not happy.” Destination
galleries such as Ropac Pantin, showing quality works by the
most museum-worthy names, continue to be a draw for chauffeur-
driven collectors.  The inauguration dinner for the new spaces was attended by
40 artists and 25 museum directors, Ropac says, who estimated
that 80 percent of the “normal“-sized works in his Kiefer
show, titled “The Unborn,” had found buyers.  Smaller paintings by the artist are priced at about 500,000
euros and have a waiting list. The artist’s monumental works are
a more challenging market and “aren’t flying” out of the
gallery, he says.  “Paris is still one of the great international centers of
the art world,” Ropac says. “About 80 percent of our buyers
are from Europe and America. The rest of the world will be along
in a bit.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  James
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com  or on Twitter at
https://twitter.com/ScottReyburn1.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 