-- Stocks Erase Loss on Apple Rally as Treasuries Decline
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-10-22T22:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/s-p-500-index-futures-little-changed-while-oil-gold-slip.html
U.S.  stocks  erased losses as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  led a rally in technology shares. Treasuries fell as a
tightening presidential race made investors reluctant to
speculate on the economy’s prospects.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,433.81 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after tumbling as much as 0.8
percent. Apple rallied 4 percent for its biggest gain since May.
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes added five basis points to 1.81
percent. Oil, natural gas, lead, nickel and zinc tumbled at
least 1.5 percent to lead losses in commodities.  S&P 500  futures
added 0.1 percent at 6:21 p.m. after Yahoo! Inc. reported profit
and sales that beat estimates.  Computer and software providers rose the most among 10
groups in the S&P 500, led by Apple. The Cupertino, California-
based company will announce a new, smaller version of its iPad
tomorrow, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because details haven’t
been made public. Peabody Energy Corp. and Caterpillar Inc.
helped lead gains in the S&P 500 after reporting results, while
General Electric Co. lost more than 1.5 percent for a second day
after posting sales last week that trailed estimates.  “It really comes down to earnings at this point,” said
 Peter Jankovskis , co-chief investment officer for Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , which manages more than $3
billion. He spoke in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen many
companies beating earnings estimates. Yet investors are keeping
an eye on their ability to grow revenue.”  Market Movers  The S&P 500 ended last week up 0.3 percent as a three-day
rally was almost wiped out by a tumble on the final session. The
index dropped 1.7 percent on Oct. 19, the most since June, as
companies from General Electric to McDonald’s Corp. and
Microsoft Corp. posted results below estimates.  Per-share profits have topped estimates at 69 percent of
the  123 companies  in the S&P 500 that have released earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings have increased
about 0.9 percent for the group amid a 1.9 percent gain in
sales.  SunTrust Banks Inc., the eighth-largest U.S. lender,
tumbled 3.4 percent after profit missed analysts’ estimates. VF
Corp. declined as sales trailed the average forecast and the
clothing company said the European market remains challenging.  Peabody Energy, the largest U.S. coal producer by volume,
surged 12 percent after reporting third-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates after selling more coal from its mines
in  Australia  and Wyoming’s Powder River Basin.  Earnings Season  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, climbed 1.5 percent after reporting earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates, while also predicting sales
growth for next year that is the slowest in four years as the
global economy decelerates.  Monster Beverage Corp. tumbled 14 percent, the most in more
than four years, as its drinks were cited in five deaths in the
past year, according to incident reports that doctors and
companies submit to the  Food and Drug Administration . The agency
said the incidents, which are voluntarily reported, are
considered to be allegations and no conclusion is drawn until a
full investigation is completed. Evan Pondel, a spokesman for
Monster, said the company is unaware of any fatality that has
been caused by its drinks.  Yahoo! Inc. rose 4.2 percent after the close of regular
trading. The biggest U.S. Web portal’s results beat estimates as
Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  benefited from advertising
demand and cost cuts during her first three months on the job.  U.S. stocks are beating every major asset class for the
first time in 17 years even as economic growth weakens and
profits rise at the slowest rate since 2009.  Beating Treasuries  The S&P 500 rallied 14 percent in 2012 through last week,
beating Treasuries, corporate bonds, commodities, the dollar and
equities in Asia and Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The last time that happened, in 1995, the S&P 500 was posting
the biggest annual advance of the last five decades. With a
price-earnings ratio close to today’s level, the index gained
another 93 percent in the next 2 1/2 years.  Treasuries extended last week’s decline as President  Barack
Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  were tied at 47
percent in a national NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll of
likely voters before a final televised debate tonight.  “They won’t commit too much capital going into the
elections,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . The market will “judge” from
tonight’s debate, he added.  Two-year and 30-year Treasuries also retreated, sending
yields up one basis point to 0.31 percent and three basis points
to 2.97 percent, respectively. The Treasury is scheduled to sell
$99 billion of two-, five- and seven-year notes this week
starting tomorrow.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.4 percent after
gaining as much as 0.3 percent. Royal Philips Electronics NV
climbed 5.8 percent as the largest lighting company reported
third-quarter profit that beat estimates.  Nexans SA (NEX)  sank 6.6
percent, the most in six months, after the world’s second-
biggest cable maker said its second-half margin won’t rebound as
much as expected in July because of a slowdown in Europe,  Brazil 
and Australia.  The euro gained against 14 of 16 major peers after voters
backed Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  in a regional
election. The currency climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3058. After the
close of the U.S. markets, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
five Spanish regions, while confirming ratings on five others.  Oil Slumps  Oil in New York retreated 1.5 percent to a two-week low of
$88.73 a barrel after gaining as much as 0.8 percent earlier.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries governors meet
in Vienna today and tomorrow to select a new secretary-general
for the first time in six years, with four countries vying for
the position.  Natural gas led losses in 14 of 24 commodities tracked by
the S&P GSCI Index. Wheat climbed for a fourth day.  The yen weakened 0.7 percent against the dollar and 1
percent versus the euro. Its eight-day drop against the dollar
is the longest run of declines in seven years.  Japan ’s exports
fell the most since the earthquake in 2011, Finance Ministry
data showed.  ‘Additional Stimulus’  “The market is acting with an assumption that there will
be additional stimulus by the  Bank of Japan ,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst at IG Markets Securities Ltd. in  Tokyo .
“The economies in Europe and Japan look bleaker compared with
the U.S.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed, after
falling as much as 0.5 percent earlier. Russia’s Micex added 0.8
percent as OAO Rosneft agreed to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50 venture
between BP Plc and a group of billionaires, for $54.8 billion in
the third-biggest oil acquisition ever. Rosneft rallied 2.6
percent. BP slipped 1.5 percent.  India’s Sensex Index jumped 0.6 percent after better-than-
estimated results from Tata Consultancy and Bajaj Auto Ltd. The
Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent on speculation
China’s government will take steps to boost equities before a
leadership transition next month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  