-- Nigerian Lawmakers Seek to Curb Sanusi’s Power at Bank
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-10-22T16:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/sanusi-faces-nigerian-lawmakers-seeking-to-curb-bank-s-power.html
Nigerian lawmakers are seeking to
limit the central bank’s autonomy and curtail Governor Lamido Sanusi’s powers after he criticized them for overspending and
doubled interest rates.  Bankers and central bank officials made presentations in
Parliament in Abuja today against lawmakers’ bid to amend the
Central Bank of Nigeria Act. The proposals aim to strip Sanusi
of his position as chairman of the bank’s board, remove the
deputy governors from it and give lawmakers the right to approve
the bank’s budget. Sanusi, 51, didn’t appear at the public
hearing.  As central bank governor of  Africa ’s largest oil producer,
Sanusi has won plaudits from investors for cleaning up the
banking industry and rescuing it from near-collapse in 2009. At
the same time, lawmakers oppose his push for spending curbs on
salaries and have criticized him for wielding too much power.  Sanusi “has been very decisive, and probably very
aggressive in the use of his powers, in terms of making
changes,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Lagos-
based Financial Derivatives Co. and a council member of the
Nigerian Stock Exchange, said by phone Oct. 18. “Nigeria is not
used to that kind of aggressive and very rapid change.”  ‘Imminent Danger’  Lawmakers’ bid to limit the central’s autonomy may result
in higher inflation, instability in the financial services
industry and lower credit ratings, Deputy Governor Tunde Lemo,
told lawmakers today.  Removing the bank’s autonomy over its budget “is in effect
a proposal to limit its ability to fulfill its lender-of-last
resort function of providing standby loans to distressed
banks,” Lemo said. It will “constrain the ability to achieve
its mandate of ensuring financial system stability.”  The central bank “would be under imminent danger if it
depends on government for funding or waits for government or
legislative approval for its financial needs,” he said.  Godwin Emefiele, the CEO of  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , Jibril J. Aku,
managing director of Ecobank Nigeria Plc, and former central
bank governors, Joseph Sanusi and Adamu Ciroma, gave
presentations to lawmakers today against the amendment.  Salary Spending  Two months after he took office in 2009, Sanusi fired the
chief executives of eight lenders after an audit found evidence
of mismanagement and reckless lending. In December 2010,
lawmakers demanded Sanusi apologize for saying their salaries,
accounting for a quarter of the government’s recurrent spending,
were damaging for the economy. He maintained that his estimates
were correct.  The proposed changes to the legislation are aimed at
“having stronger institutions and not a stronger personality or
officials,” Victor Ogene, deputy chairman of the House of
Representatives Media Committee, said in a phone interview from
Abuja on Oct. 19. The current law gives too much power to the
governor and the budget is run without scrutiny, he said.  The National Assembly comprises 109 seats in the Senate and
360 seats in the House of Representatives, with the ruling
People’s Democratic Party, led by President Goodluck Jonathan,
controlling a majority. Jonathan pledged on Oct. 10 to rein in
recurrent spending, which includes salaries, to 69 percent of
the total budget of 4.92 trillion naira ($31 billion) in 2013,
from 72 percent this year.  Record Rates  If the proposed amendments to the Central Bank Act are
passed, it will undermine the bank’s independence and send a
“very bad signal, not only to international investors, but also
domestically,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a phone interview from Lagos.  Sanusi led the Monetary Policy Committee in increasing the
 benchmark interest rate  by six percentage points to a record 12
percent in the past two years to bolster the currency and curb
inflation.  The naira has weakened 2.5 percent against the dollar in
the past two years and was trading at 157.2 on the interbank
market as of 5:06 p.m. in Lagos. The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) 
of the top 10 lenders has gained 15 percent in the same period.  Sanusi has already come under fire from lawmakers this year
for his proposal to introduce a 5,000 naira note and coins for
some lower-denomination notes. Parliament opposed the plan,
saying it would cause hyper-inflation, reduce purchasing power,
prompt a currency devaluation and a “widening gap between the
rich and poor,” according to a Sept. 18 document. Jonathan on
Sept. 20 ordered the central bank to halt the program.  Parliament is unlikely to approve the amendments to the
law, Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a spokesman for the central bank, said
in a phone interview from Abuja on Oct. 19. The bank said on May
3 its budget is audited annually by international accounting
firms.  “We believe there’s overwhelming support for the retention
of the CBN autonomy and that’s consistent with international
best practice,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  