-- Signs of Revival Spur Longest Rally Since April: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-10-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/signs-of-revival-spur-longest-rally-since-april-china-overnight.html
The benchmark index of Chinese
stocks traded in New York climbed for a fourth week to cap the
longest stretch of gains since  April (APR)  on signs Asia’s largest
economy is picking up after seven quarters of slowing growth.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. added 1.9 percent last week, as
software developer  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA)  and circuit maker
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  drove gains. The
iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese exchange-
traded fund in the U.S., added 2.1 percent in the week, reaching
a five-month high on Oct. 18.  Reports showed last week that industrial production, retail
sales and fixed-asset investment in China accelerated in
September, signaling a recovery in the world’s second-largest
economy may be gaining traction. The economic situation in China
is “relatively good” and expansion in gross domestic product
has started to stabilize, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Oct. 17,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “The economy is bottoming out,” Jeff Papp, a senior
analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc. said in a phone
interview from Lisle, Illinois on Oct. 19. “As long as there
are positive changes in terms of the structural shift of the
economy, stocks can do well.”  The Bloomberg China-US index rose to 95.54 last week in its
biggest advance in a month. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of
domestic shares added 1.1 percent. The iShares China ETF, which
tracks the 25 largest Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong ,
advanced to $37.13, gaining for a third week.  Least Bearish  Option traders are the least bearish on the China ETF since
July 2011. Puts with an exercise price 10 percent below that for
the ETF cost 3.6 percentage points more on Oct. 18 than calls
betting on a 10 percent increase, the most in more than a year,
according to three-month data compiled by Bloomberg.  AsiaInfo-Linkage, a Beijing-based developer of software for
the telecommunications industry, gained 7.8 percent to $10.69 in
New York for its first weekly advance in a month. American
depositary receipts of  Semiconductor Manufacturing (SMI) , a computer
chipmaker based in Shanghai, jumped 7.1 percent to $1.96.  China’s GDP rose 2.2 percent in the third quarter from the
previous period, the fastest pace in a year, the nation’s
statistics bureau reported on Oct. 17.  Industrial production 
increased 9.2 percent in September from a year earlier,
rebounding from the slowest pace of growth in three years posted
in August. Retail sales rose 14.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the most since March.  This Week’s Earnings  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s biggest phone company by
subscribers, will probably report on Oct. 22 that third-quarter
profit dropped to 1.51  yuan  (24 U.S. cents) a share, from 1.74
yuan in the previous period, according to the average of three
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The ADRs fell 0.4
percent last week to $54.09.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s fourth-largest coal miner,
will report Oct. 26 that net income declined to 0.16 yuan a
share in the third quarter, from 0.33 yuan, according to the
average of three analysts’ estimates collated by Bloomberg. The
ADRs retreated 1.2 percent to $16.05 last week.  John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank AG’s emerging-market
strategist, said he remains bearish on Chinese stocks because a
glut in production capacity will squeeze corporate earnings.  “The underlying situation in terms of  cash flow  is pretty
negative,” said Smith by phone from London. “There’s excess
capacity across the industrial sectors.”  Besting S&P  The Bloomberg China-US gauge has  increased  10 percent over
the past three months, compared with gains of 4.1 percent in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 6.9 percent in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  The put-to-call ratio of the China ETF reached a seven-
month high of 10.8 percentage points in May on concern the
 European debt crisis  will erode China’s exports and after
government measures curbed growth in the housing market. The so-
called skew retreated to 4.1 percentage points on Oct. 19.  “The sentiment on China has really changed,” Kelvin Tay,
the Singapore-based chief investment officer for the southern
Asia-Pacific region at the wealth management unit of UBS AG,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television on Oct. 19. “The
numbers are pointing to the fact that the economy has actually
bottomed in the third quarter. China is likely to be the best
performing market in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  