-- S. Korea Prepares to Evacuate DMZ Citizens After Threat
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-22T01:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/south-korea-prepares-to-evacuate-citizens-as-north-threatens-1-.html
South Korea  is preparing to evacuate
more than 800 residents along the demilitarized zone after  North
Korea  threatened to fire on activists planning to send balloons
across the border carrying leaflets critical of its regime.  While no orders to leave are currently in place,
authorities have been preparing citizens residing within the
civilian control line to evacuate if any signs of a possible
attack emerge, Park Kwang Hae, an official at Paju City Council,
said by telephone today.  The threat of an attack against activists is the first
since North Korean leader Kim Jong Un succeeded his father  Kim
Jong Il  in December. South Korea has not sighted any unusual
troop movements north of the border today, said a Defense
Ministry official, who could not be named due to military policy.  The activists are pushing ahead with their plan to send
200,000 leaflets at 11 a.m. today, according to Park Sang Hak,
leader of  the Fighters for Free North Korea , one of the
organizers. They have sent balloons carrying leaflets on five
occasions since the younger Kim’s ascension, he said.  North Korea’s army will conduct a “merciless military
strike” if any move to drop leaflets is detected, according to
a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency
on Oct. 19. South Korea’s military is prepared to “completely
destroy” the origin of a North Korean attack if it occurs,
Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin told lawmakers the same day.  Defense Stocks  Defense shares rallied in Seoul, with  Huneed Technologies (005870) ,
which manufactures military communication equipment, gaining as
much as 11 percent. It was up 2.6 percent at 3,900 won at 9:50
a.m.  Victek Co. (065450) , a producer of electronic warfare equipment,
rose 4.7 percent to 1,790 won while the benchmark Kospi fell 1.3
percent.  The government in the North Korea capital of Pyongyang
characterizes the leaflet drops as psychological warfare and an
attempt to topple its communist regime -- provocations which it
has said could ignite a war.  China opposes any actions that might escalate tension or
military confrontation on the Korean peninsula, foreign ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said in a statement.  Entry will be limited to Imjingak, the outpost in Paju city
from where South Korean activists plan to send the leaflets,
said Park, the Paju official. Imjingak is about 40 kilometers
(25 miles) north of  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  