-- Sweden’s Social Democrats Ready to Sell Nordea at Right Price
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/sweden-s-social-democrats-ready-to-sell-nordea-at-right-price.html
Sweden ’s Social Democrats are
signaling they are open to selling the state’s stake in  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , marking a shift away from the party’s previous
opposition to the government’s planned divestment.  “I have a pragmatic view, but if it’s sold it should be
sold when you get paid well,” Magdalena Andersson, economic
spokeswoman for Sweden’s largest opposition party and a
candidate for Finance Minister should her bloc win the next
election, said in an Oct. 19 interview.  The Social Democrats, out of power since 2006, are heading
for a comeback in 2014 as most polls put them ahead of Prime
Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s minority coalition. The splintered
opposition, which has a majority in parliament, last year
blocked government plans to sell state assets, even after the
Social Democrats lost their bid to rescind a 1991 mandate
allowing the sale of the 13.5 percent the state still holds in
Stockholm-based Nordea, the largest Nordic bank.  The government has targeted asset sales as part of its
recipe for lowering public debt as taxes are cut. It sought to
sell more of its stake in phone company  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  after
reducing its holding to 37.3 percent, and has sold all of Vin &
Sprit AB, the maker of Absolut vodka, as well as property
company Vasakronan AB. The state cut its stake in Nordea from
19.8 percent in February 2011.  Debt Reduction  Andersson, born in 1967, took over as economic spokeswoman
in February and has since seen the 123-year-old party surge in
the polls. She says she will prioritize debt reduction and won’t
back more income tax cuts. The  Social Democrats  argue that the
government, which has cut income taxes four times since taking
power, hasn’t done enough to help people get jobs. Unemployment
rose to 7.4 percent in September from 7.2 percent the previous
month, a report last week showed.  “I don’t see a need from an employment policy point of
view for further income tax cuts,” said Andersson, who has an
economics degree from Stockholm School of Economics.  The Social Democrats, the Left and the  Green Party  is
backed by 48.6 percent of voters, compared with the government’s
42.2 percent, a Sifo poll for the Svenska Dagbladet newspaper
showed on Oct. 14.  Reinfeldt’s government has also prioritized debt reduction.
Swedish public debt has fallen every year since 2009 to 38.4
percent last year. That compares with an average burden of 88
percent in the 17-member euro area, according to the European
Commission. Finance Minister  Anders Borg  has now delayed plans
for another round of income tax cuts to protect public finances
after predicting deficits of 0.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 and 0.6 percent in 2013.  Raising Expenditure  The Social Democrats, who before losing in 2006 had held
power for six of the past seven decades, in the party’s so-
called shadow budget released this month proposed raising
 unemployment benefits , student and child subsidies and
increasing spending to cut youth joblessness. To pay for the
measures, the party would eliminate some of the government’s
cuts in payroll taxes. It would also drop reductions in
restaurant taxes as well as eliminate the earned-income tax
credit on pay above a million kronor.  The party last month opposed government plans to cut the
corporate tax to 22 percent from 26.3 percent next year, arguing
instead for a reduction to 24 percent. Reinfeldt’s four-party
ruling coalition said the cuts will cost about 16 billion kronor
($2.4 billion). His government last lowered the rate from 28
percent in 2009. The European Union’s average corporate tax rate
is 23.4 percent.  Stimulus Plans  Andersson said her party’s opposition to deeper tax cuts
was based on concern over public finances as it’s “obvious”
the government will breach its budget rules. “We have nothing
against a bigger corporate tax cut but it has to happen at a
pace allowed by the economy,” she said.  The party has said the government is overly optimistic in
its assessment that it will be able to spend about 23 billion
kronor on stimulus next year while sticking to its budget
surplus target of 1 percent of GDP over an economic cycle. The
government forecasts economic growth will be 1.6 percent this
year and 2.7 percent next year, while unemployment will average
7.6 percent and 7.5 percent.  “If things turn out so that Swedish public finances are
very poor in 2014, then the Social Democrats have shown in the
past to be prepared to consider both expenditure cuts and tax
hikes so that we can have sound public finances,” she said.
“That’s incredibly important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  