-- U.S., Israel Start Joint Military Drill Amid Iran Tensions
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-10-21T16:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/u-s-israel-start-joint-military-drill-amid-iran-tensions.html
The U.S. and  Israel  began their
biggest joint air and missile defense exercise today amid rising
tensions with Iran and as American presidential candidates
prepare for a foreign-policy debate expected to focus on the
region.  “Austere Challenge 12 is the largest aerial defense
exercise to take place between the two militaries,” the Israeli
army said overnight in an e-mailed statement. The three-week
drill, involving as many as 3,500 U.S. personnel in the region
along with 1,000 members of the Israel Defense Forces, according
to the Pentagon.  Although the Israeli military said that planning for the
exercise began over two years ago and is “not a response to
specific events in the region,” it takes place amid growing
concerns over  Iran ’s nuclear program. Israeli leaders accuse
Iran of trying to develop nuclear weapons and have said that all
options, including a military strike, are justified to counter
what they describe as an existential threat.  Iranian officials say their nuclear program is intended
only for civilian purposes and that they will retaliate to any
Israeli military action.  Strong Alliance  “The joint exercise comes when Iran is under greater
pressure than ever before to make concessions to its nuclear
program,” said Gerald Steinberg, a political science professor
at Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv. “This drill sends a
message that the pressure will continue, and that despite
strategic disagreements between Israel and the U.S. the alliance
remains strong, particularly with respect to any Iranian effort
to retaliate.”  The White House today denied a report in the  New York  Times
that Iran had agreed to hold direct one-on-one talks over its
nuclear program following the Nov. 6 U.S. presidential election.  “It’s not true that the United States and Iran have agreed
to one-on-one talks or any meeting after the American
election,” National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor
said in an e-mailed statement. “The president has made clear
that he will prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, and we
will do what we must to achieve that.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has openly
disagreed with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over
Iran’s progress toward the capability to produce a nuclear
weapon and the timing of any military strikes to stop a program.  “Israel has to make its own decisions how to protect its
national security,” Michele Flournoy, former undersecretary of
defense in the Obama administration, said in an interview today
on Israel’s Army Radio. Israel should take into account its
historic security partnership with the U.S., Flournoy said,
adding that she hopes neither country will feel it has to act
unilaterally on the issue.  U.S. Debate  The U.S.-Israel exercise starts a day before the third and
final debate between Obama and Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  in Boca Raton,  Florida , which will focus on foreign
policy issues. Romney accused Obama of wanting to “put
daylight” between the U.S. and Israel in their previous debate
on Oct. 16.  “It is never helpful to the U.S.-Israel relationship when
the relationship becomes a subject of discussion in either of
our election campaigns,” Flournoy told Army Radio. Israeli
elections are scheduled for Jan. 22.  “While Netanyahu is often accused of favoring Romney, the
timing of the military exercise is problematic regarding the
American election since Republicans can now accuse the Israeli
government of helping Obama by providing images of cooperation
right before the election,” Steinberg said.  Earthquake Drill  Austere Challenge 12, which was postponed from earlier this
year, follows a U.S.-led exercise completed last month that
involved more than 30 nations in the largest mine-clearing
demonstration in the Middle East. Iranian officials have
periodically threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, through
which about 20 percent of the world’s oil is shipped daily.  The Israeli military’s Home Front Command also began a
nationwide earthquake drill set to run until Oct. 25.  “No other government has invested as much in home front
defense and we still have many plans and much work yet before
us,” Netanyahu said at the weekly Cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem .
“The main point that we would like to make clear to Israeli
citizens via this drill and other steps is that in a missile
attack we want people to run inside their homes and in an
earthquake we want people to run outside their homes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  