-- Ukraine Opposition Wants Boxing Champ to Help Sink Ruling Party
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-10-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/ukraine-opposition-wants-boxing-champ-to-help-sink-ruling-party.html
Ukrainian opposition united under
jailed ex-prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko wants to team up with
boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s party to win a parliamentary
majority in this week’s election.  While Klitschko has so far been silent on joining the
united opposition before the Oct. 28 election, “the door is
still open,” according to leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who pledges
to free Tymoshenko and revive ties with the European Union if
his efforts to topple President Viktor Yanukovych’s ruling party
succeed.  “We need to move Ukraine to the EU -- I am open to accept
any proposals Klitschko has,” Yatsenyuk, 38, said in an Oct. 19
interview in his office in the capital, Kiev.  Yatsenyuk’s united opposition, for which he tops the party
list, is polling third, behind Yanukovych’s Party of Regions in
first and Klitschko’s UDAR in second. Tymoshenko’s conviction
for abuse of office when premier and seven-year sentence, handed
down last October, prompted the EU to freeze a planned
Association Agreement with Ukraine. Yanukovych denies
accusations the case against her is politically motivated.  Yanukovych beat Tymoshenko in a February 2010 presidential
election, winning 49 percent to her 45 percent. Yatsenyuk came
fourth in a first round of voting. Jailing the former prime
minister was Yanukovych’s “biggest mistake,” according to the
opposition leader.  ‘Presidential Failure’  “It is a presidential failure,” Yatsenyuk said. “This
mistake heavily affected Ukraine. This is the key impediment to
our road to the European Union -- it is what we have to
change.”  Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna party joined forces with
Yatsenyuk’s Front Zmin in April, with the nationalist party
Svoboda signing a coalition pact with them Oct. 19 as opposition
politicians unite in the battle for the 450-seat legislature.  Klitschko has said he isn’t ready to join the three
parties, according to Yatsenyuk, who said he was “astonished”
by the decision.  The Party of Regions was backed by 23.3 percent of voters,
while Batkivshchyna was supported by 15.1 percent, a Sept. 18-
Oct. 4  survey  by the Kiev-based Democratic Initiative Fund
showed. UDAR, which means punch, had 16 percent, Svoboda has 5.1
percent, and the communists, part of an existing coalition with
Yanukovych’s party, had 10.1 percent, according to the poll of
2,043 eligible voters, whose margin of error was 2.2 percent.  International Standards  The EU has called on the government to ensure the election
meets international standards, with the 27-member bloc’s Foreign
Affairs Representative Catherine Ashton and Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule calling it “a litmus test of Ukraine’s
democratic credentials” in a joint statement Oct. 12.  While Yanukovych has pledged the ballot will be free and
fair, violations could further harm the former Soviet republic’s
aspirations of tighter EU integration and push it closer to
 Russia , according to Yatsenyuk.  “If the elections are undemocratic, if the elections are
rigged, the future of Ukraine is very vague,” he said. “The
future of Ukraine will be correlated with the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  