-- The Right Way to Break Up the Banks
-- B y   B r a d   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-21T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/use-stand-alone-subsidiaries-to-break-up-megabanks.html
Daniel Tarullo , a respected and
independent member of the  Federal Reserve , has now concluded
that the megabanks are too big and that Congress should do
something about it.  Presumably he is referring to legislation that  Sherrod Brown  of  Ohio  introduced in the Senate and I proposed in the
House to cap the size of banks. Senator Brown and I welcome
Governor Tarullo as an ally.  He needn’t just look to Congress. Regulators already have
the power to cure many ills of too-big-to-fail banks.
Lenders would effectively break up in place if their
subsidiaries -- or at least some of them -- operated as truly
separate corporations.  The nine biggest bank holding companies together have
almost  20,000 subsidiaries .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has 3,391
subsidiaries;  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has 3,115;  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
has 2,884;  Bank of America Corp.  has 2,019; and so forth. Each
of the seven biggest bank holding companies has units in at
least 40 countries. Goldman Sachs has 1,670 subsidiaries abroad.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., with about  8,000 units , left
them all in the shade. More subsidiaries are apparently not an
indicator of better management.  In theory, each unit is a separate corporation. The stock
of the subsidiaries is owned, directly or indirectly, by a
parent corporation.  Limiting Liability  Bank holding companies  create subsidiaries for tax or
regulatory purposes, but rarely to limit liability, the usual
reason for creating corporations. The liability of a corporation
is limited to the assets of the corporation where the
corporation meets certain legal requirements. The corporation
must observe the formalities of corporate law, such as having a
board of directors.  The assets of the corporation must be kept separate, rather
than commingled with those of others. The capital of the
corporation must be reasonably adequate for its business. Most
important, the corporation must present itself as a separate
entity, so any business partners know its obligations will only
be satisfied by that corporation’s assets.  In practice, bank holding companies’ subsidiaries do little
of that. The holding companies operate as a single enterprise
with consolidated management and a common pool of capital and
liquidity.  In short, each of the megabanks is just one big sloppy mess
of an enterprise, with every subsidiary on the hook for the
liability of the parent corporation and all of the siblings. The
megabanks regard that as a virtue.  Bank executives sometimes justify the combination of
logically distinct businesses -- mortgage servicing, credit
cards, home-equity lines of credit, derivatives trading -- into
one enterprise by claiming “synergies,” the business advantages
that other generations have sometimes called “conflicts of
interest.” More often, they claim the advantage of “liquidity.”
A subsidiary obtains credit not just on the strength of that
corporation’s assets, but on those of the holding company.  That is a nightmare for bank supervision. A regulator has
no realistic way to assess the risk posed in thousands of
subsidiaries engaged in all manner of businesses with unlimited
liquidity, and the experience of American International Group
Inc. teaches that the liability of one relatively small
subsidiary can matter.  Some existing laws --  Section 23A  of the Federal Reserve
Act, the Volcker rule and the “pushout” rule for swaps trading
-- try to isolate certain riskier activities from insured
deposits, but none protects nonbank units from each other.  Bair’s Challenge  Sheila Bair , in her book “Bull by the Horns,” argues that
regulators have the authority under the “living wills” provision
in the Dodd-Frank law to require systemically important
financial institutions to restructure “if they cannot show that
their nonbank operations can be resolved in bankruptcy without
systemic disruptions.” According to Bair, megabank operations
should be “simplified and subsidiarized” into “discrete,
separately managed legal entities” based on business lines.  Bair said that breaking up megabanks entirely “is an
attractive option,” but she doubts “there is sufficient support
in Congress for passing legislation to break them up.” I’m sure
she meant no disrespect to  Senator Brown ’s and my legislative
talents.  Stand-alone institutions would be easier to manage and
supervise. They would also be far less messy to resolve. Even if
the enterprise became insolvent, many subsidiaries could still
operate relatively normally. Stand-alone units could be sold or
spun off without significant disruption to the enterprise or to
the financial system. They would also enlist the help of the
market in supervising megabanks.  Market participants cannot realistically assess the assets
and liabilities of a megabank any more than a regulator can.
They assume that megabanks are still too big to fail, so they
will get paid one way or another. If market participants knew
they could be paid only from the assets of the specific
subsidiary with which they did business, they would consider
that subsidiary’s assets and potential liabilities.  That diligence is part of “market discipline,” a drastic
change from the unlimited liquidity for every line of business.
Governor Tarullo really should consider requiring stand-alone
subsidiaries under existing law, just in case Senator Brown’s
and my bill hits a snag.  ( Brad Miller  is a Democratic representative from  North
Carolina  in the  U.S. Congress . He serves on three subcommittees
of the House Financial Services Committee. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  making the most of
Afghanistan’s minerals  and on why  New York   should regulate, not
research, fracking ; William D. Cohan on why it’s too late to
seek  justice for the economic meltdown ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
questions for  the foreign-policy debate ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the
 ground battle in Ohio ; Michael Bordo on why this  recovery is
slower .  To contact the writer of this article:
Brad Miller at www.bradmiller.house.gov.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 