-- VW Shifts Cars to China, Expands in Brazil to Offset Weak Europe
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-10-22T13:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/volkswagen-plans-to-invest-4-4-billion-to-expand-in-brazil.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  is exporting cars to
 China  and expanding factories in Brazil in an effort to offset
declining demand in  Europe .  VW has reined in production in Europe to avoid building up
inventories of unsold cars, Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said today at the Sao Paulo motor show. To bolster
plant usage in its home region, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
company plans to export 200,000 cars, including Audi and Skoda
models, to China next year, as the carmaker becomes “more
cautious” on Europe, he said.  To further reduce its exposure to Europe, VW also plans to
invest 3.4 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in upgrading its model
lineup and factories in Brazil through 2016. The spending
includes 126 million euros at its component plant in Sao Carlos
to expand production to 4,800 engines a day from 3,800 now.  “ Brazil  is very much a cornerstone” of VW’s strategy to
become the world’s largest carmaker by 2018, Winterkorn said.  Even with the European car market poised to suffer its
biggest annual drop in 19 years, VW is sticking to its 2012
targets, which includes its goal of matching last year’s record
operating profit of 11.3 billion euros. VW is helped by a strong
position in Brazil, built during nearly six decades in the Latin
American country. Brazilian car sales are forecast to grow 8.6
percent to 3.28 million vehicles in 2012, according to IHS
Automotive.  VW’s shares  fell  as much as 1.55 euros to 148.35 euros and
were down 80 cents at 3:37 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock
has climbed 29 percent this year, valuing the company at 66.2
billion euros.  Incentive Lapse  A temporary tax reduction has helped lift industrywide
sales this year. Allowing that incentive to lapse will cause
demand to drop, VW’s Klingler said.  “The ending of incentives in Brazil will make car sales
shrink for six to eight months,” he said.  Still, with a young population and about 40 percent of the
country with the potential to become first-time car buyers, the
German carmaker sees further growth potential in Brazil, which
ranks as VW’s third-largest market.  VW today presented a two-door version of the best-selling
Gol hatchback as a new entry-level offering in the market. The
company also premiered a pre-production version of the Taigun
compact sport-utility vehicle  at the Sao Paulo car show.  The model will be “an important vehicle” for VW’s
Brazilian growth plans if the company goes ahead with a
production version, Winterkorn said.  VW’s investment in the country will include standardizing
factories and installing technology to manufacture cars based on
the company’s MQB platform, which is the basis for the VW Golf
and other models, Michael Macht, VW production chief, said at
the VW presentation.  “I see enormous potential in Brazil just from the systemic
implementation” of parts sharing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  