-- Why This U.S. Recovery Is Weaker
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B o r d o
-- 2012-10-21T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/why-this-u-s-recovery-is-weaker.html
There is a vigorous debate over
whether the  U.S. economy ’s recovery from the recent deep
recession and financial crisis is weaker than similar events in
economic history.  In work with Joseph Haubrich, an economist at the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Cleveland , I have  argued  that this recovery is
unusually weak compared with previous episodes. The Harvard
University economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  say the
pace of the current recovery is consistent with the aftermaths
of serious U.S. financial crises of the past.  This is more than simply an academic debate. If, as
Haubrich and I contend, this recovery is unusually slow, then
the policies of President  Barack Obama ’s administration must
bear some of the responsibility. (I would like to make clear
that I am not affiliated with Republican  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign, though I was among 670 prominent
economists who signed a letter of support for the candidate.)  Reinhart and Rogoff criticized my work with Haubrich in a
Bloomberg View  op-ed article  last week and in a subsequent
 article . It is important to set the record straight on our
research and its differences with Reinhart and Rogoff’s 2009
book, “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial
Folly,” and other publications.  Business Cycles  We wanted to answer this question: Are recoveries from
recessions associated with financial crises weaker than
recoveries from recessions that were not accompanied by
financial crises? To do this, we examined U.S. business cycles
from 1880 to the present.  We were driven by two ideas: to determine if the current
recovery is weak because it followed a financial crisis in 2008,
as Reinhart and Rogoff and others assert, and to see whether
 Milton Friedman ’s plucking model of business cycles -- which
posited that the strength of a recovery depended on the depth of
the preceding recession -- holds up against the evidence of the
past 130 years.  What we found was that Friedman’s theory held up and that
historically the U.S. economy has bounced back faster from deep
recessions accompanied by financial crises than from those
without financial crises. In addition, we found that the
weakness of the current recovery is a major departure from the
historical pattern of recessions with financial crises.  The methodology we used came from a long line of research
on business cycles going back to Friedman’s work in the 1960s
and Victor Zarnowitz’s 1992 book, “Business Cycles: Theory,
History, Indicators, and Forecasting.”  We looked at the recovery after the trough of the business
cycle and focused on the subsequent pace of economic growth for
a period that matches the duration of the recession. With the
1907 crisis, for example, the economy contracted for four
quarters, so we measured  real gross domestic product  growth for
four quarters of recovery; the Great Contraction lasted 14
quarters starting in July 1929, and we measured real growth over
14 quarters of recovery.  So how does that compare to the present? The recent
recession lasted six quarters until its trough in the summer of
2009, as designated by the  National Bureau of Economic Research ,
so we looked at GDP growth for six quarters.  By contrast, Reinhart and Rogoff focus on the behavior of
real per capita GDP from the peak preceding the financial crisis
to the point in the succeeding recovery at which the earlier
peak of real per capita GDP is reached again.  Systemic Crises  Our conclusion -- that recoveries after deep  recessions 
accompanied by financial crises are faster, with the notable
exception of the recent experience -- is even clearer when we
exclusively focus on what Reinhart and Rogoff call systemic
crises, such as 1893 and 1907. In addition, our findings were
the same even when we used per capita real GDP as they do and
when we looked at the global financial crises demarcated in
their book.  The crux of the difference between us is that Reinhart and
Rogoff combine the downturn with the recovery and argue that our
method is based on arbitrary measures of business-cycle dating.
In the U.S., however, the dating of recessions and recoveries is
done by the  NBER’s Business Cycle Dating Committee , which most
economists would agree has a pretty good track record. Moreover,
several well-known statistical algorithms that aren’t based on
human decision-making seem to track the NBER business cycles
quite well.  Nonetheless, there are legitimate concerns over whether the
NBER’s dating of business-cycle peaks and troughs is the right
measure for the analysis of the recovery from a deep recession
associated with a systemic financial crisis. That is a
contentious issue and should be the subject of future research.  For now, however, comparing their findings with ours is
like comparing apples with oranges.  Our approach focuses directly on the question of whether
recessions with financial crises are associated with slower or
faster recoveries. Their approach answers the very different
question of whether systemic financial crises, like the recent
one, lead to deeper and longer lasting declines in economic
welfare (measured by the level of per capita real GDP) than
occur in normal business cycles.  (Michael Bordo is professor of economics at  Rutgers
University  and a fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover
Institution. The opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Bordo at  bordo@econ.rutgers.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 