-- Worst Carry Trades Show Central Banks at Stimulus Limi
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-22T16:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-21/worst-carry-trades-show-central-banks-reaching-stimulus-limits.html
The $4 trillion-a-day foreign-
exchange market is losing confidence in central banks’ abilities
to boost a struggling world economy.  Rather than sparking bets on growth, the JPMorgan Chase &
Co. G7 Volatility  Index (MXWD) , which doubled in 2008 before policy
makers employed extraordinary measures to address faltering
global expansion, has dropped to a five-year low. While small
foreign-exchange swings historically favor the strategy of
borrowing in low-yielding currencies to buy those with higher
returns, a UBS AG  index  that tracks profits from the so-called
carry trade has fallen to the lowest level since 2011.  “At this stage it may feel frustrating, but waiting is not
a bad strategy,” Mauricio Bouabci, a London-based currency fund
manager at Pareto Investment Management Ltd., which oversees $45
billion, said in an Oct. 17 telephone interview. It would take
increased volatility to tempt him back into the market, he said.  Foreign-exchange speculation is declining as mandated
spending cuts and tax increases in the U.S. next year, concern
that European government leaders aren’t moving fast enough to
fix the region’s debt crisis, and slowing growth in emerging
economies from  China  to Brazil weigh on sentiment. The world
economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the least since the
2009 recession, the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 9.  Dwindling Volume  Average daily volume in foreign exchange fell 39 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to data from ICAP Plc’s
EBS trading platform. That’s also harming currency managers’
efforts to boost returns.  The UBS V24 Carry Index surged 4.55 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 2009, amid optimism the economic
recovery was gathering pace. It ended last week at 428.71, down
7 percent from this year’s high of 461.01 set on Feb. 29.  The gauge has fallen 4.8 percent from a level of 450.15 on
Aug. 9, before the Federal Reserve said it would buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month until it sees improvement in the U.S.
economy, the European Central Bank said it would buy bonds of
indebted members that ask for aid and the Bank of  Japan  boosted
its asset-purchase fund to 55 trillion yen ($690 billion). The
JPMorgan volatility index fell to 7.47 percent on Oct. 15, the
least since October 2007.  “Low volatility is something that participants haven’t
felt comfortable with for a while,” Adrian McGowan, head of
foreign-exchange forwards, options and trading in  Europe  at
Barclays Plc in  London , said in an Oct. 12 interview. Investors
haven’t been making “large” bets “because there has been so
much uncertainty,” he said.  Real Weakness  The dollar fell 0.6 percent against the euro last week to
$1.3024, and rose 1.1 percent to 79.32 yen as speculation the
Bank of Japan will boost monetary stimulus sapped demand for
that nation’s assets. The U.S. currency fell 0.3 percent to
$1.3061 per euro and gained 0.6 percent to 79.83 yen as of 12:47
p.m. in New York.  Investing the proceeds of dollar-denominated loans should
offer easy profits because the Fed has said it’s likely to keep
the target rate for overnight lending between banks near zero
through mid-2015. The carry trade can lose money when the
currency used to fund the strategy strengthens, or the targeted
currency weakens, or some combination.  Selling borrowed dollars to buy reais in  Brazil , where the
 target  interest rate is 7.25 percent, has lost about 3.4 percent
this year as the real tumbled, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The IMF says Brazil will grow 1.5 percent this year,
instead of the 2.5 percent predicted in July.  Implied Volatility  Borrowing euros and using the proceeds to buy the New
Zealand dollar, where the official  cash rate  is 2.50 percent,
produced an 8.2 percent loss since Sept. 6, when the ECB’s
pledge to offer Spain assistance helped trigger a slump in
three-month implied volatility for the pair.  “Carry had such beautiful, fantastic returns -- so
alluring, so attractive that I think people got hooked on it
like a drug,” David Bloom, global head of currency strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said in a telephone interview on
Oct. 19. “In today’s zero interest-rate policy world, peppered
with unconventional policies, it is much more difficult and
confusing,” he wrote in an Oct. 12 research report.  Signs of strength in the global economy have emerged,
including gains in jobs,  consumer confidence  and retail sales in
the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the Group-of-10
countries, which measures when data is beating or trailing the
forecasts of analysts, climbed to a seven-month high of 18.4
last week, from this year’s low of minus 56.2 on June 26. The
MSCI All-Countries World Index of shares has jumped 15 percent
from this year’s low in June.  Smaller Margin  “There are still carry opportunities, but they are not as
big as they used to be so your margin of error to get in is
smaller,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford 
Connecticut, said in an Oct. 17 telephone interview.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index has climbed 2
percent this year, while the Mexican peso strengthened more than
8 percent against its U.S. counterpart.  Doubts about the strength of the global economy flared on
Oct. 19. U.S. stocks slid the most since June as companies from
General Electric Co. to McDonald’s Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
posted earnings below analyst estimates and euro-area leaders
failed to discuss aid for Spain at a summit.  China Investment  Earlier in the day, China’s Ministry of Commerce said
 foreign direct investment  in the world’s second-biggest economy,
fell 6.8 percent in September from a year earlier to $8.43
billion. China’s economy expanded 7.4 percent in the third
quarter, the weakest pace in more than three years.  In reducing its forecasts for 2012 and 2013, the
Washington-based IMF said it now sees “alarmingly high” risks
of a steeper global economic slowdown, with a one-in-six chance
of growth slipping below 2 percent.  At the same time, the U.S. faces $600 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases starting Jan. 1 if Congress
can’t agree on ways to reduce the deficit. Economic output would
shrink by 0.5 percent next year, and  joblessness  climb to about
9 percent if the so-called fiscal cliff isn’t averted, according
to the Congressional Budget Office.  Policy makers from  Australia  to  Sweden , who had kept
interest rates high as their economies grew, are lowering
borrowing costs, reducing the allure of carry trades.  Rate Cuts  Australia’s central bank cut rates five times in the past
12 months. The Aussie’s appeal to global investors has flagged,
falling 3 percent to $1.0311 since mid-September, as the spread
between 10-year Australian and U.S. Treasury yields narrowed to
1.42 percentage points on Oct. 19 from 2.32 percentage points a
year earlier.  Rates may be cut further, according to the minutes of a
Reserve Bank of Australia meeting on Oct. 2. Sweden’s Riksbank
lowered borrowing costs in September, predicting growth will
slow to 1.5 percent this year from 3.9 percent in 2011.  Hedge funds focused on foreign-exchange trading have lost
0.6 percent in the past three months, according to industry
researcher HedgeFund.net. That compares to an average gain of
1.9 percent since June for the industry.  Trading ranges for currencies have narrowed across major
pairs. The average daily percentage change of the Australian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart has declined to 0.47 percent
in 2012 from 0.68 percent last year, while for the real it has
shrunk to 0.51 percent from 0.72 percent.  “We are likely to stay in an environment of low rates for
longer,” Morgan Stanley currency strategists led by  Hans Redeker  in London wrote in an Oct. 18 research report. In such
an environment, potential returns from carry trades are “likely
to be limited,” they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  