-- Abbott Rejects Surplus Date Commitment Ahead of Australia Ballot
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-14T00:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/abbott-rejects-surplus-date-commitment-ahead-of-australia-ballot.html
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott , whose coalition is leading in polls ahead of the Sept. 7
election, said he won’t commit to a date to return the budget to
surplus.  “One of the reasons why we are making so few major
commitments is because we want to be absolutely certain we can
deliver on those commitments,” Abbott told reporters in
Brisbane today.  Treasury predicted a budget deficit of A$30.1 billion
($27.4 billion) in the year to June 30 in its Pre-Election
Economic and Fiscal Outlook released yesterday as the economy
slows and unemployment rises. With the final budget position in
place ahead of the poll, Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  is calling on
the Liberal-National coalition to release its funding plans.  Australia ’s 2014-15 deficit is expected to be A$24 billion
and the 2015-16 shortfall is now seen at A$4.7 billion,
according to yesterday’s Treasury documents. A 2016-17 surplus
of A$4.2 billion was projected.  “We saw from the Treasury yesterday that there is a wide
range of variability in the forecasts and in the projections,”
Abbott said today. “The only way to get back to a surplus is to
have a coalition government because Labor will never deliver a
surplus.”  The coalition maintained its 52 percent to 48 percent lead
over Labor in the two-party preferred measure, according to a
Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper Aug. 12.  Rudd returned to the leadership on June 26 after defeating
 Julia Gillard  in a party-room vote, about three years after she
took his job. Australia’s first female prime minister led Labor
to the August 2010 election, the nation’s closest in seven
decades, and subsequently cobbled together a minority government
with the backing of Greens and independents.  Abbott’s Pledge  Abbott today pledged his coalition wouldn’t form a minority
government with the Greens should another hung parliament
eventuate in this year’s election. Liberal voters would be
directed to preference the Greens last in a bid to avoid another
hung parliament, he said.  Australia’s electoral process allows voters to indicate an
order of preference for candidates, which means contestants with
relatively small first-choice selections can be elected.  “This is about putting the disappointments, the betrayals
and the failures of the last three years firmly in the past,”
Abbott said. He called upon Rudd to direct Labor voters to also
preference Greens candidates in last place on electoral ballots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  