-- Abe Hedges on Visit to War-Dead Shrine Amid Regional Tension
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-08-14T09:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/abe-hedges-on-visiting-war-dead-shrine-amid-tensions-with-china.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his
senior Cabinet officials are set to avoid marking tomorrow’s
anniversary of  Japan ’s surrender in World War II with visits to
a shrine seen in  Asia  as a symbol of the country’s aggression.  The prime minister will forgo a visit to the Yasukuni
shrine and make a cash offering instead, NHK Television reported
today, without citing anyone. A press officer at the prime
minister’s office declined to comment, while a spokesman for
Yasukuni said he had no knowledge of a donation.  A Yasukuni visit could imperil efforts to repair relations
with  China  and  South Korea  strained by territorial disputes and
Abe’s talk of overhauling the country’s pacifist constitution.
The two countries see the shrine as a symbol of military
atrocities during Japan’s occupation of much of Asia in the
first half of the 20th century.  “The Japanese and Chinese are trying to set the stage for
a summit and I don’t think they want to derail it with useless
gestures,” said  Jeff Kingston , director of Asian studies at
 Temple University  in Tokyo. “So I think we’re continuing to see
the pragmatic Abe prevail over the ideological Abe.”  China’s ambassador to Japan, Cheng Yonghua, met with former
Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda in Tokyo, Xinhua News
Agency said today, without giving further details.  Nationalist Supporters  Abe, who also wants to avoid alienating nationalist
supporters of his  Liberal Democratic Party , has refused to say
whether he will visit the Tokyo shrine on the 68th anniversary
of the end of the war. The site commemorates Japan’s war dead,
including World War II leaders convicted of  war crimes .  “Yasukuni enshrines war criminals and justifies invasions,
and it is unacceptable for senior Japanese politicians to pay
homage to it,” Cho Tai Young, spokesman for the South Korean
Foreign Ministry, said at a press briefing in  Seoul  yesterday.
“Our government and our people can never accept it.”  None of Abe’s top officials has said they will make a
visit, with Economy Minister Akira Amari publicly saying he
would stay away. Finance Minister Taro Aso paid his respects at
the shrine earlier in the year, sparking the cancellation of a
planned visit to Japan by South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se.  Aso drew criticism from South Korea again after saying last
month that the government should learn from the example of the
Nazis in revising the constitution. He later backtracked from
the remarks.  Defense Buildup  Abe has emphasized the need to improve national security
since taking office. He oversaw the first increase in the
 defense budget  in 11 years and on Aug. 6 Japan unveiled its
largest warship since World War Two. The Izumo helicopter
carrier was “provocatively named” after a World War II ship
involved in the invasion of China, the China Daily newspaper
said.  Two days later, Japan summoned a Chinese diplomat to
complain about China Coast Guard ships that stayed in Japanese-controlled waters around disputed East China Sea islands for
more than 24 hours, a record since Japan bought three of the
islands from their private owner in September.  Abe, who won a landslide victory in December on an economic
revival platform, sent an offering to Yasukuni to commemorate
the site’s spring festival in April but didn’t visit at the
time. More than 160 members of parliament, many from the LDP,
did visit in the largest gathering of politicians to attend
since records of such trips were first kept in 1989. Another
group of lawmakers plans to visit tomorrow.  Pacifist Constitution  Yasukuni remains popular among many of Abe’s nationalist
supporters, who challenge the historic view of Japan as the
aggressor in World War II and back revising the country’s
pacifist constitution that was drafted by the U.S. after the
war.  Abe has touted a plan to first change Article 96 of the
constitution to ease conditions for revising the document, which
currently stipulates that a two thirds majority in both houses
of parliament is needed to make a change. Abe lacks that
majority in the upper chamber and his Buddhist-backed coalition
partner New Komeito is reluctant to back drastic changes.  The current constitution bans Japan from having armed
forces and a new version endorsed by Abe’s ruling LDP would
legitimize the existence of what the country terms its “self-defense forces.”  The plan to prioritize Article 96 wasn’t included in the
LDP’s platform for the upper house election in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  