-- AIG Rehires Hogan as Consumer CEO, Reporting to Hancock
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-14T18:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/aig-rehires-hogan-as-consumer-ceo-reporting-to-hancock.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
hired Kevin Hogan from  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  to run global
consumer insurance and lead growth by selling home, auto and
life policies in emerging markets.  Hogan is returning in October to AIG, where he started in
1984 and worked until 2008, the New York-based insurer said
today in a statement. He will report to  Peter Hancock , CEO of
AIG’s property-casualty division. Hogan replaces Jeffrey Hayman,
who was hired in January by Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s Starr
International Co.  Hancock and AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  are targeting
consumers outside the U.S. as the insurer seeks businesses with
higher margins. The company is expanding in Turkey and France
through a deal with HSBC Holdings Plc and in China in
partnership with People’s Insurance Company Group of China Ltd.  “I am very enthusiastic about the growth potential of our
market-leading global PC consumer and life businesses, and
believe they will prosper under Kevin’s strong leadership,”
Benmosche said in the statement.  Hogan held positions for AIG in Chicago, Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Beijing and  Singapore , according to the statement. He also
served as president of the company’s accident-and-health
business in New York.  In December 2008, after AIG’s bailout, he joined Zurich to
head the life insurance business in North and South America. A
graduate of Dartmouth College, Hogan became CEO of Zurich’s
global life business in 2010.  Zurich’s Terryn  Kristof Terryn will replace Hogan, according to a separate
statement from Zurich, which is based in the Swiss city of the
same name. Terryn is currently group head of operations and a
member of the insurer’s executive committee.  AIG is rebuilding outside the U.S. after  selling operations 
in Asia and Europe to help repay a rescue that swelled to $182.3
billion. Benmosche is working to boost the adjusted return on
equity to 10 percent by 2015. The operating ROE was 7.2 percent
in 2012 and 2.7 percent in 2011.  Hancock demonstrated the importance of consumer operations
when he was promoted in 2011 by AIG to run the global property-casualty business. He reorganized the division into two global
groups, with  John Doyle  running commercial operations and Hayman
the consumer side. Hancock ran the consumer operation after
Hayman left to join Greenberg, the former AIG CEO.  ‘Higher Value’  The insurer has also had to fill posts at its commercial-insurance operation after departures of top managers to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Benmosche has said AIG has
plenty of talented managers and appointed Robert Schimek to head
its America’s property-casualty business in April.  Hogan will also join AIG’s executive group, according to
the statement. Benmosche expanded that panel in June with the
addition of Doyle and Chief Risk Officer Sid Sankaran.  AIG can cushion the effects of global economic uncertainty
and low  interest rates  by pursuing business in faster growing
and more lucrative markets in Asia, the  Middle East  and Latin
America, the insurer said in its annual report.  “Shifting our mix of business to higher value lines and
geographies of opportunity will generate business with more
favorable underwriting results,” AIG said in the filing.  Consumer sales in the property-casualty business include
accident-and-health products, travel coverage, auto and home
protection and some life policies outside the U.S.  AIG sold assets including Hong Kong-based insurer  AIA Group
Ltd. (1299)  and American Life Insurance Co., which had operations in
more than 50 countries, to help repay its bailout. The U.S.
exited its stake in the insurer in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  