-- Malaysian Air Jumps on Suggested Stake Sale: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-08-14T09:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/malaysian-air-jumps-on-suggested-stake-sale-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the
country’s loss-making flag carrier, surged the most in three
months after a minister was quoted as saying the government
should sell its stake at the right price.  The airline  jumped  7.9 percent to close at 34 sen in  Kuala
Lumpur , the most since May 13. It was the most-active stock on
the Malaysian bourse today, with more than 270 million shares
changing hands. The  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
fell 0.1 percent.  The government should stay out of the airline business,
 Idris Jala , a minister in the prime minister’s department and
formerly chief executive officer at the carrier, said at a
conference yesterday, the Star newspaper reported. Jala later
clarified in a statement that the government has no current plan
to sell the stake, held through state investment fund Khazanah
Nasional Bhd., it said.  “It’s not the right time to do it,” Mohshin Aziz, a Kuala
Lumpur-based analyst at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , said in a phone
interview. “You need to repair the business first, make it
stable, only then you can get good value.”  Malaysian Air has slumped 32 percent over the past year,
while the benchmark has risen 8.5 percent. Budget carrier
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  has fallen 13 percent during the same period.  The national carrier has made  losses  in seven of past nine
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its first-quarter 2013 loss widened after passenger fares declined and
costs increased, the carrier said in May. The company is due to
report second-quarter earnings by the end of this month.  The carrier completed a rights issue in June to raise as
much as 3.1 billion ringgit ($947 million), according to an
exchange filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  