-- AMR Seen Imperiled in U.S. Shift to Block Airline Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-14T21:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/amr-seen-imperiled-in-u-s-shift-to-block-airline-merger.html
American Airlines ’ chances of
leaving bankruptcy as a strong competitor with its biggest peers
were left in jeopardy yesterday when the U.S. Justice Department
sued to block a merger with  US Airways  Group Inc.  The lawsuit may force  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American to abandon a
restructuring plan backed by creditors and employees who
expected to be part of a carrier able to take on  United Airlines (UAL) 
and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , according to analysts, investors and
consultants.  Rejection of a merger would leave American as a weak No. 3
in the U.S behind United and Delta instead of surpassing them to
become the world’s largest carrier. The company would have to
start over in crafting a reorganization plan, including accords
with  creditors  and  investors  now wedded to a US Airways tie-up.  “American has got their work cut out for them,” said Greg
Charleston, senior managing director at Conway MacKenzie Inc.,
an Atlanta-based restructuring-advisory firm. “This merger
really made a lot of sense. It all fit together. Now you pull
that piece out and I’m not sure what you have.”  The Justice Department sued to block the merger on the
grounds that it would boost fares and hurt competition. While
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways and AMR vowed to contest the
U.S. suit, investors yesterday dumped airline shares.  Lower Ratings  Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New York ,
today lowered his ratings on AMR, US Airways and Delta to
neutral from overweight on the risk that the industry’s
consolidation would be halted.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index of 10 carriers fell
1.5 percent at the close in New York, after dropping the most
since April yesterday. AMR today tumbled 14 percent to $2.74,
US Airways declined 1.2 percent to $16.17 and Delta slid
2.6 percent to $19.04.  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker, 51, has
been set to take the helm at the combined carrier, along with a
new board for a rechristened American Airlines Group Inc. The
airlines have had 29 teams with workers from each side toiling
for months to mesh commercial, operational and other functions.  “In terms of being true long-term competitors going up
against Delta and United with their truly global networks, both
American and US Airways would be at a significant competitive
disadvantage,” said Jeff Straebler, managing director for
aerospace in the bonds and corporate finance group of John
Hancock Financial Services in  Boston .  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. airline, doesn’t fly
across the Pacific, while its network in the eastern U.S. would
help feed travelers onto American’s long-haul international
flights, where fares -- and profits -- are higher.  Earlier Approvals  The  Justice Department  lawsuit broke with its own history
of airline-merger approvals, including tie-ups since 2008 for
Delta and United parent United Continental Holdings Inc. Each of
those deals pushed the new carrier to the top of the global
industry’s traffic rankings.  Combining AMR and US Airways would shrink competition and
raise prices, in part because the new carrier would be less
willing to discount tickets against United and Delta, the
Justice Department said yesterday.  There is “no question” that American could succeed on its
own after leaving  bankruptcy protection , Assistant U.S. Attorney
Bill Baer said on a conference call after the department filed
its lawsuit in federal court in  Washington .  ‘Competing Vigorously’  US Airways is “competing vigorously” and earning record
profits, the U.S. complaint said. “A revitalized American is
fully capable of emerging from bankruptcy proceedings on its own
with a competitive cost structure, profitable existing business
and plans for growth.”  That was a minority view within the  airline industry .  “US Airways and American can survive,” said  Michael Boyd ,
president of aviation consultant Boyd Group International Inc.
in Evergreen,  Colorado . “But they are going to be materially
weaker carriers because of the mergers the DOJ has approved.”  American filed for Chapter 11 in November 2011, after
failing to reach lower-cost labor contracts in talks dating to
2006 and annual losses that began in 2008.  Months later, American’s unions signed contingent contracts
with US Airways and began lobbying for the combination. The
carriers have been preparing for a merger since announcing an
agreement to combine on Feb. 14. AMR abandoned its original plan
to focus on its five major hubs and boost international service.
It has eliminated 10,000 positions, all but 1,800 via attrition
and early-out programs.  ‘High Level’  CEO Parker and his team have functioned at a “very high
level” and had a shot at improving operations at American, said
Rob Pickels, an analyst at Fairport, New York-based  Manning &
Napier Inc. (MN) , whose airline holdings include  US Airways shares .  “One of the exciting aspects of this was you had this
mismanaged company that was going to be managed by one of the
best groups in the industry rather than one of the worst,”
Pickels said. “Now that potential is at risk.”  The merger plan calls for a full recovery for all of AMR’s
creditors, equity stakes for most American employees and a 3.5
percent aggregate equity stake for existing AMR shareholders.
Some creditors may receive only a portion of their claims and
stockholders usually get nothing when a company emerges from
bankruptcy and issues new shares.  “There’s a lot more at stake here that affects the
industry,” said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst with New York-based
debt researcher  Gimme Credit . “The industry as a whole is
weakened by a weak player, especially one the size of American
Airlines.”  ‘Gut Shot’  American’s labor unions, foes of CEO  Tom Horton , 52, in his
one-time bid for a stand-alone bankruptcy exit, plan a vigorous
lobbying campaign in Congress and via the news media to pressure
Justice officials to reverse course, said Dennis Tajer, a
spokesman for the carrier’s pilots union.  Word that the merger might be blocked hit workers like “a
gut shot,” said Tajer, a spokesman for the  Allied Pilots
Association , which represents 8,200 active pilots who would
receive an equity stake in the combined airline.  Gordon Bethune, the former CEO of Continental Airlines,
which merged with former United parent UAL Corp. in 2010, had a
similar reaction, citing the Justice Department’s break with its
own merger-approval history.  “It’s hard for me to comprehend why they would do this
unless there’s a short in the mainframe of the brain,” Bethune
said. “It doesn’t hold with anything they’ve done in the
past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  