-- AMR-US Airways Seeks Trial Soon With U.S. to Revive Merger
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-14T21:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/amr-us-airways-confident-of-defeating-u-s-suit-blocking-merger.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways  Group Inc.
are confident they will prevail in court over federal objections
to their $14 billion merger and hope to begin a trial as soon as
possible, attorneys for the carriers said.  The U.S.  Justice Department  was wrong in asserting that the
combination of AMR’s  American Airlines  and US Airways would
reduce competition and raise fares, the lawyers said today on a
conference call. The agency filed a lawsuit yesterday seeking to
block the deal, which would create the world’s largest carrier.  “They got this one very wrong,” Rich Parker, an attorney
for US Airways and a partner at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP , told
reporters and analysts on the call. “Both of these companies
are looking forward with confidence to our day in court.”  Today’s call offered the airlines’ fullest explanation of
how they plan to contest a lawsuit that threatens AMR’s plan to
leave  bankruptcy protection  through the merger with US Airways.
The suit was filed in federal court in Washington about 48 hours
before a court hearing to confirm AMR’s reorganization plan.
That hearing still is set for tomorrow.  “It is the view of both of these companies that we want to
get this to trial as soon as we possibly can, certainly before
the end of the year,” Parker said.  The Justice Department said it wants to permanently block
any combination of the two airlines because it would hurt
competition across the industry and raise prices for consumers.
Six states and the  District of Columbia  joined the lawsuit.  The department declined to comment on remarks made today by
the airlines’ attorneys.  ‘Lower Costs’  “The result of this transaction will be lower costs and
those lower costs in a competitive industry will in large part
be passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices, better
service and more routes,” said Joe Sims, an AMR attorney and
partner at  Jones Day . “They have to prove this merger is anti-competitive. I don’t think anyone should assume that this
transaction is not going to happen.”  The airlines are talking with the government about a
potential trial date and are preparing for court instead of
crafting offers to settle, the attorneys said. The carriers
would listen to any proposals from the government, Parker said.  “We’re litigating this case, period,” said Paul Denis, an
attorney for US Airways from Dechert LLP.  The government’s argument that both American and US Airways
would survive without a merger is irrelevant, as are e-mails
among some airline executives about pricing and competition that
were cited in the complaint, the attorneys said.  Monopoly Concern  The merger would give the new American a monopoly in
service at Washington’s Reagan National Airport, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Bill Baer said yesterday.  American, based in Fort Worth, Texas, won’t be able to
effectively compete with larger rivals United Continental
Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc. if the tie-up isn’t
allowed to proceed, Sims said.  The antitrust case is U.S. v.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  