-- AMR-US Airways Antitrust Suit Seen as Difficult to Settle
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/amr-us-airways-antitrust-suit-seen-as-difficult-to-settle.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
will have difficulty taking steps to resolve U.S. objections to
their proposed merger, antitrust lawyers said.  The challenge brought by the U.S. Justice Department can be
compared with its lawsuit seeking to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. in 2011, said Allen Grunes, an
antitrust lawyer with GeyerGorey LLP. AT&T eventually dropped
its bid for T-Mobile.  “My take is that the deal is dead,” Grunes said. “Based
on the complaint, this merger doesn’t look like it can be fixed
with divestitures or slot sales.”  The Justice Department said the proposed American Airlines-US Airways tie-up would lead to less competition in the industry
and higher prices for consumers in a complaint filed yesterday
in federal court in  Washington . The Justice Department said it
seeks to permanently block the merger “or any other transaction
that would combine the two companies.” Six states and the
 District of Columbia  also joined in the lawsuit, making
settlement prospects even more complex.  That also makes the case less like the division’s January
challenge against  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s purchase of  Grupo
Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , which ended in a settlement after InBev agreed to
sell a brewery in  Mexico  along with rights to Modelo’s brands in
the U.S. to assure continued downward pressure on beer prices.  ‘Strong Defense’  US Airways dropped more than 13 percent, slicing about
$470 million off its market value, following news of the
lawsuit. The bonds of American parent AMR fell on the news. AMR
and US Airways said they plan to “mount a vigorous and strong
defense” to the Justice Department’s attempt to block their
proposed merger.  Assistant Attorney General Bill Baer, who heads the
antitrust division, said at a press conference yesterday in
Washington that he went to court “because we think a full-stop
injunction is the right outcome for consumers.” While the
government is “always prepared” to hold settlement talks, Baer
said, the Justice Department hasn’t mapped out any potential
remedies that could salvage the merger.  He said the government had talks with the airlines before
filing the lawsuit, adding that the proposed merger was “pretty
messed up.”  “Typically, the government will have already had extensive
settlement discussion with the parties,” said Craig Wildfang,
an antitrust lawyer with Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP in
 Minneapolis . “The decision to sue only comes after settlement
discussions have failed, although that doesn’t mean they can’t
come back and take another shot at it.”  Higher Prices  American and  US Airways  don’t need the proposed merger to
be successful, and American has indicated it could emerge
from bankruptcy on its own, Baer said.  In addition to concerns about higher prices, Baer said the
merger would create a monopoly at Washington’s Reagan National
Airport that would hamper other airlines’ ability to compete and
cause illegal levels of concentration in 1,000 routes.  “The parties can litigate if they choose, but it’s a
strong complaint and they would just be delaying the
inevitable,” Grunes said. “The complaint really dismisses
their story about how this merger would allow for more
choices.”  The lawsuit, unexpected by analysts and industry
executives, marks a sharp break with the  Justice Department ’s
past policy, which allowed six unprofitable airlines to merge
over the past five years in an effort to cut costs and end
losses.  Past Deals  “Everybody assumed the deal would get resolved as all the
other cases have,” said Robert Doyle, an antitrust lawyer with
Doyle, Barlow & Mazard PLLC in Washington, referring to other
airline deals. “All the past deals over the past five years
have gotten settled.”  Thomas Horton, chairman of Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR,
said in a memo to employees yesterday the two companies have
been working with the Justice Department for months, and that
“the merger is complementary” and “provides significant
customer benefits and that it enhances competition.”  The U.S. decision to sue follows the Aug. 5 approval of the
merger by European Union antitrust authorities after the
companies agreed to give up the right to a daily roundtrip
between  London ’s Heathrow Airport, the EU’s busiest hub, and
Philadelphia.  “If this merger were approved, US Airways would no longer
need to offer low-fare options for certain travelers,” the
government said in the complaint, noting the carrier’s practice
of offering “Advantage Fares” and “aggressive discounting
strategy aimed at undercutting the other legacy airlines’
nonstop fares with cheaper connecting service.”  Lower Fares  After the proposed merger, “US Airways’ economic rationale
for offering Advantage Fares would likely go away,” the Justice
Department said.  The complaint included screen shots of prices for flights
from  New York  to Houston showing that Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways’ connecting fare was $870 cheaper for flights Aug. 13,
returning Aug. 14, than nonstop flights by other legacy carriers
and even beat fares from JetBlue Airways Corp. and AirTran
Holdings Inc. by more than $300.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan , who is
overseeing the American case, is scheduled at an Aug. 15 hearing
to consider its reorganization plan. Airline executives had said
before the government lawsuit that they expected his approval to
be the last legal step required for deal to be complete.  Other Mergers  Over the past five years, the department allowed three
other airline mergers, including  Delta’s (DAL)  acquisition of
 Northwest Airlines  and  United Airlines  parent UAL Corp.’s union
with Continental.  “The filing of the lawsuit could be the first to gaining
leverage over the parties to talk about remedies,” said
Gerald Pappert, a former attorney general of  Pennsylvania  who
led a group of states in their investigation of a proposed
merger between United Airlines and US Airways in 2001, which the
Justice Department also sued to block.  “There are always remedies that can result in the
settlement of the case and allow the merger to proceed,” said
Pappert, who is now an antitrust lawyer with Cozen O’Connor LLP
in Philadelphia.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in New York at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  