-- Manchester United Replaces LVMH’s Hublot With Bulova as Partner
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-08-14T12:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/manchester-united-replaces-lvmh-s-hublot-with-bulova-as-partner.html
Manchester United, the world’s
second-richest sports franchise, signed a three-year sponsorship
deal with U.S. watchmaker Bulova, replacing  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Hublot as the club’s official timekeeper.  The agreement allows Bulova, a unit of  Japan ’s Citizen
Watch Co., to place its name on scoreboards at United’s Old
Trafford stadium and on advertising hoardings, the companies
said today in a statement. Bulova will also take over from
Hublot in producing timepieces using the club crest.  Hublot, based in Nyon,  Switzerland , had been the club’s
official timekeeping partner since 2008 when the parties signed
what they said at the time was a “multimillion-pound”
agreement. That deal expired at the end of June. Manchester
United spokeswoman Kate Lowe declined to comment today on the
value of the new partnership, which places Bulova alongside
existing sponsors including Aon Plc, Nike Inc. and DHL.  The  soccer club , owned by the Glazer family, was impressed
by Bulova’s credentials, Lowe said. The New York-based watch
company was founded in 1875, three years before  Manchester
United , and pioneered the fully electronic watch.  “Although from very different industries, Bulova and
Manchester United share many common values,” Manchester United
Managing Director Richard Arnold said in the statement. “We
have both grown to become global leaders in our fields.”  A Hublot clock that was installed in a tower at the
entrance to Old Trafford has been removed, Lowe said. LVMH
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Manchester United is worth $3.2 billion, according to the
Forbes list of the world’s most valuable sports teams, published
in July. That places the franchise second only to Spanish soccer
club Real Madrid, valued at $3.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  