-- MannKind Rises After Inhaled Insulin Meets Goals in Study
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-08-14T20:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/mannkind-rises-after-inhaled-insulin-meets-goals-in-study.html
MannKind Corp. (MNKD) , the drugmaker that
has spent at least six years trying to get an inhaled form of
insulin on the market, jumped 11 percent after a study showed
the product helped diabetics control their disease.  The shares rose 73 cents to $7.59 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The stock has more than tripled in the past 12 months.  Afrezza, a powdered form of insulin delivered through an
inhaler, was more effective at controlling diabetics’ blood
sugar levels when combined with oral diabetes medicines compared
to those drugs alone, the Valencia, California-based company
said today in a statement. The results are from the last stage
of testing required to get U.S. regulatory approval. If cleared
for sale, the product would be the only inhaled insulin on the
market, potentially replacing injections and pumps.  “Based on the results of this study, we believe that
Afrezza can be used to improve glycemic control in insulin-naive
Type 2 diabetes patients that are not adequately controlled on
conventional oral medications -- a potentially large and
underserved patient population,” said  Alfred Mann , the
company’s chief executive officer and the billionaire
entrepreneur who founded the company, in the statement.  MannKind has tested Afrezza, its most advanced experimental
product, in 56 different clinical trials, according to its
website. In 2011, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  stalled
introduction of the treatment requesting two new studies after
the company changed the device through which the medicine is
delivered. Following the decision, the company cut almost half
its workforce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  