-- ANZ Said to Be in Talks to Sell Bank Panin Stake to Mizuho
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-14T08:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/anz-bank-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-bank-panin-stake-to-mizuho.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  is in talks to sell its 39 percent stake in  PT Bank
Pan Indonesia (PNBN)  to  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The discussions are at an early stage, the person said,
asking not to be named as the talks are private. The Melbourne-based bank’s stake in Bank Panin is valued at about $618
million, based on yesterday’s closing price.  ANZ Bank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith  said on April
30 that stricter capital rules may force the lender to review
minority partnerships. Tokyo-based Mizuho is seeking
acquisitions in Asia to make up for limited expansion
opportunities in Japan, where the population is falling and low
 interest rates  make loans the  least profitable  in the region.  “Investing in Bank Panin would help Mizuho increase both
Japanese and non-Japanese clients while entering the local
retail market,” said Natsumu Tsujino, a Tokyo-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Paul Edwards , a spokesman for ANZ in Melbourne, said the
bank doesn’t comment on market rumors. Mizuho’s Tokyo-based
spokeswoman  Masako Shiono  declined to comment, as did Jasman Ginting, a spokesman for Jakarta-based Bank Panin. The talks
were first reported by Reuters yesterday.  Bank Panin jumped 16 percent to 790 rupiah at 2:52 p.m. in
Jakarta trading. The stock has surged 25 percent in the past two
sessions, the biggest two-day gain since November 2008. ANZ
closed 0.9 percent higher at A$30.15 in Sydney. Mizuho climbed
0.5 percent to 211 yen at the close in Tokyo.  Catching Up  Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest bank by market value, is
looking to catch up to its bigger Japanese peers  Mitsubishi UFJ (8306) 
Financial Group Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  in
stepping up acquisitions in Southeast Asia.  Mitsubishi UFJ in July offered to buy a majority stake in
Thailand’s  Bank of Ayudhya  for $5.6 billion. Sumitomo Mitsui
struck a deal to buy 40 percent of Indonesia’s  PT Bank Tabungan
Pensiunan Nasional (BBTN)  for about $1.5 billion in May.  Monetary easing to fight deflation has dragged down
interest rates in Japan, shrinking loan profitability. The
country’s three megabanks have an average net interest margin of
1 percent, compared with 2.3 percent at the 24 biggest Asia-Pacific banks by assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank
Panin’s margin is 4.5 percent, the data show.  Panin, ranked seventh largest by assets out of the
country’s 120 commercial banks, is currently traded at 1.1 times
its book value. That compares with 2.3 times for the Jakarta
Finance Index and at least 2.6 times for the country’s three
biggest lenders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Ownership  Indonesia in July 2012 introduced a rule that limits
foreign banks’ stakes in local lenders to 40 percent. That
prompted Singapore-based DBS Group Holdings Ltd. to end its $6.5
billion bid for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  this month.  ANZ Bank owned minority stakes in six Asian companies
valued at A$3.3 billion ($3 billion) as of September 2012. New
banking rules require the Australian lender to subtract the
entire value of the overseas investments from  Tier 1 capital .
Formerly, only half of the value of the investment was deducted.  ANZ has its own Indonesian unit with 28 branches and 1,100
employees spread across 11 cities, it said in a presentation
last year. It valued the Panin stake at A$668 million in 2012,
according to its annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  