-- Apollo Reaches Deal With New York on Aviva’s U.S. Unit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-14T20:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/apollo-reaches-deal-with-new-york-regulator-on-aviva-purchase.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s
Athene Holding Ltd. reached a deal with a New York regulator to
implement heightened capital standards at the  Aviva Plc (AV/)  U.S.
insurance business it is seeking to buy.  The agreement “will help better protect retirees and
others receiving annuity payments,” the office of  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the New York State Department of
Financial Services, said today in a statement.  Apollo, the private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , agreed
in December to buy Aviva’s U.S. life and annuity business in a
$1.8 billion deal to bolster assets under management. Lawsky has
called for extra scrutiny of the risks when investment firms
acquire insurers.  Athene agreed to set up a fund with $35 million to backstop
the Aviva unit’s obligations in New York. The buyer will also
seek written approval for any changes in dividends or
reinsurance transactions, according to the statement.  “We have worked closely with the NYDFS to come to these
agreements and look forward to working with them in the future
as we close our acquisition,” Athene Chief Executive Officer
Jim Belardi said in a separate statement. Athene said it expects
the deal to be completed early in the fourth quarter.  Lawsky gave approval last month for Guggenheim Partners LLC
shareholders to buy a U.S. annuities business from  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  after the buyer agreed to similar protections.
The regulator intends to approve the Athene deal after its
concessions, said a person familiar with Lawsky’s thinking who
asked not to be identified because no announcement has been
made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net  