-- Argentina Won’t Extend Maturities on Dollar Debt, Fernandez Says
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-08-14T20:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/argentina-won-t-extend-maturities-on-dollar-debt-fernandez-says.html
Argentina  plans to obtain new
funding from multilateral lenders like the  Inter-American
Development Bank  for projects and won’t roll over existing debt,
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner Fernandez said.  “The other day I heard there are opportunities to get
cheap debt in the world. If that means taking on debt for public
works, fantastic,” Fernandez said today during a speech on the
outskirts of Buenos Aires. “Is that the debt you want or to
roll over debt? Because every time you extend a maturity you pay
fees and interest to the banks. So don’t come to me without
explaining what kind of debt we’re talking about.”  Fernandez said that while she is open to discussions with
bankers, industry leaders and unions, she will maintain policies
introduced by her and her late husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner . In Aug. 11 primary elections, support for the ruling
Victory Front dwindled to 26 percent, the least since Kirchner
won the presidency in 2003 with 22 percent backing.  Argentina has $2 billion of dollar bonds coming due on
Sept. 12 and another $5.8 billion maturing in 2015.  Since taking office in 2007, Fernandez has seized $24
billion of private pension funds, nationalized the country’s
largest oil company and tightened control of the foreign
exchange market by limiting imports, forcing companies to
repatriate money held abroad and banning most purchases of
foreign currency. Those measures have helped push up borrowing
costs to an average 12.98 percent, the highest in  emerging
markets .  In her first public appearance since the primaries to
choose candidates for congressional mid-term elections in
October, the 60-year-old president, said she won’t devalue the
peso. The currency has weakened 11.7 percent this year, the most
among major Latin American currencies after  Venezuela ’s bolivar.  Inflation Targets  Fernandez also defended her use of foreign reserves to pay
debt and the lack of an inflation target. Consumer prices rose
24.9 percent in July from a year earlier, according to a report
released by opposition lawmakers today based on private
economist estimates. Official data, which has been questioned by
the  International Monetary Fund , show annual inflation at 10.5
percent in June.  “Do you know what governing with an inflation target
means?” Fernandez said. “It’s putting a pad lock on salaries
because they argue that salary increases are inflationary.”  Argentina hasn’t tapped international credit markets since
defaulting on $95 billion of debt in 2001. While most of the
defaulted debt was restructured in 2005 and 2010 at about 30
percent of face value, the country is locked in a U.S. court
battle with a group of investors led by billionaire hedge fund
manager  Paul Singer . The so-called holdouts, who own defaulted
bonds that weren’t tendered in the restructuring, are seeking
better terms.  ‘Wall Street’  In 2010, Fernandez started to use central bank reserves to
make payments on foreign debt. She has also borrowed money from
the national pensions agency to fund  government spending .  Barclays Plc said on Aug. 12 the primary election results
were “market positive” as they decrease the possibility of
Fernandez seeking a constitutional amendment for a third term
and that political change should be expected in 2015 when
presidential elections are held.  “I was told  Wall Street  is happy today,” Fernandez said.
“We should be worried because every time Wall Street is happy
the Argentine people have a bad time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  