-- Asia Stocks Rise for Fifth Day as Typhoon Shuts Hong Kong
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-08-14T14:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/asian-stocks-climb-a-fifth-day-on-profits-growth-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth day,
on course for the longest streak of gains in six weeks, amid low
trading volumes after trading in  Hong Kong  was canceled due to a
typhoon and earnings surged at Tata Steel Ltd.  Tata Steel, India’s biggest producer of the material,
gained 3.6 percent after posting its best quarterly earnings in
two years. Leighton Holdings Ltd. sank 6 percent after
 Australia ’s largest builder missed earnings estimates. Hokuetsu
Kishu Paper Co. dropped 1.8 percent after  Japan ’s No. 3 paper
maker by market value cut its profit forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 135.90 at
the close of trade as all 10 industry groups climbed. Five
stocks advanced for every three that fell.  “Keep building those constructive risk positions with the
improving global backdrop,” George Boubouras, Melbourne-based
chief investment officer at Equity Trustees Ltd., where he helps
oversee about $28 billion, told Bloomberg TV. “We are
overweight global equities. We’re still playing the big
multinationals in  Asia .”  Japan’s Topix index rose 1.2 percent. Daily trading volume
fell to the lowest this year on Aug. 12 and remained near that
level yesterday, with fewer than 2 billion shares changing hands
during the summer vacation. Volume today was 15 percent below
the 30-day average.  The Topix has surged 36 percent this year, retaining its
position as the world’s best-performing developed equity market,
amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through
reforms while the  Bank of Japan  provides record stimulus to spur
a recovery in Asia’s second-largest economy.  Storm Shutdown  Trading in Hong Kong was canceled after the city issued a
No. 8 storm signal, the third-highest. More than 200 flights
were canceled or delayed at the city’s airport as Typhoon Utor
brought maximum wind speeds of 119 kilometers (74 miles) an
hour. The storm is forecast to skirt about 250 kilometers
southwest of the city as it heads toward the coast of  China ’s
Guangdong province.  “It’s like a ghost town, everything’s closed,”  Gavin Parry , managing director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry
International Trading Ltd., said by telephone. “It’s eerie in
that respect, given it’s such a populous place and usually it’s
hustle and bustle.”  U.S. retail sales advanced for a fourth month in July, data
showed yesterday after Japanese machinery orders topped
estimates and euro-area factory output expanded in June. The
German and French economies expanded more than expected in the
second quarter, reports showed today.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index closed little changed. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell less than 0.1 percent after the
statistics office said retail sales accelerated last quarter.  Regional Indexes  Taiwan’s Taiex Index sank 0.4 percent, while  Singapore ’s
Straits Times Index gained 0.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
index rose 0.6 percent after the jobless rate remained unchanged
in July for a third month.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index added 0.7 percent, led higher
by Tata Steel, which rose 3.6 percent to 250.10 rupees.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2
percent today. The equity gauge rose 0.3 percent yesterday in
 New York  after data on U.S. retail sales reinforced signals the
world’s largest economy is expanding moderately.  Asian Earnings  About  50 percent  of companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific
gauge that have posted profits this earnings season beat
analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  fell 1.1 percent to A$73.73.
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  retreated 1.1 percent to
S$3.78 today after posting earnings.  The gauge traded at 13.1 times  estimated earnings 
yesterday, compared with 15.4 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 14 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leighton dropped 6 percent to A$16.24 in Sydney as profit
missed analyst estimates amid a slump in mining industry demand.
 Computershare Ltd. (CPU)  sank 6.3 percent to A$9.75 in Sydney, the
most in three years, after the share-registry firm reported
profit fell.  Hokuetsu Kishu Paper fell 1.8 percent to 440 yen in  Tokyo 
after cutting its operating profit forecast by half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  