-- Stocks Fall as Bond Yields Rise on Economy, Oil Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-15T20:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/asian-futures-drop-after-u-s-stocks-slip-copper-climbs.html
Stocks tumbled, with European shares
snapping a five-day rally and U.S. benchmark indexes reaching
one-month lows, as improving economic data triggered losses in
government bonds that sent Treasury yields to two-year highs.
Oil, gold and silver rallied.  The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 0.9 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPA)  slid 1.4 percent,
the most since June, as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. tumbled after forecasts disappointed investors. The 30-year
Treasury yield added 6.5 basis points to 3.82 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index  erased earlier gains to drop 0.5
percent while the pound strengthened after U.K. retail sales
jumped more than forecast. The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities
added 0.8 percent with oil rallying as violence in Egypt fanned
concern about Middle East supplies.  U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped last week to the
lowest level in almost six years, Labor Department data showed
today, fueling concern that the  Federal Reserve  will begin to
reduce its bond purchases next month. In Europe,  Zurich
Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  and  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI)  dropped as second-quarter earnings that missed estimates. Egypt’s army-backed
government declared a state of emergency following police
clashes with Islamist protesters, as deaths from the crackdown
passed 500.  “With weaker earnings, higher  interest rates  and
geopolitical concerns, risk assets like stocks don’t do well,”
Jim Russell, senior equity strategist for U.S. Bank Wealth
Management, said in an interview from Cincinnati. His firm
oversees $110 billion. “The jobless claims numbers were
sufficiently strong that taper fears are probably front and
center in terms of display today. That really gets into a
second-level type of concern that maybe the taper is a little
bit more aggressive than we originally thought or the Fed may
have to actually raise rates in 2014.”  U.S. Movers  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated for the seventh time in nine sessions
and reached the lowest level since July 11. Cisco Systems
tumbled 7.2 percent as the world’s biggest maker of networking
equipment issued a fiscal first-quarter  sales forecast  that was
lower than most analysts’ estimates amid weakening demand
outside the U.S. Wal-Mart fell 2.6 percent after cutting its
full-year earnings-per-share forecast.  Hewlett-Packard Co. slid 4.5 percent as rival Lenovo Group
Ltd. reported first-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates
after increasing its global market share for tablet computers,
smartphones and PCs.  Dow Stocks  Home Depot Inc.,  Intel Corp . and Walt Disney Co. also lost
more than 2 percent to help lead declines in 28 of 30 stocks in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , sending it down 225 points.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. slid 1.6 percent. The bank expects to be
fined by authorities in the U.S. and U.K. over last year’s $6.2
billion trading loss, which led to criminal charges against two
former employees, said a person familiar with the matter.  Gauges of technology, consumer, health-care and financial
stocks dropped more than 1.4 percent as all 10 of the  main
industry groups  in the  S&P 500  declined. Trading volumes for the
500 stocks were 8.8 percent higher than the 30-day average.  The U.S. central bank, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
will probably reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
at its meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9 to Aug. 13. In a
survey last month, half of the economists surveyed predicted a
reduction.  ‘Little Nervous’  “The market is beginning to get a little nervous of the
fact that most things are probably lining up towards a taper,
which is sending yields higher and sending stocks lower,” Burt White, chief investment officer who helps oversee $390 billion
at  LPL Financial  in Boston, said in a phone interview. “There’s
a fair amount of uncertainty as to what the Fed’s going to do,
when it’s going to do it and will the economic conditions
support it.”  Central-bank stimulus helped propel the S&P 500 up more
than 150 percent from its low in 2009. The rally that sent the
index up 20 percent in 2013 to a record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2 was
the broadest in at least 23 years, with 445 companies higher for
the year on that date.  Since peaking, the benchmark gauge for U.S. equities has
retreated 2.8 percent, while the Russell 2000 measure of small-cap stocks has dropped 3 percent, the S&P 500 Financials Index
has fallen 3.7 percent and the Dow Jones Transportation Average
has slid almost 5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Economy Watch  The number of applications for unemployment insurance
payments declined by 15,000 to 320,000 in the week ended Aug.
10, the fewest since October 2007, from a revised 335,000, a
Labor Department report showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for
335,000.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in July for a third
month, supporting the Fed’s forecast that inflation will move
closer to its target. The consumer-price index increased 0.2
percent after a 0.5 percent gain in June, Labor Department
figures showed today. The advance matched the median forecast of
82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The core measure, which
excludes food and fuel, also climbed 0.2 percent from June.
Other data showed confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose to the
highest level since 2005, while industrial production was
unchanged and a Fed report showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region grew less than forecast.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.1 percent, trimming its
2013 advance to about 9 percent, as all 19 industry groups
retreated. Trading was 31 percent below the 100-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Markets in Italy,
Greece, Austria, Cyprus and Luxembourg were closed for the
Assumption holiday.  “We’ve seen some very good returns from European stocks,
and given the lack of catalysts, people are locking in
profits,” Richard Scrope, who helps oversee about $160 million
as a  fund manager  at Oriel Asset Management LLP in London, said
by phone. “Volumes are very small in European trading today, as
is normal for August.”  Zurich Insurance, the biggest Swiss insurer, declined 3.6
percent after second-quarter profit dropped 27 percent on higher
natural-catastrophe losses. Oriflame, a seller of cosmetics at
parties hosted in private homes, sank 6.6 percent after
reporting earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization that trailed analyst projections.  European Yields  Ten-year yields climbed for most European sovereign bonds,
with rates on U.K., French, German, Dutch, Swiss and Swedish
securities adding more than four basis points.  The pound strengthened against all 16 major peers except
the franc, climbing more than 1 percent versus the Brazilian
real, Mexican peso and Norwegian krone. U.K. retail sales rose
more than economists forecast in July as the heatwave boosted
demand for food and alcohol. Sales including fuel increased 1.1
percent from June, the  Office for National Statistics  said today
in London. The median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.7 percent gain. Sales have gained for
three consecutive months, the first time that’s happened in 4
1/2 years. From a year earlier, sales climbed 3 percent in July,
the most since January 2011.  U.K. borrowing costs jumped and demand was below average at
an auction of 20-year bonds as evidence that the economic
recovery is gathering pace reduced the appeal of fixed-income
assets.  Britain sold 2.25 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) of gilts
maturing in September 2034 at an average yield of 3.52 percent,
compared with 2.79 percent at the previous sale of 20-year
securities due in 2032, which took place on June 13.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which compares the number of bids
with the amount on offer, was little changed at 1.48 times from
1.45 times in June, and down from 1.98 when the same September
2034 securities were last sold on Aug. 16, 2012. The average for
the previous 10 sales was 1.77.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
six days, slipping 0.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index
retreated 0.9 percent as drugmakers declined after the Xinhua
News Agency reported China is starting a campaign to crack down
on illegal competition. Russia’s Micex Index slid 2.3 percent.
Exchanges in South Korea, India and Poland were closed for
holidays.  Egypt Yields  Egypt’s benchmark  government bonds  slumped for a second
day, sending yields to a five-week high, and the nation’s
default risk increased.  The yield on the 5.75 percent notes maturing in April 2020
rose 22 basis points to 9 percent at 5:55 p.m. in Cairo, the
highest on a closing basis since July 9 and taking the two-day
surge to 68 basis points. Credit default swaps, contracts
insuring the nation’s debt, have jumped 45 basis points in two
days to 795, according to CMA data. The stock exchange was shut
today after the central bank ordered banks to close.  Hundreds of people were killed and more than 3,700 injured
after police stormed two camps in the capital yesterday, where
supporters of former President Mohamed Mursi had congregated
since the military overthrew him July 3.  Centamin Plc, a producer of gold in Egypt, slid 3.4 percent
in London trading for the biggest two-day drop since June.
Police stormed two camps in Cairo yesterday, where former
President Mohamed Mursi’s supporters had congregated.  Oil Gains  West Texas Intermediate oil rose as much as 1 percent to
$107.87 a barrel, the fifth consecutive advance and the longest
rally since April 25, before paring gains and trading up 0.4
percent at $107.33.  Brent crude  climbed 0.8 percent to $111.11.  “The situation in Egypt deteriorated significantly
yesterday,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, wrote in an e-mailed report. “Although oil transport
through the Suez Canal and the neighboring Sumed pipeline is not
expected to be hampered, given that these are under military
protection, the risk premium is nonetheless likely to rise.”  Silver advanced 5.3 percent to $23.03 an ounce, the seventh
consecutive gain, the longest stretch since January. Gold added
2.1 percent to an eight-week high of $1,360.90 an ounce as
declines in equities boosted demand for precious metals as an
alternative investment. Platinum and palladium also surged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  