-- Aussie Falls Versus Kiwi on Rate Views as N.Z. Retail Sales Rise
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-08-14T07:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/aussie-falls-versus-kiwi-on-rate-views-as-n-z-retail-sales-rise.html
Australia ’s dollar declined against
the New Zealand currency as data on consumer spending and wages
added to signs that the economic prospects for the South Pacific
countries are diverging.  The kiwi climbed against all of its 16 major peers after
figures showed New Zealand’s core retail sales jumped in the
second quarter, stoking speculation the central bank will raise
borrowing costs. The Aussie fell for a third day versus the U.S.
dollar after an Australian report showed  wage growth  stayed at
the slowest pace in more than three years.  “We favor selling the Aussie-kiwi on bounces,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking
Corp., Australia’s second-biggest lender by market value. “The
Reserve Bank of New Zealand is going to start tightening in
March, the Reserve Bank of Australia is cutting rates.”  Australia’s currency slid 0.4 percent to NZ$1.1395 at 4:53
p.m. in Sydney. It touched NZ$1.12 on Aug. 1, the weakest since
October 2008. The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to 90.94 U.S. cents,
while the kiwi advanced 0.2 percent to 79.80 U.S. cents.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate was little changed at 3.46
percent, after reaching 3.47 percent, the highest since August
2011. The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year note climbed 10
basis points to 3.85 percent after touching 3.86 percent, a
level unseen since July 10.  Wages in Australia gained 0.7 percent in the three months
through June 30, the same pace of increase as the first quarter,
the statistics bureau said today. That matched the lowest since
December 2009.  N.Z. Linkers  Statistics New Zealand said today  core retail sales  that
exclude fuel and vehicles increased 2.3 percent in the second
quarter, the most since 2006.  A report from the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand on
Aug. 12 showed that its gauge of the nation’s  property values 
were near a record high in July. Growth in consumer prices is
likely to quicken to 1.6 percent by the year-end from 0.7
percent in the second quarter, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We like inflation-linked bonds in New Zealand,” said
Westpac’s Speizer. The third-quarter inflation rate is likely to
show a big jump, and “that will make inflation-linked bonds
very attractive, particularly the 2016 maturity,” he said.  Linkers maturing in February 2016 traded at 158.088 today
after falling to 158.111 this month, the lowest since May 2011.  Rate Prospects  Traders see a 96 percent chance the RBNZ will raise
borrowing costs by at least a quarter percentage point by April
from a record-low 2.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps. There is a 63 percent
likelihood that the RBA will lower the overnight cash-rate
target by March after cutting it to 2.5 percent on Aug. 6, the
figures show.  An index of Australian  consumer confidence  rose 3.5 percent
in August from a month earlier to the highest since March,
Westpac and the Melbourne Institute said today. A reading above
100 indicates optimists outnumber pessimists.  “While cutting rates is associated with a slowing economy,
the consumer reaction is generally different,” Gareth Aird, an
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a research
note. “A lower cash rate means lower mortgage rates. And this
means lower monthly mortgage repayments, the ability to repay
debt quicker or cheaper new debt. All of these three factors are
positive for consumer sentiment.”  The kiwi remained higher even after New Zealand Trade
Minister Tim Groser said Russia temporarily suspended imports of
some dairy products from his country. New Zealand is working
with Russian to reopen the market, Groser said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  