-- Bahrain Opposition Calls Nationwide Rallies Against Monarchy
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-08-14T12:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/bahrain-opposition-kicks-off-rebellion-movement-with-protests.html
Opposition groups in Bahrain called
for rallies across the Gulf kingdom against the ruling Al
Khalifa family.  Hundreds took to the streets in villages outside Manama,
the capital, starting early today, said Mohammed al-Maskati,
head of the Bahrain Youth Society for  Human Rights , which is
supporting the protests. He said security forces used tear gas
and arrested five demonstrators, while roads were blocked by
checkpoints and barbed wire.  Security was tightened nationwide, the official Bahrain
News Agency reported. The government “won’t allow any act that
may jeopardize development and economic activity,” it quoted
Prime Minister Sheikh Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa as saying.  Bahrain’s Sunni Muslim monarchy used force and invoked
assistance from neighboring  Saudi Arabia  to crush a monthlong
revolt, led by the Shiite majority, which began in February
2011.     Tensions have been simmering since then in the kingdom
that hosts the U.S. Fifth Fleet. Last week,  King Hamad  banned
public gatherings in Manama, the capital, and stiffened
penalties for guardians of minors who join protests.  Opposition supporters said they were inspired by the
protest movement that led to the ouster of Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi by the army last month. The organizers of the
demonstrations haven’t disclosed their identities.  ‘Arrow of Rebellion’  “Assemble your ranks and aim your arrow of rebellion
toward the Al Khalifa enemy,” the Coalition of 14 February, a
youth group taking part in the rallies, said in a statement on
the movement’s  website . The group called for a day of civil
disobedience and mass protests.  Violent clashes in Manama are unlikely because the
government has experience of securing the capital and stopping
protesters from reaching their destinations, said Ashley
Lindsey, Middle East analyst with the Austin, Texas-based
geopolitical consulting firm Stratfor.  “Although anti-government protests persist and will likely
continue in the future, the protests and violent acts have not
destabilized Bahrain in any significant way,” Lindsey said.  Traffic flow to Manama from surrounding areas was normal in
the morning while the fish market near the Pearl Roundabout, the
focal point of the 2011 revolt, was bustling with buyers. The
roundabout has been demolished and the area around it has been
turned into a military zone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  