-- Balfour Beatty First-Half Earnings Plunge on U.K. Performance
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-14T13:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/balfour-beatty-first-half-earnings-plunge-on-u-k-performance.html
Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , Britain’s
largest construction company, reported a 67 percent plunge in
operating profit after a decline in U.K. and  Australia  business.  First-half underlying operating profit from continuing
operations fell to 52 million pounds ($81 million) as revenue
dropped 3 percent from a year earlier to 4.97 billion pounds,
the London-based company said today in a statement. The stock
declined as much as 6.2 percent.  In construction services, the U.S. order book increased 15
percent from December, making it 30 percent larger than its U.K.
equivalent. The company reduced its full-year forecast for
profit in the U.K. construction business by 50 million pounds
after the U.K. order book for the unit fell 6 percent.  “The United States in 2014 will be the largest and
strongest growing part of our business” removing the U.K. from
its top spot as the company’s largest market for the first time,
Chief Executive Officer Andrew McNaughton said in a phone
interview. “Profit, whilst down on where we were last year, is
in line with what we’ve been advising.”  The shares fell 5.9 percent at 235.40 pence at 2:55 p.m. in
 London , taking the decline to 14 percent this year and giving
the company a market value of 1.62 billion pounds.  “Management has reiterated that it expects to deliver a
performance from continuing operations in line with the current
market expectations for 2013,” Andrew Gibb, an analyst at
Investec, wrote in a note to investors. “On our current
forecasts this implies 80 percent of profits need to fall in the
second half, this looks like too much of a leap of faith.” Gibb
recommends selling the shares.  In Australia, trading is “still challenging” and first-half profit in professional services fell by 21 million pounds
from a year earlier after project cancellations in the resources
sector, Balfour Beatty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  