-- Barclays Said to Lose Consumer M&A Bankers to Rothschild
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-08-15T17:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/barclays-said-to-lose-consumer-m-a-bankers-to-rothschild.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  lost three senior
mergers and acquisitions bankers to Rothschild in recent weeks,
according to people with knowledge of the matter, the latest in
a series of departures as the U.K. bank reorganizes and faces
more stringent compensation rules.  James Ben, Peter “P.J.” Moses and  David Baron  each left
Barclays for Paris-based Rothschild, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the departures haven’t been announced.
Andrew Taussig, formerly head of retail M&A at London-based
Barclays, left in February and later joined Guggenheim Partners
LLC, with at least four colleagues following.  Some Barclays employees have departed as it reorganizes and
attempts to navigate concerns tied to compensation and tougher
regulatory scrutiny of European lenders. Barclays almost lost
several U.S. energy investment bankers this year because of
those issues, people familiar with the matter said this month.  Representatives for Barclays and Rothschild declined to
comment. Barclays sank 0.4 percent to 284.30 pence in London
trading.  Ben was head of consumer and retail M&A at Barclays and had
spent 14 years at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Barclays. He
advised Hormel Foods Corp. on its $700 million purchase of
Skippy peanut butter this year and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV on
its sale of Central European operations to CVC Capital Partners
Ltd.  Biggest Deals  Moses also worked in  consumer banking , according to one
person. He was singled out by Delaware Chancery Court Judge J.
Travis Laster in a February 2011 decision criticizing Barclays
for its dual role of advising and financing the buyout of Del
Monte Foods Co. for roughly $5 billion. Moses also was involved
in General Mills Inc.’s purchase of a controlling stake in
yogurt maker Yoplait SAS in 2011. Moses didn’t reply to a
request for comment.  Baron worked in the bank’s  Los Angeles  office and advised
on deals in multiple industries and in private equity, said one
person. He was involved on deals such as Roper Industries Inc.’s
acquisition of Sunquest Information Systems Inc. for about $1.4
billion last year.  Barclays’s consumer and retail team, which has eight
managing directors and four directors after the departures,
worked on some of the biggest consumer deals of the past year.
The consumer and retail teams merged this year, so some
departures were expected, said a person familiar with the
matter.  Smithfield Deal  That group advised Smithfield Foods Inc. on its proposed
$4.7 billion sale in May to  Hong Kong ’s Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. The bankers will earn about $30 million in fees
from that sale, said a person familiar with the matter. Barclays
also advised Ralcorp Holdings Inc. on its $5 billion sale to
ConAgra Foods Inc., completed in January. Barclays will earn
fees of $22 million on that deal, the person said.  Ben, Moses and Baron will start at Rothschild in the next
few weeks, according to two of the people.  The Barclays group is joining Rothschild following the
departure of Lawrence Portman, a managing director in consumer
products since September 2009. Portman left Rothschild in May
and joined New York-based Jefferies Group LLC this month, said a
person familiar with the matter.  While at Rothschild, Portman advised  Nestle SA (NESN)  on its $12
billion acquisition of Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition business,
completed last year, said this person. A spokesman for Jefferies
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  As of yesterday, Barclays ranked sixth among takeover
advisers globally this year based on combined value, working on
100 deals valued at more than $143 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rothschild is ranked 13th, advising on
more than 100 transactions worth $65.6 billion, the data show.
Jefferies ranks 26th.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  