-- Blackstone’s Gray Becomes Billionaire Amid Property Wager
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2013-08-15T14:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/blackstone-s-gray-becomes-billionaire-amid-property-wager.html
Jonathan Gray , the 43-year-old who
runs  Blackstone Group LP’s (BX)  real estate business, is the latest
billionaire to emerge from the world’s largest manager of
private equity and property.  Gray, who joined New York-based Blackstone in 1992 after
graduating from the  University of Pennsylvania , owns 40.6
million shares of the alternative-asset manager, a stake valued
at $913 million as of yesterday’s close. He also has collected
more than $120 million in bonuses, carried interest and
dividends in the past two years, according to regulatory filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Blackstone has surged 40 percent this year as the private-equity firm sold assets and returned money to private and public
shareholders. The company has diversified beyond leveraged
buyouts, and its real estate division, run by Gray, is now its
largest, with $64 billion in assets. Gray is also investing a
$13.3 billion real estate fund, which is the largest
opportunistic property fund ever raised.  “Jon has been an integral part of the Blackstone fabric
for the past twenty years,”  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s
billionaire chairman, said last year when Gray was appointed to
the company’s board of directors. “He heads one of our largest
and most successful businesses.”  Gray is the fourth billionaire to be minted at Blackstone.
The company was started in 1985 by Schwarzman and  Peter G. Peterson , who left the company in 2008 to pursue philanthropic
causes. Schwarzman has a net worth of $8.1 billion and is the
world’s 151st richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Blackstone Billionaires  Tony James , the company’s president, has a stake valued at
more than $850 million. He’s sold stock valued at almost $200
million since Blackstone’s 2007 initial public offering.  “Jon lives a very private life,” said  Peter Rose ,
Blackstone’s spokesman, who said Gray declined to comment for
the story.  Gray has orchestrated the privatization of public real
estate companies valued at more than $100 billion, including
Extended Stay America, Carr America, Equity Office Properties
and Hilton Hotels. Blackstone, which also has investments in
private equity, credit and  hedge funds , managed $229.6 billion
in assets as of the end of the second quarter.  Blackstone, which is seeking to attract more individual
investors, also raised almost $1 billion from  Fidelity
Investments  for its mutual fund that will invest in hedge funds,
Fidelity said this month.  Fidelity, Property  Blackstone has an exclusive agreement with Fidelity for an
undisclosed period covering individual investors, and can offer
the fund of funds to its institutional clients, according to a
person briefed on the deal, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  The company also has agreed to buy 80 apartment properties
for about $2.7 billion in one of its largest forays into the
U.S. multifamily market, a person with knowledge of the deal
said this month. The firm is acquiring the properties from
 General Electric Co.’s (GE)  GE Capital unit, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the transaction isn’t public.  Gray graduated magna cum laude from Penn with bachelor’s
degrees in economics and English. He serves on the boards of the
Pension Real Estate Association and Trinity School, and has
given $10 million to the Harlem Village Academies, a New York-based learning institution he’s chairman of.  $25 Million Gift  With his wife, Mindy, Gray established the Basser Research
Center at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine with
a $25 million gift. The center focuses on the prevention and
treatment of certain genetically caused breast and ovarian
cancers.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York  and listed in U.S.
dollars at current exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  