-- BofA Banker Sued by Regulator Later Joined Fannie Mae
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-14T13:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/bofa-banker-sued-by-regulator-later-joined-fannie-mae.html
A former  Bank of America Corp. 
executive whose work on mortgage bonds is the  subject  of
regulator and Justice Department lawsuits was hired by U.S.-
backed  Fannie Mae  months after the claims began to surface.  Adam Glassner was named a  defendant  in a September 2011
complaint filed by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which
regulates  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , over losses incurred by the firm. He
joined Fannie Mae in January 2012 and worked there until this
year. Last week, he also was referenced as “BOA-Securities
Managing Director” in a Justice Department lawsuit against Bank
of America, according to a person with knowledge of his career.  Glassner’s hiring illustrates the government’s dilemma as
the U.S. recruits skilled managers to navigate  the mortgage mess 
from the same industry responsible for causing it. In this case,
Fannie Mae added a banker whose conduct was criticized by its
own regulator less than five months earlier.  “There aren’t that many people out there with expertise
that don’t have a potentially tainted background,” saidIsaac Gradman, a lawyer at Perry Johnson Anderson Miller & Moskowitz
LLP in  Santa Rosa ,  California , who works with investors and
insurers in such cases. “I would hope they would pull from the
population with mortgage expertise that didn’t engage in the
type of conduct that caused the crisis.”  Glassner wasn’t named as a defendant in the  Justice
Department ’s civil case filed in federal court in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . The FHFA’s separate lawsuit alleged that Bank of
America and executives including Glassner are liable for
“materially misleading statements” in offering documents for
mortgage bonds that caused hundreds of millions of dollars in
losses at Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  Experience Considered  Glassner, who lives in Charlotte, declined to comment when
reached by phone and referred questions to Bank of America,
which is based in the same city. Lawrence Grayson, a company
spokesman, declined to comment on Glassner. In response to the
U.S. suit, the lender has said the bonds were purchased by
sophisticated investors with access to ample data. The bank is
also contesting the FHFA suit.  Fannie Mae “follows a thorough process when evaluating a
potential employee’s experience and expertise,”  Andrew Wilson ,
a spokesman for the Washington-based firm, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We hire employees to help us achieve important
goals for the company and for the future of the housing
market.”  Denise Dunckel, an FHFA spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the agency “expects the management teams of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to follow sound governance procedures
when seeking and hiring new employees.”  New Jobs  Executives across  Wall Street  have found new jobs after
participating in mortgage-bond securitizations before the
housing crisis, which contributed to the nation’s worst economic
slump since the Great Depression and taxpayer bailouts for the
world’s biggest banks.  The roster includes former executives at Bear Stearns Cos.
named in a second complaint filed by FHFA who now occupy senior
positions in units of Bank of America, as well as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG. Spokesmen for those two firms
declined to comment. The FHFA filed 17 separate suits against
banks, naming more than 130 people.  The resiliency of such careers highlights the government’s
failure in holding Wall Street accountable for the housing
crash, said William Black, an associate professor of economics
and law at the University of Missouri-Kansas City.  No Blacklisting  “It’s consistent with their policy that they no longer
prosecute elite bankers,” said Black, a former counsel for
enforcement and litigation at the Office of Thrift Supervision
from 1990 to 1994 who helped clean up the savings-and-loan
crisis. Executives “can go next door and even walk into an
entity that is supervised and owned by the U.S. government.”  It isn’t feasible to banish everyone with a link to 2008’s
turmoil, Gradman said.  “Considering that pretty much everyone that was involved
in the mortgage business was wrapped up in the crisis in one way
or another, it would be tough to blacklist them all and still
have the personnel you need to run a successful business,” he
said.  Some people named by the FHFA have said the agency’s legal
strategy broadly targeted Wall Street workers without specific
evidence of wrongdoing.  ‘Wide Net’  Lawyers for former Bear Stearns workers said in a court
filing last week “the FHFA’s only allegations” were that those
people were officers or directors when the firm issued
securities in question and that they signed documents for the
deals. That didn’t include the paperwork “actually alleged to
have contained material misstatements,” according to the
filing.  The FHFA listed Glassner among four people who signed an
amended document used to sell a 2006 mortgage bond.  “Usually as a plaintiff you want to cast as wide a net as
possible,” Gradman said. “Naming individuals is a good way to
keep pressure on the opposition.”  In its suit last week, the Justice Department said  Bank of
America  misled investors about the riskiness of loans backing a
January 2008 bond. The complaint describes the activities of two
senior executives, including a Banc of America Securities LLC
managing director who “ultimately had responsibility” for
structuring the deal and preparing offering documents. That was
Glassner, said the person familiar with the case, who asked for
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss it.  Default Risks  Glassner, 38 years old at the end of July, joined Bank of
America in 1999, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records
show. By May 2006, he was a managing director at Banc of America
Securities and chairman and chief executive officer of Banc of
America Mortgage Securities Inc., which was used to securitize
home loans, according to the FHFA suit filed in federal court in
 Manhattan .  In July 2007, a person with the same titles also ran the
mortgage-finance group at Banc of America Securities, according
to last week’s Justice Department complaint. That was when
mortgages bundled into the soured 2008 bond deal were first
originated, according to the lawsuit.  The Justice Department said the firm and offering documents
overseen by the managing director failed to properly disclose
the number of loans originated by mortgage brokers or the amount
granted to self-employed borrowers. Both elements typically mean
there’s more risk of default.  Undisclosed ‘Exceptions’  The managing director attended meetings where internal
reports showed loans had “serious or critical exceptions” to
underwriting standards, and he oversaw preparation of documents
stating mortgages met standards, the U.S. said. More than 40
percent of the 1,191 mortgages in the pool didn’t comply, the
government alleged. The bank portrayed mortgages backing the
deal as prime loans vetted by its staff when most were
originated by outside brokers, and the executive regularly
reviewed documents showing those types of loans had higher
delinquencies, the government said.  The executive had a financial motive to withhold negative
information about the bond because his bonus was tied to selling
securities, according to the suit.  As of June, at least 23 percent of the mortgages in the
pool had defaulted or were delinquent, which the government
called a high ratio that can’t be explained solely by the slump
in the real estate market.  Ally Job  In May 2008, Glassner moved into a role helping manage the
bank’s investments, according to his profile on LinkedIn Corp.’s
website. Eleven months later, he joined  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s
predecessor GMAC LLC, where he ran businesses that bought loans
from and lent to smaller mortgage companies. Ally, the auto and
home lender based in Detroit, got three bailouts starting in
2008 that totaled $17.2 billion and left the government with a
74 percent stake.  Less than five months after FHFA’s suit, Glassner left Ally
to join Fannie Mae, according to an examiner’s report completed
as part of the bankruptcy proceedings for Residential Capital,
Ally’s home-lending unit. Fannie Mae was seized along with
competitor Freddie Mac in 2008, and they later received $187.5
billion in capital injections from taxpayers.  Glassner, who joined as a senior vice president, dealt with
the firm’s pricing, said Wilson, the Fannie Mae spokesman. As
part of that, he contributed to the growth of Fannie Mae’s
business of buying loans for cash from small originators, an
alternative to a process that would swap the loans for
securities.  Boosting Profits  That business, which brought in more profit for Fannie Mae,
drew criticism as it cut down on larger banks acting as
middlemen and rankled some smaller lenders,  Bloomberg News 
reported in May. Fannie Mae has said it reflected changes in the
marketplace, not anything intentional. The firm will pay $10.2
billion to the U.S. after posting a sixth consecutive quarterly
profit.  Bank of America has spent more than $45 billion on
litigation, settlements and refunds for investors tied to shoddy
mortgages, servicing and foreclosures. The stock advanced 25
percent this year through yesterday, and added 8 cents today to
$14.59 at 9:45 a.m. in  New York .  The median cash compensation for senior vice presidents at
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was $724,000 in 2011, based on a
December  report  by the FHFA’s inspector general. That means half
of those employees got more.  In June, Glassner joined Bayview Loan Servicing LLC, his
LinkedIn profile shows. He left Fannie Mae around that time to
join the company, a person with knowledge of the move said. The
firm is a unit of  Coral Gables , Florida-based Bayview Financial
LP, which is backed by Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest
buyout firm.  Adora Andy Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on Glassner’s identity or the current case.
Anne Tompkins, the U.S. attorney who brought the suit against
Bank of America, said earlier this month the investigation into
the lender’s mortgage and securitization practices continues.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00446, U.S. District Court, Western District of
North Carolina (Charlotte); the regulator’s case is FHFA v. Bank
of America, 11-cv-06195, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  