-- Bolivia Said to Plan Second Bond Sale After Century-Long Absence
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-08-14T20:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/bolivia-said-to-plan-second-bond-sale-after-century-long-absence.html
Bolivia, Latin America’s poorest
country, is said to be planning its second sale of overseas
bonds in a year after almost a century of avoiding international
capital markets.  The nation is seeking to sell $500 million of 10-year bonds
to yield about 6.25 percent, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly. The proposed rate is 0.73
percentage point above the 5.52 percent yield on the country’s
existing bonds due 2022.  The $500 million of bonds Bolivia sold in October were the
first it had sold internationally since the 1920s. The extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the debt instead of
U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 0.18 percentage point since they
were first sold to 2.96 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Seems like it’s priced to sell,” said Wilbur Matthews,
who oversees $100 million of emerging-market debt as chief
executive officer of San Antonio-based Vaquero Global Investment
LP. “The last bond they did was the first time they had had
tradeable debt in eons so maybe the scarcity value will force it
to trade tighter.”  Bolivia hired Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc
to manage the new sale, according to the person.  The Andean country is rated Ba3, three steps below
investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service and at the
equivalent levels by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. The
rating is in line with classifications of Nigeria, Suriname and
 Bangladesh .  Lower-rated bonds have outperformed better-rated debt with
lower spreads since U.S. Treasury yields  started rising  in May
on speculation the Federal Reserve would taper bond buying.
Bolivia’s bonds returned 0.8 percent this quarter, beating debt
from  Brazil , Colombia and  Chile , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bolivia had income per capita of $1,260 in 2012, topping
only  Haiti  in the Western hemisphere, according to data from the
World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  