-- Branson Joins Kennedy in Urging Hasina Not to Seize Grameen Bank
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-08-14T10:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/branson-joins-kennedy-in-urging-hasina-not-to-seize-grameen-bank.html
Richard Branson  and Kerry Kennedy
are among global leaders urging Bangladeshi Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina Wajed not to seize control of the microfinance
lender founded by Nobel peace prize winner  Muhammad Yunus .  A panel set up by the nation’s finance ministry is
recommending that the government replace officials on Grameen
Bank’s board and take control of parts of the business,
according to a letter signed by 40 people that was e-mailed to
 Bloomberg News . Abul Kalam Azad, Hasina’s press secretary, said
he wasn’t aware of the letter when reached on his mobile phone.  The letter -- which comes a week after the  New York  Times
published an editorial saying that Hasina’s administration
should “stop meddling” with Grameen -- underscores mounting
international pressure on her. The conflict between Yunus, 73,
who shot to fame globally in 2006 after winning the  Nobel prize ,
and Hasina, 65, has escalated since he signaled an interest in
joining politics a year later.  Implementing the panel’s recommendations “could be
disastrous,” the signatories wrote in the letter. “They would
lead Bangladesh to violate its obligations under bilateral
investment treaties, and to compromise the independence that has
protected Grameen Bank from political turmoil over the last
three decades.”  The panel is due to submit a report on its proposals this
week that would include nationalizing and breaking up Grameen
Bank into 19 smaller lenders, the New York Times reported on
Aug. 6. The government has no plan to raise its stake in Grameen
beyond the present 25 percent, Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith said on Aug. 7. Gokul Chand Das, joint secretary of the
ministry, said today that the commission had not submitted its
final report yet.  ‘Direct Lifeline’  Grameen, which means “rural” or “village” in the Bangla
language, had 8.4 million borrowers as of July, 96 percent of
whom are women, according to an Aug. 5 statement on the lender’s
 website . The bank had lent $14 billion since it began operations
in 1976 and had a loan recovery rate of 97 percent as of July,
according to the lender’s  website .  Grameen Bank is “a direct lifeline for more than 8 million
people working their way out poverty,” Kerry Kennedy, president
of the Washington-based Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and
 Human Rights , wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News. “This work is possible because of the
leadership of Grameen Bank’s board of directors and partners,
and their continued independence to operate this bank for the
poor.”  Kennedy was one of the signatories on the letter, along
with Branson, the founder and chairman of Virgin Group.
Kennedy’s father, Robert, was assassinated in 1968 while
campaigning for the presidency. Her uncle,  John F. Kennedy , was
killed in November 1963.  Women Borrowers  A spokesperson for Branson, 63, in  London  didn’t
immediately return a call or e-mail seeking comment.  Separately, 32 members of  U.S. Congress  wrote a similar
open letter calling upon Hasina not to implement the
recommendations, which would “undermine the women borrowers and
shareholders who have made the bank such a success.”  The government’s Grameen Bank panel was formed in May 2012
to look into the lender’s legal status and operations about a
year after the country’s central bank removed Yunus as managing
director. Yunus, who won the  Nobel Prize  for his work in
starting the lender, had breached retirement norms by staying on
as Grameen Bank’s head after turning 60,  Bangladesh  Bank said at
the time.  “It’s good news that global leaders are on our side,”
Tahsina Khatun, a director of Grameen Bank, said in a phone
interview today. “Now I hope the government will listen to
them. We have tried to convince the government to let Grameen
Bank be as it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  