-- Brazil’s House Advances Bill That Limits Powers to Cut Spending
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-08-14T11:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/brazil-s-house-advances-bill-that-limits-powers-to-cut-spending.html
Brazil ’s lower house of Congress
passed in the first round of voting legislation that would limit
the government’s ability to cut spending approved by lawmakers.  In a 378 to 48 vote, the lower house advanced a
constitutional amendment that would force the federal government
to seek congressional approval before it freezes or cuts
spending that was originally added to the budget bill by
lawmakers. The legislation now goes to a second round of voting
in the lower house and must be approved by three-fifths of the
Senate in two rounds of voting before it can become law.  The bill would curtail the government’s leeway to meet its
fiscal target through spending cuts. At the same time, the
legislation would reduce government power to use spending as
leverage to gain support among lawmakers, according to Rafael Cortez, political analyst of Tendencias Consultoria.  “The measure is very encouraging for Congress,” Cortez
said by phone from  Sao Paulo  yesterday. “Confidence in
lawmakers has been falling and part of the reason is because of
the so-called give-and-take: the political bargains and exchange
of political support for amendments. To have this approved is to
recover credibility among voters.”  The federal government under current laws cannot increase
spending approved by Congress even though it can cut or freeze
expenditures.  The government this year is targeting a primary  budget
surplus  that excludes interest payments of 111 billion reais
($48 billion), or 2.3 percent of gross domestic product. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters last month the government
would reduce expenditures by 10 billion reais to meet its goals.  Lawmakers plan to hold the second round of voting Aug. 27,
lower house President Henrique Eduardo Alves told reporters in
Brasilia before today’s vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  