-- Brazil $42 Billion Rail Bet to Cut Iron Ore-Farm Costs: Freight
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-08-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/brazil-42-billion-rail-bet-to-cut-iron-ore-farm-costs-freight.html
Diorginis Seron, a farmer in
Brazil’s western grain belt who will lose money harvesting corn
this season, is counting on a government rail project to return
him to profit.  “If they bring in a new railway and break the monopoly on
the existing routes, as they say, that could make a big
difference on our bottom line,” said Seron by telephone from
his 2,500 hectares (6,178 acres) farm in Mato Grosso state.  President  Dilma Rousseff  plans to  build  11,000 kilometers
(6,835 miles) of rail and grant wider access to existing
privately operated lines to cut shipping costs by as much as 30
percent. The auction of a concession to build and manage the
first of a dozen railways costing a total 96.1 billion reais
($42 billion) will take place as early as October.  Forging disconnected bits of rail into a single-gauge
network is aimed at reducing the continent-sized country’s
dependence on more costly road transportation, said Bernardo Figueiredo, head of the state-run Planning and Logistics
Company, known as EPL. Currently, only about one-third of
Brazil’s 28,692 km of railway are in operation, and 30 percent
of freight moves by rail, compared with 52 percent by truck.  The bulk of the rail network operates under concessions the
government grants to companies. The operators can prevent anyone
else from using their lines.  The railway projects are part Rousseff’s efforts to speed
up the modernization of  Brazil ’s infrastructure by attracting
private capital. New roads, railways, ports and a high-speed
train will require investments of 242 billion reais, according
to EPL.  Undermining Competitiveness  “Logistics in Brazil are inverted -- we use roads for
long-haul and railways for short-haul,” Figueiredo said during
a railroad seminar on July 31 in Brasilia. “That’s what
undermines the competitiveness of our productive sector.”  Growth in the second-largest emerging  market  after China
slowed to 0.9 percent last year, from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010, as manufacturers lost ground to foreign
rivals and indebted families consumed less.  Brazil spends 12 percent of gross domestic product on
logistics, compared with 8 percent for the U.S., according to a
2012  study  by the Fundacao Dom Cabral, a business research
group. The difference amounts to $83.2 billion a year, the
Fundacao said.  Pot-holed roads that cause trucks to lose as much as 3
percent of their cargo in Mato Grosso, along with backups at the
country’s main port in Santos that surged to a record 15 miles
in March, are among the reasons Seron loses 50 percent of the
market price for his corn to logistics costs. A privately
operated railroad from Rondonopolis, 100 kilometers from Seron’s
farm, charges nearly the equivalent of road transport, he said.  Excess Capacity  A universal rail gauge, improved signal system and larger
economies of scale should bring rail costs down by around 30
percent, said Alexandre Porto, who manages the bidding process
at the  National Ground Transport Agency , an industry regulator.
Making available private railways’ excess capacity will add to
the savings, he added.  In turn, lower freight costs should help stimulate demand
and allow the government to resell more of the capacity it
acquires. Even so, the government expects to lose money on the
projects, Porto said in an interview.  Because of poorly maintained track, frequent road crossings
and a lack of bridges and tunnels, trains in Brazil travel at an
average speed of 20 kilometers (12 miles) an hour, he said.
Average rail speeds in  China  and the U.S. are 80 km/h and 40
km/h respectively, according to Rio de Janeiro-based logistics
consulting company ILOS.  Low-Cost Financing  Rousseff’s rail proposal offers low-cost financing for as
much as 80 percent of each project. The government also will buy
100 percent of the new railways’ capacity, thus ensuring a 16
percent return on equity for the concession winners, Porto said.
Existing, mostly private, rail operators will be required to
offer excess capacity to the government in exchange for a user
fee. The idea is to produce maximum investor interest and
consumer benefit, Porto said.  “We intend to recover the railroad as a competitive
alternative,” Porto said. “The first lot will be auctioned
between October and December.”  Projected demand for 3,900 locomotives, 31,000 wagons and
services have sparked the interest of suppliers, operators and
consultants, including  France ’s  Alstom SA. (ALO)   Boost Competition  The country’s main construction companies also are
interested in the auctions and have been studying the projects
for months, according to Sao Paulo-based industry trade group
ABDIB. Closely held Andrade Gutierrez SA confirmed it will
participate. To boost competition in the sector, no existing
railroad operators can bid.  Progress Rail Services , a unit of Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  that sells, leases and maintains locomotives,
estimates Brazil could generate as much as 30 percent of its
revenue, up from 7 percent currently, said  Alexandre Barros ,
manager for new business.  “We’re certainly betting these projects will gain speed,”
Rogerio Mendonca, commercial director for  Latin America  at  GE
Transportation (GE) , which builds heavy locomotives in Contagem,
 Minas Gerais . “We’re very anxious for the program to be
implemented and construction and operation to get under way.”  Delays, Overruns  Concern about timing may be well-founded, given Brazil’s
track record of delays and cost overruns on large-scale
infrastructure projects. A 1,022 km railway linking iron-ore
deposits and agricultural areas in western Bahia state with the
Atlantic port in Ilheus was scheduled to start operating on July
30 this year. So far, no track has been laid and the completion
date has been pushed back to December 2014, according to state-run railway and engineering company Valec.  Another problem is that current railway operators aren’t
sure how open access will affect business and doubt it is the
best model for railway maintenance and oversight, says Rodrigo Vilaca, head of Brasilia-based industry trade group  ANTF .  “We’re going to lose efficiency and productivity with a
system in which several operators can use a railway,” Vilaca
said in an interview.  While the open-access plan is laudable, not all existing
railways may have the excess capacity needed to allow
interconnection. That will make it harder to create the
nationwide network the government is striving for, said Paulo
Jorge Cepeda, partner at Sysfer, a Rio de Janeiro-based
logistics-consulting company.  “The concept is correct,” Cepeda said in a telephone
interview. “The question is whether the government has the
right tools and capacity to implement the model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  