-- Brazil Retail Sales Rebound in June on Appliances and Furniture
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   D o m i n i c   C a r e y
-- 2013-08-14T12:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/brazil-retail-sales-rebound-in-june-on-appliances-and-furniture.html
Brazil ’s  retail sales  rebounded in
June, led by purchases of appliances and furniture.  Sales rose 0.5 percent from the previous month, after
remaining unchanged in May, the national statistics agency said
today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median  estimate  from 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.6 percent increase. Retail
sales rose 1.7 percent from the same month last year, below the
median  forecast  for a 2 percent increase.  Inflation that climbed beyond the central bank’s target
range twice this year has caused purchasing power to contract
and  consumer confidence  to wither. In order to boost growth,
President  Dilma Rousseff  has extended stimulus measures
including subsidized credit for low-income families to buy
furniture and appliances, and this month also cut tariffs for
more than 100 goods. Consumers also face higher  interest rates 
as the central bank continues the biggest increase to borrowing
costs of any Group of 20 nation to tamp inflation.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 were
unchanged at 9.88 percent at 9:11 a.m. local time. The real
strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.3013 per  U.S. dollar .  The broader retail index, which includes cars and
construction materials, fell 2 percent from the year before, the
agency said today, after rising a revised 4.3 percent in May.
Consumer  confidence  fell in three straight months through July
to a four-year low, according to the Fundacao Getulio Vargas.  Sales of home appliances and furniture jumped 1.8 percent
in June, the statistics agency said. Sales at supermarkets and
hypermarkets fell 0.4 percent from a 1.8 percent increase last
month.  Family Consumption  First-quarter data showed Brazil’s family consumption rose
0.1 percent, down from 1 percent in the fourth quarter.
Economists in the latest central bank survey lowered their
forecasts for growth and inflation this year to 2.21 percent and
5.74 percent, respectively. Inflation in July slowed to 6.27
percent, its lowest level since January and within the central
bank’s 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range.  Retailer Lojas Marisa SA yesterday reported second-quarter
sales of 745 million reais ($311 million), above the average 718
million reais estimate from analysts. Retailer Lojas Americanas
SA will report second quarter earnings later today.  The MSCI index of Brazilian consumer-discretionary stocks,
which include Lojas Americanas, Lojas Renner SA and  Cia. Hering (HGTX3) ,
tumbled 21 percent this year through yesterday. That compares
with a 25 percent surge in the last six months of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Dominic carey in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dcarey5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  