-- Build America Suffering Most as Sequestration Bites: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/build-america-suffering-most-as-sequestration-bites-muni-credit.html
Build America Bonds, the federally
subsidized municipal bonds orphaned in 2010 after Congress
failed to extend their life, are beating Treasuries and
corporate debt even as the taxable securities are poised to
record their first losing year.  With $188 billion outstanding, Build America bonds helped
finance a bridge spanning San Francisco Bay and dormitories at
Rutgers University in New Jersey. They’ve declined 5.4 percent
in 2013 through Aug. 12 after gaining every year since April
2009, when sales began, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
The debt is set to post a negative annual return after investors
pulled the most cash from muni mutual funds since 2011 on
speculation that the Federal Reserve would reduce bond
purchases, said Justin Hoogendoorn, a managing director at BMO
Capital Markets in  Chicago .  Federal spending cuts resulting from budget sequestration
are also feeding the losses, Hoogendoorn said. Since March 1,
states and cities have received 8.7 percent less toward interest
costs from the U.S., prompting some issuers to redeem securities
before they mature.  “You had both people getting out of bonds and people
trying to be a little more judicious on BABs.” Hoogendoorn
said. “It’s just a recipe” for negative performance.  Widest Penalty  This would be the first time since 2009 that the taxable
securities earn less than the broader $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market. Compared with 30-year U.S. Treasuries, investors
are demanding close to the widest yield penalty in 11 months to
buy Build America bonds maturing in 26 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Interest rates on local securities climbed to the highest
levels in more than two years as investors withdrew $14.8
billion from U.S. muni mutual funds in the eight weeks through
Aug. 7, the most since February 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  “Sellers build up, you don’t have buyers, inventories tend
to grow, dealers are losing money and they’re forced to get
their positions down, Hoogendoorn said. ‘‘Consequently, it just
becomes a rough time.”  The extra yield that investors demand to buy Build Americas
maturing in 26 years rather than 30-year federal debt was 1.53
percentage points July 25, the widest spread since September,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield difference was 1.44
percentage points Aug. 12.  Obama Stimulus  Created under President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 economic
stimulus, Build America bonds gave state and local borrowers a
35 percent federal subsidy on interest. Congress refused to
extend the program after 2010. Then came sequestration, after
the lawmakers mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts, to begin in 2013 and be spread over nine years,
as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit.  U.S. spending cuts of $80.1 billion that started March 1
because of sequestration include reducing subsidy payments for
Build America securities by 8.7 percent, according to the
Internal Revenue Service.  Since the subsidy cuts began, Columbus,  Ohio ’s capital
city, as well as localities in Illinois,  Wisconsin  and  Minnesota 
have purchased or plan to buy back some Build America bonds from
investors at 100 percent of principal, plus accrued interest.  ‘Negative Taste’  The move to reduce federal support “leaves a negative
taste” for investors, said Paul Mansour, head of muni research
at Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning, which oversees about $9
billion of munis, including about $1 billion of Build America
debt.  While the bonds are poised to lose value in 2013, their
relative appeal against Treasuries and company debt make them a
good alternative for investors, Hoogendoorn said.  “The fact that the spreads have widened out more recently
-- that often creates a better landscape for the product to
tighten going forward,” Hoogendoorn said.  Build America bonds’ 5.4 percent loss this year is less
than half the nearly 11 percent drop in value for federal debt
with an average maturity of 27 years, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. Corporate securities with an average rating
three steps below benchmark obligations and an average maturity
of 26 years have lost almost 8 percent in 2013.  Higher Income  “For long-duration accounts, Build America Bonds are still
very valuable and provide a good substitute for corporate
bonds,” Mansour said. “And for corporate bonds of similar
ratings, they generally produce higher income.”  California Build America bonds maturing April 2039 and
rated four steps below benchmark munis by Moody’s Investors
Service traded Aug. 12 with an average yield of about 5.2
percent, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a yield of 4.6
percent that Commonwealth Edison Co., a provider of electricity
in Chicago and northern  Illinois , received when it sold on the
same day debt maturing August 2043 and rated two levels below
the California Build Americas.  Build America borrowers “tend to be very high quality,
large issuers so they have good liquidity,” said Cynthia Clemson, co-director of muni investments at Eaton Vance, which
oversees $13.4 billion of munis, including $89.1 million of
Build America obligations. “If you can get a little extra yield
versus some other opportunities, they may make some sense in
people’s portfolios.”  Default Risk  Municipalities default less frequently than corporate
borrowers, according to a Moody’s Investors Service assessment
of issuers it rates. From 1970 to 2012, an average of 5.7
percent of munis that were sold a decade or more earlier and had
a junk rating defaulted, compared with 33.9 percent for company
debt.  At  4.6 percent , benchmark 30-year munis are at their
highest level since April 2011, Bloomberg data show. That
compares with  3.76 percent  for federal debt with similar
maturity.  The ratio of the two yields, which shows relative value, is
about  122 percent , compared with a five-year average of 112
percent, Bloomberg data show. The higher the ratio, the cheaper
munis are compared with Treasuries.  Following are pending sales:  California plans to start selling about $5.5 billion in
short-term revenue-anticipation notes today to individual
investors in $5,000 minimum amounts. The securities will mature
during the current fiscal year, which ends in June 2014, and
will produce funds to help the state manage its cash flow. The
offering will conclude tomorrow with institutional orders. The
tax-exempt notes are graded MIG1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
SP-1+ by Standard & Poor’s and F1 by Fitch Ratings, its second-highest level. Units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
are managing the sale.  The  New York  State Dormitory Authority plans to sell about
$526.7 million in revenue bonds as early as next week. The
proceeds will be used to fund construction and to retire lease-revenue debt. The securities are backed by money received for
use of dorms on 26 of 29 state university and college campuses,
serving about 70,000 of the system’s 218,000 students each year.
The bonds carry maturities through July 1, 2032.  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit is managing the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  