-- Bullard Says Obama Eyeing ‘Highly Qualified’ People to Lead Fed
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-08-14T18:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/bullard-says-obama-eyeing-highly-qualified-people-to-lead-fed.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who has backed continued bond purchases
by the Fed, said he believes President Barack Obama is
considering two “highly qualified” candidates to lead the Fed.  “They are both highly qualified candidates,” Bullard, who
votes on monetary policy this year, said today in Paducah,
Kentucky, while not identifying the two candidates by name. “I
don’t think it is a question really of going wrong, going one
way or the other with these two people. They are well known in
the economic world.”  During a White House news conference last week, Obama said
he was weighing a “range of outstanding candidates” to lead
the central bank, including Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and
 Lawrence Summers , a former U.S. Treasury Secretary and Obama’s
first National Economic Council director.  Obama said he’ll make a decision “in the fall” on a
replacement for Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , 59, whose term expires
on Jan. 31.  Yellen is the most qualified and most likely candidate to
run the central bank, according to the majority of private
economists in a Bloomberg News survey that showed Lawrence
Summers trailing by wide margins in both categories.  Sixty-five percent said Yellen probably will be President
Barack Obama’s selection to replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke,
while 53 percent said she would do the best job, according to an
Aug. 9-13 poll of 63 economists. Twenty-five percent said
Summers, Obama’s former top economic adviser, would be the
nominee, while 10 percent said he would be best. Six percent
said former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  is most likely choice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  