-- Campbell Soup Sued Over Heart Association Endorsements
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-14T23:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/campbell-soup-american-heart-association-sued-for-fraud.html
Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  and the  American
Heart Association  were sued by a consumer who claimed the AHA
fraudulently certifies the company’s products as healthy.  The association labels more than 30 of Campbell’s Healthy
Request soups as “heart-healthy” even though a can has at
least six times as much sodium as the organization recommends,
according to a complaint filed yesterday by Kerry O’Shea in
federal court in Camden,  New Jersey . Those soups display the
AHA’s “Heart-Check Mark” logo, which the organization
licenses, according to the complaint.  Campbell, the world’s largest soup maker, and the heart
association “falsely represent” that products with the logo
have cardiovascular benefits lacking in other soups, according
to the complaint. Higher sodium levels contribute to elevated
 blood pressure , which can lead to heart attacks and strokes.  The logo “fools consumers by misrepresenting that products
bearing the Heart-Check Mark certification meet the AHA’s heart-healthy nutritional guidelines,” according to the complaint.
“That misrepresentation (or omission of the true facts) is
unfair, deceptive, and misleading.”  A spokeswoman for Camden-based Campbell, Carla Burigatto,
said in a voice-mail that the company hadn’t been served with
the complaint.  In an e-mailed statement, the American Heart Association, a
nonprofit organization based in Dallas, said it doesn’t comment
on pending litigation.  ‘Laboratory Testing’  “Our Food Certification Program regularly conducts
laboratory testing to verify that products earning the Heart
Check meet our nutritional criteria, which are more stringent
than those of the  Food and Drug Administration ,” according to
the e-mail. Food companies pay an administrative fee, it said.  O’Shea, who lives in Huntington Beach,  California , is
seeking to sue under the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act on behalf
of a class of buyers of Heart Check-labeled Healthy Request
soup.  The case is O’Shea v. Campbell Soup Co., 13-cv-04887, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  