-- Capitalworks Buyout Fund Hunts for Acquisitions in South Africa
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/capitalworks-buyout-fund-hunts-for-acquisitions-in-south-africa.html
Capitalworks Ltd., a Johannesburg-based private equity firm, is looking for a further eight
acquisitions over the next two to three years after raising 2.7
billion rand ($270 million) for its second South African fund.  Capitalworks completed two deals in June after teaming up
with other buyout firms and managers at  Murray & Roberts
Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  to purchase four units of South  Africa ’s second-biggest builder by market value, Chairman Chad Smart said in an
Aug. 13 interview. The businesses cost 1.3 billion rand.  “Fund II is very focused in South Africa with
entrepreneurs,” Smart, 40, said. “It will take two to three
years to spend the money and it’s exciting, but the work only
begins now. Infrastructure is going to be an important theme.”  Smart, who started Capitalworks in 2006 after leaving South
Africa’s largest private-equity company,  Brait SE (BAT) , said the firm
took six months to raise money for the new fund from mainly U.S.
and European investors. Mark Mobius, who oversees $53 billion in
 emerging markets , said last month that he may consider private
equity investments to tap growth in Africa as the continent
attracts about $25 billion of funds from buyout firms, including
Actis Capital LLP and  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   South Africa’s biggest state-owned companies, power utility
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. and ports and rail operator Transnet SOC
Ltd., are spending 800 billion rand over the next five years to
improve infrastructure in the continent’s biggest economy.  Fund Returns  Capitalworks, which has 5 billion rand under management,
also has a fully invested African fund, which counts the
Nigerian business of MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s largest wireless
operator, among its investments.  “We have no intention of raising another fund right now,”
said Smart. “In the rest of Africa, the depth isn’t always
there in financial markets and trade players, while in South
Africa we’re blessed with broad sector bases.”  Returns in South African private equity have outperformed
the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  on a five and 10-year basis,
according to a first-quarter report produced by the South
African Venture Capital Association and research company
Riscura. The pooled internal rate of return on five- and 10-year
funds was 12 percent and 22.1 percent respectively, compared
with 6.7 percent and 13.5 percent for the benchmark index, the
report showed.  While Smart declined to disclose the returns on
Capitalworks’ first South African fund, he said it ranked in the
top quartile globally for funds set up in 2008. That fund
invested in scrap metal exporter New Reclamation Group (Pty)
Ltd., cement maker Pronto Readymix and Rhodes Food Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  