-- Cathay Profit Misses Estimates on Cargo Slump, North Asia
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-14T10:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cathay-profit-misses-estimates-on-weak-travel-demand-cargo.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Asia’s
biggest international carrier, reported first-half profit that
missed analyst estimates as cargo revenue dropped and declining
yields in North Asia masked gains from carrying more passengers.   Net income  totaled HK$24 million ($3.1 million) in the six
months ended in June, Cathay said in a stock exchange  statement 
today, compared with the HK$590 million median profit estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of five analysts. It was the smallest
profit in at least 15 years for the Hong Kong-based  airline .  Cathay’s cargo revenue fell 5.2 percent in the first half
as it shipped fewer goods at lower rates while travel within the
Asia Pacific region was  affected  by avian flu and political
issues in Northeast Asia, the carrier said. Wall Street job cuts
have crimped premium business travel for Asian airlines and
Cathay’s Chief Executive John Slosar has cut capacity and phased
out some planes to take excess capacity out.  “The whole business scenario is very weak,” Maybank Kim
Eng Holdings Ltd. analyst Mohshin Aziz said in a phone interview
today. “It’s a given that analysts will revise down their
forecast for Cathay’s full-year earnings due to the management’s
guidance of weak yield outlook.”  No Shine  Cathay’s announcement of a HK$155 million loss from its
associates was a “surprise,” Aziz said.  The company posted about HK$350 million loss from the
newly-opened cargo terminal and also had a loss of HK$50 million
a month from its cargo venture with Air China Ltd., Finance
Director Martin Murray told reporters today.  Cargo exposure took “the shine off” as losses at Cathay’s
own freight business, the venture and the terminal exceeded
estimate, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Timothy Ross said in a
note today. He cut target price of Cathay to HK$15.10 from
HK$16.70 and maintained an outperform rating on the stock.  Shares of the airline gained 0.9 percent to HK$14.26 in
Hong Kong trading yesterday. Trading in the city is closed today
because of adverse weather.  Sales declined 0.6 percent to HK$48.6 billion, the  airline 
said. Cathay also reported a restated net loss of HK$929 million
for the year-earlier period.  Freight volumes fell 1.7 percent and cargo yields, a
measure of what the carrier charges, declined 3.3 percent in the
first half, the airline said in the statement.  Passenger Yields  Passenger yields, a measure of ticket price, increased 4.4
percent as the company cut capacity. North Asia market, Cathay’s
biggest after the North America, was the only region that posted
a decline in passenger yields amid rising competition.  Cathay and its affiliate Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd
carried 14.5 million passengers in the first half of the year,
1.3 percent more than a year earlier.  “We continue to operate in a challenging business
environment in the first half,” Chairman Christopher Pratt said
in the statement. “Our cargo business has been affected by weak
demand since April 2011. There is still no sign of sustained
improvement.”  Freight declined on weak demand from Europe and intensified
competition from Gulf carriers such as Emirates. Cathay, the
world’s biggest international air-cargo carrier, started
operating a HK$5.9 billion cargo terminal earlier this year, its
first independently owned facility in Hong Kong.  Japan Flights  In May, the airline said it will add more flights from Hong
Kong to  Japan  as the yen’s decline against the dollar made Japan
a cheaper destination for foreign visitors.  Global airline earnings are likely to generate a net income
of $12.7 billion in 2013, 67 percent higher than a year earlier,
as capacity cuts help pack planes to record levels, according to
the International Air Transport Association.  Cathay’s fuel costs dropped 8.5 percent from a year earlier
to HK$18.67 billion. The airline proposed to pay an interim
dividend of 6 Hong Kong cents per share, compared with none a
year earlier.  Cathay, which is phasing out less fuel-efficient Boeing
747-400s, also parked a freighter this month. The company had a
total of 184 planes on its fleet at the end of June, according
to the statement.  The airline earlier this year signed an agreement to cancel
an order for eight Boeing 777-200 freighters. Instead, the
carrier will buy three Boeing 747-8 freighters and sell four
747-400 converted freighters to Boeing as part of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  