-- CBS Prime-Time Viewers Shrink 4.7% After Cable Shutoff
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cbs-prime-time-viewers-shrink-4-7-after-cable-shutoff.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s television network lost
about 4.7 percent of its prime-time audience in the first week
after a dispute with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  led to a blackout of
about 3 million homes.  CBS, the most-watched U.S. TV network, averaged 5.51
million viewers in the week ended Aug. 11, down from 5.78
million in the previous seven days, according to data supplied
by Nielsen. The network’s top-rated “Under the Dome” drama
drew 10.4 million viewers, 1 million less than a week before.  As the blackout stretches into a second week, CBS viewers
in New York,  Los Angeles  and Dallas remain unable to watch the
network’s lineup or local stations. Time Warner Cable cut access
to the media company’s programming, including the Showtime
premium channel, on Aug. 2 after failing to agree on
retransmission fees for the  broadcast network .  “The ratings impact from the blackout is estimated at only
1 percent,”  Chris Ender , a spokesman for CBS, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We were the number one network last week in all key
ratings categories; I’d say we’re holding up pretty well.”  “Under the Dome,” which began airing on June 24, has
contributed to a year-over-year increase in ratings. CBS
remained the most-watched network during the week of the
blackout, according to Nielsen data, with viewership up 34
percent from the same week a year earlier.  “Right now they are doing OK,”  Brad Adgate , head of
research for the advertising company Horizon Media Inc., said in
an e-mail. “If this impasse continues into the NFL and new TV
season in September, their fortunes could reverse.”  The Time Warner Cable subscribers affected by the blackout
account for about 2.8 percent of U.S. homes with televisions.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , was little
changed at $53.65 at the close in New York yesterday. The stock
has gained 41 percent this year. Time Warner Cable rose 0.5
percent to $113.80 at the close and is up 17 percent. Both are
based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  