-- Chegg Files to Raise as Much as $150 Million in IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-08-14T19:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/chegg-files-to-raise-as-much-as-150-million-in-ipo.html
Chegg Inc. , a provider of textbooks
for rent and digital services for college students, filed to
raise as much as $150 million in an initial public offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is leading the sale, along with Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company said today in a regulatory filing.
Chegg intends to list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the
symbol CHGG.  Founded in 2005, Chegg gained popularity as a Netflix Inc.-
style service for textbooks, a model that attracted scores of
students yet has struggled to make a profit. Former Yahoo! Inc.
executive Dan Rosensweig, 52, joined Chegg as chief executive
officer in 2010 and shifted the company to digital products,
acquiring startups focused on e-textbooks, online homework help
and question-and-answer forums.  While revenue climbed 24 percent last year to $213.3
million, the company’s net loss widened to $49 million, as Chegg
bolstered spending on sales and marketing as well as research
and development. Chegg said in its prospectus that it does “not
expect to be profitable in the near term” as it continues to
invest in products to help students.  Chegg has raised almost $200 million in debt and equity
from  investors  including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
Foundation Capital and Insight Venture Partners. In recent
months, the company has added several new directors to the
board, including Jeffrey Housenbold, CEO of Shutterfly Inc.;
Marne Levine, a vice president at Facebook Inc.; and Jed York,
CEO of the San Francisco 49ers football team.  IPO Slowdown  Consumer-Web IPOs have been sparse since Facebook’s
troubled offering in May 2012.  RetailMeNot Inc. (SALE) , an online
coupon provider, was the third U.S. consumer-focused technology
company to go public since Facebook when it debuted last month,
while more than a dozen business-software providers have sold
shares.  Chegg originally filed its IPO under the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups, or JOBS, Act, which lets emerging companies
maintain confidentiality until three weeks before their
roadshow.  Competition is picking up in Chegg’s market.  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , Google Inc. and Apple Inc. all provide digital textbooks,
and Barnes & Noble Inc. offers book rentals. Even with Chegg
moving toward other forms of content, print textbooks accounted
for 87 percent of its revenue in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  