-- Chile Leaves Key Rate Unchanged Citing Dynamic Consumer Demand
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/chile-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-citing-dynamic-consumer-demand.html
Chile’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for the 19th consecutive month, highlighting the
“dynamic” growth in consumer demand after the economic
expansion unexpectedly accelerated in June.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent yesterday, as forecast by 11 of
19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Eight analysts expected a
quarter-point reduction as consumer spending slows.  Consumer demand hasn’t slowed as much as economic activity,
the central bank said in a statement accompanying yesterday’s
decision, with retail sales growth averaging 9.9 percent this
year while manufacturing contracts. Should the slowdown in the
economy deepen as anticipated in the next few months, a rate
adjustment will be required, the bank said.  “There needs to be deceleration in consumer spending in
order to see a rate cut,” said Nathan Pincheira, a senior
economist at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. Policy makers
“needed to be consistent and keep the rate on hold.”  Chile’s Imacec index, a proxy for gross domestic product,
rose 4.2 percent in June from the year earlier, above the 3.3
percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the
central bank said Aug. 5.  Traders in the swaps market expected the central bank to
remain on hold this month before cutting the rate to 4.5 percent
by November and to 4.25 percent by February of next year.  ‘Dynamic’ Demand  “Incoming information shows a sharper slowdown for output
than for demand,” policy makers said in yesterday’s statement.
“Consumption remains dynamic, although confidence surveys
foresee a reduced impulse from this variable going forward.”  Retail sales grew 7.7 percent in June from the year
earlier, down from a two-year high of 13.2 percent the month
before, the National Institute of Statistics said on July 30.
Car sales leaped 20 percent in July from a year ago, the
National Automobile Association of  Chile  said Aug. 12.  “The economy is slowing down, but the deceleration is
moderate,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago yesterday.  Adding to expectations rates would remain on hold this
month, the jobless rate fell to 6.2 percent in the three months
through June from 6.6 percent the year earlier.  Inflation remains subdued, even after accelerating in the
past two months.  Consumer prices  rose 2.2 percent in July from
the year earlier, within the 2 percent to 4 percent target range
and up from 1.9 percent in June.  Mixed Signals  “Consumer spending continues to grow at a robust pace,
salaries are rising and moreover, inflation is low,” Larrain
said.  Still,  manufacturing  slid 2.7 percent in June from the same
month last year, its third year-on-year decline in four months.  Signs of slower growth led policy makers to debate a rate
cut at each of the last three meetings, according to the minutes
of the discussions. Minutes from yesterday’s meeting will be
published Aug. 29.  Economists expect the central bank to cut the key rate by
half a percentage point by December, according to a  survey  by
the central bank released on Aug. 12.  Policy makers on July 1 reduced their estimate for economic
growth this year to between 4 percent and 5 percent from 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent.  “We expected a faster deceleration of Chile’s economic
growth,” Rodrigo Fuentes, an economist at the Universidad
Catolica in Santiago, said before yesterday’s decision. “At the
last meeting, we expected as much, but now indicators make it
very hard to predict a change” in interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 