-- Cocoa Crunch in Ivory Coast Heads for Bull Market: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-08-15T16:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cocoa-crunch-in-ivory-coast-heads-for-bull-market-commodities.html
Cocoa is heading for its best
quarter since 2009 as dry weather and crop delays in West
Africa, the main growing region, send prices toward a two-year
high and raise costs for chocolate makers.  Demand will exceed output by 119,000 metric tons in the 12
months starting in October, the first shortage in four years,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Prices will enter a  bull
market , rising 5.9 percent to 1,750 pounds ($2,726) a ton in
London by the end of 2013, the highest since September 2011,
according to the median of nine estimates from traders surveyed
by Bloomberg. Hedge fund bets on higher prices in New York are
near a five-year high.  The main-crop harvest in  Ivory Coast , the top producer, may
be a month later than usual and MDA Weather Services says rain
in southern growing areas has been more than 25 percent below
normal. World output will drop 1.2 percent to a four-year low at
3.94 million tons in 2013-14, with 1.42 million tons from Ivory
Coast, Macquarie estimates. The world confectionery market is
worth $114 billion, and Commodities Risk Analysis estimates the
industry uses as much as 75 percent global cocoa supplies.  “The dry period did start earlier than normal,” said
 Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture in London at Marex
Spectron Group Ltd., who has followed the cocoa market for more
than 30 years. “To get the market to come down, we will need to
see better weather than we’ve seen.”  Bull Market  Cocoa rose 12 percent since the end of June on NYSE Liffe
in London to 1,652 pounds a ton, set for the best quarter since
September 2009. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities gained 6.1 percent in the third quarter as the MSCI
All-Country World Index of shares rose 5 percent. Treasuries
lost 0.7 percent, the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index shows.  London cocoa jumped 19 percent since March, with  New York 
futures entering a bull market on Aug. 7 with a gain of 20
percent from the 14-month closing low on March 6. Cotton is the
only other commodity in the S&P GSCI Agricultural Index in a
bull market.  Money managers increased bets on rising prices in London
for five consecutive weeks as of Aug. 6, with net-long positions
reaching 46,601 contracts, the most since October, NYSE Liffe
data show. Bullish wagers on ICE Futures U.S. in New York jumped
41 percent in the past four weeks to 44,658 contracts.  Two Crops  Ivory Coast harvests cocoa twice annually, with 70 percent
of production supplied by the larger main crop and the rest by
the mid-crop. Output in the 2013-14 season starting Oct. 1 will
fall 2.4 percent from a year earlier, Macquarie says.  Dry weather in April and May slowed emergence of pods for
the main crop, said Kevin Marcus, the founder of Marcus Weather
in Passaic,  New Jersey . More moisture is needed now to fill
those pods with beans, increase their size and improve their
quality. A large mid-crop meant trees used their resources to
keep pods hanging, spurring further delays in the development of
the next crop, he said.  A rally in cocoa may be capped as slowing economies dent
chocolate demand. Chocolate sales in Western  Europe  may expand
as little as 0.5 percent this year, compared with 1.5 percent
last year, said Francisco Redruello, a senior food analyst at
Euromonitor International Ltd. The London-based researcher
previously forecast a 1.3 percent gain.  European Processing  Cocoa  processing  in Europe from April to June fell 8.5
percent from the first quarter, data from the European Cocoa
Association in Brussels showed.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ,
based in Decatur,  Illinois , reported a  loss  of $28 million in
its unit that includes cocoa in the six months to June 30 from a
profit of $211 million in the same period a year earlier.  Price gains also may be limited as three years of surpluses
mean world stockpiles at the end of September will be 1.98
million tons, equal to half a year’s global output, Macquarie
estimates. That would be the largest  inventory  since at least
1960, International Cocoa Organization data show.  Slower sales in the second half of the year may boost
prices as Ivory Coast already sold most of its next crop, said
 Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie in London. About 1.05
million tons were sold by the end of July, 74 percent of the
annual output forecast by Macquarie. A new marketing system
instituted last year means most beans are auctioned from April
to June instead of September to November, during the harvest,
said Judy Ganes-Chase, president of J. Ganes Consulting in
 Panama  City, Panama.  Chocolate Companies  Nestle SA (NESN) , the Vevey, Switzerland-based maker of Kit Kat
and Crunch bars, said Aug. 8 that profit margins fell in the six
months ended June 30 in its confectionery unit amid rising
competition and increased spending on marketing in  Latin
America . Zurich-based  Barry Callebaut , the world’s largest maker
of bulk chocolate, said in a statement July 4 that sales in
local currencies fell about 1.3 percent in the nine months
through May 31, compared with a year earlier.  Cocoa accounts for about 10 percent of the average price of
a chocolate bar, the ICCO estimates. One ton of cocoa makes
about 7,250 chocolate bars of 100-grams (3.5 ounces) each,
according to Commodity Risk Analysis, a researcher based in
Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . Macquarie’s forecast for a shortage of
119,000 tons in the 2013-14 season is equal to the amount
processed in  North America  in three months.  Beans Damaged  Delays to deliver cocoa from warehouses at the Belgium port
city of Antwerp and recent damage to some bags certified by NYSE
Liffe may help support prices. Depot officials in Antwerp were
removing water-damaged bags earlier this month from a 9,000-ton
batch, equal to about 6.4 percent of exchange supplies, said a
person with direct knowledge of the matter. The extent of the
damage is not yet known and NYSE Liffe declined to comment.  Stockpiles monitored by NYSE Liffe fell to the lowest in a
decade in February. They dropped partly as higher Ivory Coast
prices over London reduced the incentive for traders to grade
beans for delivery to the exchange, said Andreas Christiansen,
the managing director of Hamburg Cocoa & Commodity Office GmbH.
That leaves the market vulnerable to squeezes, he said. Ivory
Coast beans for delivery from October to December were offered
by Le Conseil du Cafe-Cacao yesterday at a minimum price that’s
about 22 pounds higher than in  London .  Dry weather may persist in Ivory Coast growing areas in
October and November, leaving soil-moisture conditions below
normal, said Steve Silver, a meteorologist at Gaithersburg,
Maryland-based MDA Weather Services. Parts of  Ghana , the second-biggest grower, also have seen dry weather. West Africa accounts
for 70 percent of world production.  “The most bullish commodity right now is cocoa,” said
Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Chicago . “The weather materially needs to improve, or we’re
going to see more stress and greater losses over the next four
to five weeks. If it doesn’t, we’re looking at a much bigger
situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  