-- Cocoa Rebounds as African Dry Spell May Cut Yields; Sugar Climbs
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-14T11:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cocoa-rebounds-as-african-dry-spell-may-cut-yields-sugar-climbs.html
Cocoa rebounded in  London  on signs
an extended dry period in West Africa, the world’s main growing
region, could reduce yields for the next crop. White sugar rose
and robusta coffee was little changed.  West Africa accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s
cocoa production and dry weather there remains a concern, MDA
Weather Services, based in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in an e-mailed report yesterday. Rain in cocoa-growing areas of Ivory
Coast and  Ghana , the top producers, will be sparse throughout
the week, the forecaster said. The next crop starts Oct. 1.  “The main plank of this rally has been to do with the
extended dry period in the Ivory Coast and Ghana,”  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at broker Marex Spectron Group,
said by phone from London today. “I can’t see any reason that
the dry period is likely to come to an end in the next week or
10 days.”  Cocoa for December delivery rose 0.9 percent to 1,653
pounds ($2,561) a metric ton by 12:32 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in
London. The price fell 1 percent yesterday. Cocoa for December
delivery gained 1.1 percent to $2,486 a ton on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York.  Ivory Coast is in its mini-dry season, when rains move
north of the cocoa belt. Drier weather started earlier than
usual and Marex Spectron’s Parkman expects “some negative
impact on the yield” if the season lasts until September.  Cocoa for September delivery switched to being cheaper than
the December futures yesterday, down from a premium of 13 pounds
a ton a week earlier, exchange data on Bloomberg showed. That
signals concern about limited supply may be fading.  “I don’t think the industry is squeezed or fazed by the
market being up at this time, of course the market could reverse
and would reverse very quickly if we had abnormally heavy
rainfall as one would expect that to be beneficial for the
crop,” Parkman said.  White sugar for delivery in October climbed 0.2 percent to
$504 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Raw sugar for October delivery slipped
0.2 percent to 17.22 cents a pound on ICE.  Robusta coffee for delivery in November was little changed
at $1,907 a ton in London. Arabica coffee for December delivery
rose 0.2 percent to $1.22 a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  