-- Commerzbank’s Physical Gold Trading Is Active in Bear Market
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-08-15T11:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/commerzbank-s-physical-gold-trading-is-active-amid-bear-market.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s third-biggest lender, said its physical gold trading volumes are
“good” this year and activity remained stable since bullion
tumbled into a  bear market  in April.  “We have remained busy in physical business, with volumes
picking up further as the price fell,” David Burns, head of
commodities at Commerzbank, said in an interview in  London  on
Aug. 13. “Volumes have been good and there has been demand
across most groups of market participants, but especially
private clients seeing a second opportunity to enter the market
and industrials, particularly fabricators covering physical
needs.”  Gold is down 20 percent this year, heading for the worst
run since 1997 and on course to break a 12-year winning streak.
Bullion retreated amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will curb
bond-buying aimed at stoking the  U.S. economy  and as some
investors bet on rising equity markets. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of shares climbed 11 percent in 2013.  Bullion’s plunge fueled demand for jewelry, bars and coins,
spurring buyers in leading consumers India and  China  to pay
higher premiums and seek supplies. Consumer demand in India, the
biggest buyer, jumped 71 percent in the second quarter and
China, the second-largest, gained 87 percent, helping to push
global bar and coin purchases to a record and jewelry usage to
the most since 2008, the World Gold Council said in a report
today.  Jewelry Demand  Global jewelry demand jumped 37 percent to 575.5 metric
tons in the second quarter, and combined global bar and coin
sales advanced 78 percent from a year earlier to an all-time
high of 507.6 tons, with demand more than doubling in  India  and
China, the WGC said.  “Levels of activity have been mostly stable since April,
perhaps slightly slower now entering the holiday period,” Burns
said.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.1 percent to $1,337.83
an ounce by 12:17 p.m. in London. On June 28, prices fell to
$1,180.50, the lowest since 2010.  Commerzbank is one of the top three global bullion banks
and trades physical metal as well as futures with parties from
mining companies to central banks and institutional clients,
according to its website. The lender owns a stake in Mendrisio,
Switzerland-based precious-metals refinery Argor-Heraeus SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  