-- Company Profits Without Borders Spurs Government Scrutiny: Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/company-profits-without-borders-spurs-government-scrutiny-taxes.html
Policymakers around the world are
stepping up efforts to tighten rules because a growing slice of
corporate profits isn’t taxed in any country.  Multinational companies can legally structure transactions
so they don’t pay tax anywhere, creating “stateless income” that
is coming under attack as countries seek to fill budget gaps.
The Obama administration, Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development and tax officials from other countries want to
reach a consensus on how to combat the issue, with more than a
dozen proposals being weighed, Bloomberg BNA reported.  “Every country is revenue-hungry,” said Edward Kleinbard, a
professor at the University of Southern California’s Gould
School of Law who has written several papers and testified
before Congress on the subject. “Countries see very large gaps
in their corporate tax collections.”  The heightened scrutiny offers a chance to take action.
The largest U.S.-based companies expanded their untaxed offshore
stockpiles by $183 billion last year, or 14 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., Senator Carl Levin
held hearings taking companies like  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.,  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.
and  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. to task for structures that let them pay
little or no tax on billions in profits. Representative Dave Camp is leading a tax rewrite that he says will fix the system.  “Everything is up for grabs right now, including a
substantial rewrite of the international tax rules,” Kleinbard
said. “When the dust settles, U.S. multinationals will pay a
higher effective tax rate tomorrow than they do today.”  “Increasing Recognition”  Stateless income is one driver behind a plan to stop profit
shifting unveiled in July by the OECD, which calls on countries
to take action in more than a dozen areas over the next two
years. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew hailed the plan. Leaders of
the wealthiest economies, the Group of Eight nations, have
agreed to tackle tax evasion by multinational companies anew.  There is “increasing recognition” that tax rules in many
countries have been designed so companies can avoid tax on an
international scale, said Rafaelle Russo, a senior adviser at
the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration.  “There has never been so much support for doing work in
this area, from senior tax officials to finance ministers,” said
Russo. “You see that in the tone of the work.”  The solutions are likely to be difficult and consensus on
how to address it may be tough to achieve, former Treasury
international tax counsel John Harrington said.  “There’s not a global, universal way of dealing with
stateless income,” said Harrington, now a partner with Dentons
in  Washington . “You have to look at individual situations. In
some cases the benefits of going after stateless income may not
be worth the cost.”  Apple’s Cook  Levin’s subcommittee spent months of examining the tax
frameworks used by Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard.  A case study of Microsoft’s practices released by the
subcommittee highlighted subsidiaries in low-tax jurisdictions
that handle retail sales around the world. Another issue focused
on Hewlett-Packard’s use of loans from foreign subsidiaries to
the U.S. parent to essentially repatriate billions in foreign
earnings without having to pay U.S. taxes on the money.  In May, the subcommittee held another hearing focused on
Apple. The panel said Apple used offshore structures and
transactions to shift billions of dollars to Ireland.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  defended the practices at
the hearing. “We pay all the taxes we owe. Every single dollar,”
Cook said. “We don’t depend on tax gimmicks.”  The U.S. isn’t alone. The U.K. Parliament grilled
executives from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com (AMZN)  and Starbucks Corp. in
hearings, suggesting they shifted income out to tax havens.  Camp Plan  Camp has signaled potential support for a 15 percent tax on
intangibles as one way to limit base erosion, one of three
options he has suggested in a discussion draft of a new tax
system. Camp, who is working on reform legislation that may be
unveiled this fall, has emphasized that measures to stop erosion
of the tax base need to be part of such a system.  The OECD’s report may form a basis for U.S. legislation and
could “lend legitimacy” to the anti-base erosion provisions now
being considered in Congress, said Hank Gutman, a principal in
KPMG LLP’s Tax Legislative and Regulatory Services group.  The OECD plans to look at rules requiring taxpayers to
disclose aggressive tax planning arrangements. The plan calls
for scrutiny of facets of the digital economy that may be
vulnerable to tax manipulation and a variety of changes to
transfer pricing guidelines and a focus on “harmful tax
practices.”  OECD’s Russo said the key is the concept of ensuring tax
transactions have “coherence, substance, and transparency.”  “There is a recognition that there is a problem and we
recognize that it is our duty to solve the problem,” he said.  The plan is a challenge, though momentum is growing to move
forward, with countries such as  Brazil ,  Russia , and  India  now
part of the talks, he said.  “It is difficult, but I think there is the political
momentum to do it,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  