-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; JPMorgan Sells 30-Year Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-14T21:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-jpmorgan-sells-30-year-debt.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held as a government report showed producer prices were
little changed in July.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold $750 million
of 30-year bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.2
basis point to a mid-price of 75.5 basis points as of 4:19 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are looking at economic data including inflation
and employment reports to assess when the Federal Reserve will
begin tapering its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases that
have strengthened credit markets. The producer price index was
unchanged last month after a 0.8 percent gain in June, a Labor
Department report showed today in  Washington .  “Inflation is at least one metric that is not changing,”
Rajeev Sharma, who manages $1.5 billion of fixed-income assets
in New York at First Investors Management Co., said in a
telephone interview. “If we do see inflation creep up, it bodes
more to tapering happening sooner rather than later. I don’t
think the market will be excited if they see that number rise.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  JPMorgan Bonds  Fed policy makers have set a goal of 2 percent for
inflation. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke next month will probably
reduce the central bank’s monthly bond purchases, according to
65 percent of economists surveyed Aug. 9-13 by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan sold 5.625 percent, subordinated notes to yield
190 basis more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for general
corporate purposes, the data show.  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the fourth-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
sold $500 million of five-year notes in its first debt offering
after merging with MetroPCS Communications Inc., Bloomberg data
show. The 5.25 percent securities were priced to yield 378 basis
points more than benchmarks.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate bond risk,
fell 0.9 basis points to 380.1 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity
Treasuries widened 1.4 basis points to 129.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 3.5 basis points to 564.7 basis points.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in Scott Harrison at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  