-- Cotton MACD Trend Signaling Rally to October: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-08-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cotton-macd-trend-signaling-rally-to-october-technical-analysis.html
Cotton futures that already are up
more than any other commodity this year are headed for their
highest price since February 2012, according to a technical
analysis by FuturePath Trading LLC.  The moving average convergence-divergence, known as MACD,
crossed above the signal line on Aug. 6, and the gap has widened
since then in a repeat of bullish trends seen during rallies in
March, May and June. The pattern suggests prices will gain 4.9
percent by October to 96 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , said Paul Kavanaugh, a futures and options specialist
at FuturePath in  Chicago .  “When the MACD line goes above the signal line, that’s my
indication to buy,” Kavanaugh said in a telephone interview.
“When the MACD goes below the signal, like we saw after the
rally in the middle of March, that’s an indication to sell.”  Cotton futures have surged 22 percent this year, the most
among 24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index, which fell 0.4 percent. Global cotton output will drop
for a second straight year, shrinking a surplus that sent prices
to a 31-month low in June 2012.  “The current rally will continue, based on MACD and
momentum,” said Kavanaugh, who predicted prices will top this
year’s high of 93.93 cents, reached on March 15.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. MACD is a plot of values obtained
by subtracting the 26-day exponential moving average from the
12-day average. The signal line is a nine-day exponential moving
average of the MACD, and provides buy and sell indicators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  