-- Cyprus Economic Slump Deepens in Second Quarter on Bailout Deal
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-08-14T10:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/cyprus-economic-slump-deepens-in-second-quarter-on-bailout-deal.html
Cyprus’s economic contraction
deepened in the second quarter after the country agreed to wage-cuts and the closure of its second-largest  lender  to secure an
international bailout.  Gross domestic product declined 1.4 percent from the first
quarter, when it fell 1.7 percent, the Cyprus Statistical
Service said in a statement on its  website today . That’s the
eighth consecutive quarterly contraction. Non-seasonally
adjusted GDP fell 5.4 percent from a year earlier.  The Cypriot economy, the third-smallest in the 17-nation
euro region last year, will shrink a cumulative 13 percent this
year and next, the country’s international creditors said on
July 31. Macroeconomic uncertainty and the magnitude of the
country’s recession are the key short-term risks to the 10
billion-euro ($13.3 billion) agreed on March 25, said Delia Velculescu, the International Monetary Fund’s mission chief.  The euro area emerged from a record-long recession in the
second quarter, led by Germany and  France . The 17-nation economy
expanded 0.3 percent in the three months through June after six
quarterly contractions.  Cypriot GDP declined 5.2 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier when adjusted for seasonal swings and working
days, Cystat said.  Unemployment in Cyprus rose 32 percent in July from the
same month of 2012 to the highest level since data collection
started in 1994, the statistics service said Aug. 5. Measures
agreed by Cyprus in return for the bailout included a tax on
bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros and the closure of
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, which led to the introduction of
capital controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  