-- Czech Economy Exits Record-Long Slump in Second Quarter
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/czech-economy-exits-record-long-slump-in-second-quarter.html
The Czech Republic exited its
longest recession on record in the second quarter, defying
political turmoil that’s caused policy paralysis after a
government collapse.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent from the previous
three months, the first increase since mid-2011, compared with a
1.3 percent fall in the first quarter, the Czech Statistics
Office said today in a preliminary estimate. The reading was
above the median estimate of 0.5 percent growth in a Bloomberg
 survey  of 15 analysts.  GDP (CZGDPSAY)  shrank 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, the data showed.  The $196 billion  economy  ended a slump that lasted for six
quarters during which efforts to narrow the budget deficit
curbed household spending, the euro area’s debt crisis harmed
export demand and ex-Prime Minister Petr Necas’s cabinet fell in
June. The central bank responded by cutting the benchmark
interest rate to 0.05 percent last year, or what it calls
“technical zero.”  “We expect positive contributions from net exports and
inventories, while other components will probably have a
negative effect,” Jiri Skop, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS in
Prague, said Aug. 12 by e-mail.  Czech borrowing costs have risen since allegations of
illegal spying and graft toppled Necas’s government in June. The
yield on 10-year koruna bonds was 2.31 percent yesterday,
holding 39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Crisis Deepens  Political crisis deepened last week after the interim
government of Jiri Rusnok, picked by President Milos Zeman in a
snub to lawmakers, lost a parliamentary confidence vote. The
bloc of three parties that backed the previous pro-austerity
cabinet disintegrated and deputies agreed to hold a vote on
dissolving the lower house of parliament, a condition for
calling early elections.  While economic uncertainty will probably hinder the
economic recovery, it doesn’t materially affect the stable
outlook on the country’s A1 rating because of the country’s
favorable budget performance, Jaime Reusche, a sovereign-debt
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said yesterday in a
report.  Economic data are sending mixed signals, clouding the
nation’s outlook, the central bank said in minutes from this
month’s rate-setting meeting.  Retail sales  and industrial  output 
fell more than analysts estimated in June. The trade  surplus 
widened as exports fell less than imports, statistics office
data showed.  After exhausting room for traditional  monetary easing ,
policy makers are debating whether the first koruna sales in
more than a decade are needed to bring inflation toward their 2
percent target from 1.4 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  