-- Czechs Exit Record-Long Slump as Exports Help Revive Poland
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-14T14:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/czechs-exit-record-long-recession-as-exports-help-revive-poland.html
The  Czech Republic  exited a record-long recession in the second quarter, while Polish growth
accelerated from a four-year low as the euro region halted its
slump, boosting demand for eastern European exports.  Czech  gross domestic product  rose a preliminary 0.7 percent
from the first quarter, the statistics office in  Prague  said
today.  Poland , the European Union’s largest eastern economy,
 expanded  0.8 percent from a year earlier, the statistics office
in Warsaw said. The numbers exceeded forecasts for growth of 0.5
percent and 0.7 percent from separate Bloomberg surveys.  Eastern Europe is looking to the euro region, its main
trading partner, to help reignite growth after government
cutbacks curbed spending and investment. Germany and  France , the
euro area’s two largest economies, expanded more than analysts
predicted in the second quarter, helping the region snap six
straight quarters of contraction, its longest-ever recession.  “The Czech economy is at the start of a revival, and its
strength will be decided mainly abroad,” Petr Dufek, an analyst
at CSOB AS, a KBC Groep NV unit in Prague, said in an e-mail.
“While the second recession in the past five years wasn’t as
dramatic as the previous one, it was twice as long.”  The Czech koruna gained 0.3 percent after the GDP data,
trading at 25.799 per euro as of 3:21 p.m. in Prague. Poland’s
zloty was 0.3 percent weaker against the common currency at
4.2070.  Six Quarters  The $196 billion Czech  economy  ended a slump that stretched
to six quarters, during which efforts to narrow the  budget
deficit  curbed household consumption, the euro area’s debt
crisis harmed export demand and the fall of ex-Prime Minister
Petr Necas’s cabinet sparked political uncertainty. The central
bank responded by cutting the  benchmark  interest rate to 0.05
percent last year, what it calls “technical zero.”  Polish growth quickened from 0.5 percent on an annual basis
in the first quarter, with the nation notching a third straight
monthly  trade surplus  in June, the first time that’s happened
since the data series began in 2000.  Poland’s GDP result “confirms that the economic upswing
has finally come,” Warsaw-based BRE Bank SA said in an e-mailed
note. “On one hand, consumption is rebounding, driven by the
end of the saving cycle, improvement in real income and record-low  interest rates . On the other, the doldrums in the  euro zone 
have probably come to an end.”  Hungary, Romania  Elsewhere in the region, Slovakia’s growth accelerated to
0.9 percent from a year earlier, compared with 0.6 percent in
the first three months, while Hungary, Romania and and Bulgaria
all lost steam on a quarterly basis.  Hungarian  growth  slowed to 0.1 percent from 0.6 percent,
though GDP rose 0.5 percent from a year earlier. A “neutral”
performance from industrial production outweighed positive
impacts from agriculture and construction, statistician Pal
Pozsonyi told reporters in Budapest.  Hungary’s GDP reading was a “negative surprise” and the
economy’s performance may have been influenced by weaker retail
sales and foreign trade, Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed report.  “With a softer GDP growth and lower-than-expected
inflation, the Hungarian central bank’s scope to deliver another
25-basis-point  rate cut  later this month has certainly
increased,” he said.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 299.11 per euro by 3:22
p.m. in Budapest.  ‘Recovery Path’  Romania ’s  expansion  decelerated to 0.3 percent in the
second quarter from 0.6 percent in the first, probably hindered
by sluggish demand. That’s less than the 0.4 percent median
forecast of six economists in a Bloomberg  poll . The leu
depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.4359 against the euro.  Bulgarian GDP shrank 0.1 percent from the previous quarter
compared with a 0.1 percent advance in the first three months,
the first contraction since 2009.  The better-than-predicted data from Poland and the Czech
Republic are “a positive sign” for the region’s near-term
growth outlook, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The “data prove economies have bottomed and are on a
gradual recovery path,” Agata Urbanska-Giner, HSBC’s economist
for central and eastern  Europe , said in an e-mailed note. “The
key question going forward is about the pace of recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  