-- Dalio Patched All Weather’s Rate Risk as U.S. Bonds Fell
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-14T13:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/dalio-patched-all-weather-s-rate-risk-as-u-s-bonds-fell.html
As the  bond market  plunged in late
June,  Ray Dalio  convened the clients of Bridgewater Associates
LP, the world’s largest hedge-fund manager, to tell them that a
fund designed to withstand a broad range of market scenarios was
too vulnerable to changes in  interest rates .  Bridgewater, citing months of study, said it had
underestimated the interest-rate sensitivity of various assets
in its All Weather fund and was taking steps to mitigate the
risk, according to clients who listened to or read a transcript
of the June 24 call. By the end of the month, the Westport,
Connecticut-based firm had sold off enough Treasuries and
inflation-linked bonds to help reduce the fund’s most rate-sensitive assets by $37 billion, according to fund documents and
data provided by investors.  The move, disclosed to investors five days after the
 Federal Reserve  said it’s prepared to phase out its
unprecedented bond purchases, was unusual for the fund. As its
name suggests, All Weather is designed to produce returns in
most economic environments and avoid altering asset allocations
when the outlook changes. All Weather incurred a second-quarter
loss of 8.4 percent that was primarily tied to its $56 billion
portfolio of inflation-linked debt, said the clients, who asked
not to be named because the fund is private.  ‘A Foretaste’  The decline at All Weather and similar funds, including
those run by Cliff Asness’s AQR Capital Management LLC and
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , shows Bridgewater’s pioneering strategy for
allocating assets between stocks and bonds, known as risk
parity, can leave investors overexposed to rising interest
rates. The losses were amplified for some funds by a selloff in
inflation-linked securities that also caught  Bill Gross ’s $262
billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  off guard.  “This is just a foretaste of what is going to happen,”
said Ramin Nakisa, a global  asset-allocation  strategist at  UBS
Investment Bank  who co-wrote a March research report titled
“When Risk Parity Goes Wrong.” Nakisa called June’s selloff in
Treasuries and inflation-linked bonds “a dress rehearsal” for
the volatility awaiting when the U.S. Federal Reserve actually
begins to taper its bond-buying program, known as quantitative
easing.  Bridgewater sold Treasuries and related futures contracts
to reduce exposure to nominal interest rates and sold TIPS to
address the extra exposure to inflation-adjusted, or real,
rates, according to four All Weather clients.  Reducing Volatility  The sales were the result of longer-term research and not a
reaction to the changing market outlook, said a person familiar
with the firm. Most of the sales occurred before real rates
began to rise in May and June, said the person, asking not to be
named because the  fund (AQRIX)  is private. Without the sales, All
Weather’s second-quarter loss would have been 1.5 percentage
points higher, this person said.  Parag Shah, a Bridgewater spokesman, declined to comment.  The changes mark the first time that Bridgewater has made a
substantive change to All Weather since the strategy’s inception
in 1996, said the person familiar with the firm. The revision
will reduce All Weather’s volatility by about 20 percent over a
three-to-five-year time frame without affecting the fund’s
ability to meet its goal of outperforming annual returns on cash
by 5 to 7 percentage points, this person said.  Dalio Strategy  The firm had about $150 billion of net assets in two basic
strategies as of early July. The $70 billion Pure Alpha fund is
the flagship for making macroeconomic bets backed by extensive
research. The passively run All Weather, which doesn’t make
directional bets on or against markets, has grown faster in
recent years, quadrupling to about $80 billion in assets since
the end of 2009.  Originated by Dalio, 64, as a way to manage a family trust,
Bridgewater spent decades developing All Weather into a formal
strategy that seeks to balance the amount of risk that a
portfolio derives from low-volatility assets such as bonds and
commodities with that derived from more-volatile assets such as
 stocks . To do so, All Weather typically relies on leverage in
the form of borrowed money or derivatives such as futures
contracts to juice the potential returns from bonds.  The goal is to create a portfolio in which a quarter of the
assets do well in each of four basic scenarios -- economic
growth that is faster or slower than expected, and inflation
that is lower or higher than forecast. While other investors
might get surprised by inflation swings or a growth bust, “All
Weather would chug along, providing attractive, relatively
stable returns,” according to Bridgewater’s website.  ‘Balanced Risk’  That has usually been the case, with All Weather posting
average annual returns of 9.3 percent from its June 1996
inception through March, according to a May 13 Bridgewater
client presentation. That compares with 7 percent gains for a
benchmark portfolio with 60 percent in equities and the
remainder in bonds, the traditional institutional model that,
according to risk-parity proponents, derives almost all of its
risk and potential returns from stocks.  “The whole concept of balanced risk is you don’t have the
volatility in your system entirely driven by the equity
market,” said Larry Swartz, chief investment officer at the
Fairfax County Retirement Systems in Fairfax,  Virginia , an All
Weather investor that uses risk-parity concepts for its whole
portfolio. Stocks “really depend on increasing expectations of
growth.”  ‘Chief Complaint’  Some traditional money managers such as Ben Inker, the
director of asset allocation at Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co., have said risk parity owes much of its success
to the tailwinds of a 30-year bond market  rally , because the
funds invest a large portion of their assets in debt and related
instruments. Inker, in a March 2010 white paper, said the
“beguiling combination of lower risk and higher return” that
the strategy appears to offer is “largely an illusion.”  Excessive interest-rate risk has been “the chief complaint
thrown at every risk-parity strategy for years and years,” said
 Thomas Lee , a senior portfolio manager at Clifton Group, a
Minneapolis-based unit of  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  that provides
clients with customized risk-parity products.  Robert Prince, Bridgewater’s co-chief investment officer,
addressed such criticism in a Jan. 9 commentary, stating that
rising interest rates generally stem from accelerating economic
growth or increased inflation, environments in which All
Weather’s bond losses would be offset by its profits on
commodities and stocks.  ‘Pretty Radical’  The exception to this scenario, Prince wrote, would be a
small “subset of cases” such as an extreme tightening of
liquidity caused by the Fed or an implosion of the financial
system in which all asset prices decline. The impact of those
cases would be short-lived, he said.  Equity and fixed-income markets both had bouts of selling
in May and June when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that
the central bank might phase out its latest quantitative easing
program, the monthly purchases of $85 billion of bonds. Bernanke
rattled investors with comments suggesting that the Fed was
prepared to taper its stimulus program even though inflation
remained below targets previously set by the central bank before
it would begin tightening.  Bernanke’s words were “pretty radical,” said John Brynjolfsson, the chief investment officer of Armored Wolf LLC,
an  Irvine , California-based money manager whose specialties
include TIPS and commodities. “The implication is that he would
be comfortable with inflation being below target rather than
keeping his foot on the gas pedal until inflation exceeded the
target.”  Gross’s Losses  The second-quarter losses fell particularly hard on funds
that had loaded up on Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
or TIPS, which typically provide protection if interest rates
are pushed higher by expectations for accelerating inflation.
That wasn’t the case in May and June, as interest rates moved
higher in anticipation of reduced asset purchases by the Fed,
while inflation expectations receded, leaving TIPS among the
biggest losers.  The $1.2 billion AQR Risk Parity Fund, managed by Cliff Asness’s AQR Capital Management LLC, fell 9.6 percent last
quarter. Invesco’s $23.5 billion Balanced-Risk Allocation
Strategy, which had avoided TIPS, declined 5.5 percent,
according to a performance update obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The losses from the TIPS selloff also hurt some of the
best-known traditional bond funds. Gross’s Pimco Total Return,
the world’s largest mutual fund, declined 4.7 percent in May and
June, also hurt by TIPS. Pacific Investment Management Co. in
 Newport Beach , California, which runs the fund, owned about 10
percent of the TIPS market, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Bridgewater’s Research  All Weather’s exposure to Treasuries and other nominal
bonds equaled 48 percent of net assets and its exposure to
inflation-indexed debt, including TIPS, was 70 percent,
according to the May presentation. Because of leverage, asset-class exposures totaled 173 percent of net assets.  The fund benefited from its TIPS holdings since the Fed, in
a bid to drive down long-term interest rates, began the first of
three asset purchase programs in late 2008. The moves pushed
inflation-adjusted interest rates below zero for a sustained
period. All Weather’s annual returns averaged 16 percent from
2010 through 2012, well above the strategy’s target return of 5
to 7 percentage points above cash.  That prompted Bridgewater to begin doing research earlier
this year on why the fund’s returns were higher than expected, a
project that led the firm’s principals to conclude All Weather
had too much exposure to “real” yields, said the person
familiar with the fund.  TIPS Selloff  On the June 24 conference call, one day before the TIPS
market fell to its lowest level in more than a year, Bridgewater
said it hadn’t fully grasped the interest-rate sensitivity, or
duration, for All Weather’s assets, according to people familiar
with the discussion. As interest rates drop, stocks become more
sensitive to the discount rate investors use to determine the
present value of a company’s future cash streams.  Judging duration for equities is “messier” than it is for
bonds, said Eric Sorensen, the chief executive officer of
Boston-based PanAgora Asset Management Inc. That’s because a
stock’s duration is also influenced by the type of company being
examined and the reason rates are changing, said Sorensen, who
co-wrote the 1989 article “A Total Differential Approach to
Equity Duration” in the Financial Analysts Journal.  When inflationary  pressures  push rates up, bonds generally
decline while stocks, particularly those of cyclical companies
that can pass along price increases to customers, fare well,
Sorensen said in an interview. This allows a risk-parity fund to
offset fixed-income losses with equity gains.  Fed Easing  Stocks and bonds have both fallen in response to rising
rates on several occasions during the past two decades, Sorensen
said. When the Fed unexpectedly raised its target Fed Funds rate
in early 1994, for example, the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index
declined 3.9 percent during the first half of the year and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 3.4 percent, with reinvested
dividends.  This year, the  S&P 500  fell more than 4 percent between
mid-May and late June, when Bernanke made separate comments on
tapering the Fed’s quantitative easing, while the yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose above 2.5 percent for the first time in
22 months. TIPS declined 7.4 percent during the second quarter,
their worst showing ever, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Inflation Linked Treasury Index.  ‘Time to Hedge’  “The time to hedge that kind of risk is not when the risk
is upon you,” said Sorensen, adding that he was speaking in
general terms with no knowledge of Bridgewater’s situation. “If
you had been hedging throughout for the potential of stocks and
bonds to have a high correlation” to rate movements, he said,
“you wouldn’t have made as much money.”  Bridgewater had increased the amount of TIPS across its
strategies after the Fed began quantitative easing in late 2009,
according to financial statements filed with the U.S. Department
of Labor. TIPS held by the Pure Alpha and All Weather funds that
file reports with the Department of Labor surged to $21.6
billion, or 31 percent of net assets, at the end of 2011 from
$6.9 billion, or 16 percent, at the end of 2009. Bridgewater’s
401(k) plan had 16 percent of assets in the Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities Fund at the end of 2011.  ‘Popular Trade’  “The most popular trade of the last year has been on the
back of quantitative easing, that it has to drive up inflation
at some point,” Woody Jay, a principal at CRT Capital Group
LLC, based in in Stamford, Connecticut, said in an interview.
“The trade was so one-sided, it’s not surprising that TIPS were
overdone in the selloff,” said Jay, a former chairman of the
committee of securities dealers that advises the  U.S. Treasury 
on debt issues.  All Weather trimmed its use of leverage to about 144
percent of net assets at the end of June, according to the
clients who requested anonymity. Gross exposures to different
asset classes declined to about $116 billion from $138 billion
in the quarter, while net assets stayed at $80 billion.  The fund’s exposure to Treasuries and other sovereign debt
declined to about $14 billion from $38 billion, and its gross
holdings in inflation-linked debt decreased to about $43 billion
from $56 billion, based on figures from the May presentation and
the two investors who requested anonymity. These declines
reflect changes in market value as well as sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  