-- Denmark Criticizes Stimulus Addiction Missing Structural Fix
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-15T08:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/denmark-warns-against-stimulus-addiction-missing-structural-fix.html
Denmark ’s government said this
month’s budget proposal won’t include a new stimulus plan,
arguing additional aid can’t repair structural flaws that are
holding back Scandinavia’s weakest economy.  “We can’t just stimulate our way out of structural
problems,” Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager said in a
telephone interview. “We shouldn’t engage in stop-go policies;
they only create uncertainty.”  Denmark’s $355 billion  economy stagnated  in the first
quarter after shrinking 0.5 percent in 2012. The nation has
fallen behind neighboring Norway and  Sweden , where smaller debt
burdens and faster growth rates have underpinned demand. Danes,
the world’s most indebted people, have hesitated to spend after
house prices plunged 20 percent since their 2007 peak.  The Social Democrat-led coalition government won’t tolerate
policies that put pressure on public finances, Vestager said.
While private debt is 310 percent of disposable incomes,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, government debt is less than half the euro-area
average, supporting Denmark’s stable AAA rating.  “Our fiscal policy will uphold the 3 percent European
Union budget limit,” Vestager said. “If there’s any leeway, we
will put that into the economy.”  Challenging EU  The government-backed Economic Council said in May that the
EU should allow Denmark to deviate from its structural budget
requirements to create room for more stimulus needed to support
a recovery.  The government on May 27 cut its growth forecast for this
year to 0.5 percent from the 0.7 percent predicted in April. It
kept its 1.6 percent growth estimate for 2014.  Vestager’s ministry is due to publish revised economic
forecasts at the end of this month. She says fiscal restraint is
enabling  record-low borrowing costs . The central bank has held
its deposit rate below zero for more than a year after Denmark’s
haven status triggered a capital influx that threatened to
strengthen the krone beyond the limits of its euro peg.  The monetary stimulus has so far failed to jumpstart
growth. Danish unemployment, including people in vocational
training programs, was 5.8 percent in June, compared with as low
as 2.5 in 2008. Austerity policies in Europe have helped push
unemployment in the common-currency area to a record 12.1
percent and to more than 20 percent in the hardest hit countries
such as Spain.  Adjustment Years  “Things will get better when the Danish economy is ready
to grow after years of adjustments, changes in property costs
and general improvement in economic conditions,”  Steen Bocian ,
chief economist at Danske Bank A/S, Denmark’s largest lender,
said by phone last week. “Stimulus may be able to accelerate
developments somewhat.”  The euro area is showing signs of emerging from its crisis.
Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency bloc grew 0.3
percent in the April-June period after a 0.3 percent contraction
in the previous three months, the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said yesterday. That may help export-reliant nations
such as Denmark recover. The Nordic nation relies on sales
abroad for half its economic output.  “We’re seeing a turnaround in the Danish economy, albeit a
slow one,” Vestager said. “There are no indications the
economy is rushing ahead, but we’re no longer seeing any signs
that things are getting worse.”  Educating Danes  Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt in February pledged
to lift annual growth to 2 percent on average from 2014 through
2020, and unveiled plans to create 150,000 private jobs by 2020
through increased public spending and corporate tax cuts. The
measures will cost the state 75 billion kroner.  The government will need to invest in education and make
sure workers have the proper training, Vestager said.  “It’s is imperative that the money we’re investing into
the economy is actually put to work,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  