-- Derivatives to Drive Nasdaq OMX Europe Expansion, Rosendahl Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-08-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/derivatives-to-drive-nasdaq-omx-europe-expansion-rosendahl-says.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. is betting
equity derivatives will drive profit in  Europe  as greater
transparency draws in more investors, according to its
derivatives chief in the Nordic region.  “We will see more competition in derivatives and we want
to be an active player in that,” Lauri Rosendahl, who is also
the president of the Helsinki stock exchange, said in an
interview at his office on Aug. 14. “We have a very successful
and pretty sizeable operation in the Nordic markets for equity
derivative trading and clearing and we think that we can scale
that and the expertise and experience further and grow that
business in Europe.”  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. equity market operator,
is making a push on derivatives, which accounted for 17 percent
of its second-quarter $451 million net revenue, including debt
and energy instruments.  In May, Nasdaq OMX started the NLX futures exchange based
in  London , which offers short-term and long-term interest-rate
derivatives. Nasdaq OMX bought a 25 percent stake last year in
the Dutch cash equity and equity derivatives trading venue The
Order Machine, or TOM. It has an option to acquire a further
25.1 percent. The other owners are BinckBank NV, Optiver BV, IMC
Group and ABN AMRO Bank NV.  “With the TOM concept, and the way TOM operates now, we
would definitely look at  geographic  expansion,” said Rosendahl,
who also oversees TOM. “TOM is our bridge to Europe from the
Nordic region on the equity-derivatives front.”  Third-Biggest  Nasdaq OMX is the third-biggest equity derivatives exchange
in Europe after Eurex, owned by Deutsche Boerse AG, and Liffe,
which is owned by NYSE Euronext. More than 53 million stock
index options and futures contracts were traded on Nasdaq
through July, compared with about 648 million for Eurex and 236
million for Liffe, data compiled by Nasdaq show.  “We think we can be a challenger in these markets and we
can be a player that brings competition in this area, where we
haven’t actually seen that much competition compared to what
we’ve seen on the cash equity trading and clearing side,”
Rosendahl said. “NLX and TOM are solid evidence that we don’t
only talk about it, that we actually do something as well.”  In the Nordic and Baltic regions, the average daily volume
of options, futures and fixed-income contracts traded in the
second quarter rose an annual 1.7 percent to 438,418,  it said  on
July 24. Its market share in equity trading in the region rose
to 69.7 percent from 67.8 percent with about $4.4 billion in
stock traded daily.  Acquisitions Possibility  “Acquisitions are a possibility in the longer term as it
has been in the past,” Rosendahl said. “Our company has been
active in acquisitions and we have a long track record of
successful acquisitions.”  Rosendahl manages a derivatives team of about 40 people,
half of whom work in product development.  “The derivative business for us is a healthy, profitable
business,” Rosendahl said. “We believe we can organically and
profitably grow that business and also grow our presence in
Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  