-- Dutch Recession Continues as Rutte Plans More Austerity Measures
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-08-14T08:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/dutch-recession-continues-as-rutte-plans-more-austerity-measures.html
The Dutch economy, the euro-area’s
fifth largest, contracted more than forecast in the second
quarter, extending the country’s recession and increasing
pressure on Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  to do more to spur growth.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent in the three months
through June after a 0.4 percent drop in the first quarter,
national statistics bureau CBS in The Hague said today. The
median of eight estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  was for a
0.1 percent decline. The economy has contracted in eight of the
last nine quarters and isn’t expected to return to growth until
next year, according to Bloomberg’s quarterly economic survey
published on Aug. 9.  “Consumption has contracted for more than two years now,”
CBS said. “Government consumption shrank 0.5 percent.”  The Dutch economy is in its third recession since the
financial crisis started in 2008 and will contract 1 percent
this year, according to Bloomberg’s quarterly survey. The
country’s planning agency CPB will publish its economic forecast
at about 11 a.m. local time. In June, it predicted that the
 budget deficit  will widen to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2014,
exceeding the European Union’s 3 percent limit.  Unemployment rose to 8.7 percent in July, CBS also said
today, the highest since at least 2001. The annual average of
Dutch joblessness hasn’t been that high since 1985. Inflation is
at 3.1 percent.  Rutte’s cabinet may seal an agreement of more than 8
billion euros ($10.5 billion) of cost cuts and tax increases,
Het Financieele Dagblad reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people familiar with the cabinet’s thinking. This amount is in
addition to a four-year, 16 billion-euro package decided on in
November when the coalition government took office.  Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem is scheduled to
present the 2014 budget and a detailed plan of austerity
measures on September 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  