-- Health Exchange Shoppers Can Expect $2,700 in Tax Credits
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/health-exchange-shoppers-can-expect-2-700-in-tax-credits.html
Tax credits to buy medical coverage
next year will average $2,672 per family under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care system overhaul, a benefit that will make
the plans more affordable than some critics have predicted.  The subsidy should reduce the cost of the premiums by about
32 percent on average for people buying the second-lowest priced
plans through state-by-state insurance exchanges set to open
Oct. 1, the Kaiser Family Foundation said in a report today.  Republican politicians in states including Indiana, Ohio,
Georgia and  Florida  have tried to discourage participation in
the exchanges, warning consumers that premiums will rise as a
result of the law’s requirement that insurers cover sick people.
Those warnings focus on “sticker prices” and ignore tax
credits available to people earning less than four times the
poverty level, about $94,200 for a family of four, Kaiser said.  “Tax subsidies are an essential part of the equation for
many people who buy insurance through the new marketplaces,”
Drew Altman, chief executive officer of Menlo Park, California-based Kaiser, said in a statement. “They will help make
coverage more affordable for low- and middle-income people.”  About 48 percent of people who currently buy insurance for
themselves, instead of getting it through work, will be eligible
for subsidies to reduce their premiums next year, Kaiser said.
Those tax credits will average $5,548 per family for that pool
of people. When all consumers are taken into account, whether
eligible for credits or not, the average subsidy works out to
$2,672 each, according to the study.  Healthy Youth  U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
criticized Republican state leaders warning of big premium
increases due to the Affordable Care Act, saying last week that
their numbers are “just factually incorrect.”  Republican officials in Georgia, Indiana and  Ohio  have
predicted premium increases of as much as 200 percent. Leaders
in Democratic-led states including New York and  California  have
said smaller increases or savings will occur when subsidies
accompanying the law are included.  The Obama administration has said it wants to see about 7
million people enroll in plans through the exchanges next year,
including at least 2.7 million who are young and healthy. That’s
necessary to balance the cost of covering sick people.  Better Deal  Sebelius also said her department wasn’t worrying about a
“pretty dismal” effort by politically conservative groups to
discourage young people from signing up. Two months before
enrollment begins for the online exchanges, the project is on
schedule, she told reporters on an Aug. 5 conference call.  “We are on target and ready to flip the switch on Oct.
1,” Sebelius said. The markets “are already increasing
competition and giving consumers a better deal.”  As of June, proposed monthly premiums in nine states for
the benchmark level of medical coverage were less than
congressional estimates, according to a  study  at the time from
Avalere Health, a Washington-based consulting company.  The reported premiums and subsidies are what customers can
expect for plans that go on sale Oct. 1 and take effect Jan. 1,
2014. About 24 million people are expected to get their coverage
from exchange plans by 2023, according to the Congressional
Budget Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  