-- Egypt Bond Yields Jump to 5-Week High as Death Toll Rises
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-08-15T15:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/egyptian-shares-drop-most-in-two-weeks-on-police-action.html
Egypt ’s benchmark government bonds
slumped for a second day, sending yields to a five-week high, as
the death toll from a government crackdown on protesters climbed
above 500. The nation’s default risk increased.  The yield on the 5.75 percent notes maturing in April 2020
rose 22 basis points to 9 percent at 5:55 p.m. in Cairo, the
highest on a closing basis since July 9 and taking the two-day
surge to 68 basis points. Credit default swaps, contracts
insuring the nation’s debt, have jumped 45 basis points in two
days to 795, according to CMA data. The stock exchange was shut
today after the central bank ordered banks to close.  At least 525 people were killed and more than 3,700 injured
after police stormed two camps in the capital yesterday, where
supporters of former President Mohamed Mursi had congregated
since the military overthrew him July 3. The  Muslim Brotherhood ,
Mursi’s main backers, said the death toll was many times higher
than those released by the Health Ministry. The Egyptian
government announced a monthlong state of emergency yesterday.  “The market’s reaction is overdue,” Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, London-based senior economist for the  Middle East 
and  Turkey  at  Standard Chartered  Bank, said by phone today. “Up
until yesterday investors were shrugging off the possibility of
a showdown, which was inevitable.”  U.S. Condemnation  President  Barack Obama  said today the U.S. “strongly
condemns” the violence and announced the cancellation of joint
military exercises, initially scheduled for next month. The
U.S., which provides Egypt’s army with more than $1 billion a
year under a decades-old alliance, is also considering “further
steps,” Obama said.  London-traded  shares  of Commercial International Bank,
Egypt’s biggest publicly traded lender, tumbled 5 percent, the
most since July 3, at the close in  London . The benchmark EGX 30
Index of stocks slid 1.7 percent yesterday, the most among 94
gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  “The market’s reaction to events like this is going to be
hard and it’s going to be quick, at least until pressure on the
street eases,” Souheir Asba, a frontier-markets strategist at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in London, said by phone yesterday.
“Closing of the banks and the bourse is disconcerting for
investors because it may indicate that security forces are
planning something even bigger and more violent.”  This is the first time the bourse faced an unscheduled
shutdown since the January 2011 revolt, when trading was
suspended for almost two months. Trading will resume Aug. 18,
the bourse said yesterday.  Confidence Deteriorating  Egypt also postponed a 6.5 billion-pound ($929 million)
treasury-bill auction and a foreign-currency sale today due to
banks closing. The yield on one-year treasury bills has dropped
in every auction since Mursi’s ouster to 12.69 percent at the
last sale, the lowest since April 2011. The  yield  soared as high
as 16 percent last year amid political unrest.  The government imposed a night-time curfew in at least 14
provinces in conjunction with the state of emergency declared by
Interim President Adly Mansour. He authorized the army and
police to take “all necessary measures” to restore security,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. Vice President
Mohamed El Baradei resigned in objection to the violence,
according to a statement from his media office.  Optimism after Mursi’s ouster enabled the military-backed
government to secure $12 billion of aid pledges from Persian
Gulf countries including  Saudi Arabia , helping bolster foreign
reserves that fell by more than half since the January 2011
revolt that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . Egypt has struggled
to pull the economy out of the worst slump in two decades and
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion
loan have halted amid the unrest.  Yesterday’s crackdown will push “that deal at an even
further date,” Standard Chartered’s Dauba-Pantanacce said.
“The biggest setback is the relationship between Egypt and the
rest of the world, the deterioration of confidence, especially
from Western countries, since the economic situation is already
quite dire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  