-- Egypt’s Bloody Crackdown
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-14T17:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/egypt-s-bloody-crackdown.html
This time, international expressions
of concern and calls for restraint will not suffice. The
Egyptian military’s  brutal clearance  this morning of Muslim
Brotherhood sit-ins in Cairo demands the same outrage that would
follow if secular protesters were killed by an Islamist
government.  Responding clearly -- and in the case of the U.S.,  freezing 
$1.5 billion in annual aid to Egypt -- isn’t solely a matter of
principle. Reports of secularist civilians in Cairo attacking
the Muslim Brotherhood protesters, and of possible Islamist
retaliation against Christian churches in central Egypt, show
that the military’s policies threaten civil war. An all-out
sectarian war, with the military largely on one side and
Islamists largely on the other, is in nobody’s interests.  Followers of the Muslim Brotherhood, who account for as
much as 30 percent of  Egypt ’s population, must be convinced that
they have some recourse other than armed insurgency. Obviously,
such reassurance must come from secularists and democrats in
Egypt. Mohamed Elbaradei, the former chief of the United
Nations’ nuclear watchdog and a leading figure in the
transitional government, sent an important message by resigning
in protest over the killings.  The European Union, by contrast, expressed only “concern”
and urged “restraint” in its response today. As the scale of
the violence became clear, the White House rightly went further
to “strongly condemn” the crackdown. Firmer and more explicit
condemnations of the military’s brutality by the outside world
can only help.  Today’s death toll remains unclear, but initial statements
from Egyptian officials -- that no civilians were dying, that
soldiers and policemen (some of them masked and carrying
Kalashnikov rifles) used no live rounds -- were Orwellian. The
health ministry later said 149 were dead. The Washington Post’s
Cairo bureau chief  posted  on Twitter that police were firing
live ammunition into the crowd. Although some protesters may
have fired shots, and in recent weeks were accused of  torturing 
opponents, the tactics of the security forces were clearly
disproportionate. One video clip shows the charred remains of
two people burned inside their tent.  Supporters of deposed President Mohamed Mursi have been
unreasonable in their unwillingness to negotiate any solution to
the crisis that doesn’t include his return to power. Mursi was
dismissive of democratic processes when in power, and his return
is neither possible nor, at this point, desirable. Still, the
military’s claims that the opposition consists of terrorists are
false. The risk is that, as occurred when President Bashar al-Assad made similar claims about protesters in  Syria  in 2011, the
propaganda proves self-fulfilling.  The protesters’ complaint against the July 3 military coup
was at least understandable, even for opponents of the Muslim
Brotherhood’s goals and methods. Peacefully resolving this
dispute over the coup required patience and diplomacy. Instead,
the military resorted to arrests and escalating violence, no
doubt encouraged by the mildness of the international response
to each successive abuse. At least 130 pro-Mursi protesters have
been killed in the last several weeks, and this morning’s
assaults provided new martyrs for the Islamist cause, as well as
an iconic injustice around which to rally. Think Northern
Ireland’s Bloody Sunday in 1972.  Egypt’s brief experiment with democracy is probably over.
What comes next is a question mostly for Egyptians, and it will
very likely be something less: Today the military declared a
monthlong state of emergency. Of the 46 years since 1967, Egypt
has been under emergency rule for all but three, suggesting that
the measure -- which includes the right to detain without trial
-- won’t be lifted soon.  The U.S. and its European allies can and should press the
military to end emergency rule. They should also suspend any aid
programs to the government, in particular to the military.
Egypt’s generals must be made to understand that the kind of
brutality that took place today in Cairo has consequences.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 