-- Lehman Exits Bats Global Markets Stake
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-08-14T14:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/lehman-exits-bats-global-markets-stake.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. gained two
new owners after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s estate exited
its investment in the operator of U.S. and European exchanges.  Private-equity firms Spectrum Equity Investors LP and  TA
Associates  Management LP bought all of Lehman’s stake, according
to a statement from Bats and the investors. Lehman had been the
second-largest Bats owner. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Founded in 2005 by high-frequency traders, Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats operates two  stock exchanges  and an options market in
the U.S. as well as Bats Chi-X  Europe . After becoming an
exchange in 2008, Bats now accounts for almost 10 percent of
daily U.S. stock trading each day, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Bats has established itself as an innovative firm
committed to enhancing market efficiency and leveling the
playing field for all investors,” Chris Mitchell, managing
director at Spectrum Equity who will take a seat on the Bats
board following the deal, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lehman, whose 2008 bankruptcy intensified the global
financial crisis, had planned to sell more Bats shares than any
other owner in the exchange operator’s aborted 2012 initial
public offering. Documents from the IPO showed Lehman wanted to
cut its voting power to 7.7 percent from 12.3 percent. The
latter figure made it the second-biggest Bats owner.  The same regulatory filings showed Getco LLC, which this
year merged with Knight Capital Group Inc. to form KCG Holdings
Inc., was the largest owner with a 15.4 percent voting interest.
Other Bats owners include Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group
AG, Nomura Holdings Inc., Citigroup Inc. and Bats co-founder
 Dave Cummings , according to last year’s IPO documents.  Canceled IPO  Bats canceled its IPO in March 2012. The company’s owners
received $400 million in dividends during the second half of
last year, according to  Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman.
Williams said Bats has no plans for another IPO.  TA Associates’s other  investments  include RGM Advisors LLC,
a quantitative trading firm. Spectrum Equity’s software,
Internet and media  investments  include online food ordering
company Seamless and theater owner AMC Entertainment Inc.  Rosenblatt Securities Inc. advised the private-equity firms
on the transaction, according to the statement from Bats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  