-- Batista’s LLX Rallies as EIG Deal Revives Bets on Port
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-15T21:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/eig-to-take-control-of-batista-s-llx-in-560-million-agreement.html
Eike Batista ’s  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) 
ports unit had its biggest six-day rally in almost five years as
EIG Global Energy Partners LLC’s $560 million offer to take over
control boosts expectation it will complete its main project.  LLX, based in Rio de Janeiro,  jumped  11 percent to 1.67
reais in  Sao Paulo  today, extending gains since Aug. 8 to 90
percent, the most in six days since Nov. 7, 2008.  EIG, the $12.8 billion private-equity fund based in
 Washington , agreed to buy as much as 1.3 billion reais ($560
million) of new shares in LLX for 1.20 reais apiece, 21 percent
below yesterday’s closing price. The fund will become the
controlling shareholder after the transaction and Batista, while
remaining a “relevant shareholder,” will no longer be part of
management, LLX said yesterday.  The deal reassures investors that LLX can complete its Acu
project, which Batista said would be the biggest port in the
Americas, said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 330 million
reais at Leme Investimentos.  “The moment a big international fund comes in, the chances
of things happening are bigger,” Brugger said by telephone from
Florianopolis,  Brazil . “His companies need a credibility
shock.”  Funds raised through the deal, together with existing
credit lines, will provide the company with sufficient funding
for the construction of the Acu “superport,” LLX said
yesterday.  “This fits the strategy of funding the company, even
though it dilutes shareholders, and could bring credibility
back,” Marcelo Muller, a partner at AEM Capital, a Rio-based
private-equity firm, said by phone. “With EIG there’s somebody
who can put cash in the company.”  ‘Tropical Rotterdam’  Batista compared the Acu project with Rotterdam,  Europe ’s
busiest port, in a message on his Twitter account March 23. “It
will become the tropical Rotterdam,” he said.  The former billionaire is raising cash and selling pieces
of his energy, commodities and logistics companies after his
estimated fortune plummeted from $34.5 billion in March of last
year to less than $1 billion on missed production and profit
targets. LLX is developing the Acu project in Rio state.  Batista’s stake in LLX will probably drop to about 21
percent after the deal and minority shareholders’ stake will
fall to about 11 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Fernando Abdalla and Carlos Louro said in a note to clients today. He
currently controls the company through a 29.7 percent direct
stake plus 23.8 percent held by his Centennial Asset Mining Fund
LLC, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘World Class’  LLX will go through a “transformational period” after the
deal, while preserving its current strategy, Chief Executive
Officer Marcus Berto said on a call today. The capital increase
is expected to be completed in two to three months, Berto said.  “Acu is a world class asset and will be a critical piece
of infrastructure in allowing Brazil to realize its energy and
resource potential,” EIG Chief Executive Officer R. Blair Thomas said in a statement today. “We are pleased to provide
the missing piece of capital necessary to bring this important
project to completion.”  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,  Canada ’s third-biggest
retirement-fund manager, is currently LLX’s largest shareholder
after Batista with a 18 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deborah Allan , a fund spokeswoman,
declined to comment on whether it will subscribe to buy new
shares.  Relinquished Rights  As part of the deal, Batista relinquished “free of
charges” his rights to participate in the capital increase, LLX
said. EBX Group Co., the holding company for most of Batista’s
assets, declined to comment on the agreement.  Batista has also decided to cut his stake in iron-ore
producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and a new controlling
shareholder is expected in the short term, Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Gonzalez  told investors on a conference call
today. MMX is in “advanced” stages of negotiations to sell the
company and has received interest from funds, miners and
commodities traders, he said, without naming any potential
buyer.  The LLX deal will allow Batista to reduce the scope of
projects and focus on his money-losing oil unit OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA, said  Adriano Pires , the head of the
Brazilian Center for Infrastructure, a consulting firm in Rio.  “This is good news, but now he will have to solve his big
problem, which is OGX,” Pires said in a phone interview.
“Private-equity firms have more flexibility to get financing.
They will have less pressure than Eike to deliver.”  OGX Losses  OGX’s cash reserves plunged 72 percent as writedowns drove
its second-quarter loss to a record 4.7 billion reais, the Rio-based company said yesterday in a statement. The company had
cash of $326 million at the end of the quarter, almost equal to
its capital spending of $316 million in the period, the company
said.  The oil explorer’s net loss widened from 390 million reais
a year earlier after it wrote off 3.6 billion reais from the
value of four  oil fields  in the Campos Basin, three of which it
plans to return to Brazil’s oil regulator after unsuccessful
exploration, OGX said. The company is selling assets and cutting
costs to help pay interest on its $3.6 billion in international
bonds and finance projects.  OGX  dropped  7.4 percent to 63 centavos, the most in two
weeks, and MMX slumped 6.2 percent.  Evaporating Wealth  Batista, ranked as the world’s eighth-richest person in
early 2012, ceased to be a billionaire last month after Mubadala
Development Co. converted an investment in his companies into
debt, further eroding the value of his assets. The
entrepreneur’s personal wealth now stands at $400 million,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index.  Mubadala Development, the Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund,
is in talks to buy some of Batista’s assets for about $1
billion, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week before the EIG deal announcement.  LLX’s Acu project was originally billed as a $40 billion
industrial complex that would become the world’s third-largest
port, designed to handle 350 million metric tons a year for
clients from iron-ore miners to carmakers.  While LLX has agreements with companies including Anglo
American Plc and Batista’s OSX Brasil SA, prospective deals with
Nissan Motor Co. and steelmaker Ternium SA to set up plants in
the complex failed to materialize.  Separately, Batista’s coal unit CCX Carvao da Colombia SA
said late yesterday that it’s in negotiations to sell the
Canaverales and Papayal projects. No binding agreement has been
signed, according to a CCX regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  