-- Telecom Egypt Says Integrated Mobile License Is Imminent
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-08-14T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/telecom-egypt-says-integrated-mobile-license-is-imminent.html
Telecom Egypt , the country’s
landline phone monopoly, said an integrated license allowing the
company to provide mobile services to boost sales growth is
“imminently around the corner.”  The license that was expected to be issued in mid-July has
been delayed by political upheaval following the ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi on July 3, Telecom  Egypt  Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed Amin El-Nawawy said today in a phone interview.  “We have a near-final draft,” El-Nawawy said. While
“obviously some of the bigger landscape issues that have been
happening in Egypt late in June and July might have slowed
things down a little bit,” the company is “still very
optimistic that the government will soon be deciding a date for
the issuance.”  Telecom Egypt, 80 percent owned by the state, has been
facing revenue pressure as more people switch to mobile service
from fixed-line phones, while slower business activity has led
to fewer calls abroad. Second-quarter revenue from voice
services fell 15 percent from a year earlier, the Cairo-based
company said today.  The government is considering new rules to allow Egypt’s
four telecommunications providers to offer mobile, fixed-line
and broadband services under a single license. The move would
enable the  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services , which operates the
Mobinil brand, as well as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local division
and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ’s Etisalat Misr unit to
offer landlines, while Telecom Egypt would add wireless
services.  Profit Rises  Second-quarter net income jumped 45 percent to 896 million
Egyptian pounds ($128.2 million), Telecom Egypt said today.
Revenue increased 16 percent to 2.8 billion pounds as demand for
data services expanded and the company added lines in new
residential developments. Voice revenue declined to 318 million
pounds while wholesale revenue, which includes domestic and
international transmission and international services to other
operators, increased 27 percent to 1.6 billion pounds.  Telecom Egypt would be ready to provide mobile services
within a few weeks of acquiring the license, as the company has
prepared for technical and customer issues, El-Nawawy said.  “By moving from where we are right now, which is a very
good position in the fixed retail market to a better position in
the total telecom space, I think we will be able to convey
growth,” El-Nawawy said.  Telecom Egypt  fell  as much as 2.2 percent to 13.45 pounds
and was trading down 1.5 percent at 1:02 p.m. The stock has
declined 4.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  