-- Emerging Stocks Rise Led by Oil Producers as Europe Grows
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-14T22:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/emerging-stocks-retreat-as-gold-producers-slump-rupee-weakens.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a fifth day, led by energy producers, as the euro area exited
its longest-ever recession. Forward contracts in the rupee
increased after  India  restricted foreign-exchange outflows.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.2 percent to
967.92. OAO Gazprom and OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s biggest natural-gas producers, jumped more than 1.7 percent.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
gained for a sixth session, its longest winning streak in 11
months.  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index tumbled the most in the world as
police stormed the camps where supporters of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi were gathered. India’s rupee approached a record
low before the government’s announcement.  Stocks gained after data showed that gross domestic product
in the 17-nation euro area rose 0.3 percent in the April-June
period, following a contraction in the previous three months.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke next month will
probably reduce the central bank’s bond purchases, according to
65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Europe exiting a recession would be good,” Michelle Gibley, director of international research at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp., said by phone. Her firm manages
$2.12 trillion in client assets. It helps  emerging markets  to
the extent that they are “export-oriented,” she said. “A
near-term rally is in the cards.”  Seven out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today as commodity companies gained more than 0.4 percent.
The broad measure dropped 8.3 percent this year, compared with a
14 percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The  gauge  of
developing nations is trading at 10.2 times estimated earnings,
below the valuation of developed markets of 13.9.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund added 0.3 percent to $40.10. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 2.3 percent to 21.92.  Brazil’s Ibovespa gained 0.6 percent.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 1.1 percent as Gazprom, Russia’s
natural-gas export monopoly, jumped to the highest level since
March 27. Novatek climbed to a one-month high. Poland’s WIG20
index gained 0.8 percent, while stocks in  Turkey  and the Czech
Republic were little changed.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks advanced for a fourth day as  Tata Steel
Ltd. (TATA) ’s profit surged. The government announced restrictions on
foreign-currency outflows by local companies and individuals
after measures to contain a record current-account deficit and
attract overseas investors failed to steady the rupee. Rupee
forwards rose for the first time in three days.  Chinese Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated for the first time
in four days. Zijin Mining Group Co. slid 1.6 percent after
posting its lowest first-half profit since 2006. Huaneng Power
International Inc. and China Yangtze Power Co. paced declines by
electricity suppliers.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index retreated 1.7 percent, the
biggest drop among 94 benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg. Orascom
Telecom Holding fell the most in three weeks. The bourse and
banks will shut tomorrow, the nation’s exchange said.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.01 percentage point to 321 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  