-- Tencent Net Income Misses Estimates on WeChat Marketing
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-15T02:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/tencent-profit-misses-estimates-on-boost-to-wechat-marketing.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
largest Internet company by market value, posted profit that
missed analyst estimates as it boosted spending on e-commerce
and marketing to compete against Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Net income rose 19 percent to 3.68 billion  yuan  ($601
million) from 3.1 billion yuan a year earlier, the Shenzhen-based company said in a statement. That missed the 3.9 billion-yuan average of six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock fell as much as 5 percent.  Tencent has added games and other new services to its
WeChat instant messaging service, which has more than 300
million users, as it tries to commercialize the app without
charging for access. The company hired soccer superstar  Lionel Messi  to  promote  the app as it counts on its popularity to
compete against Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company.  “Tencent has invited a lot of celebrities to promote
WeChat overseas, that has driven up costs,” said Ricky Lai, an
analyst at Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong
by phone. “Intensified competition in online gaming and the low
margin from e-commerce also dragged down its operating margin.”  Tencent  shares  fell 1.3 percent to HK$365.20 as of 10:09
a.m. in Hong Kong, paring this year’s gain to 47 percent. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index is little changed in 2013.  Group revenue rose 37 percent to 14.4 billion yuan from a
year earlier.  Advertising Revenue  Online advertising revenue climbed 53 percent from the
previous quarter to 1.3 billion yuan, while e-commerce gained 15
percent to 2.2 billion yuan. The cost of revenue, which reflects
merchandise sold and content, rose 11 percent, it said.  Selling and marketing expenses in the June quarter rose 28
percent from the three months ended March to 1.2 billion yuan as
the company boosted activities in international markets and
targeted customers in the U.S.,  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan .  “It’s a longer term investment for them, they really need
to step up the WeChat investment,” John Choi, an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Hong Kong, said by phone. “It’s
an inevitable cost that they have to take right now.”  Competition between Internet companies is intensifying
after Alibaba bought an 18 percent stake in  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo,
a microblogging service that had more than 54 million daily
active users between March and June. Alibaba suspended sellers’
access to WeChat applications this month, while allowing Sina
Weibo users to access its website.  ‘Land-Grab Situation’  “At this point of time, smartphone-based communication
products are in quite a bit of land-grab situation,” President
Martin Lau said on a conference call. “This means if you don’t
spend within a year, you probably are not going to be able to
capture market share.”  More than 84 percent of China’s Internet users regularly
access instant messaging, making it the most popular online
application in the country, followed by  search engines  with
about 80 percent usage, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tencent is investing the most since 2009 on research and
development, building games and other mobile applications to
lure customers who are spending more time on their smartphones
and tablets.  Active users of WeChat rose to 235.8 million in the June
quarter, almost triple the 85.2 million of a year earlier, the
company said. Outside mainland China, registered users crossed
the 100 million mark, with the main markets for the service
including  India ,  Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and  Singapore , Lau said.  Phone Carriers  WeChat, known as Weixin in China, is projected to have at
least 400 million users by the end of this year, Alicia Yap, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong, wrote in a report. If
WeChat provides games and related services, it could generate
annual revenue of as much as 2.16 billion yuan, Yap wrote.  Billionaire Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ma Huateng
said in May that Tencent found “preliminary” solutions for
state-owned carriers concerned that WeChat is eating into their
profits.  WeChat poses a challenge for operators including  China
Mobile Ltd. (941) , where  revenue for text messaging , its most
profitable business, fell 4.8 percent to 44.2 billion yuan last
year.  Tencent’s flagship QQ instant-message service had 819
million monthly active users as of June 30, compared with 784
million a year earlier.  The number of monthly active users that accessed QQ from
smartphones rose more than 200 percent to 478 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  