-- End of Cheap Rice Seen by U.K.’s ODI as Asia Rural Wages Climb
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/end-of-cheap-rice-seen-by-u-k-s-odi-as-asia-rural-wages-climb.html
Cheap rice may be a thing of the
past as production costs climb, driven by rising wages in  Asia 
and higher fertilizer and diesel costs, the U.K.’s Overseas
Development Institute said.  Increased rural wages are “good news” due to the
potential effect on poverty reduction, the London-based ODI
wrote today in an e-mailed report. An estimated 1.3 billion
people in Asia depended on countryside labor for their
livelihoods in 2008, the report showed.  “As wages rise, however, so do the costs of production,”
wrote Steve Wiggins, an ODI research fellow, and Sharada Keats,
research officer at the group. “For consumers who are poor and
for whom rice is their daily staple food, this is bad news.”  Rice prices doubled on the Chicago Board of Trade in the
past two decades. The grain is the developing world’s most
important food crop and a dietary staple for more than half of
the global population, according to the International Rice
Research Institute.  “The costs of producing rice are rising significantly,”
Wiggins and Keats wrote. “The increase in rice prices seen in
the past decade is therefore probably a step change, heralding
the end of cheap rice on the world market.”  Urbanization and expanded manufacturing in Asia are
creating jobs that offer an alternative to low-paid farm work,
meaning farmers must pay more to hire help, the ODI said.  Reserve Army  “For centuries across Asia, rising populations have meant
that there has been a reserve army of labor in rural areas that
would work for low wages,” the authors wrote. “Cheap rice may
have ended, but perhaps more importantly, so too have poverty
wages on the land, at least in some parts of Asia.”  Poor people in parts of Asia who failed to benefit from
economic growth and rising wages make up one of the two main
groups that stand to be affected by higher rice prices,
according to the report. The authors also pointed to consumers
in coastal cities of West Africa who rely on imports of the
grain for part of their diet.  West Africans on low incomes may switch to locally grown
alternatives such as cassava, millet and sorghum, the ODI wrote.
That might give farmers an incentive to produce more for
domestic markets and also encourage efforts to boost rice
cultivation in the region, the report showed.  “If the end of cheap rice from Asia helps West Africa to
fulfil its undoubted potential in rice production, that will be
no bad thing in the long run,” Wiggins and Keats wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  