-- Henkel CEO Sees No Short-Term Catalyst for Europe Rebound
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-08-15T01:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/henkel-ceo-sees-no-short-term-catalyst-for-european-rebound.html
Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer
Kasper Rorsted, whose company makes products from Right Guard
deodorant to Loctite adhesives, said he sees no short-term
catalyst for improvement in  Europe ’s economy.  “The only economy that gives us worries is the European
economy,” with the region’s 28 million unemployed, he said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.
“The U.S. seems to be stable.”  About one-third of the Dusseldorf, Germany-based company’s
second-quarter  sales  came from western Europe. Unlike the U.S.,
Europe can’t rely on  population growth  or lower fuel prices to
help jump-start growth, Rorsted said. The region did get some
positive news yesterday, as European Union data showed that the
euro area’s economy emerged from a record-long recession during
the quarter, led by  Germany  and  France .  In the longer term, a free trade agreement with the U.S.
might provide a solution, the 51-year-old CEO said.  “If I was a politician, I would push very hard in trying
to figure out how to get a trade agreement in place that would
create a million jobs on a continent,” he said. “The U.S. will
have a profound impact on European growth.”  Henkel rose 0.9 percent to 77.71 euros yesterday in
 Frankfurt . The  shares  have gained 25 percent this year as the
German Stock Index advanced 11 percent.  Emerging Markets  Henkel has seen an increasing proportion of its growth
coming from  Russia ,  China  and other  emerging markets . Those
markets helped push second-quarter profit to 660 million euros
($875 million), exceeding analysts’ estimates. Emerging-market
sales rose to 45 percent of the total in the quarter.  Half of Henkel’s business will come from developing markets
within the next four years, Rorsted told Bloomberg Television
last week.  Even with continued growth in emerging markets, Rorsted
said yesterday he expects the U.S. to remain Henkel’s top market
in his lifetime. Germany is the second-largest, followed by
China and Russia.  Faster-growing markets like China and  Turkey  “will get
closer to Germany” in the next few years, “but they will not
get closer to the U.S.,” Rorsted said.  While slower-growing than emerging markets, the U.S. is
less volatile and is the most profitable for consumer products,
he said.  North America  will also be a focus for acquisitions,
Rorsted said. Targets are elusive, though.  M&A Market  “Right now, it is an M&A market with very, very little
activity,” Rorsted said. On the consumer-products side, “it’s
an extremely consolidated market.”  About half  of Henkel’s sales come from its adhesives
business, where they are used everywhere from iPhones to
airplanes. Laundry and household brands like Purex make up
another 28 percent, with the remaining 22 percent coming from
cosmetics and toiletries.  Henkel will consider acquisitions for all three units,
Rorsted said.  “We’re quite bullish on the North American economy in the
long term,” he said. “We think it has much higher growth
potential than Europe” because of lower debt and  unemployment (UMRTEMU) ,
a growing population and better access to energy.  The 17-nation euro area’s gross domestic product rose 0.3
percent in the April-June period after a 0.3 percent contraction
in the previous three months, the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said yesterday. That exceeded the median estimate of
0.2 percent growth in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists
and brought to a close six straight quarters of contraction, the
longest slump since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Southern Europe  Unemployment in southern Europe remains at record rates,
with more than half of young people in Spain and  Greece  out of
work.  Europe does have advantages, Rorsted said, including a
stabilization in private label sales and almost no new
competitors.  “Europe is still a very attractive market for us,” he
said. “It’s just growing slow on the top line and on the bottom
line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  