-- Lenovo Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Smartphone Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-15T10:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/lenovo-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-on-smartphone-gains.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
biggest maker of personal computers, reported first-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates after increasing its global
market share for tablet computers, smartphones and PCs.  Net income  climbed 23 percent to $173.9 million in the
three months ended June from $141.4 million a year earlier,
Lenovo said in a statement today. That exceeded the $167 million
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive officer Yang Yuanqing is seeking
acquisitions as he weathers a global slump in PC demand by
developing mobile devices to lure customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. Lenovo posted the narrowest decline in
shipments among the top five vendors last quarter, helping it
supplant  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  as the largest maker in the period,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. said last month.  “The company is transforming itself from PC-based to
smartphone- and tablet-based,” said Ricky Lai, an analyst at
Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There
is robust demand for tablets and smartphones especially in China
and emerging economies.”  Revenue rose 9.7 percent to $8.79 billion. That compares
with the $8.49 billion average of 16  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lenovo, which has its headquarters in Beijing and
Morrisville, North Carolina,  rose  2.1 percent to close at
HK$7.72 in Hong Kong, the biggest gain since July 11. The  stock 
has climbed 10 percent this year while the city’s Hang Seng
Index is little changed.  Industry Slump  The company will be “proactive” in seeking acquisitions
in computers and smartphones, Yang said in an interview today
without citing specific deals. Yang declined to comment on any
potential interest in parts of  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Lenovo considered targets and alliances, including a deal
with BlackBerry, Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said in
January. Talks to buy parts of IBM’s server division broke down
after the two sides couldn’t agree on a price, a person familiar
with the discussions said in May.  During the June quarter, industrywide personal-computer
shipments dropped for a fifth straight quarter, the longest
losing streak on record, as consumers continued to favor touch-screen tablets and smartphones.  Record Smartphones  Lenovo’s PC unit sales fell 0.6 percent, giving it a market
share of 16.7 percent, compared with HP’s 16.3 percent of the
market after a 4.8 percent drop in shipments, according to
Gartner. Lenovo and HP have been trading the top spot since last
year.  Smartphone shipments by Lenovo more than doubled from a
year earlier to a record 11.4 million units, the company said
today.  “This was driven by strong smartphone demand in  China  and
expansion into more countries outside of China,” it said.  Lenovo, which released its flagship K900 handset in May,
ranked fourth in global smartphone shipments during the quarter,
accounting for 4.7 percent of the market, researcher
International Data Corp. reported last month. The company’s
tablet shipments more than quadrupled in the period to rank
fourth, with a 3.3 percent share of the total, IDC said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  