-- ENRC Faces Early Repayment of $1.2 Billion Debt After Takeover
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-08-14T11:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/enrc-faces-early-repayment-of-1-2-billion-debt-after-takeover.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ,
the subject of a takeover bid by its founders and  Kazakhstan ,
may have to pay $1.2 billion of its debt early once the
transaction is complete.  The company could be forced to pay about $500 million to
clear a revolving credit facility, $500 million to redeem
promissory notes and about $200 million in financing, Chief
Financial Officer Zaure Zaurbekova said on a call with reporters
today. The final amount will depend on the outcome of talks with
lenders, Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis said on the call.  ENRC’s founders  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and
Alijan Ibragimov in June offered $2.65 in cash and 0.23 of
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  stock for each share to take the company private.
Investors in the ferroalloy company have until Aug. 28 to accept
the offer after shareholders of Kazakhmys, which owns 26 percent
of the producer, on Aug. 2 voted in favor of the transaction.  The takeover “may trigger change-of-control clauses in
various loan facilities and other arrangements existing across
the group,” ENRC said. “These change-of-control clauses
generally allow the lender to demand repayment within 14 days.”  The company had net debt of $5.45 billion at the end of
June, it said in a statement today.  “The most relevant” debt is the $500 million promissory
note owed to  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a note to investors.  First Quantum  In 2010, ENRC took control of copper and cobalt mines in
 Democratic Republic  of Congo that Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler acquired from the nation’s government following their
seizure from First Quantum.  First Quantum sued ENRC, which settled in 2012 and agreed
to pay $1.25 billion for First Quantum’s share of the assets.
The deal consisted of $750 million cash payment on closing and a
deferred payment of $500 million in the form of a three-year
promissory note with an interest coupon of 3 percent.  “The announcement of the bid has created a degree of
uncertainty regarding the going concern of” ENRC, the company
said in the statement. “Management considers the risk of a
material issue to be low given the execution of backstop
arrangements by the bidding consortium.”  ENRC today announced that first-half profit declined 55
percent to $221 million on lower prices of ferroalloy, used in
steelmaking, and higher costs of financing. Sales slid 1.1
percent to $3.2 billion. It sold ferroalloys 11 percent lower
than a year earlier, while the cost of sales rose 9 percent to
to $1.92 billion in the period. ENRC won’t pay dividends.  ENRC booked an impairment charge of $161 million, mainly on
the value of Boss Mining, its copper and cobalt unit in Congo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  