-- Metalist Kharkiv Disqualified From Soccer’s Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-14T17:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/metalist-kharkiv-disqualified-from-soccer-s-champions-league.html
Ukrainian soccer club Metalist
Kharkiv has been disqualified from the  Champions League  for its
link to a match-fixing case.  Metalist was to play Germany’s Schalke in the Champions
League playoffs beginning next week. Its place will now be taken
by PAOK of  Greece , which lost to Metalist in the previous round,
European soccer’s governing body UEFA said in a  statement .  Metalist said in a  statement  on its website it will appeal
the decision to the Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for
Sport (CAS).  “We regret that such a sanction was applied, and we do not
agree with it, that’s why today we plan to appeal to the Court
of Arbitration for Sport,” club Vice President Kostyantyn
Pyvovarov said. “Also, we have appealed to the  Supreme Court  of
 Switzerland  with the application for suspension of CAS
decision.”  UEFA opened proceedings last week after the CAS upheld the
Ukrainian soccer federation’s five-year suspension of Metalist
sports director Yevhen Krasnikov for match-fixing in 2008.  Fight for Rights  “I want to remind you that the contract match, which
allegedly took place, was held back in 2008, with the old owners
of the club,” Pyvovarov said. “At the same time, Metalist has
won the right to participate in the Champions League 2013/14 in
a fair fight. Our team, our fans deserve to take part in the
main football competition in  Europe . I want to assure fans that
we will fight for the rights of the club and protect them in
accordance with all legal requirements.”  Metalist was one of two teams in the playoffs facing
possible sanction over match-rigging allegations. Turkish club
Fenerbahce’s meeting with Arsenal of English Premier League is
subject to a CAS ruling over a UEFA ban handed down last month.
CAS is expected to rule on the Turkish club’s appeal after the
playoffs begin Aug. 20.  UEFA said PAOK will not be replaced in the playoffs of the
second-tier Europa League and that its opponent Maccabi Tel-Aviv
will now go directly into the group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 