-- Excess Capital Targets Cheap Banks as Denmark Exits Slump
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-15T12:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/excess-capital-targets-cheap-banks-as-denmark-emerges-from-slump.html
After hoarding capital,  Denmark ’s
biggest banks are absorbing their smaller rivals in what has
become a recipe for growth even as the economy stagnates.  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s biggest listed lender after
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said yesterday it has enough reserves to take
over more than $4 billion in bank assets. Lasse Nyby, chief
executive officer of the fourth-largest lender,  Spar Nord Bank
A/S (SPNO) , said he’s on the lookout again after buying Sparbank A/S
last year. His bank has 66 percent more capital than it needs to
meet regulatory requirements.  “We still have capital so there is room to do more,” Nyby
said yesterday by phone. “We would have preferred for lending
to grow but if something interesting comes up, we are also
interested in expanding the business through acquisitions.”  Banks are looking for ways to generate profits after
spending the past few years building capital buffers to comply
with tougher rules. Yet as  interest rates  remain close to record
lows and economic growth stays weak, lenders have struggled to
boost income. In Denmark, the economy contracted 0.5 percent
last year and didn’t grow in the first quarter. The nation has
yet to emerge from the fallout of its 2008 burst housing bubble
and a spate of  bank failures  that have pummeled  consumer
confidence .  “We need to see some growth in the general economy to get
our loan and guarantees to increase in an organic way,” Karsten Dahl, Jyske Bank head of accounting, said yesterday in an
interview. “So acquisitions must be the thing we rely on for
the time being.”  Paying Off  The strategy is paying off. Jyske, which in January
purchased Sparekassen Lolland after it failed a regulatory
inspection, yesterday reported second-quarter net income that
beat analyst estimates by 69 percent.  Efforts to expand its client base are proving popular with
investors and the bank’s shares have soared 70 percent this
year. Spar Nord shares are up 63 percent, compared with a 13
percent increase in Bloomberg’s 44-member index of European
financial stocks.  Jyske gained 0.9 percent to 267.20 kroner as of 2:51 p.m.
in Copenhagen. Spar Nord slipped 0.7 percent to 42.10 kroner.  The government has urged the nation’s capital-strong banks
to absorb rivals at risk of insolvency in an effort to sidestep
bail-in legislation that’s triggered when banks fail. Denmark in
2011 became the first European Union nation to test a resolution
model that forces losses on senior creditors.  Teaming Up  Smaller banks are also teaming up to consolidate their
costs and gain access to more customers.  Lollands Bank A/S (LOLB)  and
 Vordingborg Bank A/S (VORD)  said yesterday they plan to merge to boost
profitability. The merged bank will have a solvency ratio of
16.9 percent, versus a 10.8 percent individual requirement.  Spar Nord yesterday reported a solvency ratio of 16.8
percent, compared with its requirement of 10.1 percent. Jyske
Bank reported a ratio of 15.6 percent and a 9.9 percent
requirement.  Jyske Bank, based in Silkeborg in western Denmark, has
amassed excess reserves after selling shares and is ready to
increase its risk-weighted assets by 24 billion kroner ($4.26
billion) through purchases of local lenders that approach it,
Dahl said.  “If we are going to do anything that is above 24 billion
kroner, then we have to go to the  capital markets  as well,” he
said. “We need to see some growth in the general economy to get
our loan and guarantees to increase in an organic way. So
acquisitions must be the thing we rely on for the time being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  