-- Mexico Bonds Slump After Oil Plan Stops Short of Rival Proposal
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-14T15:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/mexico-bonds-slump-after-oil-plan-stops-short-of-rival-proposal.html
Mexico ’s peso-denominated bonds
slumped for a third day on concern President Enrique Pena Nieto’s energy-industry revamp won’t spur as much private
investment as an opposition party proposal.  Yields on benchmark debt maturing in 2024 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.01 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They’ve climbed 23 basis points this
week, leaving yields at the highest since July 31. The peso was
little changed at 12.7283 per dollar.  Mexican assets have slumped since Pena Nieto presented an
energy reform proposal on Aug. 12 calling for opening Petroleos
Mexicanos to more investment by giving producers profit-sharing
contracts that provide less control over the oil than
concessions proposed by an opposition party. Foreign investors
had boosted holdings of peso-denominated, fixed-rate bonds to a
record in May in part on speculation that Mexico would approve
legal changes to bring faster growth and foreign investment that
could result in credit-rating upgrades.  “Markets didn’t take the energy reform very well,” Jose Carreno, a bond trader at Banco Base SA, said in a telephone
interview from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. “They’re seeing
it as not sufficiently comprehensive or aggressive, or that it
doesn’t do enough to bring foreigners in.”  Pena Nieto’s administration says measures that include a
push for constitutional changes that seek to promote investment
will boost economic growth by 2 percentage points by 2025.
Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said yesterday in an interview
with MVS Radio that “this is a model that keeps the property
and profit and that will allow us to attract capital to develop
the sector,” according to a transcript.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  