-- Fed to Keep Funds Rate on Hold Longer Than Forecast, Gross Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-14T18:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/fed-to-keep-funds-rate-on-hold-longer-than-forecast-gross-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  expects the  Federal Reserve  to keep  borrowing rates 
at historic lows longer than the central bank has forecast to
avoid disrupting leveraged global financial markets.  “When there is a lot of leverage in the economy, a central
bank must tread lightly in terms of increasing  interest rates ,”
Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen. “We think the Fed stays where they are, at 25 basis
points, for a long, long time. Perhaps 2016 and beyond.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 to help the economy recover from the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in June that “a very strong majority of
FOMC participants still expect rates to be quite low at the end
of 2015.”  Investors should buy  Treasury securities  maturing in five
years or less, shunning longer maturity debt as the Fed
transitions away from asset purchases in favor of forward
guidance, or announcements on short-term interest rate policies,
as their primary monetary easing tool, Gross said.  “The historic raising of interest rates to countermand
higher inflationary threats is a thing of the past,” said
Gross, the founder and co-chief investment officer of  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco.  Taper Speculation  The shift in the Fed’s approach is a reverse from its
Operation Twist program, where the central bank sold short-term
debt and bought and equal amount of long-term Treasuries to keep
borrowing costs low, according to Gross. There is an 80 percent
chance that the Fed will begin tapering its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases in September, Gross said.  “Quantitative easing is a tired horse which has inflated
asset prices, but does little to stimulate real growth,” Gross
said. “The Fed wants the market to buy one- to five-year
securities with the comfort of forward guidance.”  Fed funds futures show a 50 percent likelihood that the Fed
will raise borrowing costs by the central bank’s January 2015
meeting, up from a 21.7 percent probability a month ago.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.6 percent in 2013, according
to 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after growing 2.66
percent over the past 20 years. U.S. consumer prices advanced 2
percent in July from a year earlier, quickening from 1.8 percent
in June, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
the Labor Department reports the number tomorrow. Excluding food
and energy costs, prices advanced 1.7 percent. The Fed’s
inflation target is 2 percent.  Fund Flows  Pimco is preparing for an era of lower fixed-income returns
after unprecedented investor deposits into bonds since 2008,
which helped the firm more than double assets to $2 trillion in
the past five years. That trend may be reversing as investors
pulled money from Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  for three
straight months following a selloff in debt markets, triggered
by Bernanke’s comments that the central bank may pare back bond
purchases.  Under Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco has
been expanding into stocks and bond strategies that can weather
the impact of rising interest rates and declining market
returns. Those shifts didn’t insulate Pimco from record
withdrawals in June, when investors pulled $14.5 billion from
the firm’s U.S. mutual funds, according to Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago . Clients have removed $18.7 billion from Gross’s Total
Return fund since May, Morningstar estimates.  Gross’s $262 billion Pimco Total Return Fund has declined
2.82 percent this year, trailing 66 percent of rivals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the
fund has advanced 7.29 percent, beating 89 percent of peers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  