-- Fed’s Bullard Urges Caution With Too-Optimistic Forecasts
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-08-14T21:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/fed-s-bullard-urges-caution-with-too-optimistic-forecasts-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who has backed continued bond purchases
by the Fed, said policy makers should be careful in changing
course based solely on their economic forecasts, which have
proven in the past to be too rosy.  Federal Open Market Committee forecasts “have tended to be
too optimistic over the last several years,” Bullard, who votes
on monetary policy this year, said today in the text of prepared
slides for a speech in Paducah,  Kentucky . “Given this
experience, I think caution is warranted in taking policy action
based on forecasts alone.”  Fed officials are debating when to begin scaling back a
third round of asset purchases as the U.S. labor market heals
and inflation remains below their 2 percent goal. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  next month will probably begin to reduce the central
bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The resolution of the tapering debate will depend on
additional macroeconomic data from the second half of 2013,”
Bullard said in remarks similar to an Aug. 2 speech in  Boston .
“It is especially important to see if better macroeconomic
growth materializes in the months and quarters ahead, and
whether inflation naturally returns toward target.”  Hasn’t Decided  Bullard told reporters after his speech he hadn’t decided
whether he would favor slowing bond buying in September.  “I have not made up my mind,” he said, adding it’s
unclear what options will be presented or what Bernanke will
recommend. “I wouldn’t want to prejudge the meeting.”  Bullard said while he sees “clear improvement” in job
markets, other factors might make him hesitate to slow
purchases.  “I would be happy to claim there has been substantial
improvement in labor markets,” he told reporters. “The bigger
question marks are on growth and inflation.”  The FOMC’s first tapering may be small, with monthly
purchases reduced by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace,
according to the median estimate in a survey of 48 economists
conducted Aug. 9-13. The Fed will end the buying by mid-2014,
they said. In a survey last month, half of economists predicted
a reduction in bond buying at the next scheduled FOMC meeting
Sept. 17-18.  June Dissent  Bullard backed an FOMC decision in July to keep buying $85
billion in bonds each month after saying in a June 19 dissent
that the committee needed to defend against inflation running
too far below its 2 percent target. The FOMC echoed Bullard’s
concern in its July 31 statement, saying “persistently” low
price gains “pose risks” to the economy.  The St. Louis Fed chief has been a leading voice for open-ended quantitative easing, with no set end date and the size of
purchases varying in response to changes in economic data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  