-- Fed Given Week by Judge to Respond on New Swipe-Fee Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-14T17:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/fed-given-week-by-judge-to-respond-on-new-swipe-fee-rules.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve was given a
week to tell a federal judge its position on immediately
rewriting regulations setting debit card swipe fees in the wake
of a court found the current rule unlawful.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington today
ordered Fed General Counsel  Scott Alvarez  to appear in his
courtroom on Aug. 21 after a lawyer for the Fed said it hadn’t
made any decisions on how to replace the current rule, or
whether to appeal the judge’s ruling.  “They’ve had their briefings,” Leon said. “They know
what the state of play is. It’s time to make decisions.”  Earlier in the hearing, Leon laid out a timeline that would
put a final interim rule in place by the end of the month. An
interim final rule takes effect immediately before any public
comments are accepted.  Today’s hearing comes two weeks after retailers battling
banks over debit-card transaction costs were handed a victory by
Leon in  Washington , who said merchants were overcharged billions
of dollars under an unlawful swipe fee set by the Fed.  The decision, unless overturned on appeal, will force
regulators to revisit rules that bankers said would cost them
45 percent of their swipe-fee revenue. Lenders collected about
$16 billion annually from those fees before the Fed’s regulation
and responded by cutting back on perks such as rewards programs
and free checking to soften the blow to their profits.  Wrong Data  In his July 31 ruling, Leon said that the Fed considered
data it wasn’t allowed to use under the Dodd-Frank law in
setting the cap on debit-card transaction fees, known as swipe
fees, at about 21 cents, and neglected to bolster competition in
card networks.  Leon is considering whether the Fed’s rule, in effect since
October 2011, should remain in place until the central bank
drafts new regulations or interim standards.  While noting the Fed has 60 days to appeal his ruling, Leon
said he wouldn’t wait that long to make a decision about a new
rule.  “I’m not going to sit around and do nothing for 60 days,”
Leon said.  The judge also asked lawyers for both sides to submit
filings on whether the retailers could be reimbursed for their
overcharges.  The case is NACS v. Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, 11-cv-02075, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  