-- Fed Says U.S. Household Debt Declined 0.7% During Second Quarter
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-08-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/fed-says-u-s-household-debt-declined-0-7-during-second-quarter.html
U.S.  household debt  fell 0.7 percent
during the second quarter as a drop in mortgage balances
outpaced a rise in borrowing to finance cars and education,
according to a Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey.  Consumer indebtedness declined $78 billion to $11.15
trillion, according to a quarterly report on household debt and
credit released today by the Fed district bank. Mortgage
balances decreased $91 billion to $7.84 trillion and home-equity
lines of credit fell by $12 billion to $540 billion.  Rising stock prices and a rebounding housing market have
bolstered household finances, boosting confidence and  consumer
spending . Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in July, the fourth
consecutive monthly increase, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday in  Washington . Americans have slashed their debt from
a peak of $12.68 trillion in the third quarter of 2008,
according to the  New York  Fed.  “Although overall debt declined in the second quarter,
households did increase non-housing debt, led by rising auto
loan balances,” Andrew Haughwout, vice president and research
economist at the district bank, said in a statement.
“Furthermore, households improved their overall delinquency
rates for the seventh straight quarter, an encouraging sign
going forward.”  Non-housing borrowing increased by 0.9 percent as car-loan
balances rose by $20 billion, and student-loan and credit-card
borrowing each increased by $8 billion, the report said. Auto-loan debt has grown by $108 billion in the last nine quarters,
according to the New York Fed.  Delinquency rates continued to decline in the second
quarter, with 7.6 percent of outstanding debt in “some stage of
delinquency,” down from 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
New York Fed said. There were 380,000 new bankruptcies during
the second quarter, 4.8 percent fewer than in the same period in
2012.  The New York Fed said the report is based on data compiled
by the bank’s Consumer Credit Panel, a nationally representative
random sample from  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  credit-report data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  