-- Fonterra Executive Gary Romano Resigns After Botulism Scare
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-14T05:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/fonterra-executive-gary-romano-resigns-after-botulism-scare.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said
the executive responsible for  New Zealand  milk products quit
after a contamination scare that saw the world’s biggest dairy
exporter facing product bans in  China  and other key markets.  Gary Romano, managing director of New Zealand Milk
Products, resigned with immediate effect, the Auckland-based
company said today. Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings will
assume interim responsibility for the day-to-day operations of
Romano’s division, it said.  Romano fronted news conferences after the crisis erupted on
Aug. 3 while Spierings was in China to address the concerns of
the company’s biggest customer. Romano was forced to apologize
on Aug. 5 for giving misleading information about which baby
formula products were affected by the potential contamination in
New Zealand.  New Zealand Milk Products is the unit that processes milk
into butter, cheese, milk powder and a range of products
including whey protein concentrate. Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that
batches of the concentrate may contain a bacteria that could
cause botulism.  The company’s board has established a committee to oversee
an independent inquiry into the circumstances that gave rise to
the scare and subsequent events, Chairman  John Wilson  said Aug.
12. Wilson said he had “complete confidence” that Spierings
made the right decisions “but that there are serious lessons
that need to be learnt.”  Spierings is conducting an operational inquiry into how the
contamination, traced to a poorly cleaned pipe at a North Island
plant, occurred. The government is planning a ministerial
inquiry, and the Ministry for Primary Industries will also
review how Fonterra responded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  