-- Forint Weakens Third Day as GDP Growth Slows: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-14T08:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/forint-weakens-third-day-as-gdp-growth-slows-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened for a third day
as data showed  Hungary ’s economy expanded less than forecast in
the second quarter, fueling speculation the central bank will
continue lowering  interest rates .  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 298.91 per
euro by 9:48 a.m. in Budapest, extending the decline in the past
three days to 0.9 percent. Yields on the government’s 10-year
bonds were little changed at 6.19 percent after climbing five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, yesterday.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.1 percent from the
previous three months, the Budapest-based statistics office said
today. That compares with a 0.3 percent median forecast by five
economists in a Bloomberg survey and a revised 0.6 percent in
the first quarter. Combined with an unexpected slowing of
inflation in figures published yesterday, the GDP trends
indicate the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will continue “gradually”
easing monetary policy, said Timothy Ash, a London-based
economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “The market is slightly disappointed with this,” Ash
wrote by e-mail on the GDP data.  ‘Weak’ Momentum  The central bank cut its benchmark  rate  for a 12th month in
July to a record 4 percent as inflation stayed near a 39-year
low after government-mandated reductions in household energy
tariffs.  Policy makers have said they may reduce borrowing costs by
as much as a further 1 percentage point as price growth remains
below the bank’s 3 percent target even as the economy recovers
from a 2012 recession.  “What the second-quarter figures are really showing is
that the momentum is still weak in the economy,” Zsolt Kondrat,
a Budapest-based economist at MKB Bank, a unit of  Bayerische
Landesbank , wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  