-- French Economy Posts Best Quarter Since Hollande Took Power
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-14T06:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/french-economy-posts-best-quarter-since-hollande-took-power.html
The French economy posted its best
quarterly expansion since President  Francois Hollande  came to
power in May 2012 as recovering  consumer spending  and exports
lifted factory output.  Gross domestic product  grew 0.5 percent in the three months
through June, after shrinking in the two previous quarters,
national statistics office Insee said in an e-mailed statement
today in Paris. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was a 0.2 percent expansion.  Hollande, who is battling unemployment at a 14-year high
and struggling to contain the  budget deficit , began trumpeting
an exit from recession last week in a bid to instill confidence
among consumers and executives. The Socialist president will
need the economy to pick up substantially if he is to keep a
pledge to reverse a 26-month increase in  jobless claims ,
economists said.  “France’s competitiveness hasn’t improved at all,  consumer
confidence  is still very low and Hollande’s pledge to reverse a
rise in unemployment has amounted to nothing so far,”  Jennifer
McKeown , an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said
before the release. “It’s much too soon to declare a
recovery.”  The euro erased a decline after the French numbers. The
currency traded little changed at $1.3269 at 8:25 a.m. in Paris.  Europe ’s second-largest economy has barely grown in more
than two years. The last time GDP exceeded today’s rate was in
the first quarter of 2011, when the economy expanded 1.1
percent, according to Insee data through yesterday.  Exports, Consumers  Today’s numbers showed consumer spending advancing 0.4
percent and exports rising 2 percent in the quarter. Total
domestic demand contributed 0.3 points to the GDP advance, while
inventory building added 0.2 points. Including imports, the
impact of international trade on growth was neutral, after
representing a 0.2 percent drag in the first quarter.  The  International Monetary Fund  urged Hollande this month
to ease the pace of deficit reduction in an effort to support
growth. It predicted that  France ’s GDP will shrink 0.1 percent
in the whole of 2013 before expanding 0.8 percent next year.  A record 3.2 million people are looking for work in France,
according to Labor Ministry statistics, while the  unemployment
rate  stands at 10.8 percent, the highest since early 1999.  All of that has weighed on Hollande’s popularity. Only 27
percent of voters approve of his performance, less than any of
his predecessors in the job under France’s current constitution,
according to an Ifop poll for the Journal du Dimanche published
July 21.  So with industrial production up 1.4 percent in the second
quarter and business confidence at a 15-month high, Hollande has
jumped on the prospect of good news.  “The economy is starting to show favorable signs,” he
said Aug. 8. Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  followed up three
days later, saying “growth is taking root” and declaring the
nation’s recession over.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  