-- Gagfah Profit Declines as Company Sells Homes to Pay Debt
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-14T16:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/gagfah-profit-declines-as-company-sells-apartments-to-pay-debt.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) , the second-biggest owner
of German homes, said first-half profit fell 4 percent after
rental income declined as the company sold assets to repay debt.  Funds from operations excluding property sales, a measure
of a real estate company’s ability to generate cash, slid to
47.7 million euros ($63 million) from 49.8 million euros a year
earlier, the Luxembourg-based company said in a statement today.
Gagfah repeated its FFO forecast for 2013 and said growth for
next year will be higher than it previously expected.  Gagfah has focused on raising money to refinance debt and
overhauling its strategy in the past 12 months. In July,
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  cut its stake to less than 50
percent as part of a transaction through which Gagfah also sold
shares.  The debt refinancing and a plan to improve Gagfah’s
properties show the company is “well on track to become a more
conventional residential company,” Andre Remke, an analyst at
Baader Bank with a buy rating on the stock, said in a research
note today.  Gagfah was up 8.6 percent at 9.6 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in  Frankfurt , the biggest gain since March
2012. The shares have risen 8.3 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 2.1 billion euros.  Raised Forecast  FFO per share will increase by 5 percent to 10 percent this
year and by at least 25 percent next year, the company said.
Gagfah previously forecast an increase of as much as 12.5
percent for 2014.  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Zinnoecker, who joined the
company in April, said the following month that he plans to
spend more on maintaining and modernizing apartments to increase
their value.  “With both the successful recent capital increase and the
accomplished refinancing projects, Gagfah has significantly
enhanced its financial headroom going forward,” the company
said. “A significant amount of the savings from lower  interest
rates  will be invested in the portfolio to drive asset value
growth and operating performance.”  Fewer Apartments  Rental income declined to 277.5 million euros from 283.6
million euros a year earlier. Net income dropped to 900,000
euros from 25.3 million euros on higher refinancing costs.
Gagfah owns about 144,000 apartments in German cities including
Berlin and Dresden, 4,500 fewer than a year ago.  Gagfah has almost finished a review to determine which
apartments should be sold and which should be modernized, the
company said.  “We have identified great investment opportunities in
fast-growing cities like Berlin, Hamburg and Dresden,”
Zinnoecker said in the statement. “With our new strategy, which
focuses on operational improvements in our portfolio, we believe
there is a significant upside.”  Gagfah had more than 3.4 billion euros of debt coming due
this year, most of which it refinanced by getting a loan from
 Bank of America Corp.  and by issuing a commercial mortgage-backed security.  Gagfah, which hasn’t paid a dividend since 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, expects to resume payments with a
dividend for 2014, Zinnoecker said on a conference call with
analysts and reporters.  Over the coming years, Gagfah will target a dividend yield
of between 3 percent and 4 percent, although the 2014 dividend
will likely be lower as the company focuses on upgrading its
portfolio.  “We wouldn’t pay out money that we need for capital
expenditure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  