-- German, French Growth Helps Euro Region Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-14T06:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/german-french-growth-helps-euro-region-recovery.html
Europe ’s two largest economies
expanded more than economists predicted in the second quarter,
helping to pull the euro area out of its longest-ever recession.  German  gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent from the
first quarter, when it stagnated, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said today. The French economy grew 0.5 percent,
posting its best quarterly expansion since President  Francois Hollande  came to power in May 2012. Economists predicted growth
of 0.6 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively, according to
Bloomberg News surveys. GDP results for the 17-nation euro-area
will be published at 11:00 a.m. in Luxembourg.  The euro rose after the reports and traded at $1.3271 at
8:40 a.m. in Frankfurt. Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 index
increased 0.3 percent.  Faster growth in the region’s two largest economy probably
coaxed the currency bloc out of a six-quarter slump, supporting
the  European Central Bank ’s prediction of a gradual recovery in
the second half. At the same time, unemployment in the euro area
remains at a record high of 12.1 percent and the Bundesbank
expects a slowdown in Germany later this year.  “We’ve seen many positive surprises in the second quarter
and data this morning confirm that the  euro zone  is out of
recession,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in
Frankfurt. “There’s no guarantee that there won’t be setbacks
in the future. But the ECB’s baseline scenario is materializing
and that means rate cuts are off the table for now.”  Low Rates  The Frankfurt-based central bank pledged last month to keep
 interest rates  low for an extended period and left its benchmark
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Second-quarter growth in Germany was primarily driven by
domestic demand, the statistics office said. Private and
government consumption both increased from the first quarter,
investment activity picked up and net trade also contributed to
growth, it said.  France’s expansion was lifted by a recovery in consumer
spending and exports, the national statistics office Insee said.  Economic confidence in the euro area increased for a third
month in July. Manufacturing expanded for the first time in two
years, according to a survey among  purchasing managers  by
London-based Markit Economics. While the overall outlook has
improved, the recession has left almost one in four young people
in the region without a job, and parts of southern Europe remain
mired in a slump.  Economists predict the 17-nation euro economy expanded 0.2
percent, according to a  separate Bloomberg News survey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  