-- GVK Says Australian Alpha Coal Mine Order Book Oversubscribed
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-08-14T03:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/gvk-says-australian-alpha-coal-mine-order-book-oversubscribed.html
India’s GVK Group said the order
book for the Alpha thermal coal project in Australia is
oversubscribed as the company seeks financing for an $11 billion
mine, rail and port development.  Nineteen potential buyers from nine countries have made
purchase commitments including letters of intent and memoranda
of understanding for more than 40 million metric tons from the
project in Queensland’s Galilee Basin, said Paul Mulder, the
managing director of coal and infrastructure of GVK Hancock, the
company’s Australian unit. Construction is planned to start next
year with first exports as early as 2016, Mulder said in an
interview in Brisbane yesterday.  GVK and India’s  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  are among companies
proposing to spend more than $25 billion to ship the fuel from
the Galilee to Asia, even as producers such as Glencore Xstrata
Plc shelve projects as prices decline. Australia, the world’s
second-largest supplier of the power-station fuel, is forecast
to ship 183 million tons this year.  “Korea, Japan and China are up there,” Mulder said at his
office in the capital of Queensland state, adding that the
project has also attracted interest from buyers in  Taiwan , the
 Philippines , Malaysia, Thailand, India and  Vietnam . “They are
all vying for a big slice of the action.”  The Alpha mine will be able to ship coal at a cost of $55 a
ton, Mulder said. Prices at Newcastle  Australia , the benchmark
for Asia, have  slipped  as much as 19 percent in 2013 to trade at
$76.10 this month, the lowest since November 2009, data from IHS
McCloskey show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  