-- Liberty Global-Kabel BW Merger Antitrust Approval Toppled
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-08-14T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/liberty-global-kabel-bw-merger-antitrust-approval-overturned.html
Liberty Global  Plc.’s antitrust
clearance to buy cable operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH
was overturned by a court that said the competition authority
didn’t demand tough enough concessions.  The Dusseldorf Higher Regional Court sided with  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , which challenged the deal’s approval by  Germany ’s
Federal Cartel Office. The regulator must review the merger
again and take a new decision unless today’s ruling is
overturned on appeal, the court said in an e-mailed statement.  “The concessions provided for by the Federal Cartel Office
aren’t fit to make up for the increase of the market-dominating
position because of the merger,” the court said.  Liberty Global bought Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany’s
third-largest cable operator, from EQT Partners in March 2011
for about 3.16 billion euros ($4.19 billion), to benefit from
demand for broadband  Internet access  via cable. The company two
years earlier bought Unitymedia, Germany’s second-largest cable
operator, for about 2 billion euros and assumed 1.5 billion
euros in debt.  While the German market is “for now” characterized by
providers that act only in specific regions, without the merger
Kabel BW could have extended its activities to Unitymedia’s
territory, increasing competition, the court said. With the
merger, Unitymedia’s dominant position in the market was
increased, the judges said.  ‘Highly Unlikely’  If today’s ruling stands and the regulator reviews the deal
again, the Cartel Office must examine whether it’s possible to
clear it “under changed conditions,” the court said. If that’s
not possible, the merger has to be unwound, according to the
tribunal.  “It’s definitely a negative for Liberty Global and it adds
uncertainty, but it’s highly unlikely you’d see the entire deal
being unhinged,” said Stuart Gordon, a media analyst at
Berenberg Bank in  London . At most, stricter remedies could be
put in place, including Liberty Global being forced to give
access to its network, he said.  “It’s not that Deutsche Telekom was predicated on stopping
the deal, but it felt the remedies being called for were too
lenient,” he said.  Liberty Global will use all legal means available to appeal
the ruling at Germany’s top civil court, the company said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Far Reaching’  The antitrust regulator said in 2011 it cleared the deal
because Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global made “far-reaching” concessions. They included removing basic encryption
of digital free television programs as well as enabling
competitors to bid on contracts with housing associations, which
make up a large part of sales, the  Federal Cartel Office  said at
the time.  “We viewed the merger very critically and approved it only
under very far-reaching and market-opening concessions,” Olaf
Wrede, a spokesman for the Bonn-based antitrust regulator, said
in an e-mail. “The court now goes a step further. We will wait
for the written judgment and will then decide on how to
proceed.”  Liberty Global Chairman  John Malone  has faced obstacles in
 Europe  before. His first attempts at buying European cable
assets were thwarted. German regulators in 2002 halted his
attempt to buy Deutsche Telekom’s television infrastructure,
while attempts to acquire U.K. operators NTL Inc. and Telewest
Communications Plc were resisted by bondholders.  Internet Traffic  He then turned to other markets, acquiring assets beginning
with UPC in the Netherlands. In the years that followed, cable
evolved from a medium for TV consumption to one that could
handle phone and Internet traffic, the latter at speeds that
often trumped the networks that phone companies could muster.
Liberty Global this year bought U.K. pay-TV provider  Virgin
Media  for $16 billion.  In an interview last month, Malone admitted defeat to
Vodafone Plc, which outbid Liberty Global for Germany’s biggest
cable company,  Kabel Deutschland  Holdings AG.  Liberty Global sought to trump Vodafone’s bid for Germany’s
biggest cable company. Vodafone topped Liberty Global’s offer,
which was also undermined on concern the competition regulator
would be more likely to authorize Vodafone, which had no local
assets. Kabel Deutschland’s board advised shareholders to accept
Vodafone’s offer. They have until Sept. 11 to decide.  Kabel Deutschland today reported quarterly earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates as premium-television growth fell
short of expectations.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 217 million euros was less than the 226.6
million-euro average estimate of seven analysts. The acquisition
of Kabel Deutschland is a key element of Newbury, England-based
Vodafone’s ambition to expand beyond wireless service.  Kabel Deutschland fell less than 1 percent to 84.70 euros
in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@Bloomberg.net . 