-- IBM Wins Biggest U.S. Cloud-Computing Contract After CIA Loss
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-08-14T21:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/ibm-wins-biggest-u-s-cloud-computing-contract-after-cia-loss.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  said today it won its biggest cloud-computing contract
from the U.S. government, a 10-year agreement valued at as much
as $1 billion.  The Interior Department awarded similar pacts to nine other
suppliers, including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , which also said the
agreement was its largest federal cloud contract.  The deals might reach a total of $10 billion, allowing the
agency to speed its efforts to move information to the cloud,
the Web-based pool of shared resources such as data storage and
software. Other U.S. departments may eventually tap the program.  The agreement shows that “IBM’s ability to help
governments transform with new technologies, like cloud,
continue to grow,” Michael Rowinski, a spokesman for the
Armonk, New York-based company, said in an e-mail.  The award is a coup following IBM’s loss to Amazon.com Inc.
in the competition for a four-year, $600 million cloud contract
with the Central Intelligence Agency. IBM may get another chance
at that business following a successful protest to a federal
office that arbitrates contract disputes.  While the Interior Department awards were issued in May,
the work and many of the companies’ announcements were delayed
by  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) ’s protest.  CenturyLink Protest  CenturyLink, based in Monroe, Louisiana, in March sued the
government in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, partly because
it said the Interior Department’s price and technical evaluation
criteria were unreasonable. It lost last month, and it didn’t
make the Interior Department’s list of 10 winners.  The agency’s cloud effort may end up being the biggest
across the federal government, Afzal Bari, a senior technology
analyst for Bloomberg Government, said in an interview.  The 10 companies selected to provide services under the
contract will have a competitive advantage in the expanding
cloud-computing industry, Bari said.  Other winners include  CGI Group Inc. (GIB)  of  Montreal ;  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , based in New York;  Unisys Corp. (UIS) , based in
Blue Bell, Pennsylvania; and  AT&T Inc. (T) , based in Dallas.  Four closely held vendors made the list. They are Aquilent
Inc., based in Laurel,  Maryland ; Smartronix Inc., based in
Hollywood, Maryland; Autonomic Resources LLC, based in Cary,
North Carolina; and Global Technology Resources Inc., based in
Denver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  