-- Idox Shares Drop by Most Since May as CFO Resigns: London Mover
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-08-14T16:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/idox-shares-drops-by-most-since-may-as-cfo-resigns-london-mover.html
Idox Plc (IDOX) , a U.K. supplier of
software services to government agencies, fell the most in more
than two months after its chief financial officer resigned.  The  shares  slumped 8.1 percent to 34 pence, the biggest
drop since May 29. Trading volume was more than four times the
three-month daily average. The shares have fallen 37 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 118.5 million
pounds ($184 million).  Idox plunged 21 percent on May 29 after saying delays in
completing license sales in its Engineering Information
Management Division would hurt full-year earnings. Growth in the
Information Solutions business was also slower than expected in
the first half partly because of reduced U.K. government
spending, Idox said in May.  Today’s share price decline is a “dramatic market
overreaction” that would be corrected because the resignation
of William Edmondson has been “wrongly interpreted as bad
news” by investors, said Andrew Darley, an analyst at Finncap
Ltd. in  London .  “The size of the business which it is now, could merit
someone with significant stock market experience to take the
business into its next phase,” Darley said in a telephone
interview.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Kellett-Clarke will take
responsibility for finances, assisted by Group Financial
Controller Jane Mackie, until a replacement for Edmondson can be
found, the company said today in a statement.  Idox provides software to more than 90 percent of U.K.
local authorities with applications such as planning systems and
election management software, according to the company’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  