-- Millennial Media Tumbles After Jumptap Deal, Sales Shortfall
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-14T20:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/millennial-media-tumbles-after-jumptap-deal-sales-shortfall.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM)  fell the most
in almost six months after reporting slower-than-projected sales
growth and announcing plans to buy Jumptap Inc., a competitor in
the market for mobile-device advertising.  Millennial shares tumbled 19 percent to $6.90 at the close
in New York, marking the biggest one-day decline since Feb. 20.  The company is counting on the Jumptap deal to help it
mount a bigger challenge to Google Inc., the largest seller of
mobile ads. Still, the acquisition comes at a steep price for
Baltimore-based Millennial, whose own market valuation is $555
million -- with 81.4 million shares outstanding. The company
will pay about $200 million for Jumptap.  “It’s new information for the market, so I think the
choppiness you see will come from a little bit of uncertainty as
we put more out there,” Millennial Chief Executive Officer Paul Palmieri said in an interview. “People are potentially building
in some of the dilution that’ll occur. As investors understand
the story, I think they’ll get more and more confidence in it.”  Millennial’s sales grew 45 percent to $57 million in the
second quarter, the company said yesterday in a statement. That
fell short of the average analyst estimate of $59.2 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding some items,
earnings were 2 cents a share, beating an estimated 1-cent loss.  Deal Terms  Jumptap investors will get about 24.6 million Millennial
Media shares, based on their Aug. 9 price, according to a
separate statement yesterday. The stock closed at $9.13 that
day. Jumptap investors had originally planned for an initial
public offering before Millennial went public last year and
started slipping in the stock market.  Millennial is the only publicly traded company focused
solely on mobile advertising. The performance of its stock,
which has now fallen almost 50 percent since the IPO in March
2012, has cast a shadow on similar companies tapping public
markets. Video-ad provider  YuMe Inc. (YUME)  lowered its IPO price last
week because of slack demand, while  Tremor Video Inc. (TRMR)  has
tumbled since its IPO. Adap.tv, meanwhile, opted instead for a
sale to AOL Inc.  Jumptap, based in  Boston , has expertise in real-time
bidding on ads and creating campaigns that reach users on
different screens. Its ads are seen by more than 218 million
mobile users in the U.S. and 439 million worldwide, according to
the statement.  Jumptap’s Backers  Founded in 2005, Jumptap raised $121.5 million in venture
funding as of last year. Its investors included General Catalyst
Partners, Redpoint Ventures LLC, Summerhill Venture Partners,
Valhalla Partners LP,  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Keating Capital Inc. (KIPO)   Jumptap Chief Executive Officer George Bell, who joined in
2010, refocused the company on targeted mobile advertising,
instead of mobile-search products. At the time, he cut its staff
of 80 by about half and then aggressively began hiring. The
closely held startup now has about 200 employees.  Combined with Jumptap, Millennial Media’s market share in
mobile advertising would have been 28.7 percent in 2012, while
Google had 29 percent, according to IDC research.  “If you look at the history of these things, acquisition
of market share and growth of your footprint in very large,
evolving places like this is well rewarded in the long term,”
Bell said in an interview. ’’And you’re going to have to deal
with Wall Street’s reaction.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  