-- India Rupee Nears Record Low, Bonds Drop on Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-14T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/india-rupee-nears-record-low-bonds-drop-on-fed-stimulus-concern.html
India’s rupee weakened to within 0.4
percent of its record low on concern steps taken by policy
makers to steady the currency will prove insufficient as the
U.S. prepares to pare stimulus. Government bonds fell.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  touched a one-week high before
data forecast to show manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded at the fastest pace in six months and claims for U.S.
jobless benefits declined. India’s government this week
announced measures to contain a record current-account deficit
by curbing imports and boosting capital inflows. The  Reserve
Bank  of India began weekly sales of cash-management bills to
further tighten liquidity and buoy the rupee.  The measures will be insufficient to “fix the leaks,”
Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Singapore,
wrote in a research report today. “Ultimately structural reform
implementation is the solution, but short term there is a need
to rely on the RBI and more plumbing measures.”  The rupee fell 0.4 percent to 61.4450 per dollar in Mumbai,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency, which plunged to a record 61.805 on Aug. 6, touched
61.5750 earlier. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped six basis points to 12.54 percent. India’s financial
markets will be shut tomorrow for  Independence Day .  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $10
billion since May 22 when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  first signaled the U.S. may reduce bond purchases this
year.  India Steps  India raised  import duties  on gold and platinum to 10
percent from 8 percent, while the levy on silver was increased
to 10 percent from 6 percent, according to a Ministry of Finance
notification tabled in parliament yesterday. The government will
also seek to boost capital inflows with measures including
allowing state-owned financial companies to issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds to finance long-term infrastructure
investment, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Aug.
12.  Official data today showed  wholesale prices  rose 5.79
percent last month from a year earlier, compared with the 7
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The rate was 4.86
percent in June. A weaker rupee stokes inflation as India
imports about 80 percent of its oil.  The yield on the 7.16 percent  government bonds  due May 2023
rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 8.50 percent,
according to prices from the central bank’s trading system.
That’s the highest rate on a 10-year bond since May 2012.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.3 percent to
62.87 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 0.4 percent to 62.86. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  