-- Indian Submarine Sinks With Crew After Mumbai Port Blast
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-08-14T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/indian-submarine-sinks-after-explosion-with-18-sailors-aboard.html
An explosion ripped through a
diesel-powered Indian submarine, killing at least some of the 18
sailors on board and dealing a blow to the nation’s growing
naval ambitions.  Speaking outside parliament before heading to the accident
site in Mumbai, Defense Minister A.K. Antony said he felt “very
sad” about the deaths of sailors, without specifying the number
killed. The explosion and subsequent fire at a navy dock
occurred inside the INS Sindhurakshak just after midnight
yesterday.  “While we hope for the best, we have to prepare for the
worst,” Navy Chief Admiral D.K. Joshi said at a press
conference in Mumbai. He said there has been no communication
with the crew since the explosion.  The blast is a setback for the Indian navy as the country
seeks to bolster its military amid a buildup by neighbor  China .
On Aug. 10,  India  activated the atomic reactor on its first
indigenously built submarine, and two days later unveiled its
first homegrown aircraft carrier.  “The navy has certainly lost some of the sheen it has
built up over the last week,” said Uday Bhaskar, a former
Indian Navy commodore and now a defense analyst at the Society
for Policy Studies in New Delhi. “Compared with other navies
that operate submarines, India has a very good track record.”  Bhaskar said the explosion was the worst-ever disaster for
India’s submarine program. The Sindhurakshak, whose name means
“protector of the ocean,” is a Russian-built Kilo class
submarine that returned to Mumbai earlier this year after a $133
million refit at a shipyard in  Russia , according to India’s
defense ministry.  Cause Unknown  The blast occurred at the Navy Dockyard in Mumbai less than
a mile from the financial capital’s luxury  Taj Mahal  hotel. It
took the Mumbai fire brigade more than two hours to bring the
blaze under control as flames illuminated the night sky.  Joshi said the fire was caused by two almost simultaneous
explosions. While the cause of the fire is not known, it could
have been triggered by ammunition, fuel or oxygen bottles on
board, he said.  Divers searching for rescuers have managed to open one of
the vessel’s escape hatches and were attempting to create
watertight compartments so the sub could be emptied of water and
re-floated for examination. The number of casualties was lower
because only the night-watch team was aboard, he said.  In 2010, a sailor on board the submarine was killed by a
fire that broke out in the battery compartment while it was
docked at naval base in southern India,  Press Trust of India 
reported at the time. The ship was sent for an overhaul in
Russia later that year.  Kursk Disaster  There have been several accidents aboard Russian-made
submarines in the past 15 years. Twenty Russians died on a
vessel when a faulty firefighting system was accidentally
activated during trials in the  Sea of Japan  in 2008. The Kursk
sank in August 2000 after an onboard explosion in the  Barents
Sea , killing all 118 on board.  India plans to increase its  defense spending  by 14 percent
in the next financial year as it modernizes its military to
counter traditional rivals as well as China’s rising power.  In the last week, India has achieved two military
milestones, activating the nuclear reactor aboard the INS
Arihant submarine, and on Aug. 12 unveiling its first home-built
 aircraft carrier . The 37,500-ton vessel was unveiled at a
shipyard in the southern city of Kochi but won’t enter active
service for several years.  Indian Fleet  India’s navy has a fleet of 15 submarines, including 10
diesel-electric vessels similar to Sindhurakshak. They have a
maximum diving depth of 300 meters (984 feet), a top speed of 18
knots and are able to operate for 45 days with a crew of 53
people, according to the navy’s website.  India last year inducted a Russian-built nuclear-powered
attack submarine into its navy at a cost of $900 million that
allows longer missions and a faster response to threats. The
rest of the submarines are more than a decade old, with half of
the fleet commissioned in the 1980s.  Rahul Bedi, an analyst and correspondent for Jane’s Defense
Weekly, said yesterday the sinking was a major loss for the
country’s naval ambitions, with only about half the sanctioned
number of submarines now available.  “The submarine fleet has been a worry for the navy for
many, many years but for reasons of inefficiency the ministry of
defense has taken it very lightly,” Bedi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  