-- India Inflation Tops Estimates as Rupee Plunge Tests Rajan
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-08-14T14:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/india-inflation-tops-estimates-as-rupee-fans-costs-in-rajan-test.html
Indian inflation accelerated more
than economists estimated in July as a plunging rupee stoked
import costs, with the central bank today announcing curbs on
foreign-exchange outflows to try and support the currency.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 5.79 percent from a year
earlier, a five-month high that exceeded the median 5 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 analysts, a government
report showed today. The  Reserve Bank of India  later reduced the
amount some companies can invest overseas, as well as the limit
on resident individuals’ remittances abroad.  The central bank raised two  interest rates  last month and
the government this week stepped up efforts to curb a record
current-account deficit, striving to stem the rupee’s 10.5
percent drop versus the dollar in 2013. Costlier credit imperils
economic expansion and poses a policy challenge for incoming
central bank head  Raghuram Rajan , according to Credit Analysis &
Research Ltd. in Mumbai.  “A reversal of liquidity tightening measures and of the
increase in borrowing costs looks unlikely at least over the
next two quarters, notwithstanding its damaging effect on
growth,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a strategist at Religare
Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai.  The currency, which touched an all-time low on Aug. 6,
weakened 0.4 percent to 61.4437 per dollar at the close in
Mumbai. The yield on the 7.16 percent government bond maturing
May 2023 rose to 8.50 percent from 8.40 percent yesterday. The
S&P BSE Sensex index climbed 0.7 percent.  Restricting Outflows  The amount companies can invest overseas without seeking
approval has been reduced to 100 percent of the net worth of an
Indian party from 400 percent, the RBI  said  today. Residents can
remit $75,000 a financial year, down from $200,000, it said.  The measures will be reconsidered as the rupee recovers,
though  India  can also implement further steps as necessary to
ensure rupee stability, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in a briefing.  The current-account gap and the prospect of reduced U.S.
Federal Reserve monetary stimulus have weighed on the rupee. The
deficit has been stoked by gold and crude oil imports and
subdued overseas sales.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, raised
gasoline prices in June and July. Every 10 percent decline in
the rupee adds as much as 80 basis points to wholesale-price
inflation, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates show.  Policy Mandate  Consumer prices  rose 9.64 percent in July from a year
earlier, a report showed Aug. 12. That’s the second fastest in
the Group of 20 major economies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The advance in the wholesale gauge exceeded the
central bank’s comfort zone of about 5 percent.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in parliament
today that while the wholesale gauge has moderated in recent
months, consumer inflation remains high.  He also said the central bank’s mandate of  price stability 
“must be seen as a part of a larger mandate of growth and
employment.”  Chidambaram told parliament Aug. 12 that India plans to
compress imports of gold, silver and some non-essential items,
as well as demand for crude oil. The government yesterday raised
import levies on gold, silver and platinum to 10 percent.  Chidambaram has also said the nation intends to take steps
to garner capital inflows, such as allowing state-owned
financial companies to issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds.  The current-account shortfall, which the  Reserve Bank 
describes as the biggest economic risk, widened to an
unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in
2012-2013. The finance minister predicted it will narrow to 3.7
percent of GDP in the current fiscal year.  Onion Prices  The central bank raised two rates July 15 and has capped
cash injections into the banking system and tightened lenders’
reserve ratios to curb the supply of rupees, joining nations
from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in fighting currency weakness.  Food prices climbed 11.91 percent in July from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. The cost of onions, a staple
item for the nation’s curries, surged 145 percent. Fuel and
power rose 11.31 percent.  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of  core
inflation , advanced 2.33 percent after a 2.10 percent gain in
June, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  Rajan, a former International Monetary Fund chief economist
and the top adviser in the  Finance Ministry  since 2012, becomes
RBI governor next month.  He said last month that steadying the rupee helps to
contain inflation and “hopefully” over time will give the
monetary authority room to be more accommodative.  The Reserve Bank will probably have to “keep its liquidity
tightening measures in place for longer, and it may even have to
tighten them further if the pressures on the currency do not
abate,” HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note today.  The  economy  may expand 5.5 percent in the year through
March 2014, compared with a decade-low 5 percent in the previous
12-month period, the central bank estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  