-- Indonesia’s Anti-Graft Body Detains Head of Energy Regulator
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-08-14T07:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/indonesia-s-anti-graft-body-detains-head-of-energy-regulator.html
Indonesia ’s anti-graft agency
detained the head of the country’s energy regulator on bribery
allegations linked to an oil company, officials said.  Rudi Rubiandini was held by the Corruption Eradication
Commission late yesterday and is being questioned, Johan Budi, a
spokesman at the anti-graft agency, said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV Indonesia today in Jakarta, declining to provide
further details. Rubiandini couldn’t immediately be reached when
called twice on his mobile phone.  The anti-graft agency is seeking to tackle institutional
corruption in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. The detention of
Rubiandini, formerly the deputy energy minister, adds to policy
uncertainty in the country’s oil and gas industry, according to
Keith Loveard, head of risk analysis at Jakarta-based Concord
Consulting.  “The development adds yet another twist in the troubled
existence of the upstream oil and gas regulator,” Loveard said
by e-mail today. “The arrest of Rubiandini also comes as
concern mounts about the energy sector following the
introduction of a string of nationalistic policies and
questionable criminal prosecutions.”  A constitutional court ruling last year forced the
government to disband independent oil and gas regulator BPMigas
and instead set up SKK Migas as a  task force  under the energy
ministry. Rubiandini was appointed head of the new agency in
January, as the government sought to boost domestic oil output
amid rising fuel consumption.  Legal Risks  Three employees at Chevron Corp’s local unit were convicted
on corruption charges last month. Indonesia’s institutions are
perceived as among the most corrupt in the world, according to
Transparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013,
and graft scandals have damped support for President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party before elections next year.  “We are supportive of the legal process,” Elan Biantoro,
a spokesman at the oil and gas regulator, said today by
telephone in Jakarta. “Currently there are no crucial issues
that need to be decided by the chairman,” said Biantoro, adding
anti-graft officials have sealed off Rubiandini’s office.  Anti-graft officials detained Rubiandini along with an
unidentified company employee at his house in South Jakarta at
10:30 p.m., Metro TV reported, citing the agency’s spokesman
Budi. The officials found $400,000 in cash when taking in
Rubiandini, Budi said in the Metro TV report.  “It is indeed related to an  oil company ,” Budi told
Bloomberg TV Indonesia.  Yudhoyono has yet to be briefed by the energy minister
about Rubiandini’s detention, Firmanzah, a senior official for
economic affairs at the presidential office, said today. The
president will make sure that it will not affect operations at
the oil and gas regulator, he said.  The government cut its oil production target for this year
to 840,000 barrels a day in a revised 2013 budget in June, from
an earlier estimate of 900,000 barrels. The net oil importing
country spent 211.9 trillion rupiah ($20.5 billion) on fuel
subsidies last year, as rising demand for imported energy
products contributed to a record current-account gap in 2012.  Indonesia decided in 2008 to pull out of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries as aging fields and slumping
output turned the country into a net oil importer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  