-- Intervention Option Demanded Amid Pension Revamp: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-08-14T07:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/intervention-option-demanded-amid-pension-revamp-poland-credit.html
Poland  must be ready to step into
the zloty-bond market should a proposal to cancel government
debt held by the nation’s pension funds be implemented, money
managers at PKO TFI SA and Union Investment TFI SA said.  “In this scenario, we can expect less liquidity and more
volatility,” Piotr Nowak, the Warsaw-based deputy head of fixed
income at PKO Bank Polski SA’s mutual fund, with 12.2 billion
zloty ($3.85 billion) of stocks and bonds under management, said
by e-mail two days ago. The government “may need to be ready to
intervene” in big sell-offs, he said.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s cabinet has outlined three
options for overhauling the country’s pension system, including
the cancellation of $39 billion in government bonds held by the
privately run funds. While this solution cuts public debt, it
would increase the share of outstanding bonds held by foreign
investors to about 44 percent from 36 percent as of June 30,
Finance Ministry data show. The government will decide on the
reform next month.  Polish bonds have gained 1.4 percent since June 25 the day
before government made its pension proposals, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. This compares with a 1.8 percent
return on the debt of euro-region nations and 2.9 percent on
 Hungary ’s bonds over the period, the data show.  Foreign Rule  Foreign investors cut their holdings in local-currency
bonds by 2.6 percent from a month earlier to 201.9 billion zloty
in June. The sell-off came after the U.S. Federal Reserve said
on June 19 that it may reduce monthly bond purchases this year
and phase them out by the middle of 2014. Overseas buyers
resumed purchases in the last 20 days of July, the Finance
Ministry said two weeks ago.  “Foreign investors may rule the market” after the
pension-system overhaul, according to Dariusz Lasek, head of
debt investments at Warsaw-based Union Investment TFI mutual
fund, which has 7 billion zloty in assets. Either the central
bank or state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, also known as
BGK, could “stabilize” bond prices during turbulent periods,
Lasek said by phone on Aug. 5.  The Finance Ministry and the central bank didn’t respond to
e-mailed questions from Bloomberg News. Anna Czyz, a spokeswoman
at BGK, said by e-mail yesterday that questions sent to the bank
would be answered by the Finance Ministry.  Bond Debate  BGK has been active on Poland’s bond market in the past.
Whether the central bank can intervene on the government bond
market has been the subject of debate between the bank and the
Finance Ministry.  “There’s no ban on the central bank buying government
bonds on the secondary market,” Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said in an interview with the Polish edition of
 Newsweek  on Jan. 2, 2012. “If yields increased as a result of
panic or contagion from an external virus, and not poor
management of public finances, it might be expedient for the
central bank to intervene.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski countered the view in a statement
issued on the same day that its central goal is price stability
and it “can’t replace the government, particularly on issues
connected with public debt management.” Any public speculation
on the central bank buying bonds may trigger an “unwanted
perception” by financial markets, it said then.  Unconventional Measures  The central bank has avoided unconventional monetary policy
measures, such as buying bonds from the Polish government,
during the global financial crisis started in 2008.  “We haven’t needed to inject liquidity into the Polish
banking sector; if there’s a problem, it’s sterilizing excess
liquidity,” central bank Governor Marek Belka said in a July 24
speech to parliament. The central bank sold 127 billion zloty in
seven-day bills at an auction on Aug. 9, the most since July 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As for possible central bank purchases of government bonds
on the secondary market, Belka told lawmakers that they aren’t
needed and would face the same sort of legal hurdles encountered
by the European Central Bank’s yet-to-be-deployed unlimited
bond-buying program. “It may not be illegal, but it would
definitely be difficult,” Belka said last month.  The zloty lost 0.1 percent to 4.2006 against the euro at
8:52 a.m. in Warsaw today, paring this quarter’s gain to 3
percent, the best performance among 31 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  Mitigating Volatility  The premium demanded by investors to hold 10-year
government bonds over similar German bunds rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 244. The extra yield on
Poland’s dollar bonds over Treasuries declined two basis points
to 142, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  BGK has “the operational scale and know-how to at least
temporarily stabilize the market in case of an intense sell-off,” Pawel Golebiewski, a fund manager at BPH TFI SA mutual
fund in Warsaw, which has 2.7 billion zloty in assets, said by
phone yesterday. It could attempt to reduce yields by buying
bonds or by intervening on the derivatives market, he said.  The Finance Ministry could also mitigate the pension
overhaul’s negative impact by a gradual, drawn-out cancellation
of the bonds, Golebiewski said.  “As a rule, you can’t buck the market,” Michal Jochymek,
senior central and eastern Europe fixed-income trader at BNP
Paribas SA in Warsaw, said in an e-mail yesterday. “What you
can try to do is mitigate short-term volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa in Warsaw 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  