-- Iran Speaker Tells Lawmakers to Watch Tongues in Cabinet Debate
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-14T09:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/iran-speaker-tells-lawmakers-to-watch-tongues-in-cabinet-debate.html
Iranian Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani told lawmakers to cool their rhetoric and respect the
assembly’s etiquette, after two days of often heated debate over
President Hassan Rohani’s cabinet nominees.  In a private meeting with members of parliament before
today’s third day of hearings on the new cabinet, Larijani asked
them to avoid finger-pointing or repeatedly invoking Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei while making their case, according
to state-run  Fars  and  Mehr  news agencies. He also reminded
lawmakers that the debate on the nominees is broadcast live.  Rohani has drawn criticism for picking too many people with
Western education or links to the anti-government protests that
were violently suppressed in 2009. The president, who replaced
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and was inaugurated last week, won election
after promising to repair  Iran ’s international relations, hurt
by disputes over its nuclear program, and revive the economy.  Rohani has said he ignored the nominees’ political
affiliations, choosing them for their abilities and experience.
Several served under former presidents Mohammad Khatami and Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, whose support helped him to win the
election.  Arguments erupted at yesterday’s sitting after a lawmaker
denounced the proposed health minister, Hassan Ghazizadh
Hashemi, and accused others of only endorsing him because he’s
rich. “If he was a poor minister-designate you wouldn’t have
backed him,” Nader Ghazipour told the assembly, according to
Mehr. “You’re backing him for his money.”  The comment sparked heated reactions, with some lawmakers
rushing to the podium and shouting, while others tried to calm
them. Ghazipour was only allowed to resume his speech after
being asked by fellow lawmakers and the deputy speaker, who was
conducting the session, to apologize.  “I regret that such programs are aired live on television
so that they can damage the parliament’s dignity,” lawmaker
Hossein-Ali Shahriari was quoted as saying by Mehr.  Parliament is due to vote on the cabinet tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  