-- Israeli-Palestinian Talks Resume After Prisoner Release
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-08-15T09:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/israeli-palestinian-talks-resume-after-prisoner-release.html
Israelis and Palestinians held peace
talks late yesterday in Jerusalem, two weeks after U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry brought the sides together in
 Washington  following a three-year hiatus in negotiations.  Israeli and Palestinian negotiators met directly yesterday
while Martin Indyk, the U.S. special envoy, was available as a
facilitator,  Jen Psaki , a State Department spokeswoman, told
reporters in Washington. The department was maintaining a policy
of not commenting on the substance of the discussions, Psaki
said.  The meeting broke about midnight local time after four
hours, and there was no announcement regarding when the next
discussion, scheduled to take place in the West Bank city of
Jericho, will be held.  “Both parties have described the meeting as a long and
serious one,” Mia Bengel, spokeswoman for Israeli Justice
Minister and chief negotiator Tzipi Livni, said in a Twitter
post early today.  The talks were convened after  Israel  freed 26 Palestinian
prisoners early yesterday. The prisoners, most convicted of
killing Israelis, were delivered by bus to border crossings into
the West Bank and Gaza Strip and released into Palestinian
territory.  Hero’s Welcome  “Releasing the prisoners was a choice between a bad option
and a worse one,” Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon said
yesterday. “There were several strategic considerations behind
this, which may become evident in the future,” he said,
according to Army Radio.  The prisoners received a hero’s welcome from Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, who pledged not to rest until
“all prisoners are freed.”  “We congratulate ourselves, our people, our brothers who
were freed from the Israeli prisons to witness freedom today,”
Abbas said at his headquarters in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah , where thousands had gathered, some carrying
Palestinian flags and pictures of their loved ones. “We tell
them the rest are following you.”  The freed prisoners are the first among 104 that Israel has
agreed to release in four rounds, in return for a Palestinian
commitment to engage in negotiations for at least nine months.  Settlement Plans  The negotiations have been clouded by Israel’s announcement
in the past week that it plans to build almost 1,200 additional
homes in east Jerusalem and the West Bank on land the
Palestinians claim for a future state. The last round of peace
talks stalled in 2010 when Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu declined to extend a settlement moratorium.  Kerry said on Aug. 13 that he had spoken with Netanyahu
about the settlement plans that brought criticism from
Palestinian leaders.  “We had a very frank and open, direct discussion about
this question of settlements,” Kerry told reporters in Brasilia
during a visit to  Brazil ’s capital. The new building plans are
for areas that “many people have the perception” will be part
of Israel after a negotiated treaty setting boundaries for a
Palestinian state, Kerry said.  Palestinian official Yasser Abed Rabbo said yesterday on
Voice of  Palestine  radio that “the U.S. has informed us that it
will exert all the necessary pressure on Israel in order to not
expand settlements.”  Construction ‘Unhelpful’  Palestinians say Israeli construction in the West Bank and
east Jerusalem violates the Fourth Geneva Convention. Israel
says the settlements don’t fall under the convention because the
territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone before the
1967 war, in which Israel prevailed against Arab forces, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  Israeli Housing Minister Uri Ariel said Aug. 11 that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” Ariel said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the construction
plans were “unhelpful” to peace efforts, highlighting the
divisions in Netanyahu’s coalition over the issue.  Palestinians perceive the new settlement construction as a
sign of bad faith. “By announcing new bids every day and every
week, Israel is out to destroy the negotiations before they
start and destroy the principle of the two-state solution,”
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  Israel’s Goal  Israeli negotiator Livni said yesterday her country was
entering into the talks with the goal of “preserving its values
as both a Jewish and democratic state,” according to an e-mailed statement from her office.  Israel captured east  Jerusalem  and the West Bank from the
Jordanians in the 1967 war, then annexed east Jerusalem in a
move that’s not internationally recognized. The U.S., United
Nations and European Union consider settlement construction an
obstacle to peace, and the Palestinians refused for three years
to negotiate while the building went on.  Abbas scored a domestic victory in the run-up to the new
round of talks by securing the release of some of the thousands
of prisoners Israel holds, most for at least 20 years. Because
many Palestinian families have had a relative in an Israeli
prison at some point, the release of inmates is a priority for
Palestinian leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  