-- Israelis and Palestinians Resume Talks After Prisoners’ Release
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-08-14T18:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/israelis-and-palestinians-resume-talks-after-prisoners-release.html
Israelis and Palestinians resumed
peace talks today in  Jerusalem , two weeks after U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  brought the sides together in  Washington 
after a three-year hiatus in negotiations.  The talks got under way after  Israel  freed 26 Palestinian
prisoners early today. The prisoners, most convicted of killing
Israelis, were delivered by bus to border crossings into the
 West Bank  and  Gaza Strip  and released into Palestinian
territory.  The meeting is taking place without the participation of
American officials assigned to mediate the talks, including U.S.
envoy  Martin Indyk , Israel’s Channel 2 television said.  Israel’s chief negotiator, Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni ,
said today her country was entering into the talks with the goal
of “preserving its values as both a Jewish and democratic
state,” according to an e-mailed statement from her office.  The prisoners received a hero’s welcome from Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who pledged not to rest until
“all prisoners are freed.”  “We congratulate ourselves, our people, our brothers who
were freed from the Israeli prisons to witness freedom today,”
Abbas said at his headquarters in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah , where thousands had gathered, some carrying
Palestinian flags and pictures of their loved ones. “We tell
them the rest are following you.”  The freed prisoners are the first among 104 that Israel has
agreed to release in four rounds, in return for a Palestinian
commitment to engage in negotiations for at least nine months.  New Homes  The negotiations have been clouded by Israel’s announcement
during the past week that it plans to build almost 1,200
additional homes in east Jerusalem and the West Bank on land the
Palestinians claim for a future state. The last round of peace
talks stalled in 2010 when Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to extend a settlement moratorium.  Kerry said yesterday he had spoken with Netanyahu about the
settlement plans that brought criticism from Palestinian
leaders.  “We had a very frank and open, direct discussion about
this question of settlements,” Kerry told reporters in Brasilia
during a visit to  Brazil ’s capital. The new building plans are
for areas that “many people have the perception” will be part
of Israel after a negotiated treaty setting boundaries for a
Palestinian state, Kerry said.  Israeli ‘Realities’  Netanyahu “has specifically agreed not to disturb what
could be the potential for peace going forward,” Kerry said
during a joint news conference with Brazilian Foreign Minister
Antonio Patriota. “We still believe it would be better not to
be doing it, but there are realities within life in Israel that
also have to be taken into account.”  Abbas “understood that coming into these talks,” Kerry
said. The top U.S. diplomat also spoke to Abbas about the  peace
process , the official Palestinian  news agency , Wafa, reported.  “The U.S. has informed us that it will exert all the
necessary pressure on Israel in order to not expand
settlements,” Palestinian official Yasser Abed Rabbo said today
on Voice of  Palestine  radio.  Palestinians say Israeli construction in the West Bank and
east Jerusalem violates the Fourth Geneva Convention. Israel
says the settlements don’t fall under the convention because the
territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone before the
1967 war, in which Israel prevailed against Arab forces, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  Rejects Orders  Israeli Housing Minister Uri Ariel said Aug. 11 that the
government would solicit bids for construction projects in the
two territories, which the Palestinians see as the core of a
future state. “No country in the world takes orders from other
countries about where it can and cannot build,” Ariel said.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid said the construction
plans were “unhelpful” to peace efforts, highlighting the
divisions in Netanyahu’s coalition over the issue.  Palestinians perceive the new settlement construction as a
sign of bad faith. “By announcing new bids every day and every
week, Israel is out to destroy the negotiations before they
start and destroy the principle of the two-state solution,”
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank from the
Jordanians in the 1967 war, then annexed east Jerusalem in a
move that’s not internationally recognized. The U.S.,  United
Nations  and European Union consider settlement construction an
obstacle to peace, and the Palestinians refused for three years
to negotiate while the building went on.  Abbas scored a domestic victory in the run-up to the new
round of by securing the release of some of the thousands of
prisoners Israel holds, most for at least 20 years. Because many
Palestinian families have had a relative in an Israeli prison at
some point, the release of inmates is a priority for Palestinian
leaders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  