-- Israel Discount Bank Wins $8.95 Million in Gold Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-08-14T20:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/israel-discount-bank-wins-8-95-million-in-gold-case.html
Israel  Discount Bank of New York won
a judgment of more than $8.95 million from a  Delaware  precious-metals storage company that withheld access to a cache of rare
gold and silver coins being held as collateral for loans.  First State Depository Co.  must pay the damages, including
interest and more than $1 million in legal fees, and turn over
any of the bank’s remaining valuables, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Donald Parsons Jr. wrote in an order signed today.  “I find the depository breached the agreement by releasing
collateral,” interfering with the bank’s rights, and that an
affiliate disposed of collateral “as if it were its own,”
Parsons wrote in an opinion.  The bank, a unit of Tel Aviv-based  Israel Discount Bank
Ltd. (DSCT) , sued the Wilmington vault in February 2012, seeking to
preserve the $17 million collection. The bank alleged the
depository firm was transferring the coins for outside display
without permission, “marketing for sale” some assets and
withholding inspection rights.  The bank asked a judge to freeze the assets in Delaware,
forbid coin transfers and enforce its right to inspect the
deposits.  Edge Markings  Included in the cache, the bank said, were more than 12,000
rare presidential or  Sacagawea dollar coins  with missing edge
markings, other collector-quality gold and silver coins, and
gold bullion, according to court papers.  During the effort to identify possible collateral, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation became involved. FBI agents
raided a First State Depositary booth at a Baltimore coin show
in March 2012 and the Wilmington vault in May 2012, seizing an
estimated $3.8 million in coins, according to Parsons.  As part of today’s order, Parsons gave First State the
option of buying some of the rare coins for $1 million within 30
days.  Sarit Weiss, a bank spokeswoman in Israel, couldn’t
immediately comment on the order.  “We intend to appeal,” based on legal advice, said Robert
Higgins, a  First State  director, in a phone interview.  The case is Israel Discount Bank v. First State Depository,
CA7237, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  