-- Janus Funds Post Highest Withdrawals in More Than Three Years
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-08-14T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/janus-funds-post-highest-withdrawals-in-more-than-three-years.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  had its
biggest monthly mutual-fund withdrawals in more than three years
after a large client pulled money from the money manager’s
oldest fund.  Investors pulled a net $2.2 billion from the Denver-based
company’s long-term funds in July, the most since May 2010,
according to research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  A single client
redeemed $1.3 billion from the now $7 billion Janus Fund in
July, John Groneman, head of  investor relations  at Denver-based
Janus, said today in a telephone interview.  “The redemptions are a function of the underperformance
the fund has experienced over the last three years,” Groneman
said.  Janus, with more than 80 percent of its assets in actively
managed equity products, has struggled to retain clients over
the past four years as investors flooded into bonds and index-based products. The company last month reported its 16th
straight quarter of net investor withdrawals for the three
months ended June 30.  The  Janus Fund (JANSX) , started in 1970, has trailed 87 percent of
competing funds over the past three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Jonathan Coleman, who stepped down as
Janus’s chief investment officer for equities in April, dropped
his role as co-manager of the Janus Fund in May to take over the
$5.2 billion Triton Fund. Barney Wilson is now sole manager of
the Janus Fund.  Investors removed money from Janus even as they deposited
$15.9 billion with long-term U.S.-registered mutual funds in
July, according to Morningstar. Stock funds that invest mostly
in the U.S. got $5.7 billion in investor money and international
equity funds drew $7.9 billion.  Janus fell 0.6 percent to $9.12 at 12:24 p.m. in  New York .
The shares have risen 6.9 percent this year, compared with a 28
percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s index  for asset managers
and custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  