-- JPMorgan Trading Charges Said to Be Announced Today
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/jpmorgan-trading-charges-said-to-be-announced-tomorrow.html
The U.S. may announce charges as
early as today related to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading losses
last year, a person familiar with the matter said.  Former bank employees in London have been investigated by
the U.S. Justice Department for more than a year over whether
they tried to conceal the losses at the largest U.S. bank, a
person familiar with the matter previously said.  JPMorgan lost more than $6.2 billion last year on
derivatives bets. The loss, first disclosed in May 2012, led to
an earnings restatement, a Senate subcommittee hearing and
probes by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
U.K. Financial Conduct Authority.  The episode prompted JPMorgan’s board to cut Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s pay in half.  “The penalties in the U.S. are significantly higher” than
in the U.K., said Jeremy Summers, a lawyer at Slater & Gordon in
 London . “People faced with the possibility of being charged
here or the U.S. have sought to be dealt with here because they
are less draconian,” Summers said.  Bruno Iksil, the former JPMorgan trader who became known as
the London Whale because of the size of his trading book and
losses, has been cooperating with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney’s Office for
months in their probe of the New York-based bank’s biggest
trading debacle ever, said three people with direct knowledge
with the matter.  Iksil Cooperating  Iksil won’t face charges as long as he cooperates and
testifies, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the matter wasn’t public. It still isn’t clear who may be
charged, one of the people said.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, declined to comment yesterday on the
investigation.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI in New
York, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message yesterday
seeking comment on it.  Javier Martin-Artajo, a former executive who supervised
Iksil’s trading strategy, and Julien Grout, a trader who helped
mark Iksil’s book, are likely to be charged, the New York Times
reported Aug. 9. Prosecutors also are weighing penalties for the
bank, including a fine and reprimand, the newspaper said in a
subsequent report.  Martin-Artajo Confident  Martin-Artajo has cooperated with every investigation
required in the U.K. and is confident he will be cleared of
wrongdoing when a “fair reconstruction of these complex events
is completed,” his attorneys at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP in
London said yesterday in a statement.  Police showed up at Grout’s home in London last week and
his landlord gave them a forwarding address in the south of
 France , said a person with direct knowledge of the matter. A
spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police declined to comment
on whether officers visited Grout’s home. A French citizen,
Grout may be difficult to arrest if he’s charged because France
has tougher extradition laws than the U.K., the person said.  “He is not a fugitive,” said Edward Little, a partner at
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in New York who represents Grout. “He
visited the U.S. last month with confidence he was not being
indicted and moved to France to save money and look for a job.
We did not expect a decision on the investigation one way or
another until the fall.”  Martin-Artajo is away on vacation and “received no
communication from any governmental regulators, including the
Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K. with whom he has fully
cooperated, which would indicate that he should not be on
vacation at this time,” according to the statement from his
lawyers.  Attorneys for Iksil declined to comment, as did a spokesman
for the bank. JPMorgan ousted all three men last year and sought
to recoup some of their back pay.  Falsifying Documents  The U.S. is investigating whether the traders at JPMorgan’s
chief investment office in London intentionally inflated the
value of their portfolio to conceal losses, a person with
knowledge of the matter has said. Federal officials are
considering charges related to mismarking books and falsifying
documents, the person said.  Under pressure from Martin-Artajo, Iksil and Grout in
January 2012 changed how they valued their portfolio in a way
that made losses look smaller, according to a  report  and more
than 600 pages of exhibits released in March by the U.S. Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. Grout maintained a
separate spreadsheet that showed losses would have been as much
as $498.7 million higher by mid-March 2012 if they used less
favorable calculations, according to the panel’s report.  ‘Deceptive Conduct’  The Senate panel, led by Michigan Democrat Carl Levin,
accused JPMorgan of hiding losses, deceiving regulators and
misinforming investors. Ina Drew, who ran the chief investment
office, and her head of international CIO, Achilles Macris,
among other top executives, both left the bank. JPMorgan clawed
back more than $100 million in pay from Drew and other managers.  The Senate panel referred its findings to the SEC and
Justice Department in April.  Drew, 56, told lawmakers at the March hearing that she
wasn’t aware of what she described as the “deceptive conduct”
of her subordinates until after she left the bank.  Macris, 51, a former co-head of capital markets at Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein, recruited Martin-Artajo, whom he had
known at Dresdner, to oversee CIO trading in Europe as well as
global equity and credit trading.  Iksil, who joined the CIO in 2005, became the chief trader
for the credit-derivatives book in January 2007. He used his
portfolio to hedge against corporate-bond defaults as the U.S.
economy weakened, and it produced a profit of about $2.5 billion
during the five years ended in 2011.  ‘Remain Calm’  Martin-Artajo and Iksil were among the highest-paid traders
and managers at the bank, receiving $12.8 million and $7.3
million, respectively, for 2010. Macris was paid $17.3 million -
- more than Drew, who received $15 million. Dimon, 57, was paid
$23 million for that year.  As daily losses ballooned in March 2012, the pressure from
Martin-Artajo to report higher values mounted, according to the
Senate report.  “I can’t keep this going; we do a one-off at the end of
the month to remain calm,” Iksil told Grout, the junior trader,
in discussing a month-end price adjustment requested by Martin-Artajo, according to a transcript of a March 16, 2012, call. “I
don’t know where he wants to stop, but it’s getting idiotic.”  Price Difference  That same day, Iksil told Grout and fellow trader Luis Buraya that the difference between the prices at which he was
marking the book and market prices was $300 million and could be
$1 billion by the end of the month at the pace they were going,
according to the Senate report and the traders’ instant
messages.  Iksil reported a year-to-date loss of $161.1 million on
March 16, 2012, while the actual figure was closer to $600
million, according to Grout’s separate spreadsheet.  “I am going to be hauled over the coals,” Iksil told
Grout in a March 23, 2012, instant message. “You don’t lose
$500M without consequences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan  at  pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  