-- JPMorgan Broke Disclosure Rules Over Paschi: Central Bank
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-08-14T12:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/jpmorgan-broke-disclosure-rules-over-paschi-central-bank.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  broke
disclosure rules when it arranged a 1 billion-euro ($1.3
billion) exchangeable bond for  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA  in 2008, the  Bank of Italy  told Siena prosecutors.  JPMorgan should have informed the central bank the Italian
lender had guaranteed it against losing money on the bond sale,
the Bank of Italy said in an April 19 letter to prosecutors
filed at a Siena court. The Bank of Italy said it may have
withheld approval for the deal had it known about the indemnity.  “No claim was ever made under this indemnity -- which only
existed for a matter of days -- including either for the benefit
of JPMorgan or any of its employees,” JPMorgan said in a
statement. “We believe that JPMorgan and its employees acted
correctly at all times. We will defend this action vigorously.”  Monte Paschi (BMPS) , the world’s oldest bank, received a 4.1
billion-euro government bailout earlier this year. The
investigation into the fundraising is part of a wider probe by
prosecutors into allegations the Siena-based lender hid losses
using derivatives, manipulated markets and obstructed regulators
probing its takeover of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008.  Monte Paschi issued notes that converted into its own
shares to boost capital following the Antonveneta purchase. As
part of the deal, the bank issued new shares to JPMorgan to
cover the potential conversion of the bonds and the central bank
authorized JPMorgan to hold about 10 percent of Monte Paschi’s
stock, the documents show. If investors failed to pay for the
notes after ordering them, Monte Paschi would have compensated
the New York-based bank, according to the filing.  JPMorgan should have disclosed the indemnity because it
could have reduced the total amount raised for Monte Paschi and
the relationship could have affected its financial dealings with
the Italian lender, according to the central bank.  Spokeswomen for the Bank of  Italy  and Monte Paschi declined
to comment as did officials at the prosecutors’ office in Siena.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  