-- Kabel Deutschland Profit Misses Estimates on Premium TV
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-08-14T06:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/kabel-deutschland-earnings-miss-estimates-on-competition.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , the
German cable provider being bought by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
reported fiscal first-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates as premium-television growth was slower than expected.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 3.8 percent to 217 million euros ($288
million) for the three months through June, the Unterfoehring-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had projected
226.6 million euros, the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 4.6 percent to 464 million euros.
Analysts had predicted 471 million euros.  The purchase of Kabel Deutschland is a key tenet of
Vodafone’s ambition to expand beyond wireless service. Since the
7.7 billion-euro bid in June, Dutch carrier  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  has
agreed to combine its German mobile-phone business E-Plus with
 Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  in an 8.1 billion-euro cash-and-stock deal. That transaction, if approved by investors,
would create  Germany ’s largest wireless carrier by customers.  “The television business seems to be the main reason they
missed,” Stefan Borscheid, a Stuttgart, Germany-based analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who has a hold rating on Kabel
Deutschland, said by telephone. “Television was below
expectations.”  Antitrust Dispute  Vodafone is combining its northern and southern European
units to make it easier to sell packages of phone, Internet and
television across the region, a strategy that is embraced by
phone carriers and cable providers alike. Today, a court in
Dusseldorf, Germany, is scheduled to rule on a bid by  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  to topple antitrust clearance of the 2011 takeover of
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg by John Malone’s Liberty Global Europe
Holding.  Kabel Deutschland’s total number of subscribers at the end
of June declined 1.6 percent from a year earlier to 8.4 million.
Average monthly revenue per subscriber jumped 8.6 percent to
16.71 euros. Net income plunged 55 percent to 29.3 million
euros, with management bonuses accounting for about half of that
decline, according to Chief Financial Officer Andreas Siemen.  The number of revenue-generating premium-television units
increased 18 percent from a year earlier to 2.1 million in the
quarter, while Internet links jumped 20 percent to 1.9 million
and telephone lines gained 18 percent to 1.9 million. Compared
to the three months through March, quarterly premium-television
connections rose 1.2 percent. Kabel Deutschland said it’s
sticking with group forecasts for the full fiscal year.  Customer Shift  “We experienced relatively limited net growth in premium
TV this quarter,” Siemen said on a conference call with
journalists. “This is in particular a one-off effect from Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg moving its customers from our product
platform after many years to its own.”  Germany’s cable-TV grid was first deployed in 1982 by the
country’s Federal Post Office, which was later sold by the
government and split into what became  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) , Deutsche
Postbank AG and Deutsche Telekom. Prompted by the European
competition authority, the latter broke up the network and sold
its components.  Over the last 10 years, Germany’s cable companies have
added Internet and phone services and begun grabbing market
share from Internet providers. Kabel Deutschland has also
started offering wireless services, further trespassing into the
domain of traditional carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  