-- KB Financial Chairman Lim Studying Non-Banking Takeover Targets
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-08-14T05:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/kb-financial-chairman-lim-studying-non-banking-takeover-targets.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , the owner
of South Korea’s largest lender, will consider takeovers to
improve profit at its non-banking businesses, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Lim Young Rok said.  “We’ve been reviewing various M&A targets to strengthen
our non-banking businesses and to diversify our profit
sources,” Lim said in a press briefing in  Seoul  today without
naming potential targets.  Lim pledged in his inaugural speech last month to improve
businesses at KB, saying its management efficiency and stock
price lag behind peers, and that he will focus on sound asset
growth and bolstering non-banking businesses. South Korean
lenders, which posted a 56 percent plunge in second-quarter
profit, are seeking growth in fee-generating businesses as low
interest rates and rising soured loans erode earnings.  Lim replaced Euh Yoon Dae who ended a three-year term
without meeting a goal to diversify the company and boost non-banking profit to 30 percent of earnings.  “We’re continuing the efforts to meet the goal,” Lim said
today.  KB  shares  have fallen 4.8 percent this year to 36,100 won
as of 2:34 p.m. in Seoul, making them the worst performer among
South Korea’s five largest banking groups by market value. The
country’s benchmark Kospi Index has lost 4 percent.  The chairman declined to comment whether KB will bid for
 Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) ’s banking units or brokerage unit,
which are being sold by the South Korean government.  South Korea in June said it will sell  Woori Finance ’s
assets in three parts after failing to attract buyers for its 57
percent stake as the government tries to recoup taxpayer money
spent more than a decade ago to bail out the nation’s banks.  The government put Woori’s regional lending units Kwangju
Bank and Kyongnam Bank up for sale last month and Woori plans to
open bidding for its brokerage, asset management and savings
bank units later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  