-- Klarman’s Baupost Takes $595 Million Stake in Chipmaker Micron
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-08-14T11:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/klarman-s-baupost-takes-595-million-stake-in-chipmaker-micron.html
Baupost Group LLC, the Boston-based
hedge-fund firm run by Seth Klarman, took a $595 million stake
in  Micron (MU)  Technology Inc. after the shares surged 57 percent in
the first quarter.  Baupost purchased 41.5 million shares of Boise, Idaho-based
Micron during the three months ended in June, making it the
firm’s fourth-biggest stock investment by market value,
according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Micron last month completed a $2 billion  purchase  of Elpida
Memory Inc. as it seeks to deliver sustainable profits in the
volatile market for memory chips used in personal computers and
mobile devices. Micron has reported a  net loss  in five out of
its last 10 fiscal years.  Shares of Micron have jumped 136 percent this year, valuing
the company at $15.5 billion. Baupost is now the firm’s fifth-biggest shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baupost’s biggest stock holding at $786 million is
Carlsbad, California-based  ViaSat Inc. (VSAT) , a position the firm
didn’t add to in the second quarter, according to today’s
filing. Baupost added 1.5 million American Depository Receipts
of London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  for a stake valued at $776 million and
almost 3 million shares of  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  for a holding worth
$637 million.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  -- With assistance from Ian King in  San Francisco . Editors: Sree
Vidya Bhaktavatsalam, Edward Evans  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  