-- Krona Gains as Industrial Production Revives: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-08-14T09:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/krona-gains-as-industrial-production-revives-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona gained after a report
showed industrial production rose more than predicted, adding to
evidence a recovery in the largest Nordic economy is picking up.  The krona gained as much as 0.37 percent, and strengthened
0.27 percent to 8.6424 per euro as of 11:47 a.m. in  Stockholm .
It was the second-biggest gainer against the euro after the  New
Zealand dollar  among the 16 major currencies.  Industrial output rose a  monthly  3 percent in June,
 Statistics Sweden  said today. That beat the median estimate for
a 1 percent increase on the month in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. Industrial orders rose 1.9 percent  in the month .  The “numbers are in line with forward-looking indicators
like PMI and the economic tendency indicator which have
indicated a significantly more robust development of industrial
activity than we’ve seen in the actual production figures in the
past few months,” Anna Raman, an analyst at Nykredit Markets
A/S in Copenhagen, said in a note. “It’s also in line with
unexpectedly positive economic indicators around the world.
That’s true not the least for  Germany .”  Sweden’s central bank last month kept its  main lending rate 
at 1 percent for a third meeting after cutting it four times in
a year as it predicted growth prospects around the world will
improve. It forecast no more cuts and said it will start raising
rates in the second half 2014. The bank will announce its next
rate decision on Sept. 5.  Germany and  France ,  Europe ’s two largest economies,
expanded more than forecast in the second quarter as they helped
pull the euro area out of a six-quarter slump, according to data
published today.  While the Swedish economy grew less than predicted in the
second quarter, the National Institute of Economic Research last
month forecast  manufacturing (PMISSURV)  production and orders will start to
pick up. Manufacturing and  services activity  expanded last
month, according to surveys by Swedbank AB.  “Indicators for Swedish industry have improved in recent
months and the second quarter probably marked the trough for
production in this cycle,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, chief
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , in a note. “However, the modest
improvement in the order intake in June suggests that the
recovery will be rather slow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  