-- MTN Profit Rises, Beating Estimates, as Subscribers Gain
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-08-14T11:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/mtn-profit-rises-beating-estimates-as-subscribers-gain.html
  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
wireless operator, said first-half profit rose 22 percent,
exceeding estimates, after subscriber numbers increased in fast-growing markets including Nigeria and Ghana.  Sales advanced 9.8 percent to 65.2 billion rand ($6.5
billion), the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement
today. So-called headline earnings per share, which exclude one-time items, were 6.54 rand for the six months through June,
compared with 5.36 rand a year earlier, beating the 6.49 rand
median profit estimate by four analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Total subscribers increased 6.5 percent to 201.5 million,
supported by 7.8 million net additions in Nigeria and further
growth in smaller African markets such as Sudan and  Ivory Coast .
South African customer numbers declined slightly after weak
 consumer spending  and tough competition hampered the business in
Africa’s largest economy. MTN plans to add 21.1 million
subscribers in the full year, the company said.  MTN will try to lower its cost base in  South Africa  in
order to compete with aggressive rivals, Chief Financial Officer
Brett Goschen told reporters at a press conference. Savings will
probably come from a reduction in distribution and procurement
costs, while the company is reviewing its headcount, he said.  More Profitable  MTN  shares  advanced 1.3 percent to 198.50 rand by 1:31 p.m.
in Johannesburg. The stock has increased 12 percent this year,
compared with a 0.7 percent decline at  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)   South African wireless companies are looking at other
African markets as consumers increasingly use more profitable
data-enabled smartphones and domestic voice service revenue
declines. MTN data subscriber numbers increased by almost 30
percent in the half year, while data traffic grew 56 percent,
the company said.  MTN has expressed interest in expanding into Madagascar,
according to people familiar with the matter. A move into India
is also “worth considering”, Chief Executive Officer Sifiso Dabengwa told reporters. The company has held talks about a
potential tie-up with  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  of India this
year, three people familiar with the matter said in May. MTN was
also in discussions on the possible acquisition of Neotel, the
South African unit of India’s  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) , although
it is no longer involved, Dabengwa said.  MTN plans to pay a gross dividend of 3.70 rand a share. The
company said on Aug. 1 it made a currency gain of about 1
billion rand during the six-month period, compared with a 1.5
billion-rand loss the previous year.  MTN said last month its Chief Financial Officer Nazir Patel
had resigned pending an internal investigation. The probe is
being led by  KPMG  and is expected to be completed within three
weeks, according to Dabengwa. The incident being investigated is
an internal matter and isn’t connected with external interests,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  