-- Nakilat Jumps Most in Two Months Amid Foreign Buying: Doha Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-14T14:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/nakilat-jumps-most-in-two-months-amid-foreign-buying-doha-mover.html
Qatar  Gas Transport Co., an operator
of vessels to transport liquefied natural gas, jumped the most
in more than two months as foreign institutions boost their
holdings in the nation’s shares.  The shares rose 3.2 percent, the most since June 2, to
close at 19.29 riyals in Doha today, with 1.9 million shares
traded, almost triple the three-month daily average. The stock
was the third-biggest gainer on the  QE Index (DSM) , which climbed 0.9
percent. Nakilat, as the company is known, has advanced 26
percent so far this year, compared with a 20 percent rise in the
benchmark index.  Stock exchanges in Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG exporter,
and neighboring  United Arab Emirates  were upgraded to emerging-market status in June by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , fueling speculation foreign
investors will channel more money into these countries. Foreign
institutions were net buyers of  26 percent  of Qatari shares in
July, compared with 13 percent in all of 2012, according to data
of the Qatar Exchange.  “There has been renewed foreign and local institutional
interest in the stock,” Bobby Sarkar, head of research at Qatar
National Bank Financial Services, said by e-mail. “The stock
used to be one of the laggards and I think it’s playing catch
up.”  MSCI, whose equity indexes are tracked by investors with
about $7 trillion in assets, will promote the two countries from
May 2014 from frontier-market status.  Before today’s advance, Nakilat had gained 2.2 percent
since June 30 compared with a 6.9 percent increase in the
benchmark index. Two analysts rate Nakilat a buy and two say
hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  