-- NBA’s 76ers Hire Spurs’ Brett Brown as Coach to Replace Collins
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-15T04:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/nba-s-76ers-hire-spurs-brett-brown-to-replace-collins-as-coach.html
The Philadelphia 76ers ended their
almost four-month search for a coach, hiring San Antonio Spurs’
assistant Brett Brown to lead the team through a rebuilding
process.  Brown was introduced yesterday as the successor to Doug Collins, who quit in April after three seasons with the 76ers.
Contract terms weren’t disclosed in a news release announcing
Brown’s hiring. His deal is for four years, according to SI.com.  “Brett brings a positive energy that’s sort of infectious,
and that becomes clear to anyone who meets him,” Sam Hinkie,
the team’s new general manager, said at a news conference
carried on the 76ers’ website. “He has a lot of experience in
player development. There are a lot of coaches that have that,
though few who bring the passion that he does.”  Brown, a native of  Maine  who coached the Australian Olympic
team in 2012, has been on the Spurs’ bench since the 2006-07
National Basketball Association season after serving as San
Antonio’s director of player development for the previous five
seasons. He joined the franchise in 2002 following a 14-year
stint coaching in the Australian National Basketball League.  Brown said he hopes to help teach fundamental basketball
even though the Sixers are rebuilding after a 34-48 season.  “It is going to be, at times, painful,” Brown said. “The
group that we ultimately will inch along with -- and Sam’s going
to be experimenting with some things so that we end up with the
types of people that we have here in a three- or four-year time
frame -- is the prize at the end of the tunnel.”  Philadelphia didn’t have a coach in place when it shuffled
its roster through the NBA draft. All-Star guard  Jrue Holiday 
was traded to the New Orleans Pelicans for the rights to center
Nerlens Noel, who had been selected with the No. 6 pick out of
the University of  Kentucky . Noel tore a ligament in his knee
during his only season in college basketball.  In May the 76ers hired Hinkie, who had been with the
Houston Rockets, to be president and general manager. Former
Madison Square Garden Sports President Scott O’Neil became the
team’s chief executive officer last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  