-- New York Times Website Back Online After ‘Internal Issue’
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-14T19:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/new-york-times-site-goes-down-amid-technical-difficulties-1-.html
The New York Times, whose  website 
and e-mail systems crashed this morning, said the outage was
caused by an internal malfunction with its servers, signaling
that it wasn’t the result of a suspected hacker attack.  Service was restored this afternoon after an outage of more
than two hours. “We have no reason to believe it was anything
other than an internal issue,” said Eileen Murphy, a
spokeswoman for New York Times Co.  Fox Business, the network owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ,  reported  that the site had been hacked,
suggesting that it was the victim of a denial-of-service attack.
Fox Business cited an unidentified source close to the matter.  The Times has been increasingly focusing on its website for
growth as the industry reels from a print advertising slump.
Digital subscribers to the Times and its international edition
increased 35 percent to 699,000 at the end of the last quarter.
The company averaged about 14 new paying online readers every
hour from the beginning of January to the end of June.  After the site came back up, the publisher splashed an
apology notice to readers near the top of its home page.  “Our website was unavailable for a period of time earlier
today,” the Times wrote. “The outage occurred within seconds
of a scheduled maintenance update, which we believe was the
cause. We are working on fully restoring service and apologize
for any inconvenience.”  Globe Sale  The Times has also sold off assets unrelated to the Times
media brand, including the Boston Globe newspaper, increasing
its dependence on its flagship website. Red Sox baseball owner
 John Henry  agreed to buy the Globe from the Times earlier this
month for $70 million in cash.  To cope with today’s outage, which came during a crackdown
on Egyptian protests and the sentencing of former U.S. House
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr., the Times posted full stories
on its Facebook page -- an unusual step.  Some staffers made light of the disruption on Twitter. The
newspaper’s opinion section  said  if the site remained down, it
was “ready to tweet op-eds and editorials in 140-character
increments.”  Ravi Somaiya, a reporter at the paper,  wrote : “I pressed
this big, red button marked ‘DO NOT PRESS’ in the office
earlier. Should I not have?”  News Corp.’s Dow Jones, meanwhile, sought to capitalize on
the outage. The Wall Street Journal publisher offered free
access to WSJ.com for a 2-hour period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  