-- Newark’s Booker ‘Cruising’ as He Wins Primary With 59%
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/newark-s-booker-cruising-as-he-wins-primary-with-59-.html
Democratic Newark Mayor Cory Booker
will face Republican Steven Lonegan, who has lost previous
campaigns for  New Jersey  and national office, in a special
election for the  U.S. Senate  seat of the late  Frank Lautenberg .  Booker, 44, beat two congressmen and the state Assembly
speaker in yesterday’s primary to win his party’s nomination. He
will face Lonegan in an Oct. 16 special election. Booker is
favored to defeat Lonegan, a 57-year-old former mayor of Bogota,
New Jersey, who ran unsuccessfully for governor in 2009 and
2005, and for the U.S. House of Representatives in 1998.  The frontrunner throughout the race, Booker got 59 percent
of the Democratic vote yesterday. Should he win in October, he
would face another campaign next year to retain the seat. An
Aug. 7 poll by  Quinnipiac University  had Booker beating Lonegan,
54 percent to 29 percent in a theoretical matchup. State voters
haven’t elected a Republican to the U.S. Senate since 1972.  “You’ve got a guy with national name recognition who can
get a higher-than-expected turnout in an August primary, and can
raise boatloads of money against an opponent who’s painted
himself into a corner as a social conservative,”  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute in
West Long Branch, said at Booker’s celebration. “That’s a
recipe for a big win for Cory Booker.”  40-Point Margin  With 96 percent of precincts reported, Booker got 59
percent of the vote, according to a tally from the  Associated
Press . U.S. Representatives  Frank Pallone , 61, and Rush Holt,
64, got 20 percent and 17 percent, respectively, while Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver, 61, the first black woman to lead a
legislative chamber in New Jersey, took 4.3 percent.  The mayor said he would work for marriage equality, women’s
health care, tax-code reform and economic growth. He referred to
his early days in Newark, as a “20-something” lawyer taking on
cases for the poor, and said he would bring that work ethic to
Congress.  “In Washington, so many people focus on right and left,”
Booker said in a victory speech to supporters. “But here in
Newark, here in New Jersey, we’re concerned about one direction,
and that’s moving forward.”  A Rhodes Scholar and  Stanford University  and Yale Law
School graduate, Booker grew up in the northern New Jersey
suburb of Harrington Park. In 1996, he moved to Newark, where 26
percent of residents live in poverty, compared with 9.4 percent
statewide. The city has struggled to recover from 1967 race
riots that left 26 people dead and turned neighborhoods into
ruins.  Second Term  Booker won the mayor’s race in 2006 and again in 2010. His
efforts to foster development and reduce crime have attracted
investments from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg , who
pledged $100 million to the city’s schools, as well as hedge-fund managers including  Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman .  The mayor gained national attention last year for saving a
neighbor from a fire and for living on  food stamps  for a week to
show the difficulty of relying on the federal aid program.
Booker spoke at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and
helped lead its platform committee.  The Senate primary race was quiet until its final week,
when Booker’s rivals took shots at his frequent speaking
engagements outside Newark, his ties to Wall Streeters and his
stake in Waywire LLC, an Internet startup he co-founded last
year.  Speaking Gigs  Booker’s campaign had reported earnings of $1.3 million
from speeches, noting that he had given almost $620,000 to
charity and paid $476,000 in taxes since 2008. He amended his
Senate filing last month to reflect a $1 million to $5 million
interest in Waywire, a New York-based company that runs a video-sharing website. He submitted a similar report to Newark
officials Aug. 6, a week before the primary.  Booker’s campaign raised $8.6 million as of July 24, with
donations of at least $10,000 from more than 150 people,
including Zuckerberg and  Christy R. Walton , the world’s richest
woman. Pallone had $3.67 million in his accounts, mostly from
the transfer of surplus congressional campaign funds. Holt
reported $1.46 million on hand while Oliver had just $11,690.  Last-minute Booker donors included the leadership
committees of Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, which gave
$10,400 each. Talk show host  Oprah Winfrey  and actor  Matt Damon 
also gave the maximum allowable $10,400 in the campaign’s final
week, according to the Senate public records office.  Silicon Valley  Lonegan told his supporters in Secaucus that Booker was
“anointed by Hollywood” and Silicon Valley executives. He cast
himself as the champion of small-business owners and union
workers.  “Cory Booker believes that Obamacare is not just good, but
it is great,” he said, referring to President Barack Obama’s
Affordable Care Act. “He wants to force Obamacare down your
throat.”  Lonegan beat his primary candidate, Alieta Eck, a physician
from Somerset, 80 percent to 20 percent, according to the AP
tally. Democrats outnumber Republicans by about 700,000
registered voters in New Jersey.  “He’s a person of strong beliefs as I’ve found out and
even stronger rhetoric,” Booker said of Lonegan. “‘I will
match his negative attacks with positive vision. If he wants to
be a flamethrower, I’ll be a bridge builder.”  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican seeking a second term
in November, set an August primary and October special election
for the Senate seat after Lautenberg died in June of
complications from viral pneumonia at age 89. Christie picked a
temporary replacement, Jeffrey Chiesa, a Republican who didn’t
run.  Election Timing  While Christie said the schedule was made to fill the seat
as quickly as possible, critics said it was designed to keep the
popular Booker off the November ballot and help the governor’s
own win margin. Christie led his Democratic challenger, state
Senator Barbara Buono, by about 30 percentage points in recent
polls.  Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute of New
Jersey Politics at Rider University, had predicted before polls
closed that primary turnout might be the lowest in modern
history because of its August timing. Low turnout would favor
the non-Booker candidates, who have a loyal following, he said.  With 93 percent of precincts reporting, a total 331,067
Democrats cast votes. That was more than double the number of
Democrats who had voted for Governor  Jon Corzine , the incumbent
seeking re-election, in the 2009 primary.  Murray, of the Monmouth University polling center, said
turnout among Democratic voters was higher than anticipated, to
Booker’s advantage. He said Booker was “cruising to victory”
in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  