-- Nigerian Militant Boko Haram No. 2 Commander Killed, Army Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2013-08-14T17:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/nigerian-militant-boko-haram-no-2-commander-killed-army-says.html
Nigeria’s Defense Ministry said it
killed the second in command of the Islamist Boko Haram group,
two days after the group’s leader vowed more attacks.  Momodu Bama was killed in clashes with security forces,
Defense Ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade said today in an e-mailed statement. Bama’s father and 17 other militants were also
killed in the clashes, according to the statement.  Bama’s death “has been confirmed by other arrested
terrorists,” Olukolade said. He had a 25 million naira
($155,000) bounty on his head, according to the statement.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands of people in gun and
bomb attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja,
the capital. Its stated goal is to establish an Islamic state in
 Africa ’s largest oil producer. Nigeria’s more than 160 million
people are roughly equally split between Christians,
predominantly in the south, and a largely Muslim north.  Bama “has been personally leading the attacks against
troops and innocent citizens in the communities of Yobe and
Adamawa” in the northeast, said Olukolade. He was “a
specialist in manning the anti-aircraft guns of the group,” he
said. His father, Abatcha Flatari, was “one of the spiritual
guiding lights of the outlawed terrorists group.”  Abubakar Shekau, Boko Haram’s leader, claimed
responsibility for a series of attacks in Borno and Yobe states
in an Aug. 12 video and said the group planned further assaults.
Its strength hasn’t been dented, he said, three months after
President Goodluck Jonathan declared emergency rule in the
northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, granting the
armed forces sweeping powers to quell the group’s activities.  ‘All Lies’  “A lot has been said against us: that we are finished,
they have finished with us. All these are lies,” Shekau said.
“We are alive. Nobody killed us, and we shall continue to kill
until Boko Haram is accepted by the people.”  Nigerian troops began an air and ground offensive against
the militants on May 16, in a campaign that included bombing
their camps by planes two days after the emergency rule was
declared. Jonathan said the measure was necessary as the
insurgents had taken over parts of Borno state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  