-- Novartis Accused of Paying China Doctors Kickbacks, Herald Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-14T07:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/novartis-accused-of-paying-china-doctors-kickbacks-herald-says.html
A woman who sold a cancer drug in
 China  for  Novartis AG (NOVN)  said she was asked to give doctors
kickbacks in return for sales of the medicine, the 21st Century
Business Herald  reported .  The woman, identified by the pseudonym Li Li, said her
manager told her to spend 50,000  yuan  ($8,170) to sell 50 doses
of the Sandostatin LAR stomach cancer medication, the according
to a report yesterday from the newspaper, which is based in the
southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou .  Cindy Min, head of communications at Novartis China, said
by e-mail that she couldn’t immediately comment on the report.
Novartis, in a response given to the Business Herald, said Li Li
had asked the drugmaker for a payment of 5 million yuan in July,
saying she’d take unspecified actions if the money wasn’t given
to her, the newspaper reported.  Novartis is the second drugmaker this month to have
allegations against it published by the Business Herald. In an
Aug. 8 article, a whistle-blower accused  Sanofi (SAN)  of paying bribes
to doctors, with the official Xinhua News Agency reporting two
days later that China’s drugs regulator called for a probe of
the company. Police are also investigating  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
for suspected bribery as authorities increase their scrutiny of
the health industry.  China will start a campaign tomorrow to crack down on
illegal competition nationwide including “commercial bribery”
for drug sales and medical services, the official Xinhua News
Agency  reported  today, citing the State Administration for
Industry and Commerce.  Li Li told the Business Herald that she joined Novartis in
January this year and handled sales of Sandostatin in northern
China, according to the report. The labor dispute arbitration
committee of Beijing’s Chaoyang district received her letter
seeking to void her employment contract with Novartis on Aug. 5,
the newspaper reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  