-- Oaktree Boosts Stake in MGIC as Perry Reduces Holding
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-08-14T20:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/oaktree-boosts-stake-in-mgic-as-perry-reduces-holding.html
Oaktree Capital Management LP, led
by Chairman  Howard Marks , increased its stake in  MGIC Investment
Corp. (MTG)  while Perry Corp. lowered a holding in the mortgage
insurer as shares extended their rally.  Oaktree had 12 million shares of Milwaukee-based MGIC as of
June 30, according to a filing today, up from 4.5 million at the
end of the first quarter. Perry cut its stake to 4.2 million
shares from about 9 million, according to a document filed with
regulators this month.  MGIC stock  rallied  more than 170 percent this year, to
$7.28 yesterday, benefitting investors including Perry, Oaktree
and  John Paulson  who bet on a rebounding housing market.
Mortgages insurers reimburse lenders when borrowers default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs. MGIC on July 23 posted its
 first quarterly profit  since 2010.  “Although the easy money has likely been made in the
shares of MGIC, we believe there is still compelling value,”
William Ryan, an analyst at Portales Partners, said in a note to
investors yesterday.  Oaktree also held more than $50 million in  convertible
notes  of MGIC. Marks’s Los Angeles-based firm oversees more than
$76 billion, with the largest allocation to bonds including
corporate securities and distressed debt.  Richard Perry  founded his hedge-fund firm in 1988 after
working at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Michael Neus, general
counsel at New York-based Perry, didn’t return messages seeking
comment. Alyssa Linn, a spokeswoman for Oaktree at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.  Stock, Notes  MGIC and rival  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  raised capital in the
first quarter selling stock and convertible notes. The mortgage
insurers survived the housing slump that forced companies like
PMI Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc. to stop writing new
policies.  MGIC, led by Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver, rallied
86 percent in the first quarter, 23 percent in the next three
months and another 20 percent from June 30 through yesterday.
The insurers slipped 10 cents to $7.18 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  