-- Obama’s Fed Process Starts With Private Auditions
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-08-14T18:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/obama-s-fed-process-starts-with-private-auditions.html
President  Barack Obama  will make “a
very aggressive” case to win bipartisan support for his choice
for the next U.S. Federal Reserve chairman, a decision that
remains weeks away, his spokesman said.  Josh Earnest , deputy White House press secretary, said the
administration was unconcerned by the public pressure being
exerted by some Senate Democrats on behalf of Fed Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen , one of several potential candidates. Obama is
considering who should succeed  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term
expires Jan. 31.  “It wasn’t a surprise to anybody here that members of the
Senate had strong opinions,” Earnest told reporters on  Martha’s
Vineyard  in  Massachusetts , where the president is vacationing
this week. “I am confident that whomever the president
nominates won’t just have strong Democratic support, but will
also deserve strong bipartisan support.”  Earnest repeated Obama’s previous remarks that he won’t
make a decision on the Fed chairman “until the fall.” He
declined to say whether the president has or will spend any part
of his vacation speaking by phone or meeting in person with
potential candidates, or discussing the process with staff,
lawmakers or any of the business leaders and politically
connected individuals he’s seeing this week on the golf course
or at social functions.  “I don’t want to set a precedent about how open this
process is going to be,” Earnest said. “I don’t think it’s
going to be particularly constructive for us to have an open
audition, if you will, for the Fed nominee position.”  Aides Meeting  Aides to Obama and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
discussed the process of choosing the next Fed chairman in the
wake of a letter from a group of Senate Democrats promoting
Yellen, according to a person briefed on the conversation who
asked for anonymity.  The letter, signed last month by 19 Senate Democrats and
one independent who caucuses with the party, emerged amid
criticism from some Democrats of another possible contender,
 Lawrence Summers , who served as Obama’s first National Economic
Council director.  The Fed selection process came up during a meeting between
Deputy White House Chief of Staff Rob Nabors and David Krone,
chief of staff to Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said the person. The
two officials meet about once a week, according to a
congressional aide who asked not to be identified discussing
private conversations.  Administration Surprise  Senior White House staff members were surprised by the
Democrats’ letter, especially given that the president had made
clear he hadn’t settled on a nominee, said the person familiar
with the meeting.  Although Obama hasn’t raised the issue of the letter
specifically, he wants political breathing room as he makes a
final decision on Bernanke’s replacement, the person said. The
Wall Street Journal reported on the meeting earlier.  During a White House news conference last week, a day
before leaving for vacation, Obama said he was weighing a
“range of outstanding candidates” to lead the central bank,
including Summers and Yellen.  “The perception that Mr. Summers might have an inside
track simply had to do with a bunch of attacks that I was
hearing on Mr. Summers pre-emptively, which is sort of a
standard Washington exercise that I don’t like,” Obama said.
“I tend to defend folks who I think have done a good job and
don’t deserve attacks.”  Defending Summers  Obama, 52, told House Democrats during a closed-door
meeting July 31 that Summers was being unfairly criticized.  In his news conference, he compared Summers to his National
Security Adviser  Susan Rice . Obama didn’t nominate her for
Secretary of State after a backlash over statements she made
following the attacks on a U.S. diplomatic outpost in Benghazi,
 Libya , last September in which four Americans died.  Reid said after a July 31 meeting between Obama and Senate
Democrats that party members in his chamber would support the
president’s choice for the Fed, “no matter who it is.”  While Bernanke hasn’t said whether he’d be willing to stay
for a third term, Obama indicated in a June interview with
 Charlie Rose  that the Fed chief had stayed in the post “longer
than he wanted.” Earnest said today that he didn’t know whether
Bernanke has given Obama formal notification of his intentions.  Yellen, 67, has been the Fed vice chairman since October
2010. Summers, 58, who served as Treasury secretary from July
1999 to January 2001, returned to government in 2009 as National
Economic Council director during Obama’s first term. The
president told House lawmakers that he was also considering
former Fed Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn , 70, for the job.  Some Senate Democrats, including  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , have publicly questioned whether Summers should lead
the Fed. They’ve raised concerns about his role in advocating
financial-industry deregulation during President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration that many blame for later helping create the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Edgartown, Massachusetts at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  