-- Obama, Reid Aides Said to Discuss Fed Selection Process
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-08-14T04:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/obama-reid-aides-said-to-discuss-fed-selection-process.html
Aides to President  Barack Obama  and
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid discussed the process of
choosing the next U.S. Federal Reserve chairman in the wake of a
letter from some chamber Democrats touting one contender,
according to a person familiar with the conversations.  The letter, signed last month by 19 Senate Democrats and
one independent who caucuses with the party, urged Obama to
nominate Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen to succeed Ben S. Bernanke, whose term expires Jan. 31. The letter emerged amid
criticism from some Democrats of another possible contender,
Lawrence Summers, who had served as Obama’s first National
Economic Council director.  The Fed selection process came up during a meeting between
Deputy White House Chief of Staff Rob Nabors and David Krone,
chief of staff to Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said the person
familiar with the discussion. The two officials meet about once
a week, according to a congressional aide who asked not to be
identified discussing private conversations.  Senior White House staff members were surprised by the
Democrats’ letter, especially given that the president has made
clear he hasn’t yet settled on a nominee, said the person
familiar with the meeting. Although Obama hasn’t raised the
issue of the letter specifically, he wants political breathing
room as he makes a final decision on Bernanke’s replacement, the
person said. The Wall Street Journal reported on the meeting
earlier.  During a White House news conference last week, a day
before leaving for vacation, Obama said he was weighing a
“range of outstanding candidates” to lead the central bank,
including Summers and Yellen.  ‘Inside Track’  “The perception that Mr. Summers might have an inside
track simply had to do with a bunch of attacks that I was
hearing on Mr. Summers pre-emptively, which is sort of a
standard Washington exercise that I don’t like,” Obama said.
“I tend to defend folks who I think have done a good job and
don’t deserve attacks.”  Obama, 52, told House Democrats during a closed-door
meeting July 31 that Summers was being unfairly criticized. In
his news conference, he compared Summers to his National
Security Adviser Susan Rice. Obama didn’t nominate her for
Secretary of State after a backlash over statements she made
following the attacks on a U.S. diplomatic outpost in Benghazi,
Libya, last September in which four Americans died.  Reid said after a July 31 meeting between Obama and Senate
Democrats that party members in his chamber would support the
president’s choice for the Fed, “no matter who it is.”  Decision Timeline  For the Fed position, Obama said he’ll make a decision “in
the fall” on a replacement forBernanke, 59. The president told
House lawmakers that he was also considering former Fed Vice
Chairman Donald Kohn, 70, for the job.  Yellen, 67, has been the Fed vice chairman since October
2010. Summers, who served as Treasury secretary from July 1999
to January 2001, returned to government in 2009 as National
Economic Council director during Obama’s first term.  Some Senate Democrats, including Richard Durbin of
 Illinois , have publicly questioned whether Summers should lead
the Fed. They’ve raised concerns about his role in advocating
financial-industry deregulation during President Bill Clinton’s
administration that many blame for later helping create the
financial crisis.  Summers, then-Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury
Secretary Robert Rubin in 1998 blocked efforts by Brooksley Born, then-chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
to regulate the derivatives market. It later expanded to include
the toxic instruments that led to the 2008 market crisis.  While Bernanke hasn’t said whether he’d be willing to stay
for a third term, Obama indicated in a June interview with
Charlie Rose that the Fed chief had stayed in the post “longer
than he wanted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  