-- Loeb’s Third Point Re Raises $276 Million Pricing IPO at Low End
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/loeb-s-third-point-re-raises-276-million-in-initial-offer-1-.html
  Third Point Reinsurance Ltd. (TPRE) , which
counts billionaire hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb  as a founding
shareholder, raised about $276 million in an initial public
offering, pricing the stock at the bottom of the proposed range.  The company and existing owners sold 22.1 million shares
yesterday for $12.50 each, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earlier it had offered 22.2 million for $12.50 to
$14.50. Third Point Re is set to start trading today.  Third Point Re, which relies on Loeb’s Third Point LLC to
oversee an investment portfolio valued at more than $900 million
at midyear, will use proceeds from the IPO to boost underwriting
capacity. Loeb’s money-management style sets Third Point Re
apart from peers by diverging from the typical approach of
investing mainly in fixed-income, the reinsurer said in
regulatory filings.  “Our investment strategy is intended to achieve superior
risk-adjusted returns by deploying capital in both long and
short investments with favorable risk/reward characteristics
across select asset classes, sectors and geographies,” Third
Point Re said in filings.  About half of Third Point Re’s investments were in stocks
and 40 percent were in bonds as of June 30, according to
filings.  Arch Capital Group Ltd. (ACGL) , Endurance Specialty Holdings
Ltd. and Axis Capital Holdings Ltd., which Third Point Re names
as competitors, hold most of their portfolios in fixed-maturity
securities, filings show.  Greenlight’s Investments  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the reinsurer that funnels its
capital to  David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital Inc. hedge fund,
holds about 1 percent of its investments in debt securities,
according to filings.  Third Point Re posted $100.7 million in net income in the
six months through June 30, compared with $99.4 million in all
of 2012, as the reinsurer lowered its underwriting costs. The
company spent about $1.08 on claims and expenses for every
premium dollar it collected in the six months through June 30,
down from $1.30 last year, filings show.  Affiliates of private-equity firms Kelso & Co. and Pine
Brook Road Partners LLC have some of the largest Third Point Re
stakes. Loeb was set to own about 8.5 percent after the
offering. Neither Loeb nor the private-equity firms had planned
to sell in the IPO.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan
Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are among the
banks that managed Third Point Re’s offering. The stock will
list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol TPRE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  