-- Loeb’s Third Point Took Stake in CF Industries, Elan Corp.
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-08-14T22:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/loeb-s-third-point-took-stake-in-cf-industries-elan-corp-.html
Third Point LLC, the hedge-fund firm
run by Daniel Loeb, took a stake in fertilizer maker  CF
Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  in the second quarter, according to a
regulatory filing.  The firm added 845,000 shares of the Deerfield, Illinois-based company valued at about $144.9 million at the end of June,
according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Third Point, based in New York, originally
disclosed the investment in the largest U.S. producer of
nitrogen fertilizer in its second-quarter letter to investors
last month, without specifying the size of the stake.  Third Point bought 8.5 million American depository receipts
of Irish pharmaceutical company Elan Corp., valued at $120.2
million. Last month,  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , a U.S. maker of over-the-counter medicines, agreed to buy Elan for $8.6 billion. Third
Point also acquired 1.8 million shares of Burbank, California-based Walt Disney Co., valued at $113.7 million.  The filing, which represents holdings through June 30,
didn’t show shares of  Sony Corp. (SNE)  Loeb said in a June 17 letter
to Sony Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai that Third Point
owned 70 million shares through direct ownership and cash-settled swaps as of mid-June, and is interested in
representation on Sony’s board.  The entertainment unit of Sony has come under criticism
from Loeb following disappointing box-office sales this year for
“After Earth” and “White House Down.” Loeb has pushed,
unsuccessfully so far, for a partial sale of the division as a
way to boost its performance and increase accountability.  Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for Third Point, declined to
comment on the holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  