-- Loeb Poised for IPO as Einhorn Dump-Truck Bet Shows Insurer Risk
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/loeb-poised-for-ipo-as-einhorn-dump-truck-bet-shows-insurer-risk.html
Investors in  Third Point Reinsurance
Ltd. (TPRE) ’s initial public offering are betting on billionaire hedge
fund manager  Daniel Loeb . They’re also taking on risk from an
unprofitable underwriting operation.  The sale could raise as much as $322.2 million and price
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will
boost underwriting capacity at the Bermuda-based reinsurer,
which relies on Loeb’s Third Point LLC to oversee an investment
portfolio valued at more than $900 million at midyear.  Money managers including Loeb,  David Einhorn ,  John Paulson 
and  Steven A. Cohen  have started reinsurers that funnel capital
to their  hedge funds  and draw on their investing abilities to
boost returns. While shareholders in the reinsurers may gain
from those results, poor underwriting can crimp profit.  “The biggest issue with this versus a traditional
reinsurer is they need to have a sustainable underwriting
platform,” said Austin Hawley, co-director of research at
Diamond Hill Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $10.8
billion. “If they don’t, I don’t think you’re getting anything.
You’re just buying into the hedge fund with the risk of making a
mistake on the reinsurance side.”  Third Point Re and existing owners are offering 22.2
million shares for $12.50 to $14.50,  filings  show. The midpoint
of the range would value the reinsurer after the IPO at about
$1.4 billion, or 1.1 times estimated book value, a measure of
assets minus liabilities.  That’s similar to the current  ratio  of Einhorn’s  Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE)  Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd. and Axis
Capital Holdings Ltd. trade at about book value, while Arch
Capital Group Ltd. changed hands yesterday at 1.5 times book.  Diamond Hill  Diamond Hill  purchased  shares in Greenlight Re this year
after the gap between the share price and book value narrowed,
according to Hawley. He said he evaluates Third Point Re and
Greenlight Re based on whether their investment strategies can
outperform over the long term, and if the companies have sound
underwriting.  Third Point Re spent about $1.30 on claims and expenses for
every premium dollar it collected last year, on costs tied to
“the startup nature of our business in 2012,” according to a
filing from the company, which counts Loeb, 51, as a founding
shareholder. That ratio improved to $1.08 in the six months
ended June 30 as general and administrative expenses fell.  The better underwriting results and investments helped the
company post $100.7 million in net income in the six months
through June 30, compared with $99.4 million in all of 2012.
Third Point Re Chief Financial Officer Rob Bredahl didn’t
respond to messages seeking comment. Elissa Doyle, a managing
director at Loeb’s Third Point LLC, declined to comment.  Cars, Crops  The reinsurer aims to curb underwriting volatility by
limiting risks from natural disasters and focusing on auto
coverage, workers’ compensation and crop protection, filings
show. Still, Third Point had a $10 million underwriting loss on
crop coverage last year.  Greenlight Re shows what can go wrong in the industry,
which takes on risks initiated by primary insurers. The Cayman
Islands-based company posted a third-quarter underwriting loss
of $43.9 million last year fueled by liability contracts
protecting  dump trucks  and other commercial vehicles.  The losses were frustrating and Greenlight Re learned from
the experience, Einhorn said at the time. The reinsurer’s shares
fell 5.7 percent the day after the disclosure.  Underwriting results diluted the benefits of Einhorn’s
investments at Greenlight Re in the last few years, said Brian Meredith, an analyst at UBS AG. Most of the company’s 45 percent
gain since its 2007 IPO was on the first day of trading.  Stocks, Bonds  Loeb, who managed $13.2 billion at New York-based Third
Point LLC as of June 30, specializes in so-called event-driven
investing, buying and selling stocks or bonds of companies going
through corporate changes like spinoffs or mergers. His main
fund has climbed 15.9 percent this year through July 31 and
produced an  annualized return  of 17.9 percent since inception in
December 1996, according to reports sent to investors.  Axis, Arch Capital and Endurance hold the majority of their
investment portfolios in bonds, an allocation that can help them
meet the standards of credit-rating firms. That strategy has
pressured return on equity in the industry as the  Federal
Reserve  and other central banks keep  interest rates  low to
stimulate the economy.  Hedge funds can offer better returns, though volatility can
hurt companies whose business model involves a promise of
financial strength. Third Point Re said in filings that it has
the liquidity to meet requirements of ratings firm A.M. Best Co.  Max Capital  Max Capital Group Ltd., the reinsurer co-founded by hedge-fund manager  Louis Bacon , announced a plan in 2008 to scale back
its allocation to “alternative” strategies after losses on the
holdings. The company merged with Harbor Point Ltd. in 2010 to
gain underwriting scale. Third Point Re Chief Executive Officer
John Berger previously was vice chairman of the combined company
Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd.  Potential Third Point Re shareholders should be cautious
about the investing strategy’s risk, said  Hugh Johnson , who
oversees about $2.2 billion as chairman of the  Albany , New York-based Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC. About half the reinsurer’s
investments were in stocks and 40 percent were in bonds as of
June 30, according to filings.  “If a large percentage of the reinsurance company’s assets
are invested in equities, then I’m going to start to feel very
uncomfortable,” Johnson said in a phone interview. “I would
really take a hard look at this.”  Results last year benefited from holdings of  Greek
government bonds  and Loeb’s bet on Yahoo! Inc., the reinsurer
said. Net investment income was $136.4 million in 2012.  Affiliates of private-equity firms Kelso & Co. and Pine
Brook Road Partners LLC have some of the largest Third Point Re
stakes. Loeb will have a holding of about 8.5 percent after the
offering. Neither Loeb nor the private-equity firms are selling
in the IPO.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan
Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are among the
banks managing Third Point Re’s offering. The stock will be
listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol TPRE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  