-- Oi Plunges After Surprise Loss, Dividend Cut: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-14T20:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/oi-plunges-after-surprise-loss-dividend-cut-sao-paulo-mover.html
Oi SA, Brazil’s most indebted
telecommunications company, plunged after it reported an
unexpected loss and cut its planned dividend payment.  Voting shares tumbled 8.9 percent to 4.49 reais at the
close in Sao Paulo, the worst performance on the Ibovespa equity
benchmark, which rose 0.6 percent. Non-voting shares sank 7.4
percent to 4.13 reais.  After hiring Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  two months
ago, Oi’s board is cutting back on shareholder payouts to turn
the company around. The carrier plans to pay 2 billion reais
($865 million) in dividends through 2016, compared with 3
billion reais it had  told  investors it would dispense in 2014
and 2015.  The new dividend policy “is much more compatible and
aligned with the cash-flow profile and the prudent financial
approach we want to take in life,” Bava said on a conference
call today with analysts. “It’s something that gives the market
a floor as to how they should be thinking about dividend in this
company in the future.”  Oi’s net loss was 124.2 million reais during the three
months ended in June, its first unprofitable quarter since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average estimate of
six analysts was for a profit of 186.7 million reais, the data
show.  The stock’s decline today “is a reaction to the news on
dividends -- phone companies have historically been seen as safe
havens by the market,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee
330 million reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
 Brazil , said in a telephone interview. “When you change policy
on that, the market doesn’t react well.”  Fiscal Austerity  While the cut to payouts demonstrates “fiscal austerity”
the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s “high dividend yield was one
of the stock’s attractions,” Banco Itau BBA analysts Susana Salaru and Gregorio Tomassi wrote in a note to clients today.  After paying 4 billion reais in dividends since 2012 under
a program that promised 8 billion reais in payouts through 2015,
Oi canceled an 1 billion-real payment it had scheduled for this
year.  Oi’s net debt rose by 2 billion reais from the first
quarter to 29.5 billion reais. That pushed its ratio of net debt
to earnings to 3.4, leaving out interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to Bradesco BBI.  Provisions for bad debt, used to cover customers who fail
to pay their bills, rose 97 percent from a year earlier to 323
million reais, which Bradesco analysts led by Luis Azevedo
called “worrying.”  Prudence Needed  Bava said the “current economic environment” was to blame
for the higher bad-debt costs.  “If we are looking to reduce bad debts, we need to be even
more prudent,” he said. “Credit policies, prices and offers
are being revised to bring bad debt to acceptable levels in the
near future.”  The expenses are costing the company about 100 million
reais a month, a figure Bava said he wants to halve.  “The turnaround will be underpinned by three events:
correct the cash-flow-profile business model, more efficiency
and growth,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  