-- Mol Heads for 3-Month Low as Citigroup Says Sell: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-08-14T09:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/mol-heads-for-3-month-low-as-citigroup-says-sell-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, headed for the lowest level in more than three months
after Citigroup Inc. recommended investors sell the shares,
citing challenges facing the company’s production plans.  The stock fell 1.3 percent to 16,095 forint at 11:24 a.m.
in Budapest, set for the weakest level since April 29 and
bringing a retreat in the past four trading days to 3 percent.
Mol led a drop in the benchmark BUX stock  index , which slipped
0.4 percent.  Mol, which has the biggest weighting in the gauge, said
yesterday second-quarter gas production in Croatia and Hungary
decreased, a day after announcing the sale of a stake in a
mature field in  Russia .  Net income  for the three months through
June was 20 billion forint ($89 million), missing the 24
billion-forint median estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Core production assets in Hungary and Croatia continue to
mature,” Mukhtar Garadaghi, a London-based analyst at
Citigroup, wrote in an e-mailed note today, lowering the shares
from neutral. “Mol’s long-term business plans look challenging
given little upstream growth in the medium term.”  The oil and gas company said production at the Shaikan
field in the Kurdistan region of  Iraq  is “within closer reach”
after approval from the local government, which will help offset
the decline of mature fields elsewhere. Upstream operations were
“the weakest link” amid lower gas output and declining crude
 oil prices , according to Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based
analyst at KBC Securities, a unit of  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)   Four analysts  recommend investors buy the shares of Mol,
while 13 say hold the stock and two say sell, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  