-- Moscow’s 160 Billion Ruble Plan Revives Benchmark: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-08-14T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/moscow-s-160-billion-ruble-plan-revives-benchmark-russia-credit.html
Moscow plans to sell as much as 160
billion rubles ($4.8 billion) of bonds by year-end, betting its
re-emergence as the benchmark for Russian regional debt sales
will lead to lower borrowing costs.  Russia ’s capital city intends to sell 40 billion rubles of
bonds on Oct. 3 and may offer 120 billion rubles more by Dec.
31, according to the Moscow finance department  website . The
yield on its three-year bonds due June 2016 fell 10 basis points
to 7.41 percent since the first day of trading, compared with a
drop of 88 basis points for January 2017 euro debt of  Madrid ,
ranked the same at Fitch Ratings.  Moscow came to the debt market for the first time since
2010 in June as Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  sought to plug a deficit
with social spending rising and tax revenue from oil companies
being transferred to producing regions. During the city’s
absence on the market, regions have had to use federal
government bonds to gauge pricing of debt.  “Moscow is the biggest, richest municipal borrower, hence
it can command the lowest yield,” Konstantin Nemnov, who helps
manage the equivalent of $2.4 billion in debt at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in St. Petersburg, said by e-mail Aug. 14.
“What happens to Moscow will affect all other municipal
borrowers, making it a benchmark for all.”  Regional Access  Regions including Novosibirsk and Stavropol are preparing
debt sales as President Vladimir Putin’s administration is
broadening access to the nation’s markets. Euroclear Bank SA,
the world’s biggest settlement system, plans to begin operations
with regional debt as early this year after a start to
transactions with government bonds in February. Clearstream
International SA began handling municipal debt in May.  Sobyanin, now acting mayor as the city prepares for
elections, controls a $52.4 billion municipal budget, the
biggest after  Shanghai  and New York, according to Moscow’s
 website . Moscow shares the state’s BBB credit rating from
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. It plans to offer four bonds issues
in the fourth quarter, each for 40 billion rubles, with terms of
as long as seven and a half years.  “Our rating is the same as the Russian Federation and
thanks to our stable and efficient system, I’m confident that
investors will value our bonds as the safest after sovereign
bonds,” Alexander Kovalenko, deputy head of the municipal
government’s finance department, said by phone Aug. 13.  Direct Elections  Sobyanin, a former head of the Kremlin administration, is
leading the polls for the Sept. 8 election, which will see the
mayor being elected directly for the first time in a decade.
Opposition leader Alexei Navalny is second place, according to
the research company Levada Center.  “A victory for somebody outside of the establishment, such
as Alexei Navalny, would at least initially be very bad for the
bond market,”  Chris Weafer , a senior partner at the Moscow-based consultancy Macro Advisory, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Investors hate uncertainty. Bond issuance would cost the city
a lot more in that event.”  The yield on Russia’s dollar bond maturing in March 2030
increased three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.13
percent by 6:24 p.m. in Moscow. The extra yield investors demand
to hold Russia’s dollar debt rather than Treasuries increased
nine basis points to 224, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  Sub-federal borrowing doubled last year and may grow by 50
percent to 100 percent this year, not including Moscow,
according to Anton Tabakh, an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp.
The Moscow sale will probably succeed as there’s a shortage of
high-quality debt on the market, access to foreign funds has
been liberalized and the city has the same rating as the
sovereign, he said by phone on Aug. 13.  “Now that Moscow’s back with big volumes, I expect it will
re-emerge as the benchmark,” Tabakh said.  --  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  