-- Toyo Files U.S. Trade Complaint to Block Chinese Tires
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-14T22:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/toyo-files-u-s-trade-complaint-to-block-chinese-tires.html
Toyo Tire & Rubber Co. (5105) , the maker of
tires for Audi and Toyota vehicles, said it lodged a U.S. trade
complaint accusing almost two dozen companies of selling
replacements that copy its patented tread and sidewall designs.  In the complaint, filed today with the U.S. International
Trade Commission in Washington, Osaka-based Toyo claimed tires
made in China and  Thailand  are copying proprietary designs used
for the Toyo and Nitto brand of tires. It asks that the trade
agency block U.S. imports of products that infringe eight
patents.  “Toyo’s tires are specifically designed to provide unique
and distinctive tread and sidewall designs without compromising
optimum performance in their intended environment, whether on an
interstate highway, a back-country road or off-road,” the
company said in the complaint.  Toyo, which also makes tires for  Lexus , Mazda, Nissan and
Scion vehicles, may expand U.S. production based on demand for
vehicles with higher profit margins like sport-utility vehicles
and  pickup trucks , Toyo President Akira Nobuki said in a July 2
interview. About 36 percent of the manufacturer’s sales comes
from  North America , and Toyo is among companies benefiting from
the recovery of the U.S. auto market.  The company has a manufacturing and warehouse facility in
White,  Georgia , and has hundreds of employees nationwide making
and selling millions of tires, according to the complaint.  Among the 22 manufacturers, importers and sellers named in
the complaint are Weifang Shunfuchang Rubber & Plastic Co.,
Doublestar Dong Feng Tyre Co., Shandong Linglong Tyre Co.,
Dunlap & Kyle Co. and South China Tire & Rubber Co.  The complaint is In the Matter of Certain Tires and
Products Containing Same, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  