-- Pacific Rubiales Scouring for Colombia Oil Acquisition, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/pacific-rubiales-scouring-for-colombia-oil-acquisition-ceo-says.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , the
the world’s fastest-growing major crude producer, said it’s
looking to buy a low-density crude producer in  Colombia  in a bid
to reduce the cost of transporting its mostly heavy oil.  The company buys gasoline on the international market and
blends it with heavier oil before sending the mix to port at a
“huge cost,” Chief Executive Officer Ronald Pantin said
yesterday in an interview from his Bogota office.  “There are light  oil companies  in Colombia that it would
be a no brainer to get their production,” Pantin said. “We are
looking. We are not in negotiations. The moment is now but you
need two to tango.”  Pacific, run by the ex-Petroleos de Venezuela SA executive
who left in 2000 as then-President  Hugo Chavez  stepped up
control of the state company, boosted output sevenfold over the
past five years by plying the Rubiales field, Colombia’s
largest. Pantin didn’t rule out a bid for Calgary-based
 Petrominerales (PMG)  Ltd. as he seeks new growth opportunities.  “It’s a great company, they have a lot of light oil,” he
said. “I am not negotiating with them. I am keeping an eye on
all of them.”  Share Slump  Petrominerales, which produces mostly from fields in
Colombia’s Llanos basin, reported a 31 percent decline in
second-quarter production. July output rose and the company has
opportunities to continue growing, Petrominerales Chief
Executive Officer Corey Ruttan said in an Aug. 9 interview.  Petrominerales shares have slumped 29 percent this year in
Toronto and trade at 10.67 times estimated 2013 earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pacific Rubiales (PREC)  has
lost 14 percent and fetches 10.78 times forecast profit, the
data show. Rubiales’ market value is $6.23 billion compared with
$501 million for Petrominerales.  Pacific’s compound production growth over the last five
years is 47 percent, the fastest among 109 producers with a
market value of at least $5 billion tracked by Bloomberg. The
group average is 8.4 percent growth, the data show.  The company’s shares fell last week after reporting net
income of $57.6 million, or 18 cents a share, down from $224
million, or 76 cents, a year earlier. The fall was largely
caused by a 5.1 percent drop in the Colombian peso, lower  oil
prices  and a depreciation of assets.  Beating Target  Pacific will surpass its 2013 output target and is “sure”
it will secure soon a license for the CPE-6 block, Pantin said.  The top range of the company’s forecast for this year is an
average net daily production of 127,000 barrels of oil
equivalent. Rubiales accounts for 65 percent of the company’s
production, according to a July presentation.  “We’re going to be higher,”Pantin said. “Why am I
saying that? Because of  Peru , Cajua, Sabanero and CPE-6.”  Pacific Rubiales, which had licensing delays for its CPE-6
block in Colombia’s Llanos basin, now expects a blanket
exploration and development license from Colombia’s
environmental agency known as ANLA within three to six weeks,
Pantin said.  License Expiry  “I’m sure we are going to get it,” Pantin said. “I talk
to ANLA every day. They are very pleased with the way meetings
with local communities went.”  Pacific Rubiales has identified CPE-6 as a key area for
future production growth. The company’s contract at the Rubiales
field is set to expire in June 2016. Ecopetrol’s board will
decide whether to issue a new license in the field.  “I’m very optimistic,” Pantin said. “Our proposal for a
new contract is a good one. It will be production sharing with
Pacific as the operator. It’s beneficial for both Pacific and
Ecopetrol.”  Ecopetrol declined to comment on the contract in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  