-- Patriots Quarterback Brady Sprains Knee in Practice, ESPN Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-15T04:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/patriots-tom-brady-leaves-practice-with-knee-injury-espn-says.html
New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  may return to action today after spraining his left knee
in a preseason scrimmage, ESPN reported.  Brady, 36, the two-time National Football League Most
Valuable Player who missed almost all of the 2008 season with a
left knee injury, stayed on the ground for several seconds and
held the knee after being knocked down during a drill against
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  yesterday.  He limped to the sideline for one play before returning to
complete the drill. After talking with coach  Bill Belichick ,
offensive coordinator  Josh McDaniels  and trainer Jim Whalen,
Brady jogged off the field.  A scan on the knee showed no ligament damage and Brady is
likely to return to practice today, ESPN reported, quoting a
person with knowledge of the injury who requested anonymity.  Brady’s early departure from practice led the LVH Super
Book in Las Vegas to take some Patriots bets off the board.
Assistant manager  Jeff Sherman  said the only bets on New England
still available last night were for American Football Conference
and Super Bowl championships, while wagers such as how many
games the Patriots will win this season were halted.  “It looks like it won’t be too long ’til we put it back
up,” Sherman said last night in a telephone interview, “since
he might practice tomorrow.”  Video taken by a fan showed that Brady was hurt when Tampa
Bay defensive end Adrian Clayborn pushed Patriots offensive
tackle Nate Solder into the side of the quarterback’s left leg
as Brady was throwing.  Brady was the reigning league MVP on Sept. 8, 2008, when he
suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament in the knee during
the first quarter of the Patriots’ regular-season opener.  The Patriots signed free agent  Tim Tebow  in June to be a
backup to Brady, while quarterback Ryan Mallett is also on the
roster. Yesterday was Tebow’s 26th birthday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  