-- Steinway Agrees to Be Bought by Paulson for $512 Million
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-14T13:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/paulson-co-to-buy-piano-maker-steinway-for-512-million.html
Steinway Musical Instruments Inc. (LVB) 
agreed to be acquired by Paulson & Co., the hedge fund owned by
billionaire John Paulson, in a deal valuing the 160-year-old
piano maker at about $512 million.  The offer for $40 a share tops that of private-equity firm
Kohlberg & Co., which had bid $35 a share last month for
Waltham, Massachusetts-based Steinway. Kohlberg withdrew its bid
yesterday after disclosing a rival bid of $38 a share said to be
from Paulson. Steinway’s board recommends that all shareholders
tender their shares to the new offer, according to a statement
today.  Steinway, whose pianos can take almost one year to make,
disclosed Kohlberg’s bid of about $438 million on July 1 and
said at that time it would conduct a 45-day go-shop period where
it could seek another suitor. Today’s deal was announced as that
deadline was set to expire and the bump in Paulson’s offer may
indicate a third party was involved, said Sachin Shah, a special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Albert Fried & Co.  “The fact that they went from $38 to $40, implies that
somebody did submit an offer,” Shah said in a phone interview.
“Paulson can complete this transaction, they feel confident,
their board has done their due diligence, that’s a conversation
I’ve had with them.”  Steinway rose 5.6 percent to $40.42 at 9:30 a.m. in  New
York  and had gained 81 percent this year through yesterday’s
close. The deal is expected to be completed in late September
and once it closes Steinway will become a private company.  Paulson Win  “We think that the new offer today is a win for Paulson
company and for shareholders,” said Bradd Kern, a portfolio
Manager at  Irvine , California-based Armored Wolf LLC., who owns
Steinway shares. “We have actually added slightly since the
original offer.”  Steinway disclosed Kohlberg’s offer three days after it
closed the $46.3 million sale of its stake in the famed Steinway
Hall building on West 57th Street in  New York City , which houses
its flagship retail showroom. The company has ended its
agreement with Kohlberg and will pay a termination fee of about
$6.7 million, according to today’s statement.  The piano maker that gave the company its name was founded
in 1853 by German immigrant Henry Engelhard Steinway in a
Manhattan loft on Varick Street, and over the following decades
became a brand recognized worldwide.  German Immigrant  The company was bought by saxophone maker Selmer Industries
in 1995 and taken public the following year by investment
bankers Kyle Kirkland and Dana Messina, then chairman and chief
executive officer, respectively. They expanded through
acquisitions and faced declines in sales during the recession.
In 2011, the executives made a bid to buy the band division --
which includes Bach Stradivarius trumpets and C.G. Conn French
horns. Steinway turned down the offer and ended a review for
strategic alternatives in December.  “At $5 per share more than the offer from Kohlberg, this
transaction provides shareholders significant additional value
for their investment,” Michael Sweeney, Steinway’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. “At the same time,
our employees, dealers, artists, and customers can rest assured
that Steinway will be in excellent hands under  John Paulson ’s
stewardship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S. Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  