-- Penny Stock Scam, Nasdaq’s Role, Audit Vote: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/penny-stock-scam-nasdaq-s-role-audit-vote-compliance.html
Seven people accused of taking part
in a $140 million international penny stock fraud that U.S.
prosecutors say is one of the largest in history were arrested.  Federal agents arrested six individuals in the U.S. accused
of participating in a scheme to inflate the values of at least a
dozen worthless stocks and market them to investors,  Brooklyn 
U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch said yesterday. A seventh
defendant was arrested in  Canada , she said.  The stocks were sold to victims in as many as 35 countries,
prosecutors said. Some victims were swindled a second time
through a separate scheme in which investors were told they
would pay an “advance fee” to recoup their losses, according
to prosecutors.  As many as nine individuals were involved in the
conspiracy, according to a 24-count indictment filed Aug. 7. Two
of the defendants, Canadian citizens Gregory Curry and Sandy
Winick, who prosecutors said orchestrated the scheme, are still
at large, said Zugiel Soto, a spokeswoman for Lynch.  The government said the scheme took place from 2008 to July
2013. Stocks included Winick’s holding company  Blackout Media
Corp. (BKMP) , along with  Resource Group International (RSGR) , Imusic Worldwide
Inc.,  WGI Holdings Inc. (WGIH) ,  Talisman Holdings Inc. (TMHO) ,  Nikron
Technologies Inc. (NKRN) ,  Tal-Cap Inc. (TALC) ,  RainEarth Inc. (RNER) ,  Sync2 Networks
Corp., (SYNW)   MASS Petroleum (MASP) , Liquid Gold International and  Foy
Johnston Inc. (FOYJ) , according to the indictment.  Known as “file cabinet businesses,” the companies had
minimal assets, were thinly traded, and were owned or controlled
by the defendants, according to prosecutors.  The scheme involved the creation of phony consulting
businesses and law firms, the release of fake press releases in
connection with the penny stocks, and operation of call centers
in Vietnam,  Thailand  and Canada, according to the indictment.  Winick, believed to be in Thailand, was sued along with
Blackout Media by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
June 2009 over similar allegations. The SEC won a $4 million
judgment in the case in September 2012.  Defendants are charged with crimes including securities
fraud, conspiracy and wire fraud. They face sentences of as many
as 20 years in prison.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Winick, 13-cr-00452, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Compliance Policy  U.S. Watchdog Proposes More Disclosure in Auditor Report  Auditors would be required to disclose the most difficult
parts of their opinion of a public company’s books under a
proposal that would trigger the first change in 70 years to the
reports.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board voted
unanimously yesterday to issue a plan meant to amplify the
information investors receive from the auditor’s report. The
PCAOB has studied ways to overhaul such reports since the 2008
credit crisis.  The PCAOB’s proposed standard would require auditors to
tell investors about matters that proved the most difficult to
judge. Auditors also would have to disclose how long they’ve
worked for the company, data that could be useful in assessing
the auditor’s independence.  The board’s vote opens a 120-day public comment period
during which audit firms, public companies and investors will
lobby to shape a final standard, which would have to be approved
by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The PCAOB was created
by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and sets standards for
auditors of U.S.-registered firms.  Yesterday’s proposal doesn’t include a requirement for a
separate auditor’s report that was considered in a discussion
draft the PCAOB issued in 2011. The largest accounting firms,
represented by the Center for Audit Quality, opposed a
requirement to write a new report for each engagement.  Instead of a separate report, the PCAOB’s proposal calls
for auditors to disclose “critical audit matters,” which are
typically communicated to the public company’s audit committee.  CFTC Syncs Rules for SEC-Registered Investment Companies  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it will
accept the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission’s disclosure,
reporting and recordkeeping system as satisfying compliance for
certain rules affecting commodity pool operators of investment
companies registered with both CFTC and the SEC.  The rule allows dually registered firms to meet certain
CFTC regulatory requirements for commodity pool operators, or
CPOs, by complying with SEC rules, the CFTC said on its website.  Compliance Action  Nasdaq Asks SEC for Greater Role in Equity Exchange Supervision  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. asked federal regulators to approve a
broader oversight role for the second-largest equity-exchange
operator, expanding its supervision of potential market
manipulation.  The request to take on some of the policing duties now
handled by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
brokerage industry watchdog organization, was made in an Aug. 12
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Nasdaq’s request to tweak its responsibilities as a self-regulatory organization comes the same month that Wall Street
firms asked the SEC to consider stripping public exchanges of
their SRO designation. The proposed change would give Nasdaq
greater leeway to look for market manipulation, particularly at
the open and close of the trading day.  Nasdaq said it will take on oversight for real-time
monitoring of compliance by market makers who are also part of
any underwriting syndicates. Finra will continue to watch for
activities that take place across U.S. stock markets, said
Nasdaq, and deal with suspected infractions.  “Nasdaq will continue to refer potentially violative
conduct to Finra for further review,” the exchange wrote in the
filing. “Moreover, Finra will continue to perform the vast
majority of surveillance activity for Nasdaq’s equities
markets.”  Ex-JPMorgan Employee Martin-Artajo Has Cooperated, Lawyer Says  Javier-Martin Artajo, one of the former  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  employees whose London-based unit lost more than $6.2
billion last year, said he has cooperated with inquiries into
the debacle, according to a statement released by his attorneys.  “Mr. Martin-Artajo is currently on a long-planned vacation
and will be returning to the U.K. as scheduled,” according to
an e-mailed statement from  Norton Rose Fulbright LLP , a London-based law firm.  “Mr. Martin-Artajo has cooperated with every internal and
external inquiry which was required of him in the U.K.,”
according to the statement. “He received no communication from
any governmental regulators, including the Financial Conduct
Authority in the U.K. with whom he has fully co-operated, which
would indicate that he should not be on vacation at this time.”  “Mr. Martin-Artajo is confident that when a complete and
fair reconstruction of these complex events is completed, he
will be cleared of any wrongdoing,” according to the statement.  The U.S. may announce charges as early as this week against
former London-based JPMorgan employees related to allegations
they tried to conceal losses last year, a person familiar with
the matter said.  The situation remains fluid and it isn’t clear who may be
charged, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
information wasn’t public. Those facing U.S. charges include
Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout, a trader who worked for him.
Prosecutors also are weighing penalties for the bank.  For more, click here.  Marathon Liquidated PPIP Fund After Earning Treasury 25% Return  Marathon Asset Management LP, one of nine firms selected in
the credit crisis to manage a government-subsidized program to
revive the mortgage-bond market, liquidated the fund after
handing the U.S. Treasury a 25 percent return.  The  alternative asset manager  sold the last of the fund’s
$1.5 billion of residential and commercial mortgage-backed
securities holdings in June, the New York-based firm said in a
letter dated Aug. 12. Of the managers chosen for the
government’s Public-Private Investment Program, Marathon had the
highest return on capital with a net multiple of 1.76 times.  Marathon co-founders Bruce Richards and Andrew Rabinowitz,
and money managers Andrew Springer and Stuart Goldberg,
described the program in a letter to investors obtained by
Bloomberg News as “a resounding success for the U.S.
Treasury.”  Rabinowitz declined to comment on the letter.  PPIP was started in  March 2009  to encourage purchases of
devalued real-estate loans and mortgage bonds that helped cause
the financial crisis and weighed on banks’ balance sheets.  For more, click here.  KanAm Starts First German Property Fund After New Rule, FAZ Says  KanAm Grund (HZBB)  will market a 1 billion-euro ($1.33 billion) to
2.5 billion-euro open-ended real estate fund in the fourth
quarter, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported, without saying
where it obtained the information.  KanAm’s fund is the first to open since new rules limiting
investor redemptions were passed, FAZ said. It expects to target
a yield slightly above 3 percent, FAZ reported.  German real estate funds dissolved after struggling to meet
redemptions.  Interviews  Telekom Austria CEO Says Industry Needs Consolidation  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  Chief Executive Officer Hannes
Ametsreiter discussed telecommunications industry regulation and
consolidation, and relations with  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil
SAB (AMX) , a shareholder in the company.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  