-- PGA Tour Says It Hasn’t Made Offer to Buy European Counterpart
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-08-14T04:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/pga-tour-says-it-hasn-t-made-offer-to-buy-european-counterpart.html
PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem
said U.K. media reports that the world’s richest golf circuit
made an offer to buy its European counterpart were inaccurate.  The  Daily Telegraph  and  Daily Mail  said yesterday that
discontent is growing among European Tour players over the
disparity in prize money in relation to the U.S. circuit.  While the world’s top golfers gathered to vie for $16.75
million in prize money at the Bridgestone Invitational and  PGA
Championship  over the past two weeks in the U.S., the European
Tour schedule is blank between July 28 and Aug. 22. Finchem said
that, while the PGA Tour hasn’t sought to take over the European
Tour, collaboration between series may benefit players, sponsors
and fans.  “Such integration has been ongoing since 1994, with the
founding of the International Federation of PGA Tours, and has
led to the establishment of the World Golf Championships in 1999
as well as the  World Cup  as a Federation-sanctioned event,”
Finchem said in a statement e-mailed by the PGA Tour. “More
recently, all the major golf bodies around the world worked
together to bring golf back to the  Olympic Games .”  The Telegraph and Mail cited  Paul Casey , who has played on
the PGA and European tours and is a member of the latter’s
tournament players’ committee, as saying that the European Tour
has failed to fulfill its potential.  “We are so far from maximizing what we have and we need to
freshen things up,” Casey was quoted as saying. “This is the
time for change as it’s a great opportunity we’re missing.”  Earnings Gulf  Henrik Stenson leads the European Tour prize money list
with 2.12 million euros ($2.81 million) this year. The Swede won
almost half that amount in three U.S. appearances -- the
Bridgestone Invitational, PGA Championship and  U.S. Open . By
contrast,  Tiger Woods  tops the PGA Tour money list with $7.69
million in prize money.  While the European Tour has struggled to increase prize
purses, the PGA Tour has been expanding. It took operational
control of the Canadian Tour on Nov. 1 and in March the 15-event, nine-nation  PGA Tour Latinoamerica  began its second
season with the Mexico Open.  The PGA Tour announced two days ago that it hired Greg
Gilligan as vice president and managing director of the Tour’s
affiliate in  China  as part of an effort “to support the
continued growth of golf” in the world’s most populous nation.  “Conversations among the tours within the federation will
continue as we explore additional collaborative efforts for the
presentation of our game,” Finchem said in his statement.  A further $5.3 million in prize money is available this
week at the PGA Tour’s Wyndham Championship, which begins
tomorrow at Sedgefield Country Club in Greensboro,  North
Carolina . It’s the final opportunity to qualify for the four-event FedExCup playoff series, which pays the top player a $10
million bonus.  The European Tour’s equivalent to the FedExCup, the  Race to
Dubai , had its bonus pool plunge by half last year to 2.4
million pounds ($3.71 million). The bonus pool for this year is
$3.75 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 