-- Pimco Says Now Is Time to Buy Emerging Market Debt After Selloff
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-08-14T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/pimco-says-now-is-time-to-buy-emerging-market-debt-after-selloff.html
Investors should buy emerging-market
debt after the worst selloff in more than a decade drove up
yields, according to the world’s largest bond investor.  “From a fundamental point of view, we see value in the
higher yields available on many EM bonds, both in local currency
and U.S. dollars,” Ramin Toloui, the co-head of  emerging
markets  at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in  a note 
today. “In a global environment characterized by continued
concerns about growth -- even amid firmer economic indicators --
policy interest rates in both developed and emerging countries
are poised to stay low.”  Developing countries’  dollar-denominated bonds  lost 6.1
percent in the second quarter, the biggest decline since
Russia’s debt default in 1998, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index. Their local-currency  bonds  declined 7
percent in dollar terms, the second worst drop since 2003, when
JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Global Diversified Index started.  The bonds sold off as the U.S. Federal Reserve debated
whether to pull back unprecedented monetary stimulus that over
the past four years helped bolster demand for assets from
developing countries. Investors are also anticipating that some
central banks, such as those in Turkey and  Brazil , may raise
borrowing costs to fend off currency depreciation, driving up
bond yields and pushing prices lower.  Yields on Brazil’s real-denominated bonds due in 2023 have
increased 1.57 percentage points over the past three months to
11.5 percent, or 8.8 percentage points higher than 10-year U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Growth  Global economic growth remains slow, so investors should
pare bets on higher interest rates, according to Toloui.
Improved government balance sheets since the 1990s may also
allow most developing countries to keep interest rate low
without putting pressure on their currencies, he wrote.  “Buying bonds is all about locking in yields,” wrote
Toloui, who is based in  Singapore . “If the global growth
environment remains weak, it is likely that the interest rate
increases priced in most EM local curves will not materialize,
making it advantageous for the bond investor to lock in yields
now.”  Pimco’s $6.8 billion  Emerging Market Bond Fund (PEBIX)  has lost 7
percent this year, trailing 54 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, based in Newport Beach,
 California , manages the $262 billion Total Return Fund, the
world’s largest bond fund.  Global investors have “very low” allocations in emerging-market bonds, which represent 7 percent of total debt holdings
among U.S. mutual funds, according to Pimco. They should take
advantage of the recent selloff as “an attractive entry point
to build positions toward a long-term strategic target,” Toloui
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  