-- Polish GDP Growth Rebounds in Second Quarter, Beating Estimate
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-08-14T08:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/polish-gdp-growth-rebounds-in-second-quarter-beating-estimate.html
Polish economic growth accelerated
from a four-year low in the second quarter, buttressing central
bank forecasts that the second half of the year will bring an
export-led recovery.  Gross-domestic product  grew 0.8 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 0.5 percent in the previous quarter,
according to a preliminary estimate published today by  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw. Expansion was faster than the 0.7
percent median  estimate  of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
GDP increased 0.4 percent from the previous quarter.  The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski ended a nine-month
cycle of interest-rate cuts in July after improved manufacturing
and retail data showed “the road to recovery is open,”
Governor  Marek Belka  told reporters. Poland recorded its third
monthly  trade surplus  in June, the first time this has happened
since the data series began in 2000, amid evidence its main
export market, the euro area, is pulling out of recession.  “We’ve seen tremendous improvement in the  trade balance 
and the surprise with GDP could be that exports did even better
than we thought,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at Bank Zachodni
WBK in Warsaw, said by phone before the release. “The past two
months have shown enough positive signals that the risk to
economic-growth forecasts has shifted to the upside.”  Credit Agricole  upgraded its 2013 growth forecast to 1.1
percent from 0.8 percent after the June trade data were released
on Aug. 12, citing expectations for faster exports to the euro
area and a “slight increase” in private consumption.  “We see a significant acceleration of net exports, which
were the only engine for economic growth,” Jakub Borowski,
Warsaw-based chief economist for Credit Agricole, said by phone
yesterday. “Domestic demand will start contributing in the
second half of this year.”  The zloty stayed weaker after the data, trading at 4.1998
per euro at 10:03 a.m. in Warsaw, a decline of 0.1 percent from
yesterday. The  yield  on the benchmark two-year zloty bond rose
two basis points to 3 percent.  The growth figures are subject to a revision when the
statistics office releases second-quarter GDP data on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki@bloomberg.net   Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  