-- Polish July Inflation Tops Median Estimate, Driving Up Yields
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-08-14T12:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/polish-july-inflation-tops-median-estimate-driving-up-yields.html
Polish  inflation  accelerated from a
record low in July, outpacing economists’ forecasts and
sealing the central bank’s case for ending interest-rate cuts.  Consumer prices advanced 1.1 percent from a year earlier
after a 0.2 percent increase in June, the Warsaw-based
statistics office said today. That’s more than the 0.5 percent
median estimate of 33 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices
rose 0.3 percent from the previous month, driven by a 48 percent
jump in municipal waste-haulage fees and a smaller-than-expected
seasonal fall in food prices.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka has sought to quell
speculation that more interest-rate cuts may be needed to
revitalize growth after the Narodowy Bank Polski cut its main
rate to a record 2.5 percent last month. Still, the bank cut its
2013 inflation forecast by half to 0.8 percent in July, citing
 slower economic growth  and  consumer spending .  “We saw the chance for a surprise on food and one-offs
like garbage and that’s what happened,” Marcin Mazurek, an
economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “The central
bank’s CPI projection is now too low and markets will start
betting on a rate increase in the first half of next year.”  The zloty strengthened to 4.2064 per euro at 2:17 p.m. in
Warsaw, paring its loss from yesterday to 0.2 percent. The yield
on the 2-year government bond rose five basis points after the
data to 3.04 percent.  Poland’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the second
quarter, its first acceleration since 2011, the statistics
office said earlier today, beating the 0.7 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  Slowing inflation gives policy makers scope to reduce
borrowing costs to 1 percent, Polish Economy Minister Janusz Piechocinski said July 18 in interview on TVP Info.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  