-- Portugal’s Economy Grows for First Time Since 2010 on Trade
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-08-14T10:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/portugal-s-economy-grows-for-first-time-since-2010-on-trade-1-.html
Portugal ’s  economy  expanded in the
second quarter for the first time since 2010 as export growth
accelerated.  Gross domestic product rose 1.1 percent from the first
quarter, when it fell 0.4 percent, the Lisbon-based National
Statistics Institute said in a preliminary report today. That
follows ten consecutive quarters of contraction. Economists
predicted an increase of 0.1 percent, according to the median of
10 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . GDP dropped 2 percent
from a year earlier, after declining a revised 4.1 percent the
previous quarter.  The lower annual rate of contraction reflects a slowdown in
the reduction of investment and a sharp acceleration in exports,
the statistics institute said. Portugal’s trade deficit narrowed
in the three months through June as exports rose more than
imports.  Portugal’s economy returned to growth as the euro area
emerged from a record-long recession, led by Germany and  France ,
amid the first sustained period of financial-market calm since
the start of the debt crisis. The economy of the 17-nation euro
region expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter after six
quarters of contraction.  ‘Exemplary Conduct’  Banco Comercial Portugues SA, Portugal’s biggest non-state-owned bank by assets, said on July 29 that loans to companies
are starting to pick up. “We feel Portuguese companies are
having an exemplary conduct and you can see the clear
replacement of imports and focus on exports,” Chief Executive
Officer Nuno Amado said.  Portuguese power demand rose 3.3 percent in July, according
energy grid REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA. “With energy-consumption data, we still cannot conclude that the economy is
recovering, but we can at least conclude that the deterioration
of the situation has almost been stopped,” REN Chief Executive
Officer Rui Cartaxo said on Aug. 1.  The nation’s jobless rate dropped to 16.4 percent in the
three months through June from 17.7 percent, the first quarterly
decline in two years.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has been battling high
joblessness as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet the
terms of a 78 billion-euro ($103 billion) aid plan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Coelho
announced measures on May 3 intended to generate savings of
about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that include reducing the
number of state workers.  Economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a year for
the past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest
performers. The government projects GDP will contract 2.3
percent this year before growing 0.6 percent next year. The
jobless rate will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and 18.5 percent
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  