-- Prudential Buys Offices From Blackstone for $400 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-14T20:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/prudential-buys-offices-from-blackstone-for-400-million.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s real
estate unit bought seven Southern California office buildings
from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for about $400 million, according to an
executive with the division.  Prudential purchased the properties totaling 1.1 million
square feet (104,000 square meters) on behalf of institutional
investors, said Tim Hennessey, San Francisco-based managing
director of Prudential Real Estate Investors. Three of the
buildings are in Pasadena, near  Los Angeles , and four are in the
San Diego suburb of Sorrento Mesa.  “The acquisition is consistent with our core strategy of
investing in high-barrier-to-entry office markets in Southern
California at less than duplication cost,” Hennessey, who
oversees the western U.S. region for Madison, New Jersey-based
Prudential Real Estate Investors, said in a telephone interview.  New York-based Blackstone, the world’s largest manager of
asset alternatives to traditional stocks and bonds, has been
selling buildings acquired in its 2007 buyout of Equity Office
Properties Trust and 2006 joint purchase of Trizec Properties
Inc. as occupancies in the portfolio rise. That appeals to long-term investors who seek stable, income-producing assets.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment on the sale.  The purchase was done at a capitalization rate, a measure
of investment yield, of about 5 percent, and an average price of
about $360 a square foot, said a person with knowledge of the
purchase who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private. Eastdil Secured LLC brokered the sale.  Sorrento Towers  The Pasadena properties total 502,000 square feet, the
person said. The others, called Sorrento Towers, have about
618,000 square feet. The buildings are about 93 percent
occupied, on average.  Blackstone, the No. 2 U.S. office landlord by square feet,
plans to market other office buildings in  California  and  Boston 
later this year, the person said. About 95 percent of the firm’s
office holdings are in those two regions and  New York .  Blackstone is selling stabilized real estate and buying
other properties as it invests a $13.3 billion fund raised last
year. The firm earlier this year bought four office buildings
with about 500,000 square feet in Orange County, California, for
about $105 million, the person said.  The firm has hired bankers to take public or sell several
of its largest hotel and retail holdings as stocks rally. They
include Hilton Worldwide Inc., its largest single investment to
date, and assets from Equity Office, its second-biggest deal
ever. The  Pasadena  office buildings were from the Equity Office
deal, while Sorrento Towers came from the Trizec takeover, the
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  