-- RBA Cuts Ended for Aberdeen Doubting BlackRock: Australia Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-08-14T05:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/rba-cuts-ended-for-aberdeen-doubting-blackrock-australia-credit.html
Aberdeen Asset Management says
investors are too pessimistic about  Australia ’s economy and the
central bank may be finished cutting interest rates.  Victor Rodriguez, the fund manager’s head of fixed income
in Sydney, predicts the Reserve Bank of Australia cash target
will remain at a record-low 2.5 percent and the three-year
government bond yield will rise half a percentage point over the
next 12 months. The gap between Australian and U.S. three-year
yields reached a 14-month low last week.  Aberdeen is betting that swaps traders are misguided in
pricing a 61 percent chance the RBA will reduce rates again this
year, according to Bloomberg-compiled data.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest money manager, said last week it expected the
Australian dollar to drop further and that rates may be cut in
November.  “It’s not as bad as some people believe,” said Rodriguez,
42, whose team manages more than A$13 billion ($12 billion) in
fixed-income assets in Australia. “We see some potential
positive signs that maybe there’s a genuine chance that the RBA
may be done.”  Australia’s economy is slowing as the fillip provided by a
mining-investment boom fades and the pullback in  Chinese growth 
weighs on commodity demand. The Australian Treasury yesterday
reiterated forecasts the jobless rate will rise to an 11-year
high of 6.25 percent by July, up from 5.7 percent last month.  Record Rate  The RBA has lowered its cash target by 2.25 percentage
points since it embarked on its current rate-cutting cycle in
November 2011, including a 25 basis point reduction this month.  The Aussie’s record 10-month run above $1 ended in May
after the central bank cut its  benchmark  by a quarter-percentage
point to 2.75 percent to stoke growth. The currency has tumbled
8 percent in the past three months to 90.94 U.S. cents as of 3
p.m. in Sydney. That’s the biggest drop among the Group of 10
major currencies.  “I suspect the RBA can cut again in November if they don’t
get the requisite transition from growth led by mining-sector
investment to other parts of the economy,” Stephen Miller, a
Sydney-based money manager at BlackRock, which oversees $3.9
trillion, said in an Aug. 6 interview. He estimates the local
dollar will fall toward 80 cents as  China  slows.  Aussie Weakness  The depreciation of the Australian dollar may help to
stimulate demand, according to Aberdeen’s Rodriguez. The risks
are skewed to a further decline in the currency, he said in an
Aug. 9 interview, although not materially given Aberdeen’s view
that the RBA may be finished with its rate cuts.  Australian gross domestic product growth is set to weaken
to 2.25 percent in the year through December 2013, the RBA said
last week, down from a prediction of 2.5 percent three months
earlier.  While Rodriguez said he didn’t necessarily disagree with
the RBA’s growth assessment, “there are some signs that perhaps
the market has already priced in the bad news and the risks are
more on the upside for yields.”  Aberdeen predicts that the yield on the benchmark  three-year  note will rise to 3.10 percent in 12 months from 2.64
percent today in Sydney. The 10-year rate is likely to climb to
4 percent from 3.85 percent, the fund manager said.  Worst Performance  The nation’s sovereign securities have gained 0.4 percent
this year, heading for their worst annual performance since a
2.7 percent loss in 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. That’s still the best returns among sovereign markets
holding the top rankings from the three biggest credit ratings
companies.  Some of Australia’s economic indicators are showing signs
of improving, according to Rodriguez, who cited labor-market
data on hours worked and house price figures. He also said that
income growth hadn’t been too bad.  “Consumption is the key here,” he said. “If consumption
can start to turn around on the back of improved income growth
and more supportive financial conditions generally -- let’s not
forget we’ve seen a lot of rate cuts as well, they haven’t
really had that traction but that’s not to say they won’t --
then business investment can follow from that consumption.”  Aberdeen’s view is also supported by a “more constructive
outlook” on the U.S. economy.  “Positive U.S. growth can provide positive momentum
domestically,” Rodriguez said.  Fed Taper  The possibility that the improving economy will allow the
Federal Reserve to start tapering its stimulatory asset purchase
program has helped to buoy U.S. yields and narrowed the gap to
Aussie debt. The yield premium for Australian three-year debt
over similar-maturity  U.S. securities  narrowed to 183 basis
points on Aug. 5, the least since June 5, 2012. The difference
was 196 basis points today.  “When you’ve got markets still focused on further rate
cuts, we think the domestic outlook suggests bonds are biased to
being expensive, not cheap,” said Rodriguez. “It’s not a
bullish outlook for the Australian economy, but just that
perhaps the pessimism’s been somewhat overdone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  