-- Trian’s Peltz Buys DuPont Stake as Company Weighs Options
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/trian-s-peltz-buys-dupont-stake-as-chemical-maker-weighs-options.html
Trian Fund Management LP, the hedge
fund co-founded by activist investor  Nelson Peltz , acquired a
0.6 percent stake in  DuPont Co. (DD)  as the chemical maker considers
options for one of its more volatile businesses.  Trian held 5.78 million shares of DuPont as of June 30, the
New York-based fund said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The
shares give Trian a stake worth about $343 million at
yesterday’s closing price. DuPont, based in Wilmington,
 Delaware , is the largest U.S. chemical maker by market
capitalization.  Trian was first reported by CNBC to have “a very big”
stake in DuPont on July 17. DuPont subsequently announced it’s
exploring options for its performance-chemicals unit, which
makes titanium dioxide pigment, Teflon coatings, Freon
refrigerants and chemicals such as cyanide. The company this
week changed its bylaws to provide payouts to executives fired
in a takeover and to alter how special meetings are run.  “We will evaluate any ideas Trian may have in the context
of our ongoing initiatives to build a higher value, higher-growth company for our shareholders,”  Michael Hanretta , a
DuPont spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday. “We routinely
engage with our shareholders and welcome constructive input.”  Performance Chemicals  DuPont, which produces thousands of products such as  Kevlar 
anti-ballistic fiber and genetically modified corn, is weighing
a separation of performance chemicals after the unit’s operating
profit plunged 56 percent in the second quarter amid a slump in
prices for titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints and
plastics. Before jumping on CNBC’s July report, DuPont shares
had gained 30 percent in the  past decade , trailing the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average ’s 70 percent increase.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said in
an interview last month that she hasn’t spoken to Peltz and that
he wasn’t the impetus for DuPont disclosing its plan for
performance chemicals, which had been considered for months.  Trian successfully pushed Ingersoll-Rand Plc to spin off
units last year. Peltz also is pressuring PepsiCo Inc., the
world’s largest snack-food maker and second-biggest soda
producer, to acquire competitor Mondelez International Inc.,
formerly known as Kraft Foods Inc. In 2006, Trian waged a six-month proxy fight with H.J. Heinz Co. to win seats on the board
and persuade management to execute a turnaround plan.  Trian’s Investments  During the second quarter, Trian also acquired almost 2.1
million shares of Sotheby’s, the New York-based auction house,
with a market value of $78.6 million as of June 30, according to
the Form 13F. The fund also bought 776,898 Class A shares of GNC
Holdings Inc. and raised its stake in  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to  6.7 million
shares  at the end of June from 5.6 million at the end of March.  Kullman, under the company’s newly amended bylaws, would
receive three times her annual salary and bonus if fired after a
company takeover and other executives would get twice their
compensation. New bylaws also require advance notice for
nominating directors or proposing other changes and set Delaware
as the jurisdiction for resolving fiduciary duty and shareholder
rights disputes.  Under Kullman’s leadership since 2009, DuPont has continued
to shift away from traditional commodity products toward higher-margin businesses that capitalize on meeting global demand for
food, energy and security. DuPont sold its auto-paint unit this
year to private-equity firm Carlyle Group LP for $4.9 billion,
and it acquired food ingredients and enzyme maker Danisco A/S in
2011 for about 33.4 billion kroner ($5.9 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  