-- Rio Oyu Tolgoi Said to Lay Off About 2000 Amid Dispute, BTV Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-08-14T11:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/rio-oyu-tolgoi-said-to-lay-off-about-2000-amid-dispute-btv-says.html
About 2,000 workers at  Rio Tinto 
Group’s $6.6 billion  Oyu Tolgoi  mine in Mongolia have been laid
off, Bloomberg TV Mongolia reported today.  BTV Mongolia cited one of the laid off workers and a letter
from Redpath Mongolia LLC, a contractor that employs workers at
the copper and gold mine owned jointly by Rio Tinto and the
Mongolian government. The letter confirmed the layoffs without
specifying the number, BTV Mongolia reported.  The employees of Redpath Mongolia, which is building the
underground portion of the mine, were handed termination notices
that cited a decision by Oyu Tolgoi LLC’s board of directors.
BTV Mongolia obtained a copy of the letter.  The decision to lay off the workers comes after months of
disagreement between the government and Rio over how to share
revenue from the mine. Concerns over the project’s fate have
already hurt the Mongolian economy, with foreign direct
investment plunging 43 percent this year.  The Redpath employee said the number of workers laid off
was announced at a company briefing on Aug. 12, BTV Mongolia
reported. The letter gave workers 45 days notice.  Rio controls Oyu Tolgoi through its  Turquoise Hill
Resources Ltd. (TRQ)  unit, which owns 66 percent of the mine. The
government of Mongolia holds 34 percent. On Aug. 12, Turquoise
Hill said funding and development of the mine’s underground
expansion would be delayed until “matters can be resolved with
the Mongolian government and a new timetable has been agreed.”  Bloomberg TV Mongolia is a joint venture between Bloomberg
Television and Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  