-- Rio 2016 Olympic Body Head Resigns Ahead of IOC Visit
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-14T18:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/rio-2016-olympic-body-head-resigns-ahead-of-ioc-inspection-visit.html
One of the most senior figures
involved in planning the  Rio de Janeiro 2016 Summer Olympics 
resigned, adding to uncertainty over the city’s ability to
deliver on promises made during its bid.  Marcio Fortes, who headed the Olympic Public Authority, or
 APO , a body responsible for coordinating the efforts of the
Brazilian government and the state and city of Rio, handed a
letter of resignation to the office of the Brazilian president,
the APO said in a statement.  Fortes hasn’t commented on his resignation. Folha de S.
Paulo reported Fortes quit because he faced resistance and grew
concerned that the APO was becoming marginalized.  Brazil’s sports ministry said in an e-mailed statement that
it “has always maintained good relations, appreciation and
respect for Marcio Fortes.” A replacement will be chosen by the
president’s office, which confirmed Fortes’s resignation.  The resignation comes two weeks before a visit to Rio by
inspectors from the International Olympic Committee, including
two candidates vying to become president of the sports body in
elections next month. The  IOC  didn’t respond to a request for
comment on Fortes’s move.  Fortes’s departure marks the latest change among leaders of
Rio’s efforts to stage the games for the first time in South
America. The 2016 organizing committee, a private group
responsible for planning and running the 2 1/2 week event, has
had two chief executive officers, three chief operating officers
and four marketing directors since securing host rights in 2009.  Budget Overruns  The games have come under scrutiny following delays in
publishing the operational budget. Leo Gryner, chief operating
officer of the organizing committee, told reporters Aug. 2 that
$700 million from a government contingency fund will be required
to cover likely budget overruns. In its bid Rio said organizing
the Olympics would cost $2.8 billion.  In his role as the president of the APO, Fortes, a
government minister under former President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, was responsible for coordinating a variety of tasks
related to hosting the games.  Brazil  has committed $11.6 billion
toward infrastructure including security, telecommunications and
energy projects. It is also spending more than $13 billion on
next year’s soccer World Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  