-- Romanian Economy Grew 1.3% in Second Quarter, Less Than Forecast
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-08-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/romanian-economy-grew-1-3-in-second-quarter-less-than-forecast.html
Romania’s economy grew less than
economists estimated in the second quarter, probably hindered by
sluggish demand.  Gross domestic product  grew 1.3 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 2.2 percent in the first quarter,
according to a preliminary estimate released today by the
 National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest by e-mail. The median
forecast of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 1.4
percent GDP growth. GDP rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent
from the previous three months and 1.7 percent in the first half
of the year from a year earlier.  “Recovery appears to be continuing at a moderate pace, and
we expect quarter-on-quarter growth to remain positive,”
Barclays Plc economist Daniel Hewitt said in a research note
before the GDP release. “High base effects will likely cause
the year-on-year growth to slow considerably in the second
quarter, but this does not imply a slowdown in the economy.”  Romania ’s government raised its economic-growth forecast
for this year last month, citing a pickup in export demand, and
said the pace of the expansion may surpass that estimate if
domestic consumption rebounds. The International Monetary Fund
predicts the Romanian economy will expand about 2 percent this
year and 2.25 percent next year, helped by growing exports and
recovering domestic demand in 2014.  Industrial production increased a  seasonally adjusted  6
percent from a year earlier in the first half, the institute
said Aug. 9. Retail sales  decreased  0.4 percent in the first
half from a year ago, it said this month.  “Consumption and investments saw poor performance in the
first half” and “we believe the second quarter was the worst
quarter since end-2011,” Raiffeisen Bank Romania analysts Ana-Maria Morarescu and Nicolae Covrig said in a note before the GDP
release. “Only a gradual improvement in activity seems feasible
in the second half, due to better absorption of European Union
structural funds, improving activity on external markets and a
more accommodating monetary-policy stance.”  The statistics institute will release a breakdown of
second-quarter GDP on Sept. 4, according to a calendar on its
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  