-- Tropical Depression May Form in Caribbean on Path Toward Yucatan
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-08-14T19:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/tropical-depression-may-form-in-caribbean-on-path-toward-yucatan.html
A broad area of thunderstorms and
clouds in the  Caribbean Sea  may form into a tropical depression
before going ashore on Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula tomorrow, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The patch of disturbed weather has a 60 percent chance of
becoming a depression sometime in the next two days and a 70
percent chance within the next five days, according to a
hurricane center advisory. A depression is the weakest form of
tropical system that also includes hurricanes.  “Regardless of whether or not a tropical cyclone forms,
heavy rains and gusty winds are forecast to spread over the
Yucatan Peninsula and Belize during the next day or two,” the
Miami-based  center  said in a forecast.  After it crosses the Yucatan, the system will probably
cross the  Gulf of Mexico  and go ashore somewhere between
 Louisiana  and the  Florida Panhandle , according to AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The company said it’s
“still questionable” if there will be time for development.  The storms are followed closely by energy companies and
commodities traders because they can destroy crops and disrupt
natural gas and oil production and processing. The threat today
prompted Enbridge Manta Ray to evacuate non-essential personnel
from two platforms off the coast of Louisiana.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 6 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than
45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the
Energy Department. The Bay of Campeche, at the southern end of
the Gulf, is where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil
company, has most of its production.  Florida is the second-largest producer of oranges after
Brazil.  The hurricane center is also tracking a budding storm near
Cape Verde off the coast of  Africa . That system has a 70 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two days.  With assistance from Christine Buurma in New York. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  