-- Rudd Gloom Misses Australia’s Looming Natural Gas Surge: Economy
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-15T00:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/rudd-china-gloom-misses-australia-s-looming-surge-in-natural-gas.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s strategy
of centering an election pitch on his ability to steer Australia
through the end of a China-led minerals boom is overlooking the
next big thing: natural gas.  The Treasury two days ago forecast deeper budget deficits
in the next three years as growth slows, unemployment rises and
mining investment wanes, constraining Rudd and opposition leader
 Tony Abbott ’s election pledges. Whoever wins a three-year term
at the Sept. 7 poll may find that gloom lifts from 2015 as a
surge in gas exports replenishes Australia’s coffers and propels
the nation toward becoming the biggest shipper of the fuel.  The commodities “story isn’t over, it’s just changing its
shape,” said Paul Bloxham, chief Australia economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former  Reserve Bank  of Australia
economist. “It’s part of the reason we’re still cautiously
optimistic about Australia’s growth prospects.”  Ten liquefied natural gas projects across the nation --
three of which are operating and seven under construction --
will boost budget revenues by A$11 billion ($10 billion) a year
from 2015 to 2025, according to estimates compiled by McKinsey &
Co. Inc. The projects will add 2.6 percent to Australia’s gross
domestic product, or A$5,500 per household each year and support
180,000 jobs, the New York-based consultancy forecast.  While Rudd is talking up the risk of recession should
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition win government and cut
spending, the Treasury’s projections reflect a turnaround seen
starting from July 2015. In its Pre-Election Economic and Fiscal
Outlook released Aug. 13, the Treasury forecast the budget
deficit will narrow by almost A$20 billion between fiscal 2015
and 2016.  Fivefold Increase  Australia’s LNG export earnings are projected to increase
fivefold to A$61 billion through June 2018, according to the
government’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  BG Group
Plc (BG/) ’s venture on the coast of Queensland state is due to begin
in 2014, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$52 billion Gorgon project on
Barrow Island off northwest Australia, the largest resources
development in the nation’s history, is scheduled to start
delivering cargoes in early 2015.  Adelaide-based  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and a venture between
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  are building LNG projects
next to BG Group’s plant on Queensland’s  Curtis Island , both
targeting shipments in 2015.  Inpex Corp. (1605)  of Japan is developing
the Ichthys project in northern Australia, while Chevron is also
operating the Wheatstone development in  Western Australia .  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is moving ahead with the Prelude project using a
ship to process the gas offshore, due to start in about 2017.  Cash Cow  Australia’s LNG developments typically have 20-year
contracts to sell the commodity to Asian customers at oil-linked
prices, underpinning “a long revenue stream for federal and
state budgets,” Catherine Tanna, chairman of BG’s local unit,
QGC Pty, said in an Aug. 1 interview. Tanna also sits on the
RBA’s board.  The seven LNG ventures, plus three already operating, are
projected to contribute A$520 billion to GDP between 2015 and
2025, according to McKinsey. While a second phase of potential
LNG ventures could contribute a further A$320 billion to the
economy, high costs and increasing competition from  North
America  may jeopardize the plans and economic benefits, it said.  “There’s so much more on offer,” said Michael Ellis, a
partner at McKinsey. “If you look at the way mining investment
is coming off and you look at the state of our  federal budget ,
we are going to need as much as we can get, and the extra A$320
billion is likely to be even more important to us than the
current suite of projects.”  Delayed Projects  Companies including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Glencore Xstrata
Plc have deferred building new mines and ports in the world’s
biggest exporter of  iron ore  and coal after commodity prices
fell and costs rose. Resources projects worth about A$150
billion have been delayed or canceled over 12 months, with 14
fewer projects being developed as of April 30, BREE said in May.  Treasurer  Chris Bowen  projected a revenue shortfall of
A$33.3 billion over the next four years from forecasts three
months earlier. The government cut its growth estimate this
fiscal year to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen May 14 and
said unemployment will rise to a more than decade-high 6.25
percent.  A decline in mining investment “presents a major headwind
to economic growth and a challenge for policy makers and is a
key reason why we think  interest rates  can remain low for an
extended period of time,” said Andrew Boak, a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. economist in Sydney.  Boom’s End?  Rudd, a Mandarin speaker who served in Australia’s embassy
in Beijing, has repeatedly said his nation faces “the end of
the China mining boom.” He has highlighted threats to
Australia’s economy since returning to the ruling  Labor party ’s
leadership on June 26 as he reframes the economic debate to
remind voters of his management skills in his first stint as
prime minister.  “Rudd is calling the end of the China boom to confect this
semi-crisis for political purposes, allowing him to highlight
his track record of saving Australia from recession” through
the 2008-2009 financial crisis, according to  Stephen Walters ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in Australia. “The RBA
certainly hasn’t called the end of the mining boom yet, and
there’s an export phase still to come.”  Managing Transition  In a televised leader’s debate on Aug. 11, Rudd said China
is “changing into a less resource-intensive economy” and
Australia needed to diversify its own economy as a result.
“This is the challenge of leadership now, to manage the
transition,” he said.  Abbott replied that such a view was “waffle” from Rudd.
“If the mining boom is over, at least in part, it’s because Mr
Rudd’s government has killed it” with new taxes, Abbott said.  The RBA cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a fresh record
low of 2.5 percent this month, bringing to 2.25 percentage
points of reductions since policy makers began easing in late
2011. While traders are pricing in a 58 percent chance the
central bank will need to lower rates again this year, the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists is that
the cash rate will remain unchanged through the end of 2014.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s central bank is expected by the
majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg to keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.5 percent today to
bolster a weakening currency. U.K. retail sales data for July is
scheduled for release, while in the U.S., jobless claims are
forecast to have climbed in the week to Aug. 10.  The LNG industry will spur Australia’s growth, Goldman
Sachs’s Boak says, predicting it will add an average 35 basis
points per annum to GDP over the next 10 years.  “Over such an extended period of time, it’s enormous,” he
said. “There’s no other single sector contributing anything
like that. It’s a once-in-a-generation dynamic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  