-- Russia Rating Affirmed at BBB by Fitch on Expected GDP Revival
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-08-14T16:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/russia-rating-affirmed-at-bbb-by-fitch-on-expected-gdp-revival.html
Fitch Ratings  affirmed Russia’s
credit rating at the second-lowest investment grade, saying
economic growth in the second half of the year will probably
accelerate after a slowdown.  Fitch kept the ranking at BBB with a stable outlook,
according to a statement e-mailed today from London. The
decision leaves Russia’s grade on par with  South Africa ,  Spain 
and Iceland.  Standard & Poor’s (XME)  also rates the country at BBB,
while Moody’s Investors Service has it one level higher at Baa1.  “Fitch does not believe recent weakness entails a
fundamental re-evaluation of Russia’s growth potential,” the
ratings company said in the statement. “We expect activity to
pick up in the second half, before reaching 3 percent in
2014-2015.”  The world’s largest energy exporter has had its ranking on
hold since S&P cut it in December 2008 and Fitch did the same
the next year after crude prices plunged. Russia is seeking to
boost the debt grade no less than two steps to A- by 2016 and
another level to A by 2020, according to a government plan
approved in March.  The ruble has lost 7.7 percent against the dollar this
year, the sixth-worst performance among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded little changed
against the dollar today at 33.100.  Fitch’s decision may open the way to a potential $5 billion
to $7 billion sale of Eurobonds in September or October,
according to Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets economist at
 Standard Bank (STAN)  in London.  “I expect Russia to be one of the first sovereigns to test
the market,” he said by e-mail. “It will want to come to
market now before we see a broader deterioration in sovereign
ratios, and while key commodity prices remain elevated.”  Russia’s budget deficit will amount to 0.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, while the current account will be
close to balanced by 2015, Fitch predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kimberly Yuen in  New York  at 
 kyuen3@bloomberg.net  