-- RWE Shuts Unprofitable Power Plants to Spur Generation Unit
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-08-14T16:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/rwe-shuts-unprofitable-power-plants-to-revive-generation-unit.html
RWE AG (RWE)  will close power plants as
 Germany ’s second-largest utility tries to revive profits at its
electricity generating business.  The company will shut 3,100 megawatts of power plants in
Germany and the Netherlands, about 7 percent of RWE’s capacity
in northern Europe, and look at idling more stations, the Essen-based company said in a statement today.  RWE was the biggest decliner in the HDAX index of the 110
most valuable companies traded in  Frankfurt  after operating
profit for conventional power generation fell 62 percent to 690
million euros ($915 million) in the first half from a year
earlier. Weak European electricity demand and increased
production of renewable energy has led to a power price slump,
cutting margins for gas- and coal-fired plants.  “This is only the prelude for the industry’s capacity
adjustment,” Thomas Deser, a portfolio manager at Union
Investment GmbH who is responsible for the fund’s 54 million-euro stake in RWE, said in a phone interview from Frankfurt.
“It’s imaginable that even nuclear reactors will be closed
early.”  RWE’s recurrent net income, the measure used to calculate
the dividend, rose 19 percent to 1.99 billion euros because of a
favorable ruling in an arbitration with Russian gas supplier  OAO
Gazprom. (OGZD)  That missed the 2.1 billion-euro average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 5.2 percent to
28.5 billion euros.  All Options  “The massive reduction in power station margins is a major
factor” in the decision to shut plants, RWE said. “Further
power stations are being assessed and all options to improve the
company’s economic efficiency are being explored.”  RWE is looking at the cost effectiveness of atomic power
plants, planning to cut 2013 capital expenditure to 4.5 billion
euros from the 5 billion euros previously announced and will cut
more jobs than previously announced, Chief Financial Officer
Bernhard Guenther said on a call with reporters.  The positive impact of having sold power generation in
advance is likely to diminish in the next few years, the company
said. It estimated costs resulting from the recently voted law
on nuclear repository selection at 1.1 billion euros.  RWE and larger competitor EON SE are cutting costs and
selling assets even after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered the
permanent halt of all nuclear reactors by 2022 following  Japan ’s
Fukushima disaster. RWE said in March it would sell its Dea oil
and gas unit to cut spending. The utility plans to raise as much
as 5 billion euros through the sale, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Analyst Call  The deal is unlikely to be announced this year, Guenther
said today on an analyst call.  RWE tumbled 4.5 percent to close at 21.355 euros in
Frankfurt where 2.6 times the three-month average share volume
was traded.  The utility confirmed its full-year forecast for recurrent
net income of 2.4 billion euros and operating profit of 5.9
billion euros, below last year’s level, while Guenther didn’t
rule out writedowns in case market conditions worsen.  EON yesterday said profit fell 42 percent in the first half
after divestments, reduced output and narrower margins on
generation from fossil fuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  