-- Same-Sex Couples Get Pentagon Leave to Marry Where Legal
-- B y   M e g a n   O ’ N e i l
-- 2013-08-14T15:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/same-sex-couples-get-pentagon-leave-to-marry-where-legal.html
Same-sex couples in the U.S.
military will get as much as 10 days of leave to marry in a
state where it’s legal, the Defense Department said.  The Pentagon announced today the special leave of seven
days for service members stationed in the U.S. and 10 days for
those abroad if they are more than 100 miles (161 kilometers)
from one of  the 13 states  and the  District of Columbia  that
permit  same-sex marriages .  “This will provide accelerated access to the full range of
benefits offered to married military couples throughout the
department and help level the playing field between opposite-sex
and same-sex couples seeking to be married,” Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel said in a memo to secretaries of the military
services.  The action follows the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in
June striking down the Defense of Marriage Act, which spelled
out the federal definition of marriage as a union between a man
and a woman. While granting marriage leave, the Pentagon
canceled benefits for unmarried same-sex couples and their
children that were to go into effect this month.  The Supreme Court ruling means that accommodation is no
longer necessary, Hagel said. Among those benefits were joint-duty assignments, child care, and emergency leave.  “The department will construe the words ‘spouse’ and
‘marriage’ to include same-sex spouses and marriages, and the
department will work to make the same benefits available to all
military spouses, regardless of whether they are in same-sex or
opposite-sex marriages,” Hagel said in the memo.  Benefits Retroactive  The benefits will be retroactive to the date of the court
decision on June 26.  Hagel’s action was praised as “a huge step forward” by
the American Military Partner Association, which calls itself an
advocacy group for lesbian, gay,  bisexual  and transgender
military families.  “We still have a long battle ahead of us in making sure
all of our LGBT military families have equal protection in all
50 states,” Stephen Peters, president of the group, said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan O’Neil in Washington at 
 moneil14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  