-- Samsung, Chipotle, Espinel, Imax: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-14T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/samsung-chipotle-espinel-imax-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  may not get
the sort of presidential reprieve  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won earlier this
month from an order limiting U.S. imports of some smartphones
and tablet computers.  Samsung can’t make the public-policy arguments Apple used
to sway President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which vetoed an
import ban ordered by the U.S. International Trade Commission on
certain iPhone 4 and iPad 2 models, according to lawyers and
analysts. That makes it more likely a separate ban ordered on
some Samsung products Aug. 9 will take effect after a
presidential review period ends in October.  Apple could show its case dovetailed with the
administration’s expressed interest in limiting the power of
patents underlying fundamental technology used across an
industry. Samsung’s products were ordered banned Aug. 9 for
infringing two Apple patents on features that differentiate one
phone from another -- an issue between the two companies that
doesn’t involve a widely used standard.  Samsung, the world’s largest smartphone maker, was ordered
to stop selling phones and tablet devices that infringe Apple
patents for multitouch technology and headphone jack detection.  The commission said Samsung products including Continuum
and Transform models infringe the headphone jack patent, while
the Galaxy Tab 7.0 tablet computer and Galaxy S II -- the
precursor to Samsung’s top-selling Galaxy S4 -- do not.  The decision must be reviewed by U.S. Trade Representative
 Michael Froman , who is designated by the president to review ITC
bans.  In his Aug. 3 letter stopping the import ban on certain
older iPhones and iPads, Froman said he based his decision on
Samsung’s ownership of standards patents being at the core of
the case. Obama’s administration has expressed concerns that
“potential harms” can result if patent holders use those as
leverage against competitors, he said.  Froman repeated guidelines sent to the agency in January by
the U.S. Justice Department and U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office . He didn’t say whether he believed Samsung had misused
its patents that relate to standards for how devices transmit
data.  The administration could veto the Samsung import ban to
push the two companies into ending their global litigation
that’s lasted more than two years and cost hundreds of millions
of dollars, said Jung Dong Joon, a patent lawyer with SU
 Intellectual Property .  The administration, by not blocking the Samsung ban, could
open itself up to criticism that it was favoring an American
company over a Korean one.  “The U.S. administration can’t just unconditionally use
its power to veto the import ban on Apple’s products alone,”
said Lee Sun Tae, an analyst at Seoul-based NH Investment &
Securities. “Obama may issue the reprieve again for Samsung,
and if not, it will only bring up even bigger international
conflict.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chipotle, Jack in the Box Settle Dispute Over ‘Chipotle’ Mark  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  and  Jack in the Box Inc. 
settled a trademark dispute over the term “chipotle,”
according to an Aug. 7 court filing. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Denver-based Chipotle sued Jack in the Box in a Colorado
federal court in September objecting to the fast-food chain’s
use of “Chipotle” and “Chipotload” in connection with a
chicken club sandwich menu item. Chipotle, which has been in
business since 1993, registered its first “Chipotle” trademark
in 1998. A chipotle is a smoke-dried jalapeno chili pepper
commonly used in Mexican food.  Chipotle claimed that Jack in the Box was trying to trade
on the Mexican-themed chain’s fame through its use of the term,
and that the public would probably assume falsely that an
affiliation existed between the two entities.  Chipotle asked the court to bar San Diego-based Jack in the
Box from using “Chipotle” in connection with its products, and
for awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. v.  Jack in the Box
Inc. (JACK) , 12-cv-02511, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado
(Denver).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Copyright Czar’ Victoria Espinel Departs From White House Job  Victoria Espinel, the Obama administration’s “copyright
czar,” has left her post after four years,  according to  the
 Hollywood Reporter .  Espinel, who had widespread support from the content
industries, helped develop strategies for intellectual-property
policies and actions, the publication reported.  She came to her post from the Office of the U.S. Trade
Representative and is a graduate of  Georgetown University ’s law
school, according to the Hollywood Reporter.  In addition to her responsibilities with copyright issues,
Espinel was involved in the development of the “America Invents
Act,” a comprehensive overhaul of U.S. patent law, the
newspaper reported.  E-Book Sellers to Share Customer Data With Anti-Piracy Group  The  BREIN Foundation , a Dutch anti-piracy organization,
will work with digital-book sellers to develop a system to
identify customers who share their content on the Internet, the
TorrentFreak anti-copyright news website  reported .  Under the proposed system, if digital books show up on
BitTorrent file-sharing networks, BREIN will be able to match
embedded digital watermarks in the books to the customer who
bought them, TorrentFreak reported.  Customers will be informed at the point of sale that this
data will be shared if they attempt unauthorized sharing of the
content, according to TorrentFreak.  Book vendors will be required to store customer transaction
data and make it available to BREIN and copyright holders for a
minimum of two years, TorrentFreak reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Imax Brings Trade Secrets Case to California State Court  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the Canadian producer of large-screen film
projection systems, sued a competitor in state court in Los
Angeles for trade secret misappropriation.  Imax sued the same defendant in federal court on June 26.
Mississauga, Ontario-based Imax said it voluntarily dismissed
that case against GDC Technology LLC of Burbank,  California ,
because of the “complex and apparently interwoven corporate
relationships with and among the defendants.” GDC didn’t
respond to the federal complaint, Imax said.  Imax claims a former employee stole proprietary
technologies related to large-format digital projection systems
and film conversion. The ex-employee allegedly provided the
technology to a Chinese company where acted as chief engineer.  GDC acquired the  trade secrets  through its relationships
with the Chinese competitor, Imax claims. Imax said it sued the
ex-employee in both Canada and  China  and uncovered “voluminous
conclusive proof” of the thefts, which included the source code
for Imax’s 2D to 3D conversion process.  The ex-employee remains “an international fugitive,” Imax
said. He worked for the Canadian company as a software engineer
from July 1999 until he was terminated in November 2009,
according to court papers. While working at Imax, he signed a
confidentiality agreement, Imax said.  Imax said the ex-employee, while he still worked for Imax,
formed a Chinese company that also provides projection
technology. It was impossible for the new company to have
developed the necessary technology independently, Imax said.  After he was terminated by Imax, the ex-employee allegedly
fled to China and started a company known as Dmax, to compete
with Imax, according to the complaint. The Chinese company and
the ex-employee aren’t named defendants in this case.  Imax said that GDC has acquired and is using the Canadian
company’s trade secrets in its large-screen format technology.
It said GDC hasn’t responded to a cease-and-desist letter and
continues its unauthorized use of the Imax trade secrets.  GDC didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the suit.  Imax asked the court for awards of money damages,
“reasonable royalties” for use of its trade secrets, extra
damages to punish GDC for its actions and for awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is  Imax Corp. (IMX)  v. GDC Technology (USA) LLC,
BC518132, California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los
Angeles). The federal case was Imax Corp. v. GDC Technology
(USA) LLC, 13-cv-04640, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  Elekta Says Trade Secrets Case Brought by Varian Is Settled  Elekta AB (EKTAB) , Swedish maker of the Gamma knife and other
cancer treatment devices and technologies, said it resolved a
trade-secrets dispute with  Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR)  of Palo
Alto, California.  Varian sued Elekta in Texas state court last August,
claiming that two former Varian employees brought company trade
secrets with them to their new jobs with Elekta.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed by Elekta in a
statement. Spencer Sias, a Varian spokesman, confirmed that the
case had settled.  IP Moves  Sheppard Mullin Expands IP Practice With Foley & Lardner Hire  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP hired Lorna Tanner
for its intellectual-property practice, the Los Angeles-based
firm said in a  statement .  Tanner, who does patent acquisition and portfolio
management work, joins from Milwaukee’s Foley & Lardner LLP. She
has represented clients in the pharmaceutical, life science and
medical-device industries, with an emphasis on pharmaceutically
active small molecules.  She has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
California  at Berkeley and a law degree from Santa Clara
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  