-- Serb Central Bank Mulls Rate Cut After Paring Growth Outlook
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-14T11:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/serb-central-bank-mulls-rate-cuts-as-2014-growth-outlook-weakens.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut its growth
outlook for next year and said it would consider lowering its
benchmark  interest rate  if external risks vanish and the
government tightens spending.  The Narodna Banka Srbije left its  one-week repurchase rate 
unchanged at 11 percent on Aug. 8, citing signals that the U.S.
Federal Reserve may soon reduce asset purchases and instability
at home after political leaders ejected the finance minister and
his party from the cabinet on July 31 and briefly raised the
specter of early elections.  Hampered by political turmoil, high borrowing costs and
weak domestic demand, the biggest former Yugoslav republic has
suffered two recessions in three years. The central bank now
sees growth of 2.5 percent in 2014 rather than its earlier 3
percent forecast. It expects a 2 percent expansion this year and
cited “a deteriorating growth outlook for our main trading
partners,” it said in a quarterly inflation report.  “The Executive board will in the coming period consider
the possibility of further monetary policy relaxation,” if food
prices fall further and the government pursues fiscal
consolidation, the bank said in the report today in Belgrade.
Inflation will return to its target band of 4 percent plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points by October, it said.  Yields on the government’s 10-year Eurobond maturing in
2021 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.96
percent today, while the dinar traded at 113.8980 at 12:23
p.m.in Belgrade, barely changed on the day, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Slowing Inflation  The consumer-price index will continue to decline as domestic
demand remains weak and lower food prices offset an expected 10
percent increase in regulated prices, central bank chief
economist Branko Hinic told reporters in Belgrade. Regulated
prices will add “two percentage points” to this year’s
inflation, Hinic said.  The shuffled cabinet’s key near-term task is to secure
state financing and gradually cut borrowing needs over the
medium term along with narrowing the  budget deficit . It should
also try to overhaul unprofitable companies “in order to
attract foreign investors and ensure stronger growth,” Hinic
said, a move that may help alleviate unemployment that affects
one in four potential workers.  Growth remains more reliant on net exports than foreign
direct investments, which totaled 294.3 million euros ($390
million) in the first six months. Net portfolio outflows reached
346.7 million euros after the government repaid early part of
its debt to the London Club of creditors. Full-year net foreign
direct investment will reach 700 million euros instead of
originally forecast 1 billion euros, central bank analyst
Snezana Vilaret said.  The National Bank of Serbia expects expanding exports and
slower imports to lead the country’s current-account deficit to
below 7 percent of gross domestic product this year from 10.5
percent of GDP in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  