-- Serbia Mulls McKinsey’s Krstic for Finance Chief in New Cabinet
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-14T15:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/serbia-mulls-mckinsey-s-krstic-for-finance-chief-in-new-cabinet.html
Serbia is in talks with Lazar
Krstic, an associate at McKinsey & Co., to be the Balkan
country’s next finance minister, the second time the government
has tapped the New York-based consultancy to fill key posts.  Krstic, a graduate of Yale University, is being considered
to replace Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic on Prime Minister
Ivica Dacic’s shuffled cabinet, said Sinisa Mali, an economic
adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic in a phone
interview in Belgrade today.  “Talks with Krstic continue, but he is just one of the
candidates,” Mali said.  The biggest former Yugoslav republic averted early
elections on July 31 after Vucic’s dominant Serbian Progressive
Party agreed with Dacic to oust Mladic and his political party
from the cabinet and name new ministers by the end of August.
With the changes, the Progressives will have control over the
Finance and Economy ministries, as well as the central bank,
whose governor is a member of Vucic’s party.  Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 fell 8
basis points, or 0.08 percent, to 6.92 percent by 4:13 p.m. in
Belgrade yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Serbia went to McKinsey employees in 2000, after the ouster
of former strongman Slobodan Milosevic, appointing Bozidar Djelic as the head of finances and Radovan Jelasic  as a central
bank vice governor. Prior to his appointment, Djelic had advised
the Russian and Polish governments on macroeconomic policies and
asset sales.  The new cabinet’s focus will be to secure state financing
and gradually cut borrowing needs over the medium term as well
as narrow the budget deficit, the central bank’s chief
economist, Branko Hinic, said in Belgrade today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  