-- MSG Battles Barclays Developer in Nassau Coliseum Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-08-14T15:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/msg-battles-barclays-developer-in-nassau-coliseum-bid.html
Gary Harding has been going to
Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum since 1972, when he was 9 and
both the venue and its  New York  Islanders National Hockey League
team were new.  Compared with  Manhattan ’s  Madison Square Garden (MSG) , which he
found “claustrophobic,” the Long Island arena “seemed a
little brighter, more comfortable,” he said. “It was just a
great place to see a game, with a great atmosphere.”  Now, pipes sometimes burst and coils pop out of the seats.
When there’s a sellout crowd, the lines for the bathrooms can be
50-people long, Harding said. Even he -- former president of the
Islanders Booster Club, a 24-year season-ticket holder and top
blogger at  Islestalk.com  -- knows radical change must come to
his home away from home, the oldest NHL arena after the Garden.  “As people used to say about Shea Stadium, it’s a dump,
but it’s our dump,” he said.  Nassau County Executive Edward Mangano plans to announce
tomorrow the developer who will take over and remodel the 40-year-old venue in Uniondale, choosing between a plan by the
owners of the Garden and another by the company behind
 Brooklyn ’s new Barclays Center. The announcement was delayed
from today because of the shooting of a Nassau County police
officer. The winner would have to manage without the Islanders,
the coliseum’s primary tenant, who will move to Brooklyn in 2015
after their Nassau lease expires.  Abandoned Arenas  Major-league sports arenas typically have struggled once
they lost their marquee tenants, said  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports
economist at  Smith College  in Northampton,  Massachusetts . In
 Dallas  and Miami, arenas were demolished years after the teams
that played there left for newer buildings.  “I can’t think of a situation where it’s worked, where an
arena that lost its teams was re-established as a vibrant
arena,” said Zimbalist.  Nassau Coliseum is different, according to Mangano and
principals for the two bidders, New York-based Madison Square
Garden Co. and  Forest City Ratner Cos. (FCE/A) , whom the county
executive called “moguls in the industry.”  First and foremost, they say, is the old real estate adage,
“location, location, location.” The coliseum sits almost at
the center of Nassau County. Together with Suffolk to the east,
the two counties have a combined 2.85 million people, more than
the population of  Chicago , the third-largest U.S. city. Among
the nation’s wealthiest counties with a population of half a
million or more, Nassau ranks 12th and Suffolk 26th, according
to 2011 Census Bureau data.  No Subsidies  Proof that the arena remains viable is that four bidders,
including the two finalists, were willing to take on the
renovations without public subsidies, said Mangano, whose choice
for the project must be approved by the county Legislature.  Nassau County owns the arena and its 77-acre (31-hectare)
site. The coliseum generates about $2.6 million of revenue a
year for the county through rent, a share of concession sales
and a tax of $1.50 per ticket sold, according to a 2011 report
by the county comptroller. In 2010, the arena drew 856,349
people, just more than half of that for Islanders games.  The Islanders were last in the NHL in per-game home
attendance during the 2012-13 season, with an average of 13,306
people filling the 16,170 seats in the coliseum’s hockey
configuration, according to data on the ESPN sports network
 website . Their 82.3 percentage figure for tickets sold ranked
the Islanders 28th in the 30-team league.  After the Islanders decided to leave, the county last year
asked Forest City Ratner to study the coliseum’s future, with
the failures in other cities in mind, Mangano said.  Dallas, Miami  Dallas’s Reunion Arena was torn down in 2009, almost three
decades after it was built and eight years after the  National
Basketball Association ’s Mavericks and NHL’s Stars abandoned it
for the new American Airlines Center. The 20-year-old Miami
Arena was demolished in 2008, about a decade after NBA’s Heat
and NHL’s Florida Panthers left for newer buildings.  Northern  New Jersey ’s 32-year-old Izod Center has survived
mainly on concerts and family shows, such as Disney On Ice,
since the Devils NHL team moved to the new Prudential Center in
 Newark  in 2007, followed by the NBA’s Nets three years later.
The basketball team, which played at Nassau before moving to New
Jersey in 1977, is now the anchor tenant at the 1-year-old
Barclays Center.  Only a small percentage of Barclays event-goers come from
 Long Island , Bruce Ratner, Forest City Ratner’s executive
chairman, said in a telephone interview.  “The big difference is, in all of those cases, another
arena replaced those arenas,” he said. “It’s not like we’re
taking away an existing market. If someone all of a sudden built
another major arena in Manhattan and took the two teams, then
obviously the other one wouldn’t do too well.”  ‘Decrepit State’  Scott Rechler, the Long Island developer who is a partner
on Madison Square Garden’s entry, said that “historically, the
coliseum has done very well, even in its decrepit state, for
concerts and other shows, the circus. I remember even as a kid
when the circus would come to town, they’d take the train to
here, and they’d actually walk the animals, including the big
elephants, down Hempstead Turnpike.”  Among acts that played at the coliseum this year were the
country singer Miranda Lambert, New Kids on the Block and the
Vans Warped Tour. Upcoming events include Sesame Street Live,
WWE Raw pro wrestling and a Sept. 1 show by the singer  Marc Anthony .  Concert Sales  The Coliseum was 12th among U.S. indoor arenas by tickets
sold in first six months of the year, according to data from
Pollstar, a concert-industry trade publication. Barclays Center
was first. Madison Square Garden, which shut down in May for
renovations after its teams were eliminated from the playoffs,
was ninth, and Prudential Center ranked 11th. Pollstar counts
only concerts and family shows, not big-league sports events.  The competition to redevelop the coliseum pits MSG, owner
of the NBA’s  New York Knicks , against Ratner, minority owner of
the rival Brooklyn Nets. Both operators, who Zimbalist compared
to Shakespeare’s Montagues and Capulets, say they’ll use access
to their own glamorous arenas to encourage acts to perform in
Nassau.  “You don’t want to underestimate the booking power of the
metropolitan area,” Rechler said. “Having the booking power of
Madison Square Garden, it will become self-reinforcing for why
it will be successful. It’s leverage, leverage and leverage.”  MSG’s empire also includes control of Manhattan’s Radio
City Music Hall and Beacon Theatre, the historic Chicago Theatre
on that city’s State Street, and the recently acquired Los
Angeles Forum, abandoned by the NBA’s Lakers and the NHL’s Kings
in 1999. The landlord plans to spend $100 million to transform
the Forum into a full-time concert venue, reopening in January
with a show by the Eagles, the company said last month.  Flexible Seating  MSG has proposed spending $250 million on the coliseum and
its surroundings, developing a flexible seating system that
would accommodate as few as 1,700 or as many as 14,500
spectators, down from the current maximum of 18,000. Working
with Baltimore-based Cordish Co., creator of the entertainment
districts Power Plant Live! in Baltimore and XFinity Live! in
Philadelphia, they plan a 150,000-square-foot (14,000-square-meter) zone that would be filled with restaurants, sports bars
and leisure activities.  The Garden also would move into Nassau at least one of its
other sports franchises -- the  New York Liberty  of the Women’s
NBA, the Hartford Wolf Pack minor-league affiliate of the NHL’s
Rangers, or the Knicks’ development league Erie Bayhawks.  ‘Tremendous Appetite’  After four decades of NHL hockey -- punctuated by four
straight Stanley Cup championships in the early 1980s -- Long
Islanders “will support minor-league sports if it’s quality
sports,” Rechler said. “Liberty basketball, I think there’d be
a tremendous appetite for. Women’s sports in Long Island is very
active in college and high school. There’d be a big population
attracted to that.”  Forest City Ratner’s $229 million proposal tempts locals
with six Islanders games each year and would bring in an as-yet-unidentified minor-league team.  Bruce Ratner has played up his partnership with Jay Z’s Roc
Nation LLC entertainment company -- whose artists include
Rihanna, Shakira and M.I.A. -- bringing the rap superstar to a
presentation in May before Nassau County’s business advisory
council.  Ratner also has teamed with  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ,
the biggest U.S. concert promoter and ticket seller, which,
together with Jay Z’s organization, would drive more than 50
concerts a year to the coliseum. All told, Ratner said he
already has commitments to fill more than 200 calendar dates
with events at the Long Island venue, including 38 minor-league
hockey games, 54 family shows and 83 parking-lot events, such as
barbecue competitions and classic-car exhibitions.  Architecture Firms  The Forest City Ratner plan would reduce the arena’s
maximum capacity to about 13,000, with configurations for as few
as 4,000 seats.  Both contenders are planning a new look for the coliseum,
with Ratner using SHoP Architects, the Barclays Center’s
designers, and MSG working with BBB Architects, the Canadian
firm that conceived the Garden’s $1 billion renovation project.  For people like Harding who worship the Islanders’ orange
and blue, the Ratner plan is “the lesser of two evils,” he
said, mainly because MSG owns the hated Rangers. A proposed
sports bar that would feature Islanders memorabilia would hardly
make up for that, said Harding, a Huntington resident.  “It would be tough to see the enemy take over our
building,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  