-- Shanda Surges on Outlook as Baidu Sinks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-14T21:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/shanda-surges-on-outlook-as-baidu-sinks-china-overnight.html
Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  led gains in
Chinese stocks traded in New York on prospects the game
operator’s second-quarter earnings will beat estimates.  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU)  retreated from a 16-month high.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slipped 0.2 percent to $97.24
yesterday, with 33 companies climbing and 22 retreating. Shanda
surged the most in four weeks as budget hotel chain operator
 Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  jumped to the highest since
2011. Baidu dropped after signing an agreement to buy 91
Wireless for $1.85 billion.  Shanda will probably say that earnings rose 14 percent to
$1.38 a share, according to the mean estimate of two analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Shanghai-based company may announce
measures to focus more on mobile games next week, according to
86Research Ltd.  China  will promote information technology and
Internet-based consumption to help drive economic growth
following two quarters of slower expansion, the nation’s cabinet
said in a statement yesterday.  “People are betting Shanda will report good second-quarter
results,” Nick Ning, an analyst at 86Research, said by e-mail
yesterday. “Rumor has it they will announce a bigger focus on
mobile games next week.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 0.1 percent to $36.41,
the highest level since June 3. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped 0.5 percent amid mounting speculation that the Federal
Reserve will scale back stimulus this year.  Trading Volume  Shanda’s American depositary receipts jumped 11 percent to
$4.43, the most since July 18. Trading volume was triple the
three-month average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two games, developed by  Korea ’s  NCsoft Corp. (036570)  and WeMade
Entertainment Co. and operated by Shanda in China, accounted for
about 40 percent of Shanda’s revenue in the first quarter,
according to Ning.  “NCsoft attributed a stronger AION in China as one key
driver for their sequential top-line growth, and WeMade said its
Mir II stabilized in China” in their first-half results
release, Ning said.  Home Inns, operator of China’s biggest budget hotel chain,
soared 7.5 percent to $35.30, the highest since November 2011.  Margin Improvement  Adjusted net income at the Shanghai-based company rose 33
percent to $2.89 for each ADR in April-June, the company said in
a statement after markets Aug. 12. That compared with an average
estimate of $2.53 per ADR by three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to 24.6 percent of its total
sales, from 22.9 percent a year earlier.  “The momentum of its margin improvement is sustainable,
and the expanding profit margins more than offset a lower top-line guidance,” Ella Ji, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, said by e-mail yesterday. A recovery in the accommodation
market “should continue given the stable policy environment
outlook.”  At least three analysts raised their price targets for Home
Inns in the last two days, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , owner of a real-name social media company,
tumbled 8.3 percent to $4.20, sinking the first time in three
days. The company jumped 15 percent the previous day after
Sohu.com Inc.’s technology news outlet said Renren was in talks
to sell its group-buying unit to Baidu. Renren was scheduled to
report second-quarter results after markets close.  Vipshop Falls  “I don’t think the big Internet guys want to have group
buy site to offer users,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc. said by e-mail from Lisle,
 Illinois . “Renren’s group-buy division has been a drag on
margins. Its base business is in decline.”  Baidu’s ADRs dropped 2.1 percent to $138.51, declining the
most in seven days.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a web retailer of discounted fashion
goods, tumbled 11 percent in after-hours trading following the
company’s earnings report.  Guangzhou-based Vipshop said  third-quarter sales  may rise
as much as 137 percent from a year earlier to $370 million,
compared with the mean estimate of $369.3 million of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Its second-quarter adjusted
profit of 20 cents per ADR beat the average projection of 18
cents. Its ADRs rose 1.3 percent at market close yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.3 percent to 2,100.14,
retreating from the highest level since June 19. The Hong Kong
market was closed yesterday due to a typhoon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  