-- Shekel Weakens Most in a Month as Bank of Israel Buys Dollars
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-08-14T14:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/shekel-weakens-most-in-a-month-as-bank-of-israel-buys-dollars.html
  Israel ’s shekel headed for the
biggest loss in a month in the second-biggest depreciation among
major currencies after the Bank of Israel, which is awaiting
nomination of a new governor, bought dollars to curb the rally.  The currency weakened 0.4 percent, the most on a closing
basis since July 17, to 3.5698 a dollar at 5:34 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. The shekel is the second-worst performer among major 31
currencies tracked by Bloomberg today. The central bank bought a
few “tens of million of dollars,” according to Rony Gitlin,
head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel in Tel Aviv. Bank
of Israel spokesman Yoav Soffer declined to comment when
contacted by e-mail by  Bloomberg News .  The shekel will drop as much as 3.4 percent by the end of
year, according to the most accurate forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg, on bets the central bank will continue its
interventionist policy despite the absence of a new governor.
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s has been struggling to
replace  Stanley Fischer , who stepped down at the end of June.
Karnit Flug, Fischer’s handpicked deputy, is acting as
caretaker.  “The interim governor is showing the market that the
central bank is continuing its policy although a new governor
hasn’t been put in charge,” said Leumi’s Gitlin.  Abandoned Nominations  The shekel has advanced 4.4 percent this year, the best
performer among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Jacob Frenkel , a former central bank chief, and Leonardo Leiderman,
the chief economist at Bank Hapoalim Ltd., abandoned their
nominations for the governor’s role.  The Bank of Israel’s currency buying slowed in July, the
month after Fischer’s departure, as the central bank purchased
$255 million compared with a total of $1.44 billion a month
earlier. The regulator in May cut  interest rates  twice and
announced a $2.1 billion foreign currency purchase plan to
counteract the effect of natural gas production on the shekel
and support the economy.  The Manufacturers Association of Israel has warned that the
strong shekel makes exports, which account for about 40 percent
of gross domestic product, more expensive and less competitive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  