-- Single-Tenant REIT Ride Ending for Schorsch’s AR Capital
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/single-tenant-reit-ride-ending-for-schorsch-s-ar-capital.html
Nicholas Schorsch, who in seven
years built the top company in the $10 billion industry of
nonlisted U.S. real estate investment trusts, is leaving behind
the types of properties that made the firm No. 1.  Schorsch’s New York-based AR Capital LLC is switching its
focus to nontraded REITs that buy properties ranging from
health-care facilities to Manhattan office buildings. He’s
dropping his longtime strategy of starting companies that buy
single-tenant buildings, also known as net-lease firms, after
forming five of the them.  Publicly traded REITs that own single-tenant buildings are
currently able to raise money more cheaply than nonlisted
landlords because stock-market demand places a premium on their
shares. Schorsch, who has accumulated thousands of buildings
that house drugstores to restaurant chains, said nontraded REITs
will be at an even bigger disadvantage as rising  interest rates 
increase borrowing costs, narrowing the spread to make money.  “That cycle is starting to wane,” Schorsch, in a
telephone interview, said of nontraded single-tenant REITs.
“Right now it’s a great opportunity. Net lease is fabulous and
spreads are great, but a year from now, as the economy recovers
we need to be in a more growth-oriented side of the business.”  Schorsch’s retreat from new single-tenant nonlisted REITs
is a sharp shift for the business he has been building since
2006 and turned into a real estate empire. AR Capital has raised
$4 billion this year through June, according to investment bank
Robert A. Stanger & Co., the most of any nontraded REIT company.  Record Fundraising  The industry, which mostly caters to individual investors
who buy shares through brokers, attracted a record $10.7 billion
in the first half after raising about $10.3 billion last year,
according to the Investment Program Association, citing data
from Shrewsbury, New Jersey-based Robert A. Stanger.  “They’re No. 1 in the space by a wide margin,” Kevin
Gannon, president and managing director at Robert A. Stanger,
said of AR Capital. “They’re probably feeling like they have
saturated their book a little bit with net-lease nontraded
product.”  Single-tenant landlords make money on the spread between
their cost of borrowing or raising equity and the yield, or
capitalization rate, on the property they buy. Cap  rates  are net
operating income divided by purchase price.  Share Gains  Low interest rates have been a boon for the companies
because the cost of borrowing is low compared with returns on
buying property. Shares of  single-tenant landlords  -- sometimes
known as net-lease or triple-net because the tenant is
responsible for costs relating to the property, such as taxes,
in addition to the rent -- have gained 32 percent in the past
two years, more than the 25 percent gain in the broader
Bloomberg REIT Index.  The rally has pushed shares of public companies to a
premium over their net asset value, making raising capital by
selling equity less expensive, said Jim Sullivan, a managing
director at Green Street Advisors Inc., a Newport Beach,
California-based real estate research firm. Nontraded REITs sell
equity at net asset value, Sullivan said.  “Right now the public market is according the triple-net
companies a cheaper cost of capital,” Sullivan said.  Schorsch, 52, will still be a force in the single-tenant
business through the publicly traded  American Realty Capital
Properties Inc. (ARCP) , of which he is chairman and chief executive
officer. That company, which went public in September 2011, has
grown from $83 million in market value at the start of last year
to about $2.5 billion now.  Buying Spree  American Realty Capital Properties has expanded through
 acquisitions  and has plans to complete $1.1 billion of deals in
the second half of the year, including a $416.5 million purchase
announced last week. It is growing in part by acquiring REITs
that AR Capital sponsors. It purchased American Realty Capital
Trust III Inc. in February for more than $2 billion in cash and
stock and also plans to buy American Realty Capital Trust IV in
a deal it values at $3.1 billion.  American Realty Capital Properties will be the second-biggest single-tenant landlord after it completes pending deals,
including its planned acquisition of  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for $755
million. The largest net-lease company is  Realty Income Corp. (O) ,
based in Escondido,  California , which has a market value of more
than $8 billion.  More Deals  The industry has been among the most active this year for
mergers and acquisitions. In addition to American Realty
Capital’s deals,  W.P. Carey Inc. (WPC) , an owner of single-tenant
buildings and a sponsor of nonlisted real estate investment
trusts, agreed on July 25 to buy one of the companies it manages
in a deal valued at about $2.4 billion.  Sullivan expects such transactions to continue because of
the amount of nontraded REITs in the business that will need to
list their shares on stock exchanges or merge with another
company as the end of their investment life approaches.
Nontraded REITs eventually have to return shareholders’
investments after a set amount of time.  “There’s going to be a lot more M&A activity,” he said.  American Realty Capital Properties is managed by AR
Capital, which receives some fees related to the company’s
operations, including acquisition fees. Base management fees
were waived in the second quarter, according to the REIT’s
latest quarterly report. The company’s board is considering
internalizing the management, Schorsch said.  Waiving Fees  Schorsch said the bulk of fees, including asset-management
fees, to manage the nontraded REITs through closely held AR
Capital are contingent on investors getting the opportunity to
get their money back, such as through a public offering or a
sale of the company.  “Unless we create a successful liquidity event, those fees
are all waived,” he said. “We put ourselves in harm’s way.”  American Realty Capital Properties has gained 1.4 percent
this year, compared with a 4.7 percent increase in the Bloomberg
single-tenant REIT  index . The  gauge  has tumbled 21 percent from
a May 21 high as interest rates climbed, fueled by expectations
that the Federal Reserve will scale back the pace of its
stimulus plan as the economy rebounds.  “Net lease does very well in a volatile economy,”
Schorsch said. “A year from now when this economy has a 4
percent growth rate, when cap rates are compressing in that
space, is that the right time to be buying? I say no.”  Pausing Business  Schorsch said at an investor day for American Realty
Capital Properties on July 24 that the ARCT V REIT will be the
last net-lease program “for a number of years to come.” The
company’s nontraded net-lease business will pause through all of
2014 and potentially all of 2015 “if not forever,” he said.  “We came to the conclusion that the cost of capital
advantage toward the public companies is continuing to migrate
and that the private companies will not be able to be
competitive in the space,” Schorsch said at the investor day.  AR Capital now has REITs for global single-tenant buildings
and one focused on  New York  commercial real estate that are in
the early stages of their lives. The company also has health-care, shopping center and commercial real estate debt REITs
among their offerings.  “We have other programs that raise a lot of money,”
Schorsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  