-- SJM Quarterly Earnings Top Estimate on Higher Spending
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-15T10:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/sjm-first-half-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-gambler-spending.html
SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , Asia’s biggest
casino company, reported a 12 percent increase in second-quarter
earnings, beating analyst estimates, as mainland Chinese
gamblers spent more at its Macau casinos.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, rose to HK$2.14 billion in the three
months to June, according to Bloomberg calculations based on its
statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday. That’s higher
than an average estimate of HK$1.99 billion from seven analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  SJM joins  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  in reporting higher profits in Macau, the
only place in China where casinos are legal. The operators are
benefiting as new attractions, added hotel rooms and an improved
rail connection draw more mainland Chinese visitors to the
world’s biggest gambling center.  Net income climbed to HK$1.91 billion during the second
quarter from HK$1.7 billion a year earlier, according to results
calculated by subtracting first-quarter earnings from first-half
numbers reported by the company yesterday.  SJM fell 0.1 percent to close at HK$19.94. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  was little changed.  SJM, founded by Hong Kong tycoon  Stanley Ho , faces rising
competition as rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  expand on Macau’s increasingly popular
Cotai strip. It doesn’t have a casino on Cotai, which is Asia’s
equivalent of the Las Vegas strip.  Operators have been adding new attractions such as shopping
malls and entertainment shows in their resorts to draw mainland
Chinese tourists.  Market Share  SJM’s market share in the first half dropped to 25.3
percent, it said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
yesterday. That’s a decline from the 26.7 percent share in 2012
as competitors opened new properties in Cotai.  SJM’s gambling revenue from VIPs, or high rollers rose 10
percent to HK$29 billion in the first half, while mass market
revenue climbed 4 percent to HK$12.2 billion, it said.  The company said it will pay an interim dividend of 20  Hong
Kong  cents a share, double last year’s payout.  SJM, which formerly had a monopoly in the city, runs 20 out
of the 35 casinos in Macau. It won a land grant in October to
build its first casino resort in Cotai.  Macau raked in a record $38 billion gross gaming revenue
last year, with two-thirds of that coming from the high-stake
gamblers, or so-called VIPs. Deutsche Bank AG has estimated that
the city’s casino revenue will rise 17 percent to $44.5 billion
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  