-- Skadden, Akin Gump, Kaye Scholer, Norton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-14T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/skadden-akin-gump-kaye-scholer-norton-business-of-law.html
Lisa Gilford , a class-action and
products-liability lawyer, joined Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP’s mass torts, insurance and consumer litigation group
in  Los Angeles .  Gilford, most recently co-chairwoman of Alston & Bird LLP’s
products liability group, has been lead counsel in the defense
of Toyota Motor Corp. over claims arising from alleged
“unintended acceleration” incidents.  She has so far succeeded in securing dismissal of the class
claims of plaintiffs from more than 14 different countries from
the multidistrict litigation, Skadden said in a statement.  Gilford has also represented DuPont Co. and  T-Mobile USA  in
connection with consumer class-action and products-liability
claims.  “Her expertise will bolster our capabilities in servicing
companies facing complex mass-tort and consumer litigation
nationwide, as well as those subject to class actions brought
under California consumer and unfair competition laws,” John H. Beisner, who heads Skadden’s mass-torts, insurance and consumer
litigation group nationally, said in a statement.  Skadden’s Los Angeles litigation practice group has
represented MGA Entertainment Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co . and the
former chief financial officer of Broadcom Corp. The firm’s mass
torts, insurance and consumer litigation clients have included
Altria Group Inc., Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, Pfizer Inc. and Red
Bull GmbH.  “I have had the opportunity to work closely with the firm
and its lawyers in representing Toyota, and I am excited about
joining such an impressive group of attorneys,” Gilford said in
a statement.  Skadden has 1,800 attorneys in 23 offices in the Americas,
Europe and  Asia .  Akin Gump Adds Shah as Co-Leader of Supreme Court Practice  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP said Pratik A. Shah, an
assistant to the solicitor general at the U.S. Justice
Department, is joining the firm as co-head of its U.S.  Supreme
Court  practice and a partner in the national appellate practice
in Washington.  Shah has worked in the Office of the Solicitor General
since 2008. He argued 13 cases before the Supreme Court and
wrote merits briefs in 10 others, the firm said in a statement.
He handled cases involving same-sex marriage, securities, taxes
and retirement benefits, as well as Indian and environmental
law.  “His broad experience and superb academic background will
contribute materially to our provision of the highest-caliber
appellate representation for our clients,” Patricia Millett,
who heads Akin Gump’s Supreme Court practice and is co-leader of
the national appellate practice, said in a statement.  Shah clerked for Supreme Court Justice Stephen G. Breyer
and for Judge William A. Fletcher of the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the 9th Circuit.  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East .  Kaye Scholer Hires Antitrust Litigator Laura Shores  Laura Shores, an antitrust litigator, joined Kaye Scholer
LLP as a partner in the firm’s Washington office. She was
previously a partner at Pepper Hamilton LLP.  Shores focuses on civil and criminal antitrust litigation,
including the defense of actions brought under the Sherman Act,
the Federal Trade Commission Act and their state-law
counterparts, the firm said in a statement.  Among her recent successes was the defense of Schering-Plough Corp. in the first reverse-payment case tried before the
Federal Trade Commission, the firm said.  She also has experience in white-collar, securities and
complex commercial litigation, including claims of  money
laundering , accounting and  securities fraud  and procurement
fraud.  “Her vast experience defending major pharmaceutical and
other life sciences companies further enhances our already
formidable strengths as a top life sciences law firm,”
Washington partner  Robert Bell , co-head of Kaye Scholer’s
antitrust practice, said in a statement.  Kaye Scholer has 450 lawyers in nine offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Litigation  London Whale Surfaces to Aid U.S. in JPMorgan Trading Probe  Bruno Iksil, the former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader whose
bets caused more than $6.2 billion in losses last year, is now
central to any U.S. charges against his former colleagues.  Iksil, the Frenchman who became known as the London Whale
because of his trading book’s size, has been cooperating with
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s Office for months in their probe of the New York-based bank’s biggest trading debacle ever, said three people
with direct knowledge with the matter. Iksil won’t face charges
as long as he cooperates and testifies, the people said.  Prosecutors may announce charges as early as this week
against former London-based JPMorgan employees, accusing them of
trying to mask losses on a complex derivatives portfolio, said
another person who asked not to be named because the
investigation isn’t public.  It still isn’t clear who may be charged, the person said.
Javier Martin-Artajo, a former executive who supervised Iksil’s
trading strategy, and Julien Grout, a trader who helped mark
Iksil’s book, are likely to be charged, the New York Times
reported Aug. 9. Prosecutors also are weighing penalties for the
bank, including a fine and reprimand, the newspaper said in a
subsequent report.  Martin-Artajo has co-operated with every investigation
required in the U.K. and is confident he will be cleared of
wrongdoing when a “fair reconstruction of these complex events
is completed,” his attorneys at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP in
London said yesterday in a statement.  Jennifer Queliz, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, and  Peter Donald  of the FBI’s New York
office, declined to comment on the investigation.  Police showed up at Grout’s home in London last week and
his landlord gave them a forwarding address in the south of
 France , said a person with direct knowledge of the matter. A
spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police declined to comment
on whether officers visited Grout’s home. A French citizen,
Grout may be difficult to arrest if he’s charged because France
has tougher extradition laws than the U.K., the person said.  “He is not a fugitive,” said  Edward Little , a partner at
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in New York who represents Grout. “He
visited the U.S. last month with confidence he was not being
indicted and moved to France to save money and look for a job.
We did not expect a decision on the investigation one way or
another until the fall.”  Martin-Artajo is away on vacation and “received no
communication from any governmental regulators, including the
Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K. with whom he has fully
cooperated, which would indicate that he should not be on
vacation at this time,” according to the statement from his
lawyers.  Attorneys for Iksil declined to comment, as did a spokesman
for the bank. JPMorgan ousted all three men last year and sought
to recoup some of their back pay.  For more, click here.  News  BP Is Becoming One Giant Law Firm After Gulf Oil-Well Blowout  BP Plc used to be a company that produced oil. Increasingly
these days, it’s producing litigation in almost equal measure,
Paul M. Barrett reports for  Bloomberg News .  Senior company executives have told Barrett in recent
months that a substantial part of the London-based energy giant
now effectively operates as a  law firm , dealing full-time with
what the company sees as the surprisingly persistent courtroom
and regulatory fallout from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  For more, click here.  Video  Jobs, Court Funding on Agenda for New ABA President  James Silkenat, the incoming president of the  American Bar
Association , spoke about plans for his term with Bloomberg Law’s
Lee Pacchia in a Bloomberg podcast.  To download, watch or listen to this report, click here.  Firm News  Norton Rose Fulbright Names Lansdale Head in San Antonio  Daryl Lansdale Jr., a financial-institutions, health-care
and energy partner at Norton Rose Fulbright LLP, was named
partner-in-charge of the firm’s  San Antonio  office. He succeeds
George Scofield, who is now on the firm’s U.S. management
committee and global executive committee.  “I have been privileged to work with and learn from
George, who has managed this office for more than eight years,”
Lansdale said in a statement. “The San Antonio office has
provided counsel to our community’s most successful businesses
for more than three decades, and I look forward to continuing
our commitment to client service.”  The San Antonio office has almost 60 lawyers and 50 support
staff, the firm said. It focuses on public-finance, corporate
and securities, mergers-and-acquisitions, litigation, health-care, energy, real estate, employment-and-labor, and tax
matters.  Lansdale’s practice focuses on corporate and securities
transactions including M&A, securities offerings, advising board
governance, joint ventures and private-equity investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 