-- SkyCity Gains From High Rollers as Gambling Scam Leaves Debt
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-14T05:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/skycity-gains-from-high-rollers-in-auckland-as-scam-leaves-debt.html
Sky City Entertainment Group Ltd.,
 New Zealand ’s largest casino owner, said that a costly scam by
some gamblers from  Asia  won’t deter it from wooing foreign high
rollers to its Auckland venue.  Earnings from international business at Auckland rose to
NZ$10.5 million ($8.4 million) in the year ended June 30 from
NZ$5.2 million a year earlier, even after a NZ$2.7 million
provision for the dishonored debts, the company said in a
statement. The shares fell the most in 15 months as group net
income dropped 8.1 percent to NZ$127.3 million, missing
analysts’ estimates.  SkyCity has built its “Horizon” gaming rooms and suites
in Auckland to attract wealthy gamblers, with revenue from that
business more than tripling to NZ$4.1 billion in the year
through June from NZ$1.2 billion in 2009-10. About 20 people who
played in Auckland for several days in the first half left
without honoring their debts, the company said without providing
further detail.  “We would regard this as a bit of a scam, not legal gaming
activity,” Chief Executive Officer Nigel Morrison said at a
results presentation today. “These guys that have done this
have also done it at other properties.”  The decline in group net income reflected a strong prior
year that was boosted by Rugby World Cup visitors, Morrison
said. SkyCity shares fell 4.2 percent to NZ$3.93 at the 5 p.m.
close in Wellington, the biggest drop since May 11 last year.  Win Rate  Auckland’s international business, which operates on a
theoretical win rate of 1.35 percent, achieved 1.48 percent in
the latest year, SkyCity said.  The better win rate, particularly in the second half when
it averaged 1.9 percent, suppressed the level of turnover
normally expected from international business, it said. The
company also paid a higher level of complementary expenses to
players that lost significantly, it said.  SkyCity has named a 25-year veteran in the gaming industry,
Craig Ashton, as executive vice president for international
business to boost activity in Auckland, Queenstown and Darwin,
which are attractive to Asian visitors. He joins in September
from the Crown casino in  Melbourne .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  