-- SL Green to Acquire Manhattan Property for $386 Million
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-14T15:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/sl-green-to-acquire-manhattan-property-for-386-million.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York
City’s biggest office landlord, agreed to buy a residential-and-commercial building on  Manhattan ’s west side for $386 million as
it seeks to expand in the apartment market.  SL Green will purchase the Olivia, a 492,987-square-foot
(45,800-square-meter) building completed last year on 33rd
Street, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
The 36-story tower has 333 luxury rental apartments and 270,000
square feet of commercial space, with a movie theater, two
office suites, a parking garage and retail stores.  “We see this acquisition as a great opportunity to expand
our multifamily investment platform at a time when the New York
City residential market is strong,” SL Green President Andrew Mathias said in the statement.  The real estate investment trust is acquiring apartment
buildings as  New York  rents approach records. In December, the
company agreed to buy property in the Williamsburg section of
 Brooklyn  for its first residential investment in the borough.
Also last year, SL Green joined Stonehenge Partners in a $193
million deal to buy seven retail and multifamily properties in
Manhattan’s Midtown and Upper East Side neighborhoods.  The Olivia is currently owned by New York-based Stonehenge.
Rents for a one-bedroom apartment start at $3,495 a month,
according to its  website .  The building’s commercial space is 100 percent leased at
below-market rental rates, SL Green said. The acquisition also
includes an adjacent lot.  The property is located between 8th and 9th avenues, near
the far west side area where Related Cos. is developing its
Hudson Yards project. The 26-acre (11-hectare) site will include
office towers, residences and retail space in a transformation
of a largely industrial space near the  Hudson River .  “The anticipated substantial increase in pedestrian
traffic between  Penn Station  and Hudson Yards is likely to
strengthen that retail corridor, which we believe will
significantly enhance the value of this property’s retail
component,” Mathias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  