-- Soros Buys 4.9% Stake in Herbalife, Sells Off Gold ETFs
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-08-15T02:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/soros-buys-4-9-stake-in-herbalife-sells-off-gold-etfs.html
George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management
LLC bought a 4.9 percent stake in Herbalife in the second
quarter in a bet that fellow billionaire  Bill Ackman  is wrong
about the nutritional and weight-loss supplement company.  The $25 billion family office bought 5 million shares of
the Cayman Islands-based company, according to a filing today
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The stake was
valued at $227.5 million at the end of June.  Soros, whose firm is based in New York, joins investors
including Brookside Capital Management LLC that took new
positions in Herbalife in the quarter. Billionaire  Carl Icahn 
and Capital Group Cos., which runs the  American Funds , added to
existing holdings. The shares have jumped 77 percent since March
31, and they’ve more than doubled this year.  Ackman said in late December that his Pershing Square
Capital Management LP had  sold short  about 20 million shares of
Herbalife to bet against the company, which he said operated
like a pyramid scheme. Herbalife has repeatedly denied those
allegations. Icahn, who bought Herbalife shares after Ackman
laid out his bearish case, now is the company’s largest
 individual investor , with a 16.5 percent stake, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Soros, an 83-year-old hedge-fund industry pioneer and
philanthropist, also took a 9.1 percent stake in J.C. Penney Co.
in the quarter, with a market value of $341.4 million at the end
of June, today’s filing shows. The family office disclosed a 7.9
percent passive stake in the Plano, Texas-based retailer in
April.  Gold ETFs  The firm sold off its position in the SPDR Gold Trust, an
exchange-traded fund, valued at $82 million at the end of March,
and its holding in Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF, worth $100.9
million.  Soros Fund Management  also sold its 7.84 million shares of
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , valued at $133.1 million at the end of
the first quarter. The shares  fell  14 percent since Aug. 12, as
the U.S. Justice Department sued to bar the merger of the
airline with AMR Corp., the operator of American Airlines.  The firm added to its holding in Google Inc., its largest
equity position as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  