-- South Korea Agrees With North on Plan to Open Gaeseong
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-15T02:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/south-korea-says-gaeseong-talks-chance-to-build-trust-with-north.html
North Korea  reached an agreement
with the South that aims to reopen the jointly operated Gaeseong
industrial complex that was shuttered in April as ties
deteriorated over the North’s nuclear program.  The two sides agreed to “make active efforts so companies
can repair and re-operate their equipment” and seek ways to
attract foreign investors to the site, according to the accord
released last night. The deal calls for forming a joint
committee to prepare Gaeseong to reopen. No timetable was given.  Gaeseong is located just north of the demilitarized zone
that has divided the countries for six decades and had been the
last area of detente between the two Koreas. The North pulled
its 53,000 workers out in April amid heightened tensions after a
February nuclear-device test prompted tighter United Nations
sanctions and the U.S. and  South Korea  held joint military
drills.  The agreement came after eight hours of talks yesterday,
which South Korea had signaled would be the last chance for a
deal to save Gaeseong after six previous rounds failed to
produce progress.  Before the shutdown, the park housed more than 120 South
Korean companies manufacturing electronics, apparel and other
goods. Last year, it produced $470 million worth of products.  “There may still be hurdles in future negotiations, but
another shutdown is improbable,” said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor
of North Korea studies at  Seoul ’s  Dongguk University . “North
Korea needs its talks with South Korea to go well because that
can lead to talks with the U.S.”  Guarantee Demanded  South Korea had demanded that the North guarantee it will
not shut down the park unilaterally again and the government of
President Park Geun Hye has repeatedly warned that it would take
a “grave decision” if the North didn’t comply.  The two sides agreed yesterday to ensure operations at the
site continue regardless of political circumstances.  Park welcomed the agreement, saying she hopes relations
between the countries will now “restart,” according to a
statement on her office’s website last night.  “The North needs the park alive to show the world it is
serious about drawing investments, while the South needs it as a
starting point for improving ties,” Jo Dong Ho, a professor of
North Korea studies at Seoul’s  Ewha Womans University , said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  In a sign that the Gaeseong deal may help ease tensions,
Park today called for reviving a program to reunite families
separated by the  Korean War , setting up a peace park in the
demilitarized zone and continuing humanitarian aid to the North
in a speech marking the country’s Liberation Day.  The Gaeseong talks resumed days before another round of
joint U.S.-South Korean military drills that typically strain
relations between the countries. The North hasn’t yet reacted to
the plan for the annual exercises set to take place in the South
from Aug. 19 to 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  