-- SSE Urges U.K. to Hasten Power-Plant Payments to Keep Lights On
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-14T05:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/sse-urges-u-k-to-hasten-power-plant-payments-to-keep-lights-on.html
The U.K. must accelerate plans to
pay power-station operators to guarantee generation capacity or
risk stymieing investments, utility  SSE Plc (SSE)  said.  Payments should be made from the tax year starting next
April, Chief Executive Officer Alistair Phillips-Davies said in
an e-mail. They’re currently scheduled to start in 2018.  The planned payments, included in a draft U.K. energy law,
would give utilities a catalyst to keep unprofitable gas-fired
plants open and add new generators to ensure sufficient supply.
The regulator has said shutdowns could put Britain at risk of a
major power shortage about once every 12 years from 2015,
compared with once in 47 years now.  SSE decided in March to mothball a plant at Keadby, citing
the “very poor” economics of gas-fed power stations. Phillips-Davies said incentives are needed to spur industry spending.  “We need to get on with building new plants and we need to
keep existing plants open,” the CEO said. “Market forces are
putting generators under pressure to do the opposite.”  Electricity prices have dropped as the economic slowdown
curbs demand. The U.K. next-month spark-spread, a measure of the
profitability of gas-fired plants, has been negative since the
end of May.  The government is trying to attract 110 billion pounds
($170 billion) of investment in new power stations and upgrades
to the grid with a new energy bill currently being debated in
parliament. The draft legislation includes plans for capacity
auctions, which determine payments for power-plant owners to
make units available for specific periods.  Capacity Mechanism  “The proposed Capacity Mechanism is a good solution, but
unfortunately it won’t do anything to tackle the short-term
problem if the first payments aren’t made until 2018,”
Phillips-Davies said. “Major investment decisions cannot be
made unless a stable, proven and predictable underlying policy
framework is in place.”  The CEO follows Iberdrola SA Chairman  Ignacio Galan  in
calling on the U.K. government to speed up the start of capacity
payments. Galan said in February that Britain risks blackouts
this decade without progress on the issue.  The Department for Energy and Climate Change didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The government said in June that it plans to award 15-year
capacity contracts for new plants, one-year deals for existing
stations and contracts as long as three years for those that
need refurbishment.  SSE placed the 735-megawatt Keadby plant into “deep
mothball,” whereby it would take about a year to bring it back
into operation. Centrica Plc and GDF Suez SA also have suspended
plants, according to network operator National Grid Plc, which
said in July that other aging gas-fired generators may be
 mothballed  this year because of “marginal economics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  