-- Stimulus Devotees Giving Edge to Euro Corporates: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-14T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/stimulus-devotees-giving-edge-to-euro-corporates-credit-markets.html
Yields on euro-denominated corporate
bonds have fallen below those in dollars by the most in more
than four years, as debt investors seek assets in a region where
central bankers are showing few signs of paring stimulus
measures.  Yields on investment-grade euro debt fell to as much as 1.4
percentage points less than those on dollar-denominated debt
last month, compared with 0.8 percentage points below the U.S.
bonds at the end of 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The gap, which was 1.25 percentage points
less yesterday, has averaged 0.8 during the past 10 years.  While the  Federal Reserve  is considering a reduction of
bond purchases that have bolstered credit markets, European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has described progress in
the region as “tentative” and pledged to keep interest rates
at their lowest-ever levels for an “extended period.” Europe
is estimated by economists to have ended its longest recession
since the single-currency union started 14 years ago.  “The ECB remains quite accommodative, and is increasing
their policy accommodations, just as the Fed is most likely
reducing theirs,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “I think we’re still a good year away from the ECB
reaching their potential turning point.”  JPMorgan Bullish  Bonds issued by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  are leading gains of 1.06 percent this year for
high-grade, euro-denominated debt, compared with a 3.2 percent
loss for similarly rated securities in the U.S., according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
strategists led by Jan Loeys are recommending investors buy euro
debt, predicting the rally will continue even after yields on
the debt fell below dollar securities last month by the most
since 2008, before the region’s fiscal crisis erupted.  Euro corporate bonds have gained 14.2 percent since the end
of 2011 after the ECB cut  interest rates  to the lowest ever in
an effort to end six consecutive quarters of economic
contraction.  Investment-grade bonds in the U.S. returned 55.6 percent in
the four years after 2008 as the Fed unleashed an unprecedented
bond-buying program to ignite growth following the nation’s
worst recession since the Great Depression. Their losses this
year come as the central bank debates slowing the debt purchases
in the face of declining  jobless rates  and accelerating growth.  Rates-Driven  “In Europe, easy monetary policies are not likely to be
reversed or slowed in the near term,” Edward Marrinan, a macro
credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “The underperformance of the U.S. market has nothing
to do with underlying credit fundamentals and has everything to
do with interest rates.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Burlington Northern  Santa Fe 
LLC raised $1.5 billion in its first bond offering in five
months.  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO)  is planning its first
issuance of home-loan securities without government backing.
Marathon Asset Management LP, one of nine firms selected to
manage a government-subsidized program to revive the mortgage-bond market, liquidated the fund after handing the  U.S. Treasury 
a 25 percent return.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.5
basis point to a mid-price of 75.3 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of credit-default swaps tied
to the debt of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increased 0.8 to 95.5 at 10:38 a.m. in London. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  fell 1.6 to 134.2.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.6 basis point to 18 basis points. The
gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
government securities and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  BNSF Offering  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers yesterday, accounting for 3.7 percent of
the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Burlington Northern, the railroad that  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. bought in 2010, sold $800 million of
3.85 percent, 10-year notes that yield 117 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries and $700 million of 5.15
percent, 30-year securities at 140 basis points more than
benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds from the sale will be used for general corporate
purposes, which may include  capital expenditures  and debt
repayment, the Fort Worth, Texas-based company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  Mortgage Deal  Two Harbors, the mortgage real-estate investment trust run
by Pine River Capital Management LP, plans to issue debt
including $400.7 million of top-rated bonds tied to a “high-quality mortgage pool,”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday in
statement.  After buying the junior-ranked portion of a Credit Suisse
Group AG deal in the first quarter, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based REIT accumulated $520 million of prime jumbo mortgages it
could securitize itself when market conditions allowed, Chief
Investment Officer William Roth said an Aug. 7 conference call.  Marathon sold the last of its fund’s $1.5 billion of
residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities holdings
in June, the New York-based firm said in a letter dated Aug. 12.
Of the managers chosen for the government’s Public-Private
Investment Program, Marathon had the highest return on capital
with a net multiple of 1.76 times.  Leveraged Loans  PPIP was started in  March 2009  to encourage purchases of
devalued real-estate loans and mortgage bonds that helped cause
the financial crisis and weighed on banks’ balance sheets.
Originally envisioned to soak up as much as $1 trillion in
assets, the Treasury invested $18.6 billion in debt and equity.
That included $475 million in equity in Marathon’s fund, in
which private investors also put $475 million, according to an
Aug. 1 quarterly program update on the Treasury’s  website .  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
fell for a second day, decreasing 0.01 cent to 98.06 cents on
the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 3.19
percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 6.2 basis
points to 334 basis points, or 3.34 percentage points, according
to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 301.4
basis points this year.  Europe Outpaces  Investment-grade bond returns in Europe are outpacing their
U.S. peers for the fourth straight month, the longest stretch
since the period ended March 2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Investors demanded an extra 135 basis points to own euro-denominated corporate bonds instead of  government securities 
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That
was 17 basis points less than the 152 basis-point yield spread
on dollar securities, the data show. The gap between debt in the
two currencies averaged 48 basis points from 2005 to 2007.  The difference between relative yields in the two regions
is a reversal from 2011, when spreads on euro bonds averaged 24
basis points more than those on dollar notes as European policy
makers negotiated an accord with Greece’s creditors to avoid a
default that threatened to unravel the  euro zone .  Euro-bond yields averaged 2.15 percent yesterday, compared
with 3.41 for dollar debt, the index data show. The 1.4
percentage-point yield gap on July 5 was the biggest since Dec.
8, 2008.  Exiting Recession  “People are not yet bullish on Europe, and may not become
bullish, but the first phase of any outperformance is always
reduced pessimism and short-covering,” JPMorgan’s Loeys said in
a telephone interview. “You have to play at the margins.”  Yields have since fallen to 2.09 percent in Europe and 3.33
percent in the U.S.  “There’s a likely outperformance for a number of months;
it could be even a year,” Loeys said. “Nobody expects Europe
to be locomotive that will drive world growth. But simply the
lack of a negative, the lack of fiscal tightening and reduced
austerity can have a powerful short-term impact.”  The euro-area  economy  probably edged back to growth last
quarter, with gross domestic product expanding 0.2 percent after
shrinking for the previous six quarters, according to the median
of 41 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “It’s been a painful process but these countries are
making progress with respect to financial balance,”  Ashish Shah , the head of global credit at AllianceBernstein Holding LP,
which manages $435 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview.  Telefonica, BBVA  Telefonica, Europe’s most indebted telecommunications
company, reported smaller-than-anticipated declines in sales and
operating profit last month as it cut its net debt to less than
50 billion euros ($66.3 billion).  Its $24.2 billion of bonds included in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Euro Corporate index have gained 3.09 percent this
year. The $13 billion of Spanish lender BBVA’s debt in Europe is
up 5.34 percent during the period.  Fed Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke spurred the worst selloff
since 2008 for dollar-denominated corporate bonds when he told
Congress on May 22 that the central bank may cut the pace of
bond purchases at its next few meetings if the labor market
shows sustainable improvement.  Bernanke sent  Treasury yields  to the highest level in
almost two years after outlining a plan June 19 in which the Fed
could start curtailing the current pace in $85 billion of bond
purchases later this year and end them around mid-2014 if growth
is in line with the central bank’s estimates.  “This has been a multi-year rally for U.S. corporates and
Europe has been slower to follow that lead” due to economic and
political turmoil in the region, RBS’s Marrinan said. “With
some signs that those pressures are abating, the euro-area
corporate credit market has gained performance momentum and has
jumped ahead of the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  