-- Swiss Stocks Advance for Fourth Day as Swiss Life Jumps
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-14T07:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/swiss-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-as-swiss-life-jumps.html
Swiss stocks  rose for a fourth day,
extending an 11-week high, as second-quarter gross domestic
product in Germany and France topped economists’ forecasts.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s biggest life insurer,
rallied 4.3 percent after first-half profit climbed 30 percent.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  climbed for a fourth day as Chairman Joerg Reinhardt
said the drugmaker will start a strategic review of its units as
early as next week and would consider a $10 billion purchase
among options for bolstering the business.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  advanced 0.3 percent to 8,062.44 at
9:15 a.m. in Zurich. The gauge has surged 18 percent this year
as central banks around the world maintained stimulus measures.
It climbed last week as better-than-forecast economic data in
Europe and China outweighed concern that the  Federal Reserve 
will reduce the pace of its bond-purchase program. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also added 0.3 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI companies was 20
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The German economy expanded more than economists predicted
in the second quarter. GDP rose 0.7 percent from the first
quarter, when it stagnated, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.6
percent, according to the median of 47 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The  French economy  grew a more-than-anticipated 0.5
percent in the second quarter, separate data showed.  A report at 11 a.m. Zurich time may show that  GDP (GRGDPPGQ)  in the
17-nation euro region expanded 0.2 percent in the three months
through June after shrinking for the previous six quarters,
according to the median forecast of 41 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  