-- U.K. Prefers Telefonica for Biggest Smart Meter Deal
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-14T17:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-k-says-prefers-capita-telefonica-for-smart-meter-contracts.html
Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is the
preferred bidder for two smart metering communications contracts
worth 1.5 billion pounds ($2.33 billion), the U.K. government
said, granting the industry’s biggest deal yet.  Telefonica’s unit in Britain is favored to build networks
that transmit information about usage from power and gas meters
in  Wales  and southern and central England to data storage sites,
the Department of Energy and Climate Change said today on its
 website . Arqiva Ltd.,  Capita Plc (CPI) ,  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A)  and Gemserv Ltd
were also listed as preferred bidders.  The U.K. is compelling utilities to install more than 53
million power and gas meters by 2020 in a 12-billion pound
program to help consumers monitor and cut energy use. Today’s
contracts signal progress for a program that ministers in May
delayed by a year, citing the “technical challenge” involved.  “The contracts announced today are the largest in the
smart-grid industry to date and provide important clarity,”
said Colin McKerracher, a smart-grid analyst in London at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “With the preferred bidders in
place and the government firmly committed, the U.K.’s ‘big six’
energy retailers should feel more confident moving ahead with
their own roll-out plans.”  In total, the contracts will be worth about 2.4 billion
pounds. Arqiva is the government’s choice to set up networks in
northern  England  and Scotland.The government said the Madrid-based Telefonica’s two contracts would run for 15 years, the
same as Arqiva’s 625 million-pound deal.  Global Benchmark  “The scope of the Great Britain initiative serves as a
benchmark for future projects around the world,” Peter Mainz,
chief executive officer of Sensus, which will provide technology
for Arqiva, said in an e-mailed statement.  Capita was selected to manage the data and communications
contracts for the entire system in a 12-year license valued at
175 million pounds, the energy department said.  CGI’s IT U.K. unit is the preferred bidder to manage the
data, store it on servers and pass it back to energy suppliers
and grid operators in an 8-year deal valued at 75 million
pounds, while Gemserv may win a 4-year, 10 million-pound
contract to maintain and update a smart metering code defining
the rules and functions of the technology.  “The success of the programme is crucial if Britain is to
keep energy bills affordable, continue to benefit from the
levels of reliable supply we do today” and meet carbon targets,
Tara McGeehan, head of CGI’s U.K. smart energy division said in
an e-mailed statement.  The government said it plans to conclude the contracts in
early September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  