-- U.K. Stocks Drop as BOE Lacks Unanimity on Guidance
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-14T16:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-on-german-gdp-growth.html
U.K. stocks  fell as minutes showed
the  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee lacked unanimity
on Governor Mark Carney’s guidance linking  interest rates  to
unemployment at the last meeting.  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI)  slumped 10 percent after saying that
 Keith Calder  has resigned as chief executive officer. Rentokil
Initial Plc rallied the most in 2 1/2 years after the pest-control company reported that profit and revenue climbed.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  declined 0.4 percent to 6,587.43 at the
close in London. The gauge swung between gains and losses at
least 20 times today as a report showed that jobless claims fell
last month. The equity benchmark has still gained 9.3 percent
since its low on June 24 as the Bank of England gave forward
guidance on interest rates for the first time. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index slipped 0.3 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index added 0.1 percent.  “Yet again, the 6,600 level has proved to be too much for
London’s leading index, even with news that U.K. unemployment
fell in July,” Ben Critchley, a trader at IG in London, wrote
in a note. “Instead, traders focused on minutes from the Bank
of England that showed the universal dovish sentiment on the MPC
had not lasted beyond the first meeting chaired by  Mark Carney ,
raising fears that others may be tempted into a more hawkish
frame of mind.”  BOE Minutes  The Bank of England’s new governor, Mark Carney, failed to
convince every member of the MPC to endorse the central bank’s
new policy on forward guidance, according to  the minutes  of the
meeting on August 1. Martin Weale voted against linking interest
rates to unemployment. The BOE said it could raise interest
rates if it forecast inflation of 2.5 percent or more in 18 to
24 months’ time.  A report from the  Office for National Statistics  today
showed that the U.K.’s  unemployment rate  remained at 7.8 percent
in the second quarter. Europe’s third-largest economy has shown
signs of gaining traction, with measures of manufacturing,
construction and services all strengthening in July.  In Luxembourg, Eurostat reported that the  gross domestic
product  of the 17-nation euro area expanded 0.3 percent in the
three months through June. That exceeded the 0.2 percent pace
that economists had called for in a Bloomberg News survey. The
combined economy of the countries using the single currency
contracted 0.3 percent in the three months through March.  African Minerals slumped 10 percent to 219 pence, its
biggest decline since November. The company said in a statement
that Bernard Pryor will replace Calder with immediate effect.  Countrywide, Rentokil  Countrywide Plc (CWD) , a property developer based in London, fell
4.5 percent to 570 pence. Shareholders Oaktree Capital
Management LLC and Apollo Management LP put a 30 million-share
stake for sale after markets closed yesterday.  Rentokil rallied 6.1 percent to 103 pence, the highest
price since February 2011. The company said adjusted operating
profit rose 5.2 percent in the first half to 113 million pounds
($175 million). Sales gained 3.7 percent to 1.2 billion pounds.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  advanced 3.5 percent to
344.7 pence after  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement that the
state-owned lender will probably not break up because the costs
would outweigh the benefits.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  rose 1.7 percent to 2,450 pence. Morgan
Stanley analysts reiterated an overweight, or buy,
recommendation on the the U.K.’s biggest fund manager by assets,
citing “above-peer growth” in a note to investors, and saying
the company may beat profit estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  