-- U.S. Closes Two Bus Operators That Stranded Passengers
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-08-14T20:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-closes-two-bus-operators-that-stranded-passengers.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
ordered two bus companies to shut down following separate
incidents in which they left passengers stranded along
interstate highways for hours after mechanical breakdowns.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration said today
it revoked the authority for New York-based All Nations Coach to
operate. Hialeah, Florida-based McRea Transportation Inc. was
declared a public-safety hazard and ordered to close.  “There is no place on our highways and roads for bus
operators who disregard safety,” U.S. Transportation Secretary
Anthony Foxx said in a statement. “Passengers should be able to
trust that the company they use will be able to get them to
their destination in a safe and timely manner.”  The shut-downs were the latest moves by regulators to get
tougher on rogue operators in the fastest-growing mode of U.S.
commercial transportation. The agency has ordered 17 operators
off the road since April.  Both companies had buses break down enroute to New York
City last month. They left passengers on the sides of highways,
leaving local authorities to transport them to a safe place.
Neither company had a plan to get replacement buses to pick up
their customers, the regulator said.  McRea, which runs buses from Atlanta to New York,
experienced a breakdown at 2:30 a.m. on July 11 along Interstate
85 in Northampton County, North Carolina, the FMCSA said. Fifty
passengers were taken by state law enforcement officials to a
 Virginia  welcome center, where they waited 10 hours for a
replacement bus to arrive.  Falsified Records  The FMCSA investigated McRae following the incident, the
agency said today. Regulators concluded the company wasn’t
adhering to rules on driving-time limits and drug testing, and
found falsified records, it said.  McRae officials told regulators the 863-mile route between
Atlanta and New York was too long to be accomplished within the
federal limit of 10 hours of driving in a day, requiring drivers
to exceed speed limits, break the driver-rest rules or falsify
duty-status records,  the order said .  The company’s drivers were paid by Horse Run Tour Inc., a
Georgia company that isn’t authorized to operate across state
lines, the FMCSA said.  Midnight Breakdown  An All Nations bus traveling from  Charlotte , North
Carolina, to New York broke down on I-95 in Caroline County,
Virginia, at midnight July 16. Fifty-three passengers were taken
by state and local authorities to a truck stop, where they
waited 24 hours for a replacement bus to arrive.  Two weeks earlier, the agency had ordered All Nations to
prove it wasn’t a reincarnation of Tichy Express, a company the
government ordered shut down in 2011 for safety violations. The
July 16 stranding happened during a 21-day appeal period related
to that order. The FMCSA issued a shut-down order July 22.  Tichy Express’s owner, Isa Nebi, had told regulators in
 Albany , New York, in December 2011 that he would have his wife
buy a bus company if they denied his request to restart his
operation,  the government said .  Nebi had his wife purchase All Nations’ DOT registration
number in April 2012, according to the government’s order. The
sale didn’t include any buses, loans or leases. Both companies
list Nebi’s home as a business address, the government said.  The bus industry supports the Transportation Department’s
efforts to take unsafe companies off the road, especially so-called reincarnated carriers, said Dan Ronan, an American Bus
Association spokesman, in an e-mail.  “It’s been shown on several occasions these companies are
among the most dangerous,” Ronan said. “We applaud today’s
shutdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  