-- U.S. Re-Evaluating Egypt Assistance in Wake of Violence
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-14T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-re-evaluating-egypt-assistance-in-wake-of-violence.html
The Obama administration is
considering canceling planned military exercises with  Egypt  and
is re-evaluating other aid following the violent crackdown on
protesters by the country’s military-backed government,
according to a U.S. official.  The U.S. and Egypt are scheduled to start the “Bright
Star” exercises next month. Other military assistance already
in the pipeline may also be held up to put pressure on Egypt’s
interim government, said the official, who asked for anonymity
to discuss internal deliberations. The U.S. already postponed
delivery of four F-16 fighter jets to Egypt after the military
ouster of President Mohamed Mursi.  The storming of protest encampments today, which left at
least 278 dead, makes it harder for the administration to
justify to Congress and other governments the current levels of
assistance, the official said.  While no decision has been made on longer-term aid plans,
the U.S. will recalibrate its relationship with Egypt’s leaders
if they continue on the same path, according to the official.
Egypt receives about $1.3 billion a year in U.S. military aid.  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman and Secretary of State
John Kerry earlier today said the U.S. condemns the violence
against the protesters and the state-of-emergency declaration by
the government.  Step Back  “Egyptians inside and outside of the government need to
take a step back,” Kerry said, reading a statement in
 Washington . “They need to calm the situation and avoid further
loss of life.’  The state of emergency and the storming of protest camps
will “only make it more difficult” to move toward
reconciliation in the country, said  Josh Earnest , the deputy
White House press secretary. “The violence that we saw
overnight was a step in the wrong direction.”  Obama was briefed on the events this morning by his
national security adviser, Susan Rice, Earnest said on Martha’s
Vineyard, a Massachusetts island where the president is
vacationing.  The administration has declined to designate the military
takeover as a coup, which would trigger a cutoff of aid to
Egypt. Earnest today reaffirmed that distinction, saying, “We
have determined that it is not in the best interest of the
United States to make that determination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  