-- U.S. Open Tennis Adding Retractable Roof to Ashe Stadium
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-08-14T14:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-open-tennis-said-to-be-adding-roof-to-arthur-ashe-stadium.html
A retractable roof will be added to
the  U.S. Open ’s biggest stadium, possibly as soon as 2016, after
weather delays wreaked havoc with the Grand Slam tournament’s
schedule the past five years, the U.S. Tennis Association said.  Details of the renovation will be announced at a news
conference tomorrow, according to a press release from the USTA,
which didn’t say how it would pay for the project.  The move brings the final Grand Slam event of the tennis
season in line with the Australian Open,  French Open  and
Wimbledon, where Centre Court has had a retractable roof over
the only major played on grass since 2009.  The men’s championship match at the U.S. Open, held at the
National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows,  New York , has been
pushed to Monday for the past five years because of weather
delays after 21 years of on-time finishes. Players have
repeatedly complained about the altered schedule.  The USTA announced plans last year for what the New York
Times said would be a $500 million renovation of the facility.
That plan didn’t include a roof for either Arthur Ashe Stadium,
which holds about 22,500 fans, or Louis Armstrong Stadium, where
the post-renovation capacity will be about 15,000, up from
10,000.  The USTA’s press release said the renovation would include
two new stadiums and a viewing plaza for the practice courts.  The men’s final is set for a Monday this year and next, and
will return to Sunday in 2015, which coincides with ESPN’s
taking complete broadcast control of the tournament from  CBS (CBS) ,
ending the over-the-air network’s role after 46 years.  ESPN Rights  ESPN, a unit of the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , already has the Open’s
cable-TV rights. Viewership dropped to 2 million homes in 2012,
a 25-year low and down about 1.4 million from a decade before.
ESPN will pay $825 million over 11 years to combine what it had
with CBS’s rights, the Times said. The $75 million annual
payment is about four times what ESPN had been paying for the
Open, which this year begins Aug. 26.  Former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson  said that, for $75
million a year, ESPN probably got assurances from the USTA that
Ashe would be covered.  “It’ll make scheduling a lot easier for ESPN,” Pilson
said in a telephone interview. “Interestingly enough, it
would’ve been more important to CBS, which is the real loser for
Sunday afternoon rainouts. They lost the opportunity to carry
the event from 4 to 7, which is ideal for them. On Monday, it’s
very disruptive for a network schedule.”  The only tennis Grand Slam remaining on over-the-air TV in
the U.S. is the French Open on NBC, whose contract runs through
2024.  Other Roofs  The Australian Open has roofs over its two main courts and
is considering a third. The French Open has plans to put a roof
on its main stadium, although renovations are on hold because of
zoning issues.  The USTA has said the changes would allow for the sale of
100,000 more tickets to the 13-day tournament. It has consulted
architects and engineers for years about adding a roof to the
main stadium, which is built on unstable, swampy land.  Water bubbling through a crack on the Armstrong court in
2011 halted a fourth-round match between  Andy Roddick  and  David Ferrer . Rain the previous two days wiped out all but 10 games on
the tournament schedule.  Players including Roddick,  Rafael Nadal  and  Andy Murray  met
at the time with Brian Earley, the USTA official in charge of
play, to express concerns about on-court safety. While taking
the court at Ashe, Nadal told Earley, “It’s the same old story,
all you think about is money.”  Estimating Price  Bill Baker, a principal with Cincinnati-based MSA Sport
Architects, whose projects include renovations to Great American
Ball Park, the home of baseball’s  Cincinnati Reds , said in a
telephone interview that it’s extremely difficult to estimate
the cost of roof projects because there are so many variables.  “It could be tens of millions or hundreds of millions,”
he said. “I suspect it’s a really, really expensive endeavor.”  While the USTA hasn’t said how it would finance the
project, Pilson said tennis fans probably will pay more.  “Take a look at the suite prices,” said Pilson, now an
industry consultant. “They’re huge now, and will probably
double once the renovation and roof is done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  