-- U.S. Wins Lithuania Handover of Accused Russian Arms Dealer
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-08-14T16:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-wins-lithuania-s-extradition-of-accused-russian-arms-dealer.html
Lithuania  acceded to a U.S. request
to extradite suspected Russian arms dealer Dmitry Ustinov,
brushing aside Russia’s protests that the process was flawed.  The Baltic nation’s Court of Appeal, in a definitive
ruling, upheld the July 22 decision of a lower court that
ordered the extradition. Evidence provided by the U.S. showed
Ustinov “may have committed the crimes of which he is
accused,” Judge Linas Zukauskas said today at the court in the
Lithuanian capital, Vilnius.  The case risks further rankling the former Cold War foes
less than two weeks after Russia granted a year’s asylum to
Edward Snowden, who faces American espionage charges, leading
President  Barack Obama  to cancel a planned one-on-one meeting
with his Russian counterpart,  Vladimir Putin , in Moscow next
month. Another Russian citizen,  Viktor Bout , was sentenced in
New York to 25 years in prison a year ago for plotting to sell
weapons to a terrorist group.  The U.S. practice of arresting Russian citizens in third
countries and extraditing them is “of the most serious
concern” to Russia and violates terms of a 1999 treaty between
the two countries on mutual legal assistance, Konstantin Dolgov,
the Russian Foreign Ministry’s human rights representative, said
in a July 24  statement  on the ministry’s website. He expressed
“deep regret” over Ustinov’s situation, saying “experience
shows” that Russians aren’t guaranteed a fair trial in the U.S.  Dolgov condemned the extradition ruling as “unacceptable
and unfounded,” in a statement posted today on the foreign
ministry’s website.  Russia repeatedly sought to block Bout’s extradition from
 Thailand , where he was arrested in 2008, and criticized his
eventual conviction as “unjustified.”  U.S. Accusations  Ustinov, born in 1966, is accused at a Delaware court of
smuggling,  money laundering  and attempts to illegally export
goods on a list of U.S. defense articles. He was detained at
Vilnius airport on April 15 at the request of the  U.S.
Department of Justice . Ustinov denies any wrongdoing, his lawyer
in Lithuania, Drasutis Zagreckas, said today.  Zagreckas had appealed the extradition on grounds the
process was rushed, superficial and based on faulty evidence.  Ustinov will be shipped out of the country within about 10
days, the news portal delfi.lt reported, without saying where it
got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  