-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 9 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-08-14T14:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-aug-9-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged over 15.6 million
barrels per day during the week ending August 9, 2013, 282
thousand barrels per day below the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 89.4 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging
9.1 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production
decreased last week, averaging about 4.9 million barrels per
day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 7.9 million barrels per day
last week, up by 3 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports averaged 8.0
million barrels per day, 838 thousand barrels per day below the
same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports
(including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 513 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 76 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 2.8 million barrels
from the previous week. At 360.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are near the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.2 million barrels last week and are near the upper limit of
the average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 2.0 million barrels last week but
are near the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories remained unchanged from last
week and are in the upper half of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 1.9 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
about 19.6 million barrels per day, up by 1.3 percent from the
same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged over 9.1 million barrels per day, up
by 2.6 percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel
product supplied averaged over 3.9 million barrels per day over
the last four weeks, up by 8.1 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is 4.8 percent higher over the
last four weeks compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  