-- Treasury Yields Approach Year-High as Tapering Seen Next Month
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-08-14T21:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/u-s-30-year-yield-is-3-basis-points-away-from-two-year-high.html
Yields on Treasuries approached the
highest level this year with a majority of economists
forecasting that the Federal Reserve will reduce its bond-buying
program at next month’s policy meeting.  Prices of benchmark 10-year notes fluctuated after a report
said producer prices were little changed in July, showing
inflation remains subdued even with the central bank providing
unprecedented monetary stimulus. The Federal Open Market
Committee’s first step may be tapering monthly debt purchases by
$10 billion to a $75 billion pace, according to the median
estimate in a survey of 48 economists conducted Aug. 9-13. The
Fed will end the buying by mid-2014, they said.  “They’re likely to begin tapering in September,” said
 David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in New York at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
“The market may actually lead the tapering. The skittishness of
fixed-income investors will lead yields higher should we get
stronger data.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.71 percent at 5 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The rate climbed
10 basis points yesterday, the biggest increase since Aug. 1.
The 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 rose 1/32, or 31 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 1/8.  The 10-year yield reached 2.75 percent on July 8, the
highest since Aug. 1, 2011.  ‘Too Optimistic’  Fed Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard, who has
backed continued bond purchases by the central bank, said policy
makers should be careful in changing course based solely on
their economic forecasts.  FOMC forecasts “have tended to be too optimistic over the
last several years,” Bullard, who votes on monetary policy this
year, said today during a speech in Paducah,  Kentucky . “Given
this experience, I think caution is warranted in taking policy
action based on forecasts alone.”  At the June 19 meeting Fed officials forecast that the
economy would grow 2.3 percent to 2.6 percent this year and 3
percent to 3.5 percent in 2014. For 2015, their estimates
centered around 2.9 percent to 3.6 percent.  That compares with median forecasts of 1.6 percent growth
this year and 2.7 percent in 2014 in a Bloomberg News survey of
89 economists.  Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said yesterday policy
makers may begin tapering at any of their next few meetings.  Retail Sales  Government securities had gained earlier as investors
judged a 14 basis-point jump in yields in the past two days as
excessive. Ten-year yields climbed the most in more than a week
yesterday after data showed U.S. retail sales increased in July
for a fourth month, adding to speculation the Fed may reduce
stimulus.  “The 2.75 percent level is generally well defended,” said
Barra Sheridan, a rates trader at Bank of Montreal in  London .
“I’m also not sure such a big move yesterday was merited, so
we’re getting a bit of a bounce. Overall, the market is to be
sold as people realize the Fed is going to take some money off
the table.”  U.S. notes and bonds due in a decade or longer tumbled 11
percent in the 12 months ended yesterday, the biggest loss of
174 debt indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Producer Prices  The steady reading in the producer price index followed a
0.8 percent gain in June, a Labor Department report showed today
in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 73
economists projected a 0.3 percent rise. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and fuel, climbed less
than forecast.  U.S. consumer prices advanced 2 percent in July from a year
earlier, quickening from 1.8 percent in June, based on a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Labor Department
reports the number tomorrow. Excluding food and energy costs,
prices advanced 1.7 percent. The Fed’s inflation target is 2
percent.  Treasuries initially rose even as a report showed  gross
domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area expanded 0.3 percent
in the three months through June after a 0.3 percent contraction
in the previous quarter, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. That exceeded the median estimate of
0.2 percent growth in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.  Recovery Signs  Sixty-five percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey said
the Fed will trim its monthly bond purchases at the next
scheduled meeting Sept. 17-18. In a survey last month, half of
respondents predicted a September reduction.  Treasuries have slumped since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said in May that policy makers “could take a step down in our
pace of purchases.”  The pace of  manufacturing  growth reached the highest in two
years in July, and the  jobless rate  declined to a 4 1/2-year
low, reports this month showed.  Volatility as measured by the Merrill Lynch Option
Volatility Estimate MOVE Index was 81.67 basis points yesterday.
The average for 2013 is 67.58 basis points.  Treasury  trading volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, was $138.1 billion, down
from $310.9 billion yesterday. Volume fell to $147.8 billion on
Aug. 9, the lowest level on a closing basis this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  