-- Hudson’s Bay CEO Says REIT Will Surmount Rates
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-14T20:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/hudson-s-bay-ceo-says-reit-will-surmount-rates.html
  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Baker  says rising  interest rates  pose no hurdle
to a potential spinoff of the retailer’s real estate, including
its future  Saks Inc. (SKS)  stores, because they hold so much value.  HBC,  Canada ’s oldest department store chain, agreed last
month to buy New York-based luxury chain Saks for $2.9 billion
including debt, and said it would evaluate creating a real
estate investment trust. The plan follows a 12 percent decline
in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX REIT  index  this year amid concern
that interest rates are poised to increase.  “We believe the quality of our real estate is very strong
and would be successful in any interest-rate environment,” the
47-year-old Baker said in a telephone interview yesterday.  HBC is following efforts by Loblaw Co. and Canadian Tire
Corp. to unlock the value of retail real estate through a REIT.
Loblaw’s  Choice Properties REIT (CHP-U)  raised C$400 million ($387
million) in its initial sale in June, and rose 4.6 percent
through yesterday. Canadian Tire plans to spin off  a $3.5
billion REIT this year.  Fifteen REITs  have had initial public offerings since the
beginning of 2012, raising about $1.72 billion. REITs invest in
properties from seniors homes to factories, and have a tax
structure that allows them to pay out the bulk of their earnings
in unit distributions to investors.  HBC expects to complete the acquisition of Saks before the
end of the year, according to the company’s statement on July
29. A REIT would likely follow shortly after, Baker said.  Spread Narrows  The HBC real estate portfolio would include 32 million
square feet (3 million square meters) of retail space, including
the Saks Fifth Avenue flagship store in  New York  City, stores
under its Lord & Taylor’s banner, and Hudson’s Bay stores in
downtown  Vancouver , Toronto and  Montreal .  HBC is forecast to report second-quarter adjusted earnings
of 13 cents per share on Sept. 12, according to analysts’
estimates  compiled  by  Bloomberg News . The shares rose 0.2
percent to C$17.49 at the close in Toronto today and have risen
4.6 percent this year.  The spread between North American retail REIT dividends and
bond yields has narrowed to the tightest since mid-2011 as bond
yields have risen, according an Aug. 1 Bloomberg Industries
report.  ‘Still Concerned’  The spread stood at about 120 basis points as the yield on
the U.S. 10-year rose to 2.6 percent yesterday compared with
about 1.6 percent amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
would begin to taper its $85 billion a month bond-buying program
as the  U.S. economy  recovers. Yields on Canadian  government
bonds  have risen a similar amount and were at 2.6 percent
yesterday. A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage
point.  U.S. 10-year yields are projected to rise to 2.7 percent by
end of 2013, according to the median average of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg while Canadian yields are forecast at 2.6
percent.  “Investors are still concerned about where interest rates
might be going in the future and whether we might see sharp
rises in them,” said Michael Missaghie, a portfolio manager at
the Sentry Investments Inc. REIT fund, which manages C$1.3
billion. “HBC would probably be facing a market that would be a
little less enthusiastic about new REIT IPOs.”  Derek Dley, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity, who
estimated in a note to clients on July 29 that the HBC REIT
could be sold at C$13 per unit, said rents from a REIT offers
higher value than retail earnings.  ‘Want Yield’  “The valuations in the real estate market and the REIT
square are higher than what you get in the retail square, and
that’s why we’re seeing Canadian Tire, Loblaw and eventually,
and I think sooner rather than later, the Bay, looking to spin
off and monetize their real estate assets,” Dley said in a
phone interview yesterday from Vancouver.  “Do people still have cash and liquidity on their balance
sheets they have to invest? The answer is yes,” said Zeke Turner, chief executive officer of  HealthLease Properties Real
Estate Investment Trust (HLP-U) , in a phone interview. “Do they still
want and need yield as part of their investment strategy? And
the answer is also yes.”  The acquired Saks properties have an estimated value of
$3.5 billion to $4 billion, according to retail analyst Patricia Baker at Scotiabank. Patricia Baker also said in a note to
clients on July 30 that the properties would hasten the
deleveraging of the Saks deal and allow “the transaction to
become accretive sooner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S. Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  