-- Turkey Riot Trucks Spur Share Gain for Ex-Lawmaker Katmerci
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-08-15T08:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/turkey-riot-trucks-spur-share-gain-for-ex-lawmaker-s-katmerciler.html
Turkey ’s anti-government protests
are providing a boon to  Katmerciler Arac Ustu Ekipman Sanayi &
Ticaret AS (KATMR) , the producer of water cannon-armed trucks whose
shares are beating Istanbul’s benchmark index.  Images broadcast worldwide of Turkish protesters fleeing
the vehicles since demonstrations swept the country in June may
help generate business for the Izmir-based company in nations
from  Brazil  to  Libya  that face social unrest, Chief Executive
Officer Mehmet Katmerci said. Sales of dispersion vehicles will
rise six-fold this year, he said. Shares have gained 15 percent
since the first trading day in June, compared with a 1.7 percent
drop in the  Borsa Istanbul 100 (XU100)  index.  Katmerci’s father and the company’s founder, Ismail
Katmerci, was a former lawmaker in the ruling party of Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , whose government ordered 30 of
the trucks known as TOMAs on May 16, according to the CEO. The
government plans another tender this month for 43 more, he said.  “There’s huge interest in our TOMAs,” Katmerci, 40, said
in an interview in Izmir on Aug. 13. “People saw through the
world media that Turkey is able to produce such vehicles.”  Katmerciler gained 0.8 percent to 5.12 liras at 11:23 a.m.
in Istanbul today, bringing its year-to-date  increase  to 42
percent. The Borsa Istanbul 100 fell 3.3 percent in the period.  Koc Holding  Turkish competitors include Nurol Makina ve Sanayi AS and
 Otokar Otomotiv ve Savunma Sanayi AS , a unit of  Koc Holding (KCHOL) , the
nation’s biggest group of companies. Shares of Istanbul-based
 Otokar (OTKAR)  have fallen 9.2 percent since the beginning of June,
while Nurol, based in Ankara, is privately held.  Erdogan said at a June 16 rally for supporters in Istanbul
that the Koc family opened the doors of one of its hotels in the
city to protesters, saying the company would “have to account
for it.” Tax inspectors accompanied by police raided Koc
companies a month later.  In an interview with Vatan newspaper published July 29, Ali
Koc, a board member, said the company has no ambitions other
than to make Turkey a global player. Chairman Mustafa Koc was
out of town when e-mailed yesterday for comment, according to
Yeliz Oz Kara, the media relations manager.  The 43 new vehicles Turkish police plan to buy this month
will be deployed in Istanbul, Ankara and Kurdish-majority
southeastern provinces, according to a Milliyet newspaper report
Aug. 13 that Katmerci confirmed. Police are also planning to buy
400,000 canisters of tear gas in preparation for a possible
resumption of demonstrations in the fall, the newspaper said.  Positive Outlook  “With a few competitors in the TOMA business, Katmerciler
is at an advantage,” Burak Demirbilek, an analyst at Seker
Securities in Istanbul who rates the stock outperform, said in a
phone interview on Aug. 14. “The government may increase orders
after the protests. That’s positive for the shares.”  Katmerciler trades at 13.4 times trailing 12-month earnings
compared with a median of 16.2 times for 12 peers tracked by
Bloomberg.  Demand for TOMAs, the Turkish acronym for “vehicles to
intervene in social incidents,” increased as Turkish protests
over redevelopment of an Istanbul park erupted into a nationwide
movement following a police crackdown on the night of May 31.  ‘Completely Transparent’  Katmerciler will sell 60 protest dispersion vehicles this
year, up from 10 in 2012, Katmerci said. The company won the
government’s May 16 tender in a “completely transparent”
competition that included more than 40 rounds, he said.  The company’s bid of 10 million liras ($5.2 million) put
the price per vehicle at about $171,000. That compares with 1
million euros ($1.33 million) for a “Water Cannon 10000”
assembled by Rosenbauer using a chassis from  Daimler AG (DAI) , owner
of the Mercedes Benz brand. The price is based on a press
release from Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler in November 2009
announcing a 10-year contract with the German federal police.  Katmerciler  reported  first-quarter net income of 2.1
million liras, down 28 percent from the same period a year
earlier versus a profit of 29 million liras for Koc Holding’s
Otokar. A planned sale of 3 million shares, or 12 percent of the
company, registered by Ismail Katmerci in April, led to talks
with a U.S. investment fund that were suspended because of a
disagreement, his son said.  “We’re still hopeful,” he said.  Weakening Currency  Second-quarter results to be released Aug. 26 will be
negatively affected by the depreciation of the lira, Katmerci
said. Katmerciler had short-term foreign-currency debt of $14.5
million and 17 million euros at the end of 2012, company filings
show.  The Turkish lira has weakened 7.5 percent this year against
the dollar, the second-worst performance among currencies in
major  emerging markets  in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked
by Bloomberg. The lira traded at 1.9280 per dollar today.  Established in 1985, Katmerciler entered the TOMA business
three years ago. Its 350 employees operate as “tailors,” who
convert trucks into custom utility vehicles, Katmerci said. At
the plant in Izmir’s Cigli district, workers welded sheets of
metal into shape to transform Mercedes and Iveco trucks into
firetrucks, garbage trucks, street sweepers and TOMAs.  Katmerciler received a security certificate in March that
allows the company to bid for defense contracts, including those
from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  “That’s another catalyst,” said Seker’s Demirbilek, who
has a 12-month price target of 7.3 liras, implying a 44 percent
gain from yesterday’s close.  Turkish public institutions accounted for 4.6 million liras
of Katmerciler’s sales last year, less than 3 percent of the
total, Katmerci said. About 90 percent of the vehicles produced
are exported to 41 countries, according to the company’s 2012
annual report. Key markets include Iraq, Azerbaijan and  Nigeria .  Syria , which accounted for about 20 percent of exports
before the war, is no longer buying, Katmerci said. The company
is in talks to supply Kamaz OJSC, the Russian truckmaker partly
owned by Daimler, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  