-- Turn Up the Gas on Mexico’s Energy Revolution
-- B y   D u n c a n   W o o d
-- 2013-08-14T13:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/turn-up-the-gas-on-mexico-s-energy-revolution.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
announced his  government’s proposal  for far-reaching energy
reform two days ago, a plan that includes the shake-up of
national oil company Petroleos Mexicanos and the opening of oil
exploration and production to private and foreign companies
after 75 years of running a state-run monopoly. That has opened
an intense debate over who should have the right to exploit the
nation’s oil reserves, commonly referred to as the tesoro
nacional (national treasure) or oro negro (black gold).  But behind the public’s focus on oil looms another vitally
important and less discussed question: what to do about Mexico’s
huge natural-gas reserves. These are found in associated gas
fields (alongside oil reserves) and nonassociated deposits, and,
most important, in  Mexico ’s significant shale resources. The
U.S. Energy Information Administration  estimates  that Mexico has
the world’s sixth-largest shale-gas reserves, with 555 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable reserves (plus a further 13 billion
barrels of recoverable shale-oil reserves). Yet only minimal
investment in shale gas has taken place in Mexico, while Pemex
focuses on holding up its rapidly declining oil production from
the Gulf of Mexico.  The potential impact of exploiting this gas can be seen in
the extraordinary revolution that has taken place in Mexico’s
northern neighbor. The U.S. shale revolution has drastically
increased gas production and brought about a free fall in
prices, to a low of $1.95 per million British thermal units in
April 2012 from a high of $13.42 per million BTUs in October
2005. Now, the price sits at about $4. Thanks to a gas glut and
low gas prices, the U.S. economy has added hundreds of thousands
of new jobs, improved the economic competitiveness of its
businesses, and strengthened its current-account balance.  Gas Shortage  Perversely, this bonanza has produced a gas shortage in
Mexico. As prices fell, demand rose -- from the Federal
Electricity Commission (CFE) for generating purposes, from Pemex
for use as a fuel in its refineries, and from the private
sector, which is seeking to take advantage of historically low
oil prices. Low gas prices, however, resulted in Pemex reducing
its gas production to 6.38 billion cubic feet a day in 2012 from
7.03 billion cubic feet a day in 2009. Over the past 18 months,
Mexico’s private sector has been clamoring for access to more
natural gas, but Pemex has not responded by increasing
production -- it chose instead to import more. Between 2005 and
2013, Pemex more than doubled its natural-gas imports to 1.09
billion cubic feet a day from 480 million cubic feet a day. The
CFE has also increased its gas imports for generation.  But it has not been enough. During 2012 and 2013, low
natural-gas supplies have forced private industries to shut down
their manufacturing processes several times. What’s more, the
current cross-border natural-gas pipeline network is at full
capacity, and it will take several years before the planned Los
Ramones pipeline brings much-needed imports from the U.S. In the
meantime, Mexico’s private companies have been forced to turn to
alternative fuel sources, most commonly liquefied natural gas,
which is imported and sold at prices of $18 to $25 per million
BTUs. This too is hurting Mexican economic competitiveness;
while companies look to the U.S. when they open new production
facilities to take advantage of low fuel prices, Mexico’s high
energy costs are an obstacle to new investment.  That’s why Mexico’s government needs to open up its
considerable shale reserves to private participation. A rapid
development of shale resources in Mexico’s north, where the
Eagle Ford geological formation extends across the border from
 Texas , would provide much-needed supplies and help to satisfy
rising demand, as well as directly and indirectly creating tens
of thousands of jobs. At the same time, Mexico and the U.S. must
work together to build the cross-border pipeline infrastructure
that would bring cheap imports of gas. Lastly, Mexico must
develop its own national-gas pipeline network to make sure that
the gas can get to market in a country where only half of its
national territory has access to the fuel source.  More Incentives  Sadly, Pena Nieto’s announcement does little to change the
outlook for gas in Mexico. Although the  profit-sharing contracts 
announced by the president may attract private and foreign
interest in deepwater oil, they will not be enough to drive
investment in shale resources, in which smaller companies tend
to dominate the scene. The granting of concessions with the
prospect of healthy returns would have been more attractive. The
Mexican congress now needs to work on adapting the government’s
proposal so that it offers companies more incentives to invest;
failing that, Mexico’s shale-gas reserves are unlikely to see
any speedy, substantial development.  Mexico’s closed and nationalistic approach to hydrocarbons
has been an important element in the nation’s history and
development process. But in gas, no less than in oil, the time
is right to open up to private and foreign cooperation, to
integrate its energy market with the rest of North America, and
to usher in a truly 21st-century approach to energy security.  (Duncan Wood is director of the Mexico Institute at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in  Washington .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Duncan Wood at  Duncan.Wood@wilsoncenter.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 