-- Vermont Can’t Shut Entergy Nuclear Plant, Court Rules
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-08-14T20:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/vermont-can-t-shut-entergy-nuclear-plant-court-rules.html
Vermont  doesn’t have the authority
to shut down its only nuclear power plant, operated by  Entergy
Corp. (ETR) , an appeals court said in affirming a lower-court ruling.  U.S. District Judge J. Garvan Murtha in Brattleboro,
Vermont, was correct in saying the decision on closing a reactor
for safety reasons resides with the federal government, not the
state, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan said today. Murtha
ruled in January 2012 that state legislators lacked the
authority to deny Entergy a license to operate the Vermont
Yankee reactor after March 2012.  “Vermont legislators have undertaken a sustained effort to
shut down Vermont Yankee based on this impermissible reason,”
the appeals judges said in their opinion. “Vermont legislators
repeatedly demonstrated awareness of the potential for a
preemption problem and disguised their comments accordingly.”  Entergy, based in New Orleans, sued Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, Attorney General William Sorrell and members of the
state’s Public Service Board in April 2011, claiming the state
didn’t have the right to overrule the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.  The federal agency renewed Entergy’s license to operate the
power station until 2032. State action is preempted by the
federal Atomic Energy Act, the company said.  “We have felt strongly for a long time now that the state
of Vermont’s Acts 74 and 160 were preempted by federal law and
are very pleased with today’s decision,” Entergy said in an e-mailed statement.  State’s Role  Vermont countered that nuclear plants present health
hazards other than radiation, against which the state has the
right to protect its citizens. Those hazards include storm
runoff, thermal discharges to rivers and the potential release
of diesel fuel and other pollutants.  Sorrell said in a phone interview that his office is
reviewing options, which include appealing today’s ruling to the
U.S. Supreme Court.  “We’re disappointed the two Vermont statutes giving the
legislature a continued say in the operations of the plant are
struck down,” Sorrell said in the interview. “We argued that
you can’t take the statements of relatively few legislators
concerned about radiological safety and then impute those
concerns to all legislators who enacted the statutes.”  More Oversight  Sorrell ordered more oversight of the Vermont Yankee plant
in 2010 after the discovery of the radioactive hydrogen isotope
tritium in monitoring wells, according to court papers. Entergy
said it undertook “extensive remediation” to remove soil and
water containing the element.  “Entergy has over the years not been a good partner with
Vermont, preferring to focus on multiple lawsuits against the
state,” Shumlin said in a statement. “I remain steadfast in my
belief that Entergy’s continued operation of this facility is
not in the best interest of Vermont.”  The appeals judges said the state has “other avenues
available to air its concerns. Vermont and its residents are
free to pursue any of these routes to express their concerns
regarding the public safety hazards posed by Vermont Yankee. The
legislation passed here, however, was not the way to resolve
those concerns.”  Sorrell said the state still has a say in whether the plant
remains open.  ‘Viable Option’  “The district court judge upheld the authority of the
Public Service Board to continue proceedings and determine
whether to issue a certificate of public good for the continued
operation,” Sorrell said. “That process is ongoing. Our Public
Service Board remains a very viable option to make a binding
decision on the continued operation of the plant.” The decision
could come in the fall or early next year, he said.  Vermont won a favorable ruling from the appeals court on
one issue.  Entergy claimed in its appeal that the Commerce Clause of
the U.S. Constitution preempts Vermont from requiring that the
company sell power to state utilities at below-market prices in
order to remain open. The district court agreed and prevented
the state from doing so.  Vermont said in a court filing that the court’s injunction
on a purchase agreement “cannot stand” because the Public
Service Board had made no such decision.  Licensing Condition  “There is no evidence or finding that the board has issued
or contemplated issuing any order or ruling requiring Entergy to
provide below-wholesale-market contracts as a condition of
relicensing,” the state said in its brief.  The appeals court agreed and vacated the lower court’s
order.  Sorrell said that ruling saved the state of Vermont from
having to pay more than $5 million of Entergy’s legal bills.  Vermont Yankee  is in Vernon, on the Connecticut River in
the southeastern corner of the state. It employs about 650
people and pays almost $15 million a year to the state in taxes
and other payments, Entergy said on its website.  Entergy rose 52 cents to $66.23 in New York Stock Exchange
 composite trading .  The appeals case is Entergy Vermont Yankee v. Shumlin,
12-00791, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ). The lower court case is Entergy Nuclear Vermont
Yankee LLC v. Shumlin, 1:11-cv-00099, U.S. District Court,
District of Vermont (Brattleboro).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 