-- Wayne Rooney Isn’t for Sale at Any Price: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-14T09:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/wayne-rooney-isn-t-for-sale-at-any-price-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Not for Sale  Manchester United  took the top-level decision that  Wayne Rooney  will not be sold to Chelsea no matter how much money the
London club offers, the  Guardian reported .  United’s position won’t change even if Rooney submits a
formal transfer request or goes public with his desire to leave,
the newspaper said. Chelsea already failed with bids of 23
million pounds ($35.5 million) and 25 million pounds for the
striker, the Guardian added.  Renewed Interest  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  renewed his interest in
signing Anzhi Makhachkala’s Brazilian midfielder Willian, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Rodgers targeted Willian, 25, for a potential 30 million-pound move and made an inquiry ahead of a possible bid before
the trade period closes, the newspaper said. Tottenham Hotspur
will also consider making an offer for the playmaker, the
Telegraph added.  Arsenal Alternatives  Arsenal is considering Swansea forward Michu and  Manchester
City  striker Edin Dzeko as alternative targets should it fail to
sign Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez , the  Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners, who haven’t given up on trying to acquire
Suarez, have completed extensive scouting reports on Michu and
Dzeko, the newspaper added.  Suarez is ready to abandon his plan to leave Liverpool and
may even sign a new contract, the  Daily Mirror reported , citing
a report by GolTV Latin American.  Final Bid  Manchester City is preparing a final 20 million-pound bid
for Real Madrid defender Pepe, the  Daily Mail reported .  Real rejected a 15 million-pound offer for the Portugal
international last month and City hopes that an improved offer
for the 30-year-old center-back may convince the Spanish team to
sell, the Mail added.  Parker Fee Agreed  Tottenham midfielder  Scott Parker  is set to join Queens
Park Rangers after the clubs agreed on a transfer fee of 3.5
million pounds and the 32-year-old passed a medical, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  