-- Wide-Open Brazil President Race to Drag on Real, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-14T18:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/wide-open-brazil-president-race-to-drag-on-real-jpmorgan-says.html
Brazil ’s real, the world’s worst-performing major currency since February, is likely to suffer
more losses in the run up to next year’s presidential election
as a wave of recent street protests and a weak economy throw the
race wide open, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  The tightening of the race in electoral polls, which until
March showed President Dilma Rousseff winning in the first
round, has become the main driver of investor sentiment and
government policy, JPMorgan said. Reflecting the uncertainty,
the bank cut its forecast for the real, which it now expects
will weaken this year to 2.35 per dollar, compared with an
earlier estimate of 2.25, and decline to 2.45 in the run-up to
the October 2014 vote.  Brazil’s financial markets have proven volatile before
previous elections, with the real plunging 38 percent ahead of
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s 2002 victory. When Rousseff disputed
her first-ever election in 2010, buoyed by the economy’s fastest
expansion in two decades, the markets remained calm. The June
protests sparked by bus fare increases, combined with
frustration over lackluster growth and rising inflation, may
indicate the country is ready for change after a decade of
Workers’ Party rule, JPMorgan said.  “The tide has turned,” JPMorgan analysts including Fabio Akira and Emy Shayo Cherman wrote in the Aug. 13 report.
“Economic malaise could ignite a call for change, giving an
important edge to the opposition.”  Policy Mix  While the race is too competitive to predict a winner, none
of the likely candidates represent a radical alternative to the
current policy mix, JPMorgan said.  Whoever wins will have to implement a “costly” adjustment
to lower inflation and boost investor confidence by better
controlling spending and opening the economy to more private
investment, the bank said.  Approval of Rousseff’s government plunged by half in the
wake of the protests and rebounded six percentage points to 36
percent in a Aug. 7-9 poll by Sao Paulo-based Datafolha. The
nationwide poll had a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  Rousseff was favored to win 35 percent of the vote in the
first round, compared with 26 percent for her nearest
challenger, former Environment Minister Marina Silva, the poll
found. Two other possible candidates, Senator Aecio Neves of the
opposition Social Democracy Party and Governor Eduardo Campos, a
government ally, trailed with 13 percent and 8 percent
respectively. To win in the first round, a candidate needs more
than 50 percent of valid votes.  Falling Real  The real has fallen 13 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, more than any other major currency tracked by
Bloomberg, with investors shunning  emerging markets  as the U.S.
economy strengthens and the Federal Reserve signals it may scale
back its $85 billion a month bond-purchasing program.  The currency weakness is complicating policy makers’
efforts to control inflation, which has been hovering near the
6.5 percent upper limit of the target range, without damping
growth.  Latin America’s largest economy expanded just 0.9 percent
last year, and analysts surveyed by the central bank have been
cutting their forecasts for growth this year and 2014 since the
June protests. Gross domestic product will expand 2.21 percent
this year, according to the latest survey.  The unemployment rate is the election’s “wild card,”
JPMorgan said. After dipping to a record low of 4.6 percent last
December, the rate rose to 6 percent in June for the first time
in more than a year.  Any further softening of the job market could further
hamper Rousseff’s chances, triggering populist measures on the
eve of the vote that would add to inflation concerns, the bank
said.  “What until a couple of months ago was expected to be a
relatively uncompetitive contest, is now a wide-open battle
field,” the bank said. “Politics is slowly becoming the most
important domestic variable in the market outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  