-- Won Falls Most in Two Weeks, Bonds Drop on Fed Taper Prospects
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-14T06:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/won-falls-most-in-two-weeks-bonds-drop-on-fed-taper-prospects.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in
two weeks and  government bonds  declined as signs the  U.S.
economy  is improving bolstered the case for the  Federal Reserve 
to pare stimulus that has fueled fund flows to  emerging markets .  Retail sales in the world’s largest economy rose for a
fourth month in July, according to official data released
yesterday, while reports due this week are forecast to show
manufacturing in New York expanded at the fastest pace in six
months and claims for jobless benefits declined. Sixty-five
percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey said Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  will cut the central bank’s $85 billion of
monthly bond buying in September.  The won dropped 0.3 percent to 1,118.74 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest decline since July 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency weakened as much as 0.5
percent today and has lost 0.6 percent this week.  “There seems to be a market consensus that the Fed
tapering will start in September, pushing down the won and
bonds,” said Park Dongjin, a fixed-income analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in Seoul. “It is getting priced in, as we’re
seeing the long-term bond yields rising especially.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due June 2016
increased six basis points to 2.98 percent, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices. The yield on the 10-year notes rose 11
basis points to 3.66 percent, the highest since June 24.  South Korea’s unemployment rate held at 3.2 percent for a
third month in July, in line with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, according to official data released today.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 7.31
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  