-- WTI Rises for Fifth Day on Egypt Crackdown, U.S. Supplies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-15T12:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/wti-trades-near-week-high-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-decline.html
Brent crude advanced to its highest
intraday level in more than four months as worsening violence in
 Egypt  fanned concern that Middle East oil supplies may be
disrupted. West Texas Intermediate rose for a fifth day.  Futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent in London to the
highest price since April 2. Egypt, whose Suez Canal is used by
tankers carrying oil from the Middle East, declared a state of
emergency as more than 500 people were killed after security
forces broke up sit-ins. U.S.  crude inventories  fell by 2.8
million barrels last week, Energy Information Administration
data show, almost double the drop forecast by analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Headlines of instability in Egypt, risks of spill-over to
other already-unstable countries in the region and fears of a
blockage in the Suez Canal, however unlikely, could lend
themselves to creating fear in the oil market,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a
research company in London.  Brent for September settlement, which expires today,
increased as much as $1.33 to $111.53 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange and was at $110.91 as of 1:08 p.m.
London time. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of
$3.69 to WTI. The spread was $3.35 yesterday, the widest close
since July 30. The more active Brent October contract was up 73
cents at $109.55.  WTI for September delivery gained as much as $1.02 to
$107.87 in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the highest since Aug. 2. The volume of all futures
traded was 20 percent above the 100-day average. WTI’s five days
of gains are its longest rising streak since April.  Egypt Crackdown  WTI surged 8.8 percent in July, the most since August last
year, as Egypt’s army deposed Mohamed Mursi as president. Police
yesterday charged into two squares in Cairo occupied by
supporters weeks earlier to protest his ouster. At least 525
people died, according to official tallies.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of
crude and refined products were shipped between the Red Sea and
the Mediterranean in 2012, according to the  EIA .  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
output in the first quarter of this year, International Energy
Agency data show.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, shrank to 360.5 million in the week ended Aug. 9, the
lowest since January, according to the EIA. Supplies have
decreased six times in the past seven weeks.  WTI has technical support along its 30-day middle Bollinger
Band, at about $105.75 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Front-month futures climbed the past four
days after trading near this indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered around chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  