-- Yucca Nuclear Debate Seen Revived as Court Rebuffs NRC
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-08-14T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/yucca-nuclear-debate-seen-revived-as-court-rebuffs-nrc.html
A federal court put a gridlocked
 U.S. Congress , already wrestling with shrinking budgets, back in
the debate over Yucca Mountain, the multibillion dollar nuclear
waste site abandoned by the Obama administration.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington  ruled  yesterday in
a 2-1 split that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission must resume
consideration of an Energy Department application for the site,
killed by President  Barack Obama . The agency has at least $11.1
million for the work, the court said.  “That will not be sufficient to finish processing that
application, which means the ball is still in Congress’s court
when it comes to deciding the direction of U.S. nuclear waste
policy,” Keith Chu, a spokesman for Senator  Ron Wyden , chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said in a
statement. “Judges aren’t going to solve this problem.”  While the split decision mandates the NRC resume its safety
review, it doesn’t guarantee that the facility, which has cost
taxpayers and industry at least $15 billion, will be built.
Disagreement over a waste dump at Yucca Mountain, about 100
miles (161 kilometers) northwest of  Las Vegas , has extended
across decades, and the ruling means it will drag on longer.  “The court isn’t saying ‘approve Yucca Mountain,’” Victor
Gilinsky, a former NRC member, said in a phone interview. The
law requires the Energy Department, which would manage the site,
to submit an application and the NRC as the regulator to review
it, he said. If the Energy Department ultimately decides the
Yucca Mountain site doesn’t meet the nation’s needs, “that’s
the end of it,” he said.  Funding Withdrawn  The Obama administration halted design and development work
for Yucca Mountain in 2009 and the next year cut funding, saying
the site was “not a workable option.” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a  Nevada  Democrat, has led opposition in Washington
to the facility. The NRC ended its review of the application,
citing lack of funds.  The Nuclear Policy Waste Act, signed by President  Ronald
Reagan  in 1983, requires the NRC to consider the Energy
Department’s application for the repository, U.S. Circuit Judge
 Brett Kavanaugh  wrote in yesterday’s ruling. The commission “is
simply flouting the law” by not acting, he said.  “This case has serious implications for our constitutional
structure,” Kavanaugh wrote. “It is no overstatement to say
that our system of separation of powers would be significantly
altered if we were to allow executive and independent agencies
to disregard federal law in the manner asserted in this case by
the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .”  Under Review  It remains unclear what the NRC will do next. The agency’s
Office of General Counsel, led by Margaret Doane, is reviewing
the ruling.  “We will have no further statement at this time, but will
be advising the commission on its options for a path forward,”
Doane said in an e-mailed statement.  Congress in the 1980s designated Yucca Mountain as the
repository’s site, and lawmakers would have to pass legislation
to reverse the decision. Democrat Wyden has introduced a
bipartisan nuclear-waste storage bill, which would set up a
process to pick a site based on garnering a community’s
consent. Republicans who control the U.S. House have said Yucca
Mountain should be the waste site.  The court’s decision “is a significant milestone for Yucca
Mountain and a clear rebuke of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission’s failure to implement” federal law, Republican
Representatives Fred Upton of Michigan and  John Shimkus  of
 Illinois , said in a statement. Upton is chairman of the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and Shimkus leads its panel on
environment and the economy.  State Actions  Officials from states where nuclear waste is stored,
including  South Carolina  and Washington, asked the court to
force the NRC to act.  “Congress passed laws designating Yucca Mountain as
America’s nuclear lock box,” South Carolina Attorney General
 Alan Wilson  said in a statement. “The site work has already
been done” and the project should be completed “as quickly as
possible,” he said.  Yucca Mountain foes said the court’s action was
insignificant because Congress hasn’t appropriated money for the
repository.  “There is no money, we’ve cut funding for many years now
and there is none in the pipeline,” Reid told reporters at a
clean-energy summit in Nevada. “This is just a bump in the
road, without being disrespectful to the court, it means
nothing.”  Congress will be forced to revisit the waste-site funding,
Katherine Fuchs, a nuclear subsidies campaigner for the
environmental group Friends of the Earth, said in a statement.  New Laws  “The NRC will quickly spend the remaining funds and then
Congress must go back to the drawing board to develop new laws
on how highly radioactive spent fuel is managed,” Fuchs said.  About 65,000 tons of spent nuclear fuel are stored at 75
U.S. operating and closed U.S. reactor sites, and 2,000 tons are
added each year, a panel formed by Obama to examine waste-storage options said in a January 2012 report.  The Energy Department collects about $750 million annually
from the industry to pay for waste disposal. The  Nuclear Energy
Institute , a Washington-based industry group whose members
include  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of  Chicago  and  Southern Co. (NSC)  of Atlanta, has
protested having to pay the fee without the establishment of a
permanent repository.  The Energy Department has said it will work with Congress
to develop a plan for nuclear-waste storage. The agency “will
respond appropriately to whatever steps the NRC takes” in
response to the court’s decision, department spokeswoman Niketa
Kumar said in an e-mailed statement.  Even if Congress decides to continue with Yucca, the group
working on the project at the Energy Department doesn’t exist. A
new group would need to be assembled.  “The fact is, they’ve disbanded the team,” said Gilinsky,
the former NRC commissioner. “They can’t put this thing back
together again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  