-- Zynga CEO Mattrick Shakes Up Management Ranks
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-14T13:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-14/zynga-ceo-mattrick-shakes-up-management-ranks.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Executive Officer
Don Mattrick is putting his stamp on the company, seeking to
reduce layers of management in a push to turn around the
struggling developer of social games.  Chief Operations Officer David Ko, Chief People Officer
Colleen McCreary and Chief Technology Officer Cadir Lee are
leaving amid an executive shuffle, Mattrick said in an  e-mail  to
staff yesterday.  The exits follow last month’s appointment of Mattrick, a
former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who replaced founder Mark Pincus and is seeking to reverse a 71 percent share slide since
the company went public in December 2011. The new CEO is working
to revive growth and reinvigorate Zynga’s efforts in mobile
games. The company expects two to four quarters of
“volatility” as Mattrick evaluates the business and products
while developing a new strategy, he said on a conference call
last month.  “We are taking layers out of the executive rank to get
senior leaders closer to important product initiatives,”
Mattrick wrote in yesterday’s e-mail.  Through yesterday, Zynga had dropped 17 percent since
announcing on July 25 that it’s abandoning plans to enter the
online-gambling business in the U.S. The company also forecast
third-quarter sales and earnings that fell short of analysts’
estimates as fewer users play games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website.
Zynga fell less than 1 percent to $2.90 at 9:38 a.m. in New
York.  ‘Better Games’  “This is a CEO who has the authority to shake things up,
and reducing the executive ranks also suggests there may be
further downsizing,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. “Zynga won’t be truly right-sized until they
demonstrate improving product performance, so let’s hope these
changes result in better games.”  King.com, developer of “Candy Crush Saga,” reached 150.4
million monthly users on Facebook in June, surpassing Zynga,
according to online tracker  AppData , ending Zynga’s five-year
reign as the top game maker on the social-networking service.  Ko, who spent a decade at  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  before joining Zynga,
was promoted to COO last November following a previous
reorganization led by Pincus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  