-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Tapped in Nokia Push Toward Wireless Payments

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-05-03T17:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/-angry-birds-tapped-for-nokia-s-push-in-mobile-payment-software.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  has recruited the makers of
the “Angry Birds” mobile-phone game to give a boost to short-
range technology that may become the wireless standard for
consumers paying for merchandise with a swipe of the handset.  The mobile-phone maker is working on completing an upgrade
of its Symbian software in coming months that will switch on the
near-field communications capability on its C7 smartphone, said
Sixten Sandstroem, a Nokia manager responsible for business
partnerships in so-called NFC. The model, which went on sale
with  T-Mobile USA  last month as the  Astound , is Nokia’s first
widely sold handset that carries the NFC function.  Nokia, one of the pioneers of the technology, risks being
caught up by rivals including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  With applications such
as exchanging business cards between handsets and retrieving
information at museum exhibits and bus stops driving usage, as
many as 70 million NFC devices may be sold this year, according
to Richard Clemmer, chief executive officer of  NXP Semiconductor
NV (NXPI) , a maker of chips that power the technology.  “The C7 is just the beginning,” Sandstroem said in Espoo,
 Finland . “We want to create an open ecosystem which means we
will partner with trusted service managers, credit cards,
everyone.”  While Nokia will ship phones on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 7
operating system in large volumes in 2012, the company has a
target to sell another 150 million phones based on the Symbian
operating system. The number of NFC-enabled devices sold may
rise to 300 million in 2013, NXP’s Clemmer predicts.  ‘Angry Birds Magic’  NFC complements the earlier short-range wireless system
Bluetooth by making it easier to exchange small amounts of
information with a tap. Bluetooth connections with headsets,
speakers and other devices, for example, can be started and
stopped by tapping two NFC-equipped devices against each other,
a simpler method than current ways of connecting.  Rovio Mobile Oy , maker of “Angry Birds,” is taking the
megahit game to its next level with an NFC-enabled version.
“Angry Birds Magic” will give players 20 more screens in which
they fire birds from a slingshot at structures built by their
porcine enemies. Five playing scenes are available from the
start. Users must then find other players with NFC-equipped
phones and tap handsets with them to unlock further levels.  “We’re going to use the power of our brand to maybe bring
NFC to a wider user base so people realize what the technology
is,” said Matthew Wilson, a marketing manager at Espoo-based
Rovio. “It’s not going to be highly profitable at first but
it’s something we’d like to be involved in.”  Paying by Phone  Nokia has experimented with NFC projects as early as 2004
and introduced its first handset adapted for the technology that
year. With the wireless industry taking time to agree on the
technical standards, customers are designing networks that also
work with contactless cards such as credit cards, transit passes
and loyalty cards.  Part of the technology’s promise lies in folding the
contents of users’ wallets into the mobile phone, and in making
it possible to integrate coupons and other immediate offers into
the payment process.  The need for cooperation from merchants, banks, regulators
and trusted service managers to verify users’ identity has
slowed NFC’s adoption as a payment channel. Nokia sold its
shares in Venyon Oy, which provided TSM services, to  Germany ’s
Giesecke & Devrient GmbH in 2009.  Symbian Shift  “It’s a chicken-and-egg problem,” said Geoff Blaber, a
London-based analyst at CCS Insight. “NFC is not a cheap
component to integrate into a phone, so as much as manufacturers
may want to, until there’s something that generates demand pull,
it’ll be a nice-to-have on the feature tick-list rather than a
strategic necessity.”  NFC hardware may cost as much as $5 per handset, CCS
Insight said in a February report, noting “a lack of urgency to
add this feature in the absence of sustained operator demand.”  Nokia withdrew a planned NFC handset last year, citing
changes in its product lines.  Last week, Nokia agreed to transfer its Symbian software
operations to  Accenture Plc (ACN) , weeks after announcing Symbian
Anna, the version of Symbian that will enable NFC, and two
Symbian smartphones. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who
met shareholders at the company’s annual meeting in Helsinki
today, is focusing on shifting Nokia’s main Symbian smartphone
platform to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7.  Accenture Pact  Last week, Nokia agreed to transfer its Symbian software
operations to Accenture Plc, weeks after announcing Symbian
Anna, the version of Symbian that will enable NFC, and two
Symbian smartphones. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who
met shareholders at the company’s annual meeting in Helsinki
today, is focusing on shifting Nokia’s main Symbian smartphone
platform to Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7.  Nokia has fallen 23 percent since the company announced 
the Microsoft shift on Feb. 11. Speaking to more than 3,300
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting, Chairman Jorma Ollila said the board stands behind the new strategy.  Elop, 47, a former Microsoft executive, “has moved Nokia
forward in many ways,” Ollila told shareholders. He cited the
CEO’s “huge amount of energy and desire to succeed,” as well
as his software background and experience at other companies.  Paying the Bills  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the BlackBerry maker, yesterday
unveiled the  BlackBerry Bold 9900  and 9930 smartphones that
include built-in support for NFC. Google Inc. supports NFC in
its latest version of Android and shipped its first phone with
the capability, the Nexus S, in December.  “We’ve done our homework, we’re ready, once the networks
roll out we produce the phones,” said Gerhard Romen, director
of financial services in Nokia’s low-end mobile phones business,
when asked about the company’s readiness for NFC payment
networks. “It’s not about us delivering phones that nobody uses
and we carry the cost. It is about the market taking those.”  Nokia executives declined to comment on the company’s plans
for using NFC on Window Phone 7. Nokia won’t include NFC in the
X7 and E6 announced on April 12, spokesman Andrew Flowers said.  Nokia closed little changed at 6.29 euros Helsinki. It has
fallen 31 percent in the past year, cutting the company’s market
value to 23.5 billion euros ($35 billion).  Samsung Electronics Co. expects to sell more than 10
million units of its Galaxy II S model Android phone, which
includes NFC. Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd. has also
said it will offer NFC on an upcoming handset.  “Mobile payments, at the end of the day, will pay the
bill for NFC,” said Dan Hays, a Washington-based partner at
management consultants PRTM. “Releasing NFC-enabled phones
before the ecosystem is ready will only mean that companies like
Nokia will generate additional manufacturing costs and not be
able to generate a sufficient return for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  