-- 
‘Fast Five’ Takes In $86.2 Million in Record for Universal

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-02T22:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/-fast-five-is-top-movie-with-record-83-6-million-for-universal.html
“Fast Five,” the fifth installment
in the series about elite street racers, opened as the top movie
in U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in a record $86.2 million
for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  “Rio,” the animated film from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, had sales of $14.8 million, dropping to second
place after two weeks in first, researcher Hollywood.com Box-
Office said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Fast Five” marked the biggest April weekend ever, “the
highest opening in company history for Universal,” and the
largest debut since “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows Part
1” raked in $125 million in November, Gitesh Pandya, editor of
Box Office Guru, said in an interview. “There’s no better way
to kick start the summer box office,” he said.  The film also helped lift U.S. box-office revenue for a
third straight weekend, suggesting that with summer films
opening in theaters the industry will begin to whittle down a
year-to-date decline in sales and attendance. “Thor,” based on
the Marvel Comics character, opens next weekend and “Pirates of
the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” on May 20.  In “Fast Five,” Vin Diesel returns as a renegade street
racer and professional thief on the run. He and friends confront
a Brazilian drug lord and pursuing federal agents to win their
freedom.  Paul Walker  and Dwayne Johnson co-star.  Worldwide Franchise  The first four films in the “Fast” series took in $955.4
million in worldwide ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo,
another industry researcher. With the latest installment, the
franchise topped the $1 billion mark worldwide for Universal,
which previously released such blockbusters as “E.T.: The
Extra-Terrestrial,” “Jurassic Park,” and “Jaws.”  “It’s pretty amazing what that franchise has been able to
do,”  Jeff Bock , a box office analyst with Exhibitor Relations
said in a telephone interview. “Usually with a fifth film in a
franchise, you don’t see it continue to raise the bar.”  “Rio,” featuring the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse Eisenberg , tells the story of a domesticated macaw who travels
to  Rio de Janeiro  from  Minnesota  to find a mate.  The Tyler Perry comedy “Madea’s Big Happy Family” dropped
to third place from second with sales of $9.9 million for  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   ‘Big Happy Family’  The film stars Perry, in drag, in his recurring role as the
outspoken matron of a large Southern family. He also writes,
directs and produces the films.  “Water for Elephants” was fourth in its second weekend
with sales of $9.3 million for the Fox studio. The film features
“Twilight” star  Robert Pattinson  as a veterinary student who
falls in love with a circus performer played by Reese Witherspoon.  “Prom,”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s tale of teens preparing for the
year’s biggest dance, came in fifth place with opening weekend
sales of $4.7 million. “Prom” features Aimee Teegarden as a
perfectionist whose infuriation with a classmate turns to
attraction. Thomas McDonell and DeVaughn Nixon co-star.  The animated feature “Hoodwinked Too! Hood vs. Evil”
opened in sixth place with $4.1 million in sales for Weinstein
Co. In the film, a teen-age Red Riding Hood is recruited into a
covert organization to investigate the disappearance of Hansel
and Gretel. Hayden Panettiere provides the voice of Red Riding
Hood. Co-stars include Patrick Warburton as the Big Bad Wolf,
joined by Joan Cusack and Amy Poehler.  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend gained 58
percent to $144.9 million from a year earlier. Domestic box-
office sales so far this year have declined 14 percent to $3.04
billion, compared with the same period of 2010. Attendance has
dropped 15 percent year-over-year.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 29 to May 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  