-- 
‘Toxic Testosterone Stew’ Drives Canadian Women to Sidelines of Politics

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/-toxic-testosterone-stew-drives-canadian-women-to-sidelines-of-politics.html
Elizabeth May,  Canada ’s Green Party
leader, recalls the day when Canadian Senator  Mike Duffy 
publicly labeled her ‘Bucky the Beaver’ in a 2009 political
speech, apparently referring to her front teeth.  “It was excruciatingly unpleasant,” said May, a lawyer,
author, university lecturer and the only woman leader among the
country’s five largest political parties. “You just have to say,
‘Well, that’s pretty pathetic.’”  As Canadians vote today in their fourth election in seven
years, May, 56, hopes to be her party’s first elected  Member of
Parliament . A victory would put her among the roughly 22 percent
of females in the House of Commons, a figure that’s barely
budged since 1997, according to  Equal Voice , an Ottawa-based
group working to boost female representation in government.  Politics is a tough trek for Canadian women, May said in an
interview last month on a  train  through the  Rocky Mountains  from
Vancouver to  Jasper, Alberta , to meet voters. While advocating
 Green policies , she also tries to ignore critics who mock her
blonde hair or tell her to join  Jenny Craig ’s weight-loss regime.
Such barbs may be keeping other women from getting in the game,
she said.  “Our political climate has descended into a kind of toxic,
testosterone stew,” May says. “It’s so unpleasant that women
have a hard time seeing themselves there.”  Trailing Rwanda, Iraq  Canada ranks No. 52 out of 189 countries in the number of
women elected to federal government, slipping from 47 three
years ago, behind Rwanda and  Iraq , according to data compiled by
Equal Voice.  Sheila Copps , Canada’s deputy prime minister from 1996 to
1997, says the lack of progress reflects a still-dominant notion
that men belong in power.  “Women and men tend to visualize men as leaders,” she
said by phone from Ottawa. “Women are less likely to seek
nomination because they don’t think they qualify.”  Early in her career, Copps, elected to parliament in 1984,
responded to a Conservative rival who told her to “Just quiet
down, baby” with a quip that she was ‘nobody’s baby.’ The
phrase became the title of her 1986  book,  subtitled ‘A Survival
Guide to Politics.’  Canada’s female representation is still higher than the
U.S., where the  House of Representatives  has 76 women of 435
seats, or 17 percent. Seventeen of 100 U.S. Senators are women.
Rwanda has the highest representation, according to Equal Voice.  ‘Winnable’ Districts  “Women have a huge appetite to be involved in the
political process,” said Equal Voice Executive Director Nancy
Peckford in a phone interview. A large hurdle to overcome is
“there aren’t enough female candidates getting nominated in
winnable” districts, also called ridings. Most women who are
nominated by parties run in areas where their party has little
chance of winning, she said.  Anita Neville , a Liberal Member of Parliament and former
minister for the status of women, agrees that more needs to be
done to recruit women, and that the tone of Canadian politics is
a barrier to that goal.  “I don’t think any of the parties have done a great job
recruiting candidates,” she said at a campaign rally in
 Winnipeg , Manitoba last week.  “The rancor and nastiness of the political discourse turns
off” many women, Neville said, adding that the atmosphere
before the last election was “a really ugly Parliament.”  The  New Democratic Party   said April 11  it had set an
“historic first” by having women as 40 percent of its
nominated candidates. Still, Equal Voice  said  on its website
that only 31 percent of NDP candidates in what it gauges are
winnable ridings are women. That figure compares with 27 percent
for the Liberals and 22 percent for the Conservatives. The
 Conservative Party  did not respond to requests for comment
yesterday about this issue.  Female Prime Minister  Another discouraging trend for women in Canadian politics
is their absence from the highest cabinet positions. In 1993,
Progressive Conservative Kim Campbell became Canada’s first and
only female Prime Minister. Liberal administrations that
followed had female deputy prime ministers. The highest-profile
women in Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s most
recent cabinet were the ministers of health, human resources and
labor.  A CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey published yesterday had
Harper’s  Conservatives  leading with 37 percent support of
decided voters, followed by the New Democratic Party with 32
percent, the  Liberals  at 21 percent, the  Bloc Quebecois  at 6
percent and the Greens at 4 percent. The telephone poll, taken
April 30 and May 1, surveyed 1,200 eligible voters and has a
margin of error of 2.8 percent. A victory for May in her
constituency on  Vancouver  Island, or any other Green candidate,
would be the first for a new party since 1997.  Excluded From Debate  During the five-week election campaign, Canadians didn’t
get a chance to see May debate the other party leaders. The
Group of television networks that sets the rules excluded the
Green Party leader from the two televised debates because the
party didn’t have an elected member in the 308-seat House of
Commons.  May doesn’t believe she was kept out because of her gender
-- she participated in the 2008 campaign debates because a
Liberal lawmaker defected to join the Greens. Still, the
broadcast consortium “failed to see how critical it was to find
a woman federal political leader to put in the debates in the
hope that young women or little girls might look at the TV and
say, ‘oh, I could do that someday,’” she said.  Those Canadian women who do consider politics as a career
still have to deal with personal comments that men don’t receive,
such as former  New Democratic Party  leader Alexa McDonough, who
was told in 2006 to “stick to your knitting” by current
Defence Minister Peter MacKay, who subsequently apologized. For
his part, Duffy, a former television and radio reporter, said
his 2009 description of May wasn’t his “finest hour.”  “There are no excuses for personal comments,” he said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  