-- 
‘Voice’ Bests ‘Idol’ With Scorching Singers, Genial Judges

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-05-02T11:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/-voice-outshines-idol-with-scorching-singers-genial-judges-greg-evans.html
NBC’s “ The Voice ” combines game-show
dazzle with talent-competition drama, all but declaring this
season’s gooey “ American Idol ” a lily-livered has-been.  Making good on its pledge to showcase contestants’ vocal
abilities over style and looks, “The Voice” unveiled a
scorching initial lineup of singers in last week’s premiere.  Twenty-six-year-old Vicci Martinez’s powerhouse rendition
of Adele’s “Rolling in the Deep” blew away anything offered
this season by the unexceptional roster of “Idol” hopefuls.  Beyond the competition itself, “The Voice,” produced by
reality-show vet Mark Burnett (“Survivor,” “Are You Smarter
Than a 5th Grader?”), seems designed as an antidote to the
lovey-dovey judges’ panel that’s drained all the drama from this
season’s “Idol” on Fox.  “Voice” judges -- country star Blake Shelton, pop singer
Christina Aguilera, rock frontman Adam Levine and R&B superstar
Cee Lo Green -- vie against one another to recruit the most
promising singers, compiling competitive teams of vocalists. A
season-long winnowing process will land the last singer standing
a recording contract and $100,000.  In format, “The Voice” literally turns the tables on
“Idol.” During the current “blind audition” rounds, judges
(or “coaches,” in “Voice” parlance) face away from the
singers.  Join My Team  If, say, Aguilera, likes what she hears, she presses a
button that swivels her seat to face the music, then attempts to
convince the singer to join her team.  “I have people I know,” Aguilera promised sought-after
contestant Javier Colon, whose sultry “Time After Time” was a
highlight of the night.  “I’ve got people, too, baby,” Levine shot back.  The good-natured rivalry among the coaches seems Burnett’s
clear response to the congenial, friction-free approach of
“Idol” judges  Steven Tyler ,  Jennifer Lopez  and  Randy Jackson .
The two-hour “Voice” premiere, given a prime-time repeat the
following night by a bullish NBC, displayed an appealing
chemistry among the coaches that has eluded the new “Idol”
judges.  Neither Burnett nor his show are subtle in their “Idol”
digs. One of the contestants who passed the first round of
auditions was Frenchie Davis, the 2007 “Idol” semifinalist
booted from that show when topless photos from her past
resurfaced. After Davis landed on Aguilera’s team, host Carson Daly combined congratulations with a snipe by gushing, “People
are going to love what you represent, which is never give up.”  Confusing Format  Where “The Voice” falters is its complicated elimination
process. The blind audition rounds will be followed by team
competitions and individual eliminations, performed on a stage
that resembles a boxing ring as envisioned by the set designer
of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.”  Even after several on-air explanations, I’m not entirely
sure how it will play out, a marked departure from the elegant
simplicity of the “Idol” sing and judge format.  “The Voice” debut clearly bested recent “Idol” episodes
in one key area: tension. The will-they-or-won’t-they press the
button moments left at least two good singers rejected and
dejected.  That frisson (and disappointment) has been all but absent
from “Idol” since the departure of truth-telling judge  Simon Cowell . While its ratings have remained strong and steady,
“Idol” this season has lacked the water-cooler buzz of its
heyday.  Based on its premiere episode, “The Voice” just might
have the pipes to fill the void.  “The Voice” airs tomorrow on NBC at 9 p.m.  New York  time.
The following three Tuesdays, the show will start at 10 p.m.
Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 