-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Adnoc Raises April Crude Prices About 7 Percent

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-02T12:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/abu-dhabi-s-adnoc-raises-april-crude-prices-about-7-percent-1-.html
Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., a state-
run producer in the  United Arab Emirates , raised April crude
prices retroactively to the highest level in more than two
years, reflecting a gain in benchmark futures last month.  The company, known as Adnoc, boosted prices for crude
shipped last month by about 7 percent to the highest since July
2008, according to an e-mailed list. Brent crude oil, a European
benchmark that influences Middle East pricing, gained 7.3
percent in April, closing the month at $125.89 a barrel.  Adnoc set the price for April shipments of Murban crude,
its largest export grade, at $120.70 a barrel, according to the
price list. Lower Zakum crude also rose, by 7.2 percent, to the
same level as Murban and from an identical March price.  Umm Shaif oil rose 7.3 percent to $120.20 a barrel, and
Upper Zakum crude sold for $116.50, 7 percent higher than in
March, according to the statement.  The U.A.E., holder of about 7 percent of the world’s oil
reserves, was the fourth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries last month, pumping 2.53 million
barrels of crude a day, according to a Bloomberg survey. The
federation, which exports most of its crude to  Asia , has the
capacity to produce about 2.8 million barrels a day, Oil
Minister Mohamed Al-Hamli said a year ago.  Crude oil is gaining as unrest in the Middle East and the
halt in exports from  Libya  due to the conflict in that country
have raised concern that supply may also be interrupted
elsewhere. The lack of Libyan crude has pushed up the premium
that buyers are willing to pay for grades such as Brent. Libya’s
oil is lighter and sweeter than many Middle East crudes, meaning
it contains less sulfur, flows more easily and is easier to
refine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 