-- 
Made-in-China Yachts Costing $27 Million Mark Rise of Local Luxury Brands

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-05-02T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/made-in-china-superyachts-mark-rise-of-local-luxury-brands.html
Caprice Lam took 90 minutes to close
his first luxury-yacht sale, from the time the customer stepped
aboard the 62-foot (19-meter) vessel on  China ’s Hainan Island to
the moment the bank wired the 35 percent deposit.  “I don’t even have his name card,” said Lam, hours after
the 13 million-yuan ($2 million) deal on April 2 at a boat show
in the tropical resort of  Sanya . “He just gave me his cell
phone number, called his bank and paid the deposit.”  The sale shows how China’s industrial base is breaking into
the most expensive luxury markets. While wealthy Chinese
typically entered markets for jewelry, clothes, cars and planes
through U.S. and European brands, Lam works for  Xiamen Hangsheng
Yacht Building Co. Ltd.  in  Fujian province . It’s one of at least
half-a-dozen Chinese yacht builders competing in the country’s
nascent nautical market with Azimut Yachts, Ferretti Yachts,
Princess Yachts International and Brunswick Corp.  “This is a sign of China’s own industrial confidence,”
said Ryan Swift, Hong Kong-based editor-in-chief of  Asia-Pacific
Boating magazine.  “A yacht is a very complex product requiring
all the engineering of a house, which has to float, survive
waves and have a fine finishing on the inside.”  Spiral Staircase  This time, Chinese companies are entering a luxury market
early. While China now has as many as 400 dollar billionaires,
there are only about 100 Chinese-owned yachts longer than 60
feet, according to  Rupert Hoogewerf , who compiles the  Hurun
Report  of wealthy Chinese. In the U.S. there were more than
7,000 yachts that size in 2006.  In Zhuhai, two hours from Hong Kong by ferry and car,
Sunbird Yacht Co. Ltd. is building two vessels it plans to ship
to Italy in July. The buyer, a Milan boatyard, plans to unveil the
craft at the Genoa boat show in October.  Sunbird’s boatyard is operating seven days a week to meet
the deadline. On a recent afternoon, about 20 Chinese laborers
were working on the first of the yachts, a 70-footer. Workers
sanded the teak decks by hand and sealed tubes of electrical
wires. Carpenters assembled the wooden, spiral staircase leading
to the bridge from the deck below.  Sunbird’s staff of 400 workers is capable of making about 20
boats per year. Large-yacht building is new to China, and
workers lack skills and experience of their Western counterparts,
said Filippo Bertoni, a naval architect from Perugia,  Italy , who
designed the export boats for Sunbird.  “That first boat was like a school boat for them,” said
Bertoni, who expects the vessel will require 100,000 man hours
to make in China, a task that would take an Italian crew 35,000
hours. “For the next boats, they will be faster.”  Higher Wages  The yacht builders show how Chinese companies are moving
into higher-value products as inflation and rising wages pare
the country’s competitiveness for cheap manufactured goods and
assembly plants.  Sunbird pays unskilled workers at least 2,000 yuan per
month including overtime, rising to three times that for
electricians and carpenters, according to Charles Luo, vice
president of international business. While that’s more than
double the average provincial wage, it still allows the company
to build its boats for about 30 percent less than foreign
competitors.  With 43 percent duties on boats imported into China, “we
have a huge advantage over foreign brands,” Luo said.  European Competition  Still, some Chinese buyers are willing to pay a premium for
a European yacht. Wang Da-fu, chairman of developer  Shenzhen
Visun Real Estate Group , bought a 72-foot Pershing made by Forli,
Italy-based Ferretti to entertain clients and help add cachet to
his marina in Sanya.  “If I don’t buy a foreign boat, how can I ask others to?”
said Wang, who is also a Ferretti dealer.  “There’s a lot of interest for boats bigger than 30
meters,” said Robert How, general manager of Princess Yachts
 Asia . “China is really, really coming on here.”  Plymouth-based  Princess , owned by LVMH Moet Hennessey Louis
Vuitton SA, has sold five yachts since entering China in 2009.  Luxury yacht builders also have to tailor boats differently
for the Chinese market. For many local customers, out with the
big sun decks and water-sports facilities popular in the U.S.,
and in with mahjong salons, karaoke machines and large galleys.  Karaoke Lounge  “Europeans go on cruise for 10 days or two weeks,” said
Gordon Hui, managing director of  Sunseeker Asia , which sells the
Poole, U.K.-built boats. “The Chinese use the boat for a few
hours per weekend to entertain clients, family and friends. They
use boats no differently than they would a karaoke lounge in the
city.”  Boat owners need special permits to travel on their yachts
from one province to another and are restricted to China’s
coastal waters.  The largest Chinese-built boat so far is a 45-meter (144-
foot), steel-and-aluminum hull vessel under construction at Hong
Kong-based  Kingship Marine Ltd.’s  shipyard in Zhongshan,
 Guangdong province , that carries a price tag of nearly 18
million euros ($27 million), about one-third less than it would
cost if built outside China, said Diana Liang, director at
Kingship.  That’s still dwarfed by some of the giants coming out of
 Germany . The world’s largest yacht is the 557-foot “Eclipse,”
built for Russian oil billionaire  Roman Abramovich  by  Blohm +
Voss Shipyards,  a subsidiary of Hamburg-based  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  owns a
447-foot boat built  by Lürssen Bardenfleth  in Bremen.  Olympic Order  With a yachting culture less than a decade old in China,
local manufacturers are tapping foreign expertise. Hansheng
works with U.K.-based design expert  Bill Dixon , and some of
Sunbird’s boats are designed by Seattle-based  Brian Holland .
 Qingdao Nauticstar Marine Co. Ltd.  paid 13.8 million euros to
buy Italian yacht builder Cantieri Navali di Lavagna last year.  “The purpose of the acquisition was to help us tap the
global market,” said Hou Jie, Nauticstar’s general manager at
the company’s shipyard in Jimo, a one-hour drive from Qingdao.  Nauticstar, an offshoot of a company Hou and her Korean
husband started in 1999 to build cars, produced its first boat
in 2003 and supplied the 300 boats used by officials in Qingdao-
based maritime events during the 2008  Summer Olympics .  Last year, its sales more than doubled to 600 million yuan,
with boats ranging from 6.5-foot-long rubber dinghy costing
20,000 yuan to a 40-foot catamaran, complete with four queen-
size beds, costing 13.8 million yuan. Sales this year should top
1 billion yuan, Hou said.  Racing Yachts  A tie-up signed in December with Clipper Ventures Plc to
build 16 yachts, each 70 feet long, for use in the 2011/12
 Round-the-World Clipper  race proves the quality of Nauticstar’s
manufacturing, Hou said.  Hudson Wang, president of  Xiamen Hudson Yacht & Marine , is
another industrialist who has moved up the value chain. His
Xiamen-based group of companies makes everything from Louisville
Slugger baseball bats to medical mattresses to life jackets.  In 2005, he began making inflatable craft and now makes
boats up to 75 feet long for brands including  Pearl Motor Yachts
Ltd . in Stratford-on-Avon,  England . He plans to launch his own
brand in two years.  One of Hudson’s customers -- Newport, Rhode Island-based
 Gunboat  -- sells luxury, catamaran sailing yachts. Its founder,
Peter Johnstone, said in an e-mail that there’s still a “made-
in-China” bias to overcome in the international market.  He’s sold three 60-foot boats made by Hudson to buyers in
Germany, the U.S. and  Taiwan .  “There will be naysayers, however I’m very confident in
what we will achieve,” he said. “The quality and detail is on
par with any of the top yards in the world.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  