-- 
AIG, Barclays, Google, Goldman, Rajaratnam, BofA in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/aig-barclays-google-goldman-rajaratnam-bofa-in-court-news.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
should pay more than $1.5 billion to rivals to settle a lawsuit
alleging the insurer cheated industry-funded pools that cover
injured workers, Liberty Mutual Holding Co. said.  The proposed damages are more than triple the $450 million
that AIG agreed to in a preliminary settlement advocated by
seven insurers, including Travelers Cos. and Ace Ltd., in
January. The higher payout is justified because the settlement
didn’t account for the full scope of AIG’s underreporting of
premiums, Liberty Mutual’s Safeco and Ohio Casualty subsidiaries
said in federal court documents filed April 28 in  Chicago .  The settlement “is detrimental to the class of over 500
insurance companies victimized by AIG’s admitted wrongdoing,”
Boston-based Liberty Mutual said in an e-mailed statement.  “AIG is confident the settlement will go forward and be
approved despite Liberty’s repeated efforts to undo it,” Mark
Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said in an e-mail.
“Liberty’s opposition is the latest in a long line of desperate
attempts to derail a settlement supported by the 50 state
insurance departments and the other insurance companies in the
litigation.”  Liberty Mutual filed a lawsuit in 2009 seeking $1 billion
and alleging that AIG shortchanged state insurers of last resort
by “long-term fraudulent underreporting” of premiums it made
selling workers’ compensation coverage. The firm requested
class-action status for the case.  The state pools, which cover injuries at employers that
pose unattractive risks, are funded by contributions from
carriers that offer the coverage and are based on their sales in
the private market.  AIG agreed to pay $100 million in fines and $46.5 million
in taxes and assessments to resolve a 50-state probe into
cheating state workers’ compensation funds, the Pennsylvania
insurance regulator said in December. The deal with the states,
mostly covering conduct before 1996, is contingent on AIG’s
settlement with rival insurers.  The case is Safeco Insurance Company of America v. American
International Group Inc. 1:09-cv-02026, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Barclays to Make New Claim Against Lehman Brokerage  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American business, plans to pursue “new arguments”
claiming “several billion dollars” from the trustee
liquidating the remnants of the brokerage, the trustee said.  Barclays and trustee James Giddens are disputing $3.5
billion in assets after a judge’s ruling that failed to specify
how much Barclays was entitled to when it bought bankrupt
Lehman’s business in September 2008. In a court filing, Giddens
said the U.K. bank’s lawyers told him that Barclays in addition
will claim unspecified billions for closing out $6 billion of
so-called short positions in derivatives.  The claim will be “purportedly to compensate Barclays for
assuming some $6 billion in short derivative positions that
Barclays claims it was not otherwise required to cover,” he
said in the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  April
28. Short positions are closed out by purchasing the securities
previously sold.  Barclays said the claim isn’t new, and is part of the
ongoing dispute. “To the contrary, we are trying to implement
the court’s decision in a way that is consistent with the law,”
Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, said in an e-mail April
29.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck directed Barclays and
Giddens to interpret a ruling he made in February granting the
London-based bank some assets and denying it some others,
including cash. The dispute resumed with court filings April 28,
in which Barclays asserted its right to assets claimed by the
trustee.  Barclays must deliver $1.8 billion in so-called margin
assets and pay interest at 9 percent, the trustee said as part
of his demands. Barclays, saying it was entitled to the $1.8
billion, accused the trustee of seeking a “windfall” of
interest payments for 2 1/2 years, at punitive rates.  “The court should resist the trustee’s effort to reap such
a windfall,” Barclays said in the filing. “There is no
economic justification.”  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Android Phone Users Sue Google Over Alleged Location Tracking  Two Android phone users sued  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over claims their
phones secretly recorded and stored data about their movements.  The two residents of Oakland County in Michigan said in a
complaint filed April 27 in federal court in Detroit that their
HTC Inspire 4G phones, which use Google’s Android Operating
System, track their whereabouts “just as if by a tracking
device for which a court-ordered warrant would ordinarily be
required.”  The plaintiffs seek to represent other Android phone users
in a class-action lawsuit, as well as at least $50 million in
damages and a court order requiring Google to stop tracking its
products’ users.  Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are facing scrutiny from consumers
and lawmakers over the collection of data on smart phones. Both
companies have agreed to testify at a May 10 Senate hearing
about consumer privacy on mobile devices.  Chris Gaither, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment on the lawsuit April 28.  “We provide users with notice and control over the
collection, sharing and use of location” on Androids, Gaither
had said in an e-mail on April 27 regarding lawmakers’ concern
over data collection. “Any location data that is sent back to
Google location servers is anonymized and is not tied or
traceable to a specific user.”  The case is Julie Brown v. Google, 11-11867, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Legal Reviews  Goldman, JPMorgan Among 16 Banks Targeted by EU in Swaps Probe  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other
investment banks face the first-ever European Union antitrust
probes into the swaps market, following investigations by U.S.
regulators.  The EU is examining whether 16 banks, including  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , colluded by giving market information
to Markit Group Ltd., a data provider majority-owned by Wall
Street’s largest banks. It will also check if nine of the firms
struck unfair deals with Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s
European derivatives clearinghouse, shutting out rivals.  “Lack of transparency in markets can lead to abusive
behavior and facilitate violations of competition rules,”
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said in an
e-mailed  statement . “I hope our investigation will contribute
to a better functioning of financial markets.”  Global regulators have sought to toughen regulation of the
$583 trillion credit-default swaps market, saying the trades
helped fuel the financial crisis. The EU’s probes add to
separate investigations in the U.K. and U.S. into whether banks
colluded to manipulate the  London  interbank offered rate.  The credit-default swap investigations are the first by
antitrust regulators in  Europe . The U.S.  Justice Department ’s
probe of the credit derivatives clearing, trading and
information services industries is “ongoing,” spokeswoman
Alisa Finelli said April 29. The department first confirmed the
investigation in July 2009. She declined to comment further.  Markit “does not believe it has engaged in any
inappropriate conduct,” Michael Gormley, a spokesman for the
company in New York, said in an e-mailed statement. Bloomberg
LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with Markit in selling
information to the financial-services industry.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Barclays Plc,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Credit Agricole SA and  Societe Generale  SA will
also be investigated for possible collusion in giving “most of
the pricing, indices and other essential daily data only to
Markit.”  Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the probe, said
Michael Duvally, a spokesman for the bank in London.  Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, JPMorgan, Bank of America, BNP
Paribas, Morgan Stanley, Barclays, UBS, Credit Suisse, RBS,
Societe Generale, HSBC, Wells Fargo and Citigroup also declined
to comment.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam Insider Jury to Resume Deliberations Next Week  The jury in the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam finished deliberating for the week
without reaching a verdict and is set to return May 2 to resume
weighing evidence.  Jurors in Manhattan federal court put in a half-day April
29 before leaving for the weekend. They submitted no notes to
the judge and haven’t asked to review evidence since April 27.  The nine women and three men have deliberated for about 29
hours since U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell instructed them
on the law on April 25. In that time, they have asked to hear
about 15 wiretap recordings of Rajaratnam’s telephone calls.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about 15 stocks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire
Corp.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, is
charged with five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of
securities fraud. He faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Malone’s Liberty Media Wins Judge’s Ruling on Starz Splitoff  John C. Malone, the billionaire chairman of Liberty Media
Corp., won a ruling from Delaware Chancery Court Judge J. Travis
Laster that his splitoff of the Capital Group and Starz Group
won’t violate an agreement involving Bank of New York Mellon.  Liberty sued the bank as bond trustee in August asking the
Wilmington court to declare that the splitoff wouldn’t
constitute a disposition of assets upon which bondholders have
claims, Laster said in a 35-page ruling released April 29.  “Liberty did not engage in an ‘overall scheme’ to sell
substantially all its assets,” and “is entitled to a
declaration that the Capital splitoff does not violate” the
contract provision, Laster wrote.  Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty said last June it planned
to separate the Liberty Capital and Liberty Starz tracking stock
groups from Liberty Interactive tracking stock group, in part as
an efficiency move.  The case is Liberty Media Corp. v. The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., CA5702, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Tobacco Industry Doesn’t Owe Missouri Hospitals, Jury Says  Tobacco companies aren’t liable to Missouri hospitals for
money spent on care of patients with smoking-related illnesses
who couldn’t pay their medical bills, a St. Louis jury said.  About 40 Missouri hospitals sued  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip
Morris unit, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Lorillard Tobacco Co.
and other cigarette makers in 1998, claiming they manipulated
the nicotine content in cigarettes and misrepresented the health
effects of smoking. The hospitals were seeking more than $455
million in damages, ranging from about $300,000 for some to
$86.4 million for the Truman Medical Center in  Kansas City .  The industry’s actions boosted the amount spent on
unreimbursed and uncompensated tobacco-related health care, the
hospitals claimed. The tobacco companies denied any
responsibility for patient-care costs at the hospitals or any
financial losses by the hospitals. The state-court jury in St.
Louis rejected April 29 the hospitals’ claims on a 9-3 vote in
the seventh day of deliberations.  The case is City of St. Louis v. American Tobacco Co., cv
982-09652-01, Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Suit Alleging Banks Manipulated Libor Most Popular Docket  A lawsuit that accused Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc, Barclays Bank Plc, Citibank NA
and Credit Suisse Group AG of conspiring to manipulate the
London interbank offered rate was the most-read litigation
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  The banks sold Libor-based futures, options, swaps and
derivative instruments “at artificial prices that defendants
caused,” harming investors, FTC Capital GmbH of Vienna, FTC
Futures Fund SICAV of Luxembourg and FTC Futures Fund PCC Ltd.
of Gibraltar said in an April 15 complaint in New York federal
court.  From 2006 to 2009, the banks “collectively agreed to
artificially suppress the Libor rate,” and in early 2008,
“during the most significant financial crisis since the Great
Depression,” the rate remained steady when it “should have
increased significantly,” the funds contend.  The case is FTC Capital v. Credit Suisse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  