-- 
Air France Black Box Bound for Lab to Unlock Crash Mystery

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-02T17:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/air-france-crash-investigators-recover-black-box-from-seabed.html
French investigators are preparing to
ship the black-box flight data recorder from the 2009 Air  France 
crash to a Paris laboratory with the aim of unlocking the
mystery of the disaster that killed 228.  The recorder, recovered yesterday in the South Atlantic,
will be transported by a Navy patrol boat to French Guyana, then
flown to the headquarters of the BEA air-accident investigation
bureau “in around 10 days,” the agency said in a statement.  The discovery is “very good news,”  Raymond Benjamin ,
secretary general of the  International Civil Aviation
Organization , said today in Paris. “As long as an accident’s
causes remain unknown, the situation is extremely fragile
because we don’t know how to prevent it happening again.”  A robotic submarine found the bright orange, steel-encased
memory unit at a depth of 3,900 meters (12,800 feet), a month
after a fourth search turned up the Airbus SAS A330’s wreckage. 
BEA President Jean-Paul Troadec has said the recorder offers the
only hope of a full explanation of the crash, providing the unit
withstood the impact and almost two years in corrosive seawater.  The Airbus plunged into the South Atlantic en route to
Paris from  Rio de Janeiro  on June 1, 2009, leaving no survivors.
While some floating debris and 51 bodies were recovered from the
surface, most of the jet remained missing until last month.  ‘Laboratory Conditions’  Investigators won’t open the memory unit to check its
internal condition until it reaches BEA headquarters at the
French capital’s Le Bourget airport, said Martine Del Bono, an
agency spokeswoman.  “We wouldn’t take the risk,” Del Bono said. “The box can
only be opened in carefully controlled laboratory conditions.”  The flight recorder is to be accompanied on the journey by
a French police officer, lead crash investigator Alain Bouillard
and a Brazilian official.  Photos released by the BEA  appeared to
show its cylindrical exterior to be intact.  “It certainly looks like the casing survived, but we can’t
speculate on the condition of the recording media inside,” said
Bill Reavis, a spokesman for  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
flight recorder’s manufacturer.  The unit, which logs several hundred flight parameters over
as much as 24 hours, is designed to withstand an impact of 1,500
times the force of gravity and at least 30 days in 6,100 meters
of seawater. The search continues for the jet’s second black
box, which records verbal exchanges in the cockpit.  Broken Apart  The first box’s retrieval is a “major advance,” that may
“bring answers to questions asked by victims’ families, by our
company and by the global aviation community,” Air France Chief
Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said yesterday.  Robots scouring the wreckage strewn over the seabed had
found the rectangular-shaped chassis of the data recorder last
week, without the so-called “crash-survivable memory unit”
containing the data. That discovery helped narrow the search.  More wreckage of the Air France plane were located in the
following days, including an engine, a wing and fragments of
fuselage shown in images released by investigators. Those
showing victims’ bodies have not been published.  While automated radio transmissions from the plane
suggested its airspeed sensors failed in bad weather, triggering
a series of system failures in the minutes before the crash, the
BEA says the precise chain of events cannot be understood
without more information.  Final Search  The final, successful search for the wreckage was
coordinated by the  Woods Hole Oceanographic Research Institution 
in  Massachusetts , drawing on technology developed by the
telecommunications and oil industries.  At the depth where the wreck was found, the water is pitch
black, temperatures approach freezing and water pressure is
equivalent to the weight of a car on a postage stamp.  The robotic sub used to retrieve the black box belongs to
Phoenix International Holdings Inc., an underwater engineering
company, and operates on a tether from a cable-laying ship
provided by France’s Alcatel-Lucent SA.  It may also be used to recover the bodies found with the
wreckage, some still strapped to their seats, according to
members of the search teams who were shown photos of victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 