-- 
Bin Laden’s Killing May Spur al-Qaeda Terrorist Attacks as Retaliation

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/al-qaeda-likely-to-plot-attacks-to-show-viability-analysts-say.html
The terror group al-Qaeda, weakened
after the loss of its leader Osama  bin Laden , may try to carry
out new attacks to retaliate and demonstrate its viability.  An attack probably won’t be immediate because the planning
takes time, said Brian Michael Jenkins, a terrorism specialist
and senior adviser to the president at the  RAND Corp ., a  Santa
Monica , California-based policy group.  “They will try to put together an operation because that’s
essential to them to show that bin Laden’s death has not
destroyed the organization,” Jenkins said in an interview.
“But the timing -- the faster they put it together, the greater
the risk that it won’t be significant, that it won’t work.”  While bin Laden’s death on May 1 may raise short-term
security concerns, it erodes al-Qaeda’s ability to plan attacks
and inspire new followers in the future, said analysts and U.S.
officials. Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta
said yesterday in a  message  to agency employees that bin Laden’s
death “struck a heavy blow” against al-Qaeda, even as he
warned that terrorists “almost certainly will attempt to
avenge” the killing.  The al-Qaeda leader was killed after a decade on the run in
a firefight with a team of U.S. forces who raided the compound
in  Pakistan  where he had been hiding. Bin Laden orchestrated the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that killed almost 3,000 people. Two
planes hijacked by al-Qaeda operatives struck and took down the
two World Trade Center towers in  Manhattan , and one struck the
Pentagon outside Washington. A fourth plane crashed in
 Pennsylvania  after passengers fought with the hijackers.  Diffuse Network  The centrally run al-Qaeda responsible for the Sept. 11
attacks no longer exists and has “transformed into a diffuse
global network and philosophical movement composed of dispersed
nodes with varying degrees of independence,” according to a
January U.S. Congressional Research Service  report .  Interpol, the international police organization, told its
member countries “to be on full alert” for retaliation
attacks.  “The world’s most wanted international terrorist is no
more, but the death of bin Laden does not represent the demise
of al-Qaeda affiliates and those inspired by al-Qaeda, who have
and will continue to engage in terrorist attacks,” Ronald Noble, secretary general of Lyon, France-based Interpol, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Serious Threat  Members of a Yemen-based offshoot, al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, or AQAP, have become the “most serious threat to the
homeland today,” said Mark F. Giuliano, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s assistant director for counterterrorism, in
remarks on April 14 at the  Washington  Institute for Near East
Policy.  AQAP claimed responsibility for the December 2009 attempted
bombing of a Northwest Airlines flight on its approach to
 Detroit  and the October 2010 attempted bombings of air cargo
flights headed for the U.S. from Yemen.  Regional al-Qaeda leaders still have the ability to recruit
followers to carry out attacks, though not with the same reach
as bin Laden, said analysts and former U.S. officials.  “Some of the other wannabees under him may inspire a few
people here and there,” said Thomas Fuentes, a former assistant
FBI director who headed the international operations office
before leaving the agency in 2008, in an interview. “They’re
not going to have the leadership, reputation and charisma that
he has.”  Al-Qaeda Cells  U.S. officials say al-Qaeda cells and associates operate in
more than 70 countries, according to the Congressional Research
Service report.  The 54-year-old bin Laden, who studied management and
economics at King Abdulaziz University in Jeddah, on  Saudi
Arabia ’s Red Sea coast, attracted supporters with his anger
against the West and advocacy of Islam. He formed al-Qaeda with
money from a family inheritance and preached an extreme
interpretation of Islam.  Bin Laden’s death may energize supporters of the terror
group, analysts said.  “Bin Laden is a huge symbol and his killing at the hand of
the main enemy, which is the U.S., is something that will cause
a feeling of a great defeat and a desire for revenge,” said
Diaa Rashwan, a specialist on Islamist groups at the Cairo-based
Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, in an
interview.  Potential Successors  With bin Laden dead, U.S. counterterrorism officials will
turn their attention to potential successors, such as Ayman al- Zawahiri, the group’s No. 2 leader. Anwar al-Awlaki, who has
been tied to several terrorist attacks, including a Nigerian
suspected of trying to blow up the Detroit-bound plane in 2009,
may also be a candidate.  Nobody has emerged as the obvious replacement to bin Laden,
which is one of the reasons the group is “in trouble,” said
David H. Schanzer, a professor at  Duke University  in Durham,
 North Carolina  and director of the  Triangle Center on Terrorism
and Homeland Security , in an interview. “He is its
inspirational leader. It doesn’t mean he can’t be replaced or
that the threat is over. This is a threat that has been
diminishing for some time.”  Al-Qaeda’s theology is “still present but it’s
weakening,” Schanzer said. “The question is who is going to
continue to inspire individuals to take such extreme action?”  Many young Muslim men have found other causes, including
pushing for changes in the governments in the Arab world, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  