-- 
Alaska Oil April Output Declines in North Slope Field Fall-Off

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-02T21:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/alaska-oil-april-output-declines-in-north-slope-field-fall-off.html
Alaskan crude-oil production slipped
2.1 percent in April from last year in a natural decline of the
state’s North Slope fields that may eventually affect operations
of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System.  Production in April averaged 640,477 barrels a day, a
decline from 654,366 a year earlier, according to the  Alaska Tax
Division . Output fell by 6,140 barrels from the previous month.  “We’re seeing a steady decline in throughput,” Katie
Pesznecker, spokeswoman for Alyeska Pipeline Service Co., the
pipeline operator, said in a telephone interview. “Our new
president has been pretty vocal about the technical issues we
are facing.”  Alaska production has declined every year since 2002, U.S.
Energy Department  figures  show. If no new fields come online,
lower volume makes it more difficult to operate the pipeline
because the oil flows more slowly and cools more quickly,
increasing the chance of wax buildup and water freezing in the
line or gumming up pumping stations, Pesznecker said.  Oil inventories in the state finished the month at 3.88
million barrels, after dropping as low as 1.27 million barrels
on April 6, according to the tax division. Production at the
Northstar field dipped to less than 10 percent of usual output
on April 13, probably because of maintenance, Pesznecker said.  The 800-mile (1,287-kilometer) system runs from  Prudhoe Bay 
on the North Slope to Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in
the U.S. Oil companies and some legislators are lobbying to
lower state taxes as a way to pump up investment and the amount
of oil in the pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in New York at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 