-- 
Mamie Gummer Brings Streep DNA to Witty Comedy: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-05-02T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/mamie-gummer-brings-streep-dna-to-witty-twitty-ives-comedy-jeremy-gerard.html
Mamie Gummer merely has to point a
critical finger or raise a skeptical eyebrow to send waves of
recognition across the footlights to an audience. She is --
especially as she steadily improves her craft -- the image of
her mother,  Meryl Streep .  That’s reason enough to see this young actress in David
Ives’s rowdy, proudly vulgar adaptation of Moliere’s “The
Misanthrope.” Gowned to the teeth in William Ivey Long’s
resplendent period gowns -- the lingo may be contemporary but
the period is 17th-century Paris -- she tosses off Ives’s
glinting, gauche couplets with consummate ease.  There are actual footlights at the  Classic Stage Company’s 
jewel-box theater in downtown  Manhattan . And little else in John
Lee Beatty’s uncharacteristically spare set. A glittering
chandelier (pure Moliere and pure CSC at once) and a tall
armoire serving as desk and closet are pretty much it.  Gummer plays Celimene, the young, beautiful widow who is
the undoing of the title character, a miserable, unhappy, verbal
bully (he’s a drama critic, naturally) named Frank and played
with ponyish glee by Hamish Linklater. Frank has come to visit
his sole friend, Philante (the ideal sidekick, Hoon Lee) and
immediately reduces everyone around him to wreckage.  Until, that is, he meets Gummer’s Celimene, the beautiful
young widow and best friend of Philante’s intended, Elainte
(Jenn Gambatese). Celimene parries Frank’s verbal thrusts and
there are more plots than a Brooklyn cemetery, all of which must
be tied up before the ending. But it’s a comedy after all, and
you know what happens.  Walter Bobbie’s exuberant production looks and sounds a bit
like a graduation class exercise: It’s a little too confident
that its smarty-pants rhyming firecrackers from “comedy’s top
mensch,” as the opening lines have it, will rule the day. But
it’s good fun; Hoon, Gambetese and Alison Fraser, as Arsinoe,
Celimene’s gossip-mongering nemesis, all get their scene-
stealing arias. Be warned: If you’re sitting in the front row,
watch out for flying canapes.  Through May 22 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-352-
3101;  http://classicstage.org 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 