-- 
Anadarko’s Profit Surpasses Estimates on Higher Sales

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-05-02T21:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/anadarko-petroleum-says-first-quarter-net-income-declines.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the second-
largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market
value, reported first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates as it posted record sales volumes.  Excluding such items as hedging losses, profit in the
quarter was 72 cents a share, 14 cents higher than the average
of 29 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income fell
70 percent to $216 million, or 43 cents a share, from $716
million, or $1.43, a year earlier, when energy futures contracts
boosted earnings, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said today
in a statement.  Anadarko said first-quarter sales volumes climbed to the
equivalent of 690,000 barrels of oil a day from 686,000 a year
earlier. The total sales number of 62 million barrels for the
quarter was at the top end of the company’s forecast. Anadarko’s
performance comes after a slowdown in Gulf of Mexico activities
that followed last year’s oil spill at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well.  “Anadarko was probably among the worst affected by Macondo
in terms of having an active area of operation slowed down,”
said Philip Dodge, an analyst at Tuohy Brothers in New York.
“Even in spite of that they turned on enough things in other
areas to do better than people expected.”  Jubilee Project  The company said the Jubilee project in which it’s a
partner off the coast of  Ghana  has a gross output of more than
70,000 barrels a day, heading to 120,000 barrels a day that’s
expected by the third quarter. In onshore plays in  North America ,
Anadarko said average sales volumes rose 30 percent from the
fourth quarter in the Eagle Ford shale formation, while the
increase was 82 percent in the Marcellus region.  Revenue in the first quarter rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier to $3.25 billion.  Anadarko said it has closed a $1.6 billion joint venture
with Korea National Oil Corp. in which that company is buying a
stake in the Eagle Ford formation.  The company has a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well,
which exploded in the Gulf in April 2010 and led to a record U.S.
offshore  oil spill . BP, the operator, has a 65 percent interest.
A unit of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned
by  Japan ’s Mitsui & Co., has the other 10 percent.  Anadarko said in a statement last June that the explosion
was preventable and that actions by BP “likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct.” Anadarko has said it is
withholding reimbursement to BP for costs related to the spill.  BP’s View  Anadarko and a Mitsui-affiliated company sued BP last month
over economic losses from Macondo and the related oil spill. The
companies claimed BP broke its partnership agreement and asked a
federal judge to declare they aren’t responsible for damages and
cleanup costs.  BP, based in  London , has said it expects its minority
partners in the damaged well to pay their share of billions of
dollars in costs. BP also asked a judge to put on hold oil
spill-related litigation with the two companies because it said
a joint-operating agreement requires the parties to first
attempt dispute resolution through arbitration.  Oil futures in New York averaged $94.60 a barrel in the
first quarter, a 20 percent increase from a year earlier.  Today’s earnings report was issued after the close of
regular trading on U.S. stock markets. Anadarko fell 25 cents to
$80.10 at 6:27 p.m. in after-hours trading.  Apache Corp. (APA)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent companies don’t own
refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.  (Anadarko will hold an earnings conference call for
investors and analysts tomorrow at 10 a.m.  New York  time. To
listen, go to  http://www.anadarko.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 