-- 
Ancient Jordanian Architecture Shows Early Communal Buildings

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-02T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ancient-jordanian-architecture-shows-early-communal-buildings.html
Ancient buildings from 10,200 to
11,600 years ago in  southern Jordan  suggest the importance of
communal life as people stopped being hunter-gatherers.  Three of the main structures excavated at the archeological
site may have been used for the communal processing of crops,
grain storage, and rituals related to food, according to a paper
published today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences .  The architecture dates from the  Pre-Pottery Neolithic A
period , when people were starting to domesticate plants and
animals and settle down in one place, according to background
information in the study. The findings suggest that in those
early times there wasn’t a clear division between public and
private life, the authors wrote.  “The interesting thing that’s coming out is that unlike
previously, where’s generally assumed the bulk of the structures
are huts, there’s a wide variety of forms,” said study author
 Bill Finlayson , who is also director of the Council for British
Research in the Levant in  London .  The discovery helps scientists understand why farming
developed when it did, Finlayson said. The site is valuable
because the process of domestication was harder to track when it
was still in its infancy than later on, when the changes from
humans’ interference in plant and animal breeding are clear,
Finlayson said.  “As people developed larger communities, they couldn’t
rely on wild resources,” Finlayson said. Communities like this
one “provide a motive for the hard work of farming.”  One of the buildings in  Jordan  contained a series of
benches spaced in two tiers surrounding a main, mud-plaster
floor area, like an amphitheater. There were two mortars built
into raised platforms. Broken bowls at the site suggest people
feasted there, the authors wrote.  The structures represented a group effort, involving most
or all of the community, the authors wrote. The space may have
been used for ceremonial and practical purposes since there
didn’t appear to be a separation between the two during that
period, Finlayson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 