-- 
Hang Lung Chairman Ronnie Chan Says There Isn’t a Property Bubble in China

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-02T21:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/hang-lung-chairman-ronnie-chan-says-there-s-no-property-bubble-in-china.html
Ronnie Chan, chairman of Hong Kong-
based developer  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , said “humongous
demand” from consumers and action by the central government
reduce the chance that  China ’s property market will collapse.  Concerns over a real estate bubble are “total crap,” Chan
said today at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly
Hills,  California .  Home prices  last year rose 26 percent in
Shanghai and 29 percent in Chongqing, leading the government in
Beijing to raise minimum down-payments for second-home purchases
and tell local officials to set price targets on new properties.  “People use the word so loosely,” Chan said of the term
“bubble” to describe China’s real estate market. Much of the
existing housing in the country is “substandard” and will
never be occupied as consumers demand higher-quality homes, he
said.  “Those will be torn down, and a lot faster than you
think,” said Chan, who in 1991 took over the development firm
founded by his father and now is spending $5.1 billion on malls
and offices in five Chinese cities outside  Shanghai .  Premier Wen Jiabao on Jan. 18 said the government will
“resolutely” implement controls aimed at speculative buying.
Property prices rose for a 19th month in December, even after
Beijing suspended mortgages for third-home purchases and
restricted loans to developers. The 6.4 percent gain in December
was the smallest in 13 months, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd.  The key to getting projects built in China, which has 83
cities with more than 3 million people, is a “good mayor” who
is in favor with party officials and understands the needs of
both the community and developer, Chan said.  “It depends a lot on how firm and strong he is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/02/ :39 GMT 