-- 
Haniel Says Full-Year Profit Rose, ‘Optimistic’ About 2011

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-02T10:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/haniel-says-2010-pretax-profit-nearly-quadruples-sales-rise.html
Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, the closely
held German holding company that controls  Europe ’s biggest drug
wholesaler, said earnings surged last year.  Profit rose to 454 million euros ($674 million) from 21
million euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement
today. Haniel had booked charges of 294 million euros in 2009.  Sales rose 12 percent to 27.4 billion euros, benefitting
from improved results from scrap-metal trading unit ELG,
business-to-business mail-order company Takkt AG, drug
wholesaler  Celesio AG (CLS1)  and  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer.  “We are optimistic for this year,” though the economic
consequences of  Japan ’s disaster, the political unrest in North
Africa and the debt crisis in Europe and the U.S. may not be
overcome for some time, Chief Executive Juergen Kluge said at a
press conference in Duisburg, where the company is based.  The company will consider acquisitions worth about 250
million euros, even as it tries to pare down debt, Kluge said.
There likely won’t be any bigger acquisitions due to the
company’s financial position, he said.  Haniel will adjust its portfolio this year, he said.  “We intend to achieve a well adjusted blend of small and
large companies, consisting of both wholly owned and publicly
traded entities,” Kluge said in the statement.  Haniel stands by its investment in Celesio, which saw sales
and profit rise last year, Kluge said during the press
conference. The short list of candidates to replace the chief
executive of Celesio, Fritz Oesterle, looks good, he said, and
declined to comment on specific candidates in an interview
afterward.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  