-- 
Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew in April at Slower Pace

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-in-april-at-slower-pace.html
U.S. manufacturing probably cooled in
April to a pace consistent with steady growth in the industry
that’s leading the expansion.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 59.5 last month from 61.2 in March, according to the
median estimate of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. In February, the gauge
reached 61.4, the highest since May 2004. Another report may
show construction spending rose in March for the first time in
four months.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  are among manufacturers
profiting from growing emerging economies such as China, as well
as increased capital investment in the U.S. Federal Reserve
policy makers last week said the expansion was “proceeding at a
moderate pace,” buoyed by stronger business spending.  “Manufacturing has been very strong,”  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. “There is domestic
strength being backed up by growth in certain areas of the world
like  Brazil  and China.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group will release the ISM results
at 10 a.m. today New York time. Estimates ranged from 58 to 62.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, posted first-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast as sales
surged in  developing countries .  Global Growth  “We expect that the pace of world economic growth will
support continued recovery in the key industries we serve,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chief executive officer at Caterpillar, said in
a statement last week.  Manufacturers of machinery and equipment have outperformed
the broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index has gained 13 percent so far this year, compared
with an 8.4 percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  While the 2011 outlook has improved, the increase would
have been greater if not for the impact of the disaster in
 Japan , Caterpillar said.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, on April
20 extended production cuts at its North American plants for
more than a month because of limited parts availability after
Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Auto Production  The company’s North American unit, which canceled five days
of production from April 15 through April 25, said plants in the
region will continue to be closed on Mondays and Fridays and run
at 50 percent on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays through June
3. Toyota will also shut U.S. plants for one week starting May
30, it said.  Demand from countries like  China  and Brazil is spurring
U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales overseas
reached the highest level on record in January before falling in
February for the first time in six months, according to Commerce
Department figures.  Columbus, Indiana-based Cummins, a maker of  diesel engines ,
more than doubled its first-quarter income from a year earlier
and boosted its forecasts for sales and profit this year.  “Our first-quarter results reflect continued strong growth
in key international markets, especially China, India and
Brazil,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso said in a conference
call last week. “We are seeing significant growth in demand for
our products and services in nearly every geographic market we
serve.”  Tax Break  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession is being helped this year in part by President Barack Obama’s compromise at the end of last year with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies can depreciate 100 percent of
investments in capital equipment in 2011.  “Household spending and business investment in equipment
and software continue to expand,” Fed policy makers said this
week after their policy meeting.  The Commerce Department is projected to report a 0.4
percent rise in March construction spending after a 1.4 percent
decrease a month earlier, according to the median forecast in
the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  