-- 
ANZ Bank’s Profit Misses Analyst Estimates as Margin Slips; Shares Decline

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S h r a y s i   T a n d o n
-- 
2011-05-03T06:47:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/anz-banking-reports-first-half-profit-of-2-91-billion-missing-estimates.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , the worst performer among  Australia ’s four largest banking
stocks this year, posted the smallest half-yearly profit
increase in 2 ½ years as lending profitability slipped.  Net income in the six months to March 31 gained 3 percent
to A$2.66 billion ($2.91 billion) from the previous six months,
the Melbourne-based bank said today, as provisions for bad debt
dropped. Profit missed the A$2.77 billion median estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith , 54, aims to double
profit from  Asia  to 30 percent in the next seven years as he
expands in the region. The bank shares declined the most in more
than ten weeks after net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of its lending business, shrank to 2.47 percent.  “The bad-debt charge is going down but there’s no growth
in overseas deposits and the net interest margin is falling,”
said Brett Le Mesurier, an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney with a
“buy” rating on ANZ Bank. “ANZ used to be a high-growth
option. The evidence isn’t there to support that now.”  The shares slipped 2.1 percent to A$23.80 in Sydney
trading. They have gained 1.9 percent this year, lagging behind
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s 14 percent rise and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s 11 percent increase. National Australia Bank and
Westpac are set to publish first-half earnings this week.  ‘Flat Spot’  “Parts of the Australian economy have hit a flat spot with
consumers and businesses becoming more conservative,” Smith
said in today’s statement. “We are starting to see the effects
of a structural change underway as the Australian economy
continues the shift toward being based much more on hard and
soft commodities. One of those changes is the stronger
Australian dollar which has impacted our international
earnings.”  First-half underlying profit, which excludes some
acquisition costs and information technology spending, climbed
23 percent from a year earlier to A$2.82 billion. Net income in
the period climbed 38 percent from the same period a year ago.  ANZ Bank’s first-half net interest income, or revenue from
borrowers after deducting interest paid to depositors, gained 8
percent from the year earlier period to A$5.65 billion.
Provisions for credit impairments in the first half dropped 38
percent to A$675 million.  Deposits at ANZ Bank’s retail Australian business rose 7
percent from Sept. 30, and retail lending increased 4 percent,
the bank said. Deposits from clients in Asia,  Europe  and the
Americas shrank 1 percent in the half, while lending rose 1
percent from the previous six months.  Shrinking Margin  The bank’s net interest margin was 2.47 percent in the
first half, down from 2.5 percent in the preceding six months.  Smith said while the bank has reduced its reliance on
wholesale funding markets, costs are unlikely to fall.  “Credit markets are still very volatile and Australian
banks are dependent on credit markets,” Smith told reporters at
a briefing today in Sydney.  Australia’s four largest banks, all rated Aa1, are being
reviewed by Moody’s Investors Service, which said in February
that their reliance on global debt markets to fund lending is a
concern.  ANZ Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its ability
to absorb potential losses, was 10.5 percent at March 31, up
from 10.1 percent on Sept. 30.  Raising Rates  Australian lenders are confronting a slide in demand for
lending after central bank Governor Glenn Stevens led Group of
20 policy makers by boosting borrowing costs in seven quarter
percentage-point steps between October 2009 and November to 4.75
percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s most recent quarter-point
increase in November was followed by larger rises in the
standard variable home-loan rates of Westpac, National Australia
Bank, ANZ Bank and Commonwealth Bank. The banks’ moves triggered
criticism from Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who has introduced measures
to boost competition from smaller lenders, including scrapping
exit fees on consumers who change their mortgage provider.  Governor Stevens today kept the benchmark rate unchanged,
citing “quite modest” credit growth.  “I hope that rates don’t move for the foreseeable
future,” Smith said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
The recent acceleration in Australian inflation figures is a
“blip” triggered by natural disasters and the nation’s rising
currency is “doing the work of the central bank,” he said.  Declining  Home Prices   Home prices declined in the first quarter by the most since
2008, according to an index measuring the weighted average for
established houses in eight major cities, which dropped 1.7
percent from three months earlier, a report showed yesterday.  “I think we’re in a period where things are consolidating
a little bit and that’s no bad thing,” Smith said in the
interview. “I don’t think we’re in a bubble.”  “We’re seeing wages of course continue to increase and
prices of properties decrease a little bit, so that ratio is
improving a little bit,” he said.  To offset slower growth in Australia, CEO Smith’s strategy
includes expanding the bank’s business in  China ,  Vietnam ,
 Malaysia , the  Philippines ,  Taiwan ,  Singapore  and  Hong Kong  to
boost earnings from the Asia-Pacific region to about 30 percent
by 2017.  Profit after tax in Australia accounted for 72 percent of
total earnings in the first half, with Asia Pacific, Europe and
America generating 14 percent.  New Zealand  added 14 percent. The
Australian dollar’s 6.7 percent rise versus its U.S. counterpart
in the six months to March 31 damped profit growth by around 2
percent, ANZ Bank said today.  The bank proposed an interim dividend for the fiscal first
half of 64 cents a share, up 12 cents, or 23 percent, from the
same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Shraysi Tandon in Sydney at 
 standon13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  