-- 
Arcelor Says Steel Exports From Brazil Not Viable on Real

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-02T20:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/arcelor-says-steel-exports-from-brazil-not-viable-on-strong-real.html
Steelmakers operating in  Brazil  are
focusing on the domestic market after the appreciation of the
local currency made exports “unviable,” said  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
the world’s largest producer of the metal.  Steel demand in the South American country may expand as
much as 8 percent this year, prompting producers to invest in
output for the local market instead of exports, said Benjamin
Baptista Filho, Arcelor’s chief executive officer for Brazil.
The company delayed restarting a furnace able to produce 1.2
million metric tons of slabs a year for export because of excess
supply in international markets, he said.  “Any project that’s focused on exports under the current
exchange rate and commodities situation has practically no
viability in Brazil,” Baptista, 57, said April 29 in an
interview in  Rio de Janeiro .  The Brazilian real has gained 11 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months and reached its strongest since
August 2008 last week. The rally erodes the value of dollar-
denominated exports as rising iron-ore and coking-coal prices
further squeeze margins.  The Brazilian government has repeatedly said it wants
companies such as Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, to invest in steel output for export instead of just
shipping raw materials.  “Brazil became expensive because the inflationary process
continues,” Baptista said, adding that producing steel in the
country is now about 80 percent more costly in dollar terms than
it was five years ago.  Olympics  The automobile industry is leading the increase in
Brazilian steel demand, he said. Construction projects for the
Olympics and soccer  World Cup  games that Brazil will host will
also boost consumption in coming years, he said.  Arcelor, based in  Luxembourg , currently produces about 6.3
million metric tons of flat-steel products a year in Brazil and
4 million metric tons of long steel, which is used by builders,
Baptista said.  The company is investing $400 million in a second furnace
for its  long-steel plant  in the Brazilian state of  Minas Gerais ,
he said. It is also considering adding 500,000 tons of capacity
to its flat-steel plant in the southern state of  Santa Catarina 
as early as 2013, he said, declining to comment on the value of
that investment.  Shares of Arcelor gained 0.3 percent to close at 24.93
euros in Amsterdam trading today, reducing its fall since the
beginning of the year to 7.9 percent.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  and  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , the two biggest Brazilian
steelmakers by output, both have lost about 18 percent over the
same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  