-- 
Arch to Acquire International Coal for $3.4 Billion for Steelmaking Assets

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-02T20:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/arch-coal-agrees-to-acquire-international-coal-in-3-4-billion-transaction.html
Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) ’s $3.4 billion
acquisition of  International Coal Group Inc. (ICO)  will make it the
second-largest U.S. coking-coal producer at a time when prices
are soaring amid demand from China and  India .  Benchmark prices for metallurgical coal have risen 47
percent to a record $330 a metric ton for the three months
starting April 1, boosted by consumption from Asia as  Australia ,
the world’s largest producer, recovers from torrential rains and
flooding.  The sale gives Arch assets in every major domestic coal
basin and will increase its reserves 25 percent to 5.5 billion
tons, the company said. International Coal, known as ICG, was
put together by investor  Wilbur Ross , who is chairman, holds 6
percent of the shares and brought it public in 2005. Arch will
be second in steelmaking coal after Alpha National Resources
Inc., which is acquiring Massey Energy Co.  “You have seen a lot of consolidation in  North America  in
the past six months most of it being coke- and coal-driven,”
Curtis Woodworth, a metals and mining analyst with Macquarie
Capital USA Inc, in  New York  said. “Everyone wants to have
exposure to that. The only way you can really do that is if you
have scale.”  Arch fell 77 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $33.53 on the New
York Stock Exchange. International Coal, based in Scott Depot,
West  Virginia , climbed $3.40, or 31 percent, to $14.43. It has
more than doubled in the last year.  ICG’s Coal  About 30 percent of International’s 1.1 billion tons of
reserves are steelmaking coal, Arch said in a statement today.
The combined company will have total reserve of 5.5 million
tons, Arch said.  Steel consumption is expected to grow about 60 percent over
the next decade, driving demand for metallurgical coal,
particularly in  Asia , according to an Arch slide presentation
cited by executives.  “It’s a multitiered argument,” said Brian Gamble, an
analyst at Simmons & Co. Intl in Houston. “What’s the Chinese
economy look like? How much steel are they going to produce and
how much coal are they going to need? How does India look? How
much will  Japan  need to rebuild?”  Arch will acquire International’s 13 active mining
complexes, along with one major mining complex under
development, across three coal basins. The company’s mines are
in  Illinois ,  Kentucky , West Virginia, Maryland and Virginia.  Takeover Synergies  The company expects the takeover will produce annual
savings of $70 million to $80 million because of increasing
operating, marketing and administrative efficiency, and that it
will add to earnings beginning next year.  Arch Chief Executive Officer Steven Leer, 58, said the
company’s acquisition strategy was to buy while prices were low,
and it didn’t deviate from that even as it agreed to pay a 32
percent premium to International’s closing share price of $11.03
on April 29.  “The low-point here wasn’t the pricing market, it was the
production market of where ICG is in their development cycle of
their reserves,” Leer said in a telephone interview. “They’re
right at the cusp of a significant expansion in met coal
production capability.”  Ross, 73, held an initial public offering for International
Coal in December 2005, offering stock at $11 a share. They
traded as low as $1.11 on March 9, 2009.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television, Ross said that it
“was time to harvest” his investment.  International plans to start output at its Tygart Valley
No. 1 operation in  West Virginia  in 2014, with capacity to
produce 3.5 million tons of coal per year, Arch said.  Arch will be competing against Alpha Natural Resources,
Consol Energy Inc. and Walter Energy Co., Gamble said.  Walter last month completed its C$3.3 billion ($3.3
billion) acquisition of Western Coal Corp. to boost its reserves
and production of metallurgical coal.  “This does put Arch into the discussion, whereas before
they weren’t,” Gamble said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
   aclark27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  