-- 
Archer Daniels Unit Joins Foodmakers’ Push Into Money Management

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/archer-daniels-unit-joins-cargill-pushing-into-asset-management-amid-rally.html
The financial units of Archer Daniels
Midland Co., Continental Grain Co. and Cargill Inc., among the
biggest names in agriculture, are pushing into the money
management business as commodities markets are soaring.  ADM Investor Services Inc., a futures broker owned by ADM,
is starting a fund that will invest client money with
independent commodities trading advisors, according to a
regulatory filing last month. Arlon Group LLC, Continental’s
investment management arm started in 2008, is accepting money
for funds that make commodity, stock and private-equity
investments tied to agriculture.  “It’s just another way to leverage our knowledge in a
slightly different business model,” said Matthew Keegan, a
portfolio manager at New York-based Arlon. “You start to
collect fees and revenues based on managing assets rather than
by crushing soybeans or transporting grains.”  The food producers have traded in financial markets for
decades to hedge against price swings and lift returns on excess
cash. With prices for some agricultural products near record
levels, their financial units are seeking more sources of income
by marketing their expertise to third-party investors. Black
River, a unit of Cargill that opened to outside money in 2004,
now oversees $4.5 billion on behalf of external clients, said
Michael Grover, head of  investor relations .  Inflation Hedge  Investors are turning to commodities as a hedge against
inflation as the U.S. struggles to rein in its  budget deficit ,
and because they’re liquid and don’t move in lockstep with
stocks and bonds. Cotton and cattle futures reached record highs
this year, and hogs, coffee, cocoa and sugar reached multiyear
highs. Corn is nearing a record.  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index has gained more than two-
thirds in the past year and rose to a record in March. Global
food prices, as measured by a United Nations index of 55 food
commodities, reached a record in February.  The gains have fueled the growth of managed futures, an
investment strategy offered by commodity trading advisers, also
known as CTAs, that gives investors access to a range of
markets, including currencies, energy, metals, interest rates,
stock indexes and traditional agricultural commodities. Managed
futures funds took in net deposits of $39.1 billion in the year
ended March 31, the most of any hedge-fund strategy, according
to TrimTabs Investment Research Inc. and BarclayHedge.  ‘Investment Class’  “We have changed from a price-discovery market to an
investment class,” said  Glenn Hollander , a partner at Hollander
& Feuerhaken, a Chicago-based firm that trades in the cash
markets for grains.  Cargill, a Wayzata, Minnesota-based food producer and
marketer ranked by Forbes Magazine as the largest closely held
company in the U.S., was the first of the three agricultural
companies to begin managing outside money through its investment
affiliates. Those units include Black River, which manages hedge
and private-equity funds, and CarVal Investors, created during
the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s as a specialist in
distressed debt.  Black River was established in 2003 as the successor to
Cargill’s proprietary financial trading operations, which had a
20-year history of trading in global financial markets,
according to the investment advisory company’s Web site. Headed
by Gary Jarrett, the firm started raising money last year for
separate private-equity funds that specialize in food and
agriculture, according to regulatory filings. The Black River
Commodity Trading Fund, established in 2009, now has about $535
million in assets.  ‘Major Player’  ADM, the world’s largest grain processor with $61.7 billion
in revenue for the year ended June 30, uses futures to manage
risk posed by fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices as
well as transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates, according to the Decatur,
Illinois, company’s annual report.  The company’s dominance in cash markets for corn and wheat
suggests it also plays a big role in the  futures markets  for
these crops, said John Person, president of NationalFutures.com,
a Glenview, Illinois, investment adviser.  “ADM is a major player as far as commercial markets and
bringing liquidity as a hedger to the commodity arena,” Person
said. “You can bet your bottom dollar they are hedging in the
corn futures business.”  Fund-of-Funds  ADM Investor Services provides commodities trading and
hedging services to ADM. The Chicago-based firm also offers
consulting services to clients interested in managed futures
strategies through Balarie Capital Management, a division of its
Archer Financial Services subsidiary.  ADM Investor Services filed a private placement notice with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 15 for a
diversified strategies fund that will allocate money to
independent advisers who trade futures on  interest rates ,
agricultural and energy commodities, and foreign currencies.
It’s the first time that the firm has managed outside capital,
according to Thomas Kadlec, president of ADM Investor Services.  “Over the past several years, we have seen a growing
interest in managed futures as a liquid trading strategy that is
non-correlated with traditional investments such as stocks and
bonds,” Kadlec wrote in an e-mail. The fund will provide
investors with a “diversified exposure to a basket of commodity
trading advisers.”  ‘Market Wizards’  Roman Blahoski, a spokesman for ADM, said in an e-mail that
ADM Investor Services, while a wholly owned subsidiary, operates
independently of the parent company. ADM uses ADM Investor
Services for clearing services, but does not disclose details
related to these transactions, Blahoski said.  Emanuel Balarie, the managing director of Balarie Capital
Management, will oversee the fund with Jack Schwager, the author
of books such as ‘Market Wizards’ and ‘Managed Trading: Myths &
Truths,’ as well as senior managers at ADM Investor Services.  Continental Grain, established as a grain-trading firm in
Arlon,  Belgium , in 1813, became one of the largest privately
held companies in the world, with operations in barges and
livestock as well as grains. The company has been divesting some
agricultural businesses, including its worldwide grain
operations, which it sold to Cargill in 1999, and redeploying
the capital through Arlon.  Rabobank Backing  Arlon is taking in outside capital for a stock and
commodities fund that focuses on the food and agriculture
industries, and for a commodities-only fund that started earlier
this year, according to co-managers Keegan and Ari Gendason. The
firm also plans to obtain more outside funds for Arlon Food &
Agriculture Partners LP, a $300 million private-equity fund
formed in December 2009 and backed by Rabobank Groep of the
Netherlands, the world’s largest agricultural lender, Keegan and
Gendason said.  The firm established its stock and commodities fund, Arlon
Opportunities Investors LP, in 2008 and has run it primarily
with capital from Continental Grain up until now, Keegan and
Gendason said. Part of the fund’s strategy is to take advantage
of opportunities in the commodities market created by rising
investor interest as well as supply and demand dislocations,
Gendason said in an interview last week.  “Historically the agricultural complex has taken a back
seat in the commodities world to energy and metals,” Gendason
said, adding that the situation has now changed. “The corn
market has gotten a lot more attention in the prior nine months
than it has in the last 25 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  