-- 
Argentina Firing of Inflation Expert Signaled Start of Dubious Price Data

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-02T03:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/argentina-firing-of-inflation-expert-signaled-start-of-dubious-price-data.html
The night before Graciela Bevacqua
finished a report projecting the biggest monthly increase for
 Argentina ’s consumer prices in more than four years, she told
her three children she might quit her job as director of the
inflation index.  The next day, the decision was made for her. Bevacqua’s
boss at the national statistics institute told her on Jan. 29,
2007, that she had to step down because then-President  Nestor Kirchner  “wanted my head,” the 51-year-old mathematician said
in an interview with Bloomberg News. A week later, Argentina
reported prices for January 2007 had risen 1.1 percent from the
previous month, compared with Bevacqua’s estimate of 1.9
percent.  Bevacqua’s demotion -- she worked in two, lower-level,
positions before finally quitting the government in January 2009
-- signaled the start of what former deputy economy ministers
Orlando Ferreres and Jorge Todesca call the government’s
“takeover” of the Buenos Aires-based  institute . Kirchner
wanted to show slower inflation before the 2007 presidential
election and also damp union efforts to get higher pay,
according to Ferreres.  “The government sought to cut union demand for wage
increases, which start with the negotiations in January and
February,” Ferreres said. “It was an electoral year, as it is
now, and having a high inflation would fuel unions’ demands.”  Official data that reflect less than half the actual rate
of inflation are leading investors to avoid  South America ’s
second-biggest economy, said Alejandro Urbina, a debt manager at
Silva Capital Management in  Chicago .  ‘Unique in the World’  “This is unique in the world,” said Urbina, who helps
oversee $800 million in emerging-market securities. In other
countries “if I buy inflation-linked bonds, I’ll get what I
should.”  Government calculations that consumer prices rose 10.9
percent in 2010 compare with Bevacqua’s independent estimate of
a 25 percent increase, which is similar to those of Buenos
Aires-based economic-research companies Ecolatina, Finsoport and
Orlando Ferreres y Asociados. The unofficial data put
Argentina’s inflation rate at the world’s second-fastest last
year, behind  Venezuela ’s 27 percent, among countries monitored
by the  International Monetary Fund .  The difference between official and private statistics
since January 2007 means that returns on the government’s
inflation-linked bonds, including interest and adjustment of
principal, should have been 20.3 billion pesos ($5 billion)
instead of 16.1 billion, said Maximiliano Castillo, a former
manager of macroeconomic analysis at Argentina’s central bank
who now runs ACM, a  Buenos Aires  economic-research company.  Falling Yields  Debt tied to Argentina’s official  consumer price index  has
lost 13 percent this year, partly because of the inflation
dispute, compared with an average return of 4.5 percent in Latin
America. Yields on the Argentine notes reached a seven-month
high of 10.05 percent on April 29. Argentine inflation bonds
returned 57 percent last year, while similar Latin American
notes rose 24 percent, according to Barclays Plc.  The current director of the statistics institute, Norberto
Itzcovich, dismissed the private inflation estimates as
“scribblings” that contained “embarrassing shortcomings” in
an April 7 interview with newspaper Tiempo Argentino.  Bevacqua -- an engineer’s daughter from Rosario, a port
town in the heart of Argentina’s farmlands -- said she first
became aware of pressure to under-report price increases in May
2006, when she and her department head were summoned to the
office of Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno.  ‘I Became Scared’  “When we entered the room, I became scared,” said
Bevacqua, who had prepared the data for six years. “He had put
on classical music, and I thought it was because he didn’t want
people outside to hear what he was going to say. He said that if
we didn’t aim for zero inflation, we were unpatriotic.”  Moreno and presidential spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro
didn’t respond to three e-mails and five phone calls to their
offices asking for comment on changes at the statistics agency
and Moreno’s meetings with Bevacqua.  At that first meeting, and in another attended by then-
Economy Minister Felisa Miceli, Moreno belittled and made fun of
her, as well as questioning the institute’s methodology,
Bevacqua said. Miceli declined to comment when Bloomberg
contacted her assistant by telephone.  During the first meeting, Moreno pulled a shirt from a pile
of clothing next to his desk and waved it in the air,
challenging Bevacqua to explain how its value was reflected in
the index, she said. Her responses were treated with contempt,
said Bevacqua, who has been a statistician specializing mainly
in foreign trade and  consumer spending  since moving to Buenos
Aires 30 years ago.  ‘Permanently Harassed’  “We were permanently harassed” and “didn’t have time to
do what we usually did,” she said of the months between May
2006 and her demotion, as her staff was barraged with requests
for details on how they calculated the indexes.  Since she left the government, Bevacqua said she has been
jobless, even though she’s applied for work at a number of
companies. She’s continued to produce a consumer price index,
with the help of economics students from the University of
Buenos Aires, which she distributes free, receiving no
remuneration for her work. She said she also has provided advice
on statistics to private and public institutes in Argentina and
abroad, though she declined to provide further details.  “My accounts are in the red,” she said of her financial
situation, adding that she’s had to give up movies, dinners out
and her gym membership. A keen hockey player from age 12 to 19,
she now runs to keep fit. Her experience also has affected her
morale, causing her family to worry about her health, said
Bevacqua, adding that she avoids going near her old office
“because I get too upset.”  ‘Improve Operations’  Kirchner, who died from a heart attack in October, defended
the personnel changes at the institute, saying in a Feb. 6,
2007, speech that they were intended “to improve operations.”
Since the changes, economists and politicians including Vice
President Julio Cobos and Kirchner’s former Economy Minister
Roberto Lavagna have called for the need to restore confidence
in Argentina’s data.  “The initial goal was to get into the 2007 presidential
elections without acknowledging the actual inflation rates,”
Victor Beker, former director of economic statistics at the
institute from 1984 to 1987, said in a telephone interview.
“From that point forward, reporting the real inflation would
have shown that the official statistics had been previously
manipulated.”  Higher Salaries  Rising prices have been fueled by escalating public
spending, official policies encouraging higher salaries and
consumer demand, and a surge in  money supply  as the central bank
purchases dollars flowing into the country from record farm
exports.  Government policies, including the inflation dispute, have
deterred foreign investment in Argentina. Even though economic
growth averaged 5.6 percent per year from 2008 through last
year, investment totaled $2.2 billion in the first half of 2010,
compared with $17.1 billion in  Brazil , $8 billion in  Chile  and
$3.4 billion in  Peru , according to the Santiago-based United
Nations Economic Commission for  Latin America .  Last year, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  sought
IMF help in creating a new national consumer price index to
reflect regional differences in consumption habits; it
eventually will replace the current inflation report, said
Economy Minister  Amado Boudou . Last month, a mission from the
Washington-based lender met with officials from four provincial
statistics agencies, leaving a report with “specific
recommendations on the design and methodology for developing a
new national CPI,” said Carlos Medeiros, an adviser in the
IMF’s Western Hemisphere department.  ‘Playing for Time’  “The government is playing for time and wants to be seen
to be trying to fix things in order to stem the scandal,” said
Marcela Almeida, 41, who worked for Bevacqua as coordinator of
inflation data. She also was demoted and is suing the institute.  Even as a private citizen, Bevacqua still is subject to
action from the authorities. In March, she was among a group of
private researchers who were fined 500,000 pesos each for
producing statistics the government said didn’t comply with
“appropriate methodological requirements.”  As a result of pressure from the government,  Economia y
Regiones SA , an economic-research company led by former Economy
Ministry official Rogelio Frigerio, said it no longer publishes
its estimates.  “As long as the unjust persecution we suffer, violating
our freedom of speech, doesn’t stop, Economia y Regiones will
stop making public the reports on prices,” the Buenos Aires-
based company said in a March 16 e-mailed statement. A few days
later, the government still levied a 500,000-peso fine.  Professional Independence  “A statistics agency must be professionally independent,”
Pali Lehohla, the head of  South Africa ’s statistics agency and
statistics chairman for the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission
for  Africa , said in an April 20 interview from Johannesburg.  He cited the Bevacqua case at a  UN seminar  in February on
“Threats and Responses” to the agencies. The difference in
credibility between the Argentine government’s current reports
and those under Bevacqua “affirms the work she was doing,”
Lehohla said.  Bevacqua says she will continue to publish her own
inflation data, even though her stance means that if she loses
her appeal against the 500,000-peso fine, she may have to sell
her two-bedroom apartment in Buenos Aires’s Palermo
neighborhood.  “The only thing I don’t want to lose is my prestige and
credibility,” she said. “If I stop now it would be like
admitting that they are right and my fight over the past four
years has been in vain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  