-- 
Harper Goal of Majority Threatened by Layton Surge to 32% in Canada Polls

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-03T01:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/harper-goal-of-majority-threatened-by-layton-surge-to-32-in-canada-polls.html
Voting has ended in most of  Canada  in
today’s general election, the fourth in seven years, in which
Prime Minister Stephen Harper is seeking his first majority
government and New Democratic Party leader  Jack Layton  aims to
ride his surging popularity to become the leader of the
opposition.  While Harper’s Conservatives have led every poll since the
vote was called March 26, their support flattened in the past
week while the NDP has risen at the expense of the Liberals and
 Bloc Quebecois . That increases the possibility that Harper will
again be denied the majority that eluded him in  2006 and 2008 .  Canada’s dollar fell against 13 of 16 major currencies in
April amid concern the NDP may end up with a share of power, or
create gridlock for a Conservative minority government. At stake
are tax reductions worth C$6 billion ($6.3 billion) annually for
businesses such as Toronto-based Bank of Nova Scotia, which both
the NDP and the Liberals have pledged to reverse.  “The uncertainty is the wild card,” said  Craig Wright ,
chief economist at Toronto-based Royal  Bank of Canada . “The
range of outcomes is pretty wide.”  Polls suggest the likeliest outcome is that Harper, in
power since 2006 and leader of his party since 2003, will win
his third consecutive minority government. The Conservatives had
37 percent support among decided voters, according to a
CTV/Globe/Nanos tracking poll published May 1. That’s down from
a campaign high of 42 percent on April 4.  Campaign Moves  The NDP had 32 percent support, a gain of 12 percentage
points from the first poll of the campaign. The Liberals had 21
percent, down from 29 percent. The Bloc Quebecois, which
supports separation from Canada and only runs candidates in the
French-speaking province, fell to 5.7 percent from 9.1 percent.
The telephone poll, taken April 30 and May 1, surveyed 1,200
eligible voters and has a margin of error of 2.8 percent.  In the 2008 election, the Conservatives won  143 seats  with
38 percent of the vote, the Liberals took 77 seats with 26
percent of the vote and the NDP won 37 seats with 18 percent.  A Harper majority is possible if NDP support softens and
the Conservatives do better than predicted in Ontario, the
largest province. Rising NDP support can help the Conservatives
in Ontario, where their main rival in most districts is the
Liberals. It can hurt Harper’s party in western provinces such
as British Columbia and Saskatchewan where the NDP is the main
opponent.  As his poll numbers plateaued and the NDP’s rose in the
past week, Harper turned his focus to Layton’s party, saying its
 economic policies  offered the clearest reason why Canadians
should elect a majority Conservative government.  ‘Lot of Destruction’  Harper has said the NDP’s platform, which promises C$68.9
billion of new spending, will create a “lot of destruction”
for the economy because it would increase corporate tax rates
and implement a cap-and-trade system for carbon that would boost
the price of gasoline.  “What is the alternative, what exactly would an NDP
government look like?” Harper told supporters at a rally in
Prince  Edward Island  yesterday. “An NDP government means higher
gas prices, smaller paychecks and a weaker economy.”  Harper, 52, oversees the fastest growing economy with the
lowest deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has
been the strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.
 Government bonds  have returned 5.5 percent over the past year as
of April 30, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data, compared with a 2.9 percent average for the G-7.  Won’t ‘Unnerve Markets’  “If the Conservatives stay in power I don’t think it will
unnerve markets,” Royal Bank’s Wright said.  Harper finished his campaign today in Calgary, where the
constituency he represents in Parliament is located, after
travelling across the country from Prince Edward Island to
British Columbia yesterday.  Layton, 60, who closed his campaign in Toronto today, has
defended his economic policies by saying he would provide a
stable environment for business. He also has had to fend off
attacks that he would threaten the independence of the Bank of
Canada after Reuters reported him as saying he wanted the
central bank to keep  interest rates  low.  As well, Layton had to respond to newspaper reports that
police cautioned him after he was found naked in a massage
clinic in 1996. Layton, who was not charged in the incident,
called the reports a “smear.”  Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff , 63, spent the final hours
of the campaign in Ontario in constituencies where his party is
in close contention with the Conservatives and NDP.  Polling hours are staggered across six time zones. Voting
began in the eastern province of Newfoundland at 8:30 a.m. (7
a.m. New York time), and closes in the western province of
British Columbia 15 hours later. Polls in Atlantic Canada closed
at 7:30 p.m. New York time, and will close at 9:30 p.m. in five
other provinces, including Quebec and Ontario. Polls in British
Columbia close at 10 p.m.  About 24 million Canadian voters are eligible to vote in
the country’s 308 constituencies. Every seat in the House of
Commons is up for election. More than 2 million people have
already cast ballots in advance voting that took place April 22
- April 25, an increase of 34 percent from the last election in
2008, the country’s elections  agency said  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 