-- 
Asia Seeks to Diversify Record Foreign-Exchange Reserves as Dollar Falls

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-03T12:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/asia-seeks-to-diversify-record-reserves-as-u-s-dollar-declines.html
Asian nations are pooling funds to
strengthen regional investment, in a step toward diversifying
record foreign-exchange holdings as the U.S. dollar declines.  Ten Southeast Asian nations, along with  China ,  Japan  and
South Korea, plan to discuss an infrastructure fund to boost
investment in roads, ports and utilities at a meeting of finance
officials that started today in Hanoi. Policy makers have agreed
to look for “new avenues” for reserves, the Philippine central
bank chief said last month, urging greater use of China’s yuan.  More than a decade after the 1997-98 Asian crisis depleted
reserves and forced countries from Indonesia to South Korea to
seek bailouts, the region’s holdings have risen to about $6
trillion, half held by China. With the dollar remaining the
dominant reserve asset, the currency’s decline threatens to
erode returns on Asia’s stockpile.  “Asia needs to use its reserves more productively
regardless of whether it is to set up financial safety nets or
to invest more,” said Rajat Nag, managing director of the  Asian
Development Bank , which holds its annual meeting May 3-6 in
Hanoi. “We are long gone past that situation in the late ‘90s,
and Asian countries need to make more aggressive investments
with their reserves, including in infrastructure.”  The Dollar Index had a fifth monthly loss in April. The
gauge, which tracks the dollar against the currencies of six
major U.S. trading partners, fell 3.9 percent last month and is
down 7.4 percent this year. It was little changed today at 73.18
as of 3:50 p.m. in Singapore.  Yuan Bonds  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco last
month said Philippine policy makers are “carefully studying”
yuan bonds to diversify reserves.  “There is a trend among most major countries to diversify
their reserves in order to spread the risks,” South Korean
Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in an interview in Hanoi
today. “Korea is not an exception to that.”  “There is a cost to having an overly large stock of
foreign exchange,” Philip Schellekens, a senior economist at
the  World Bank , said in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur  last week.
“It doesn’t earn you a lot of money to hold liquid forms of
foreign currency. There are better ways to invest those.”  Schellekens added that the accumulation of reserves is in
excess of what nations need for precautionary measures.
Countries such as China should deploy its reserves for domestic
purposes such as education and health care, he said.  Currency Gains  Asia ’s reserves are a product of export earnings, capital
inflows and efforts to limit gains in currencies across the
region. China has kept the yuan’s advance to about 5 percent
versus the dollar in the past year.  U.S. and European policy makers have called on Asia to
embrace stronger exchange rates to help rebalance global growth.
Group of 20 policy makers in February listed public debt and
fiscal deficits, private debt and savings rates, trade balances
and net investment-income flows and transfers as criteria to use
as yardsticks for when dangerous world imbalances are developing.  Foreign-exchange reserves were omitted at the behest of
China, which held more than $3 trillion of the assets at the end
of March.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves have exceeded a
“reasonable” level and the management and diversification of
the holdings should be improved, central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said April 18. China Investment Corp., the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, will receive $100 billion to $200 billion
from the government, the Financial Times said last month.  Capital Flows  While facing similar challenges, Asian countries have so
far shown little appetite for regional coordination, with a
number pursuing individual efforts to restrict inflows of
speculative capital.  South Korea  has implemented tax measures,
while Indonesia has required overseas investors to hold some
securities for set periods.  ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda today told reporters that
 capital controls  are appropriate in some cases, and cited
exchange-rate swings as a “serious problem” for East Asia.  Cooperation remains a goal: among steps planned is a $700
million Credit Guarantee and Investment Facility that will back
local-currency denominated bonds issued by companies in the
region. The aim is to make it easier for firms to issue such
debt with longer maturities, according to the ADB, a Manila-
based development lender.  Infrastructure Fund  Southeast Asian nations, along with the Asian Development
Bank, are now setting up a $485.2 million fund to invest in
infrastructure, the region’s finance ministers said in April.  Association of Southeast Asian nations insurance officials
are exploring risk financing options and mechanisms that can be
developed as part of the regional framework for disaster
management and disaster risk reduction, the ministers said.  In March 2010, a $120 billion pool of reserves by the group
of 13 Asian nations came into effect, designed to provide
members with support through currency-swap transactions in times
of liquidity shortages. The facility, a broadening of an earlier
framework consisting bilateral swaps, hasn’t been used.  South Korea’s Yoon proposed in February that the 13 Asian
countries should try to double the foreign-currency reserve pool
to over $240 billion in case of capital flight.  During the 2009 credit crunch, Asian nations such as
 Indonesia  choose to seek help from its neighbors instead of
borrowing from the  International Monetary Fund , which led the
bailouts of the late 1990s. Indonesia raised $5.5 billion in
standby loans from the ADB, World Bank, Australia and Japan. It
also increased the size of currency-swap arrangements with China
and Japan to bolster access to foreign exchange.  Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, said officials must also focus on faster
integration between their economies.  “Setting up such regional funds is another line of defense
when crises happen as most of them already have quite reserves
which they will tap on first,” he said. “The immediate steps
should be to focus on how to improve on trade and financial
integration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  