-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Silver Plunges on Higher Margins

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-02T22:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/asia-commodity-day-ahead-commodities-beat-financial-assets.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Silver Plunges as Higher Margins Curb Trading; Gold at Record  Silver futures plunged the most since January as exchange
owner CME Group Inc. raised the cash deposit required for
trading after prices reached a 31-year high last week. Gold
extended its rally to a record.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Arcelor Says Steel Exports From  Brazil  Not Viable on Real (1)  Steelmakers operating in Brazil are focusing on the
domestic market after the appreciation of the local currency
made exports “unviable,” said ArcelorMittal, the world’s
largest producer of the metal.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  U.S. Steel Output May Rise by One-Third in 2010 (Update1)  U.S. steelmakers may raise output by a third this year as
the economy begins to recover, Nucor Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Dan DiMicco said today.  Copper Rebounds From Seven-Week Low as Dollar Extends Slump  Copper rebounded from the lowest price in almost seven
weeks after the dollar extended its longest slump in 17 years,
boosting the appeal of the metal as an inflation hedge.  MINING:  Arch to Acquire International Coal for Steelmaking Assets (1)  Arch Coal Inc.’s $3.4 billion acquisition of International
Coal Group Inc. will make it the second-largest U.S. coking-coal
producer at a time when prices are soaring amid demand from
 China  and  India .  AGRICULTURE:  Rains Slow U.S. Corn, Wheat, Cotton Planting, USDA Says (1)  U.S. corn planting is behind the average pace of the past
five years after excessive rains left some Midwest fields too
wet for heavy farm machinery. Seeding of spring wheat and cotton
also slowed.  Cotton Falls as China Demand May Slow;  Orange Juice  Gains  Cotton fell for the fifth time in six sessions on signs
that manufacturings slowed in China, the world’s largest buyer.
Orange juice jumped to a seven-week high.  Corn, Soybeans Fall as Dry Weather to Aid Planting; Wheat Drops  Corn and soybeans fell on speculation that drier, warmer
weather in the next 10 days will allow farmers to accelerate
planting, improving prospects for crops in U.S., the world’s
largest exporter. Wheat futures also declined.  Hogs Gain on Rising Pork Demand, Tight Supply; Cattle Decline  Hog futures rose for the first time in almost two weeks,
halting the longest losing streak since 2008, on speculation
that demand for U.S. pork will climb as supply tightens. Cattle
prices declined.  Louis Dreyfus Takes Delivery of 895,232 Tons of ICE Sugar (1)  A unit of commodity trader Louis Dreyfus Corp. took
delivery of raw sugar to settle expiring New York futures
contracts with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc., exchange data show  India May Consider Wheat Exports After Local Buying Complete (1)  India, the world’s second-biggest wheat producer, may
consider lifting a ban on wheat exports after local purchases
are completed by the end of this month, a government official
told journalists today in  New Delhi .  ECONOMIES:  Yuan at 17-Year High May Accelerate Before Summit: China Credit  China, battling the biggest increase in consumer prices
since 2008, may allow faster gains in the yuan to appease U.S.
politicians ahead of an annual summit in the U.S. next week, if
history is a guide.  Manufacturing Leading U.S. Economy on Exports, Inventories (1)  Manufacturing expanded faster than forecast in April,
driven by gains in exports and inventories that are keeping the
industry at the forefront of the U.S. economic expansion.  Fed Says Banks Eased Lending Terms, Demand for Loans Rose (2)  Banks eased lending terms in the first quarter as they
forecast improvement in the U.S. economy and companies sought
more loans, according to a Federal Reserve survey.  Geithner Says Ultimate Deadline on Debt Limit Pushed to August  By taking “extraordinary measures,” the U.S. can keep
borrowing until Aug. 2 after reaching its $14.29 trillion legal
debt limit no later than May 16 unless Congress acts, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Fall as Drop in Oil Companies Overshadows  Bin Laden   U.S. stocks retreated, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index down from the highest level since June 2008, as a slump in
commodity producers overshadowed optimism spurred by the death
of  Osama bin Laden .  Oil Drops First Day in Four on Bin Laden Death, Manufacturing  Crude oil  dropped for the first time in four days after al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed in  Pakistan  and a report
showed manufacturing cooled in April.  SPORTS:  NBA’s  Sacramento Kings  Drop Relocation Bid Aimed at Anaheim (1)  The owners of the Sacramento Kings abandoned their plan to
move the National Basketball Association franchise to  Southern
California  for at least a year, the Maloof family said in a
statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 