-- 
Mass-Evacuation Tests at Nuclear Plants ‘Difficult,’ Jaczko Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-02T19:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/mass-evacuation-tests-at-nuclear-plants-difficult-jaczko-says.html
Testing the evacuation of residents
near U.S. atomic power plants would be difficult before an
emergency, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko 
said.  Running “mass evacuations on a trial basis” is a
challenge, Jaczko said today in Washington, answering a question
from  Ralph Nader , founder of  Public Citizen , which opposes
nuclear power.  Evacuation plans are being examined in the agency’s 90-day
review after a 9-magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami
knocked out power to reactors at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, leading to the release of radiation.  Policy makers such as New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, a
Democrat, say  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point plant, which is about
35 miles (56 kilometers) north of Manhattan, is too close to  New
York City  and should be shut.  Nader said Jaczko would be in charge of “possibly the most
difficult evacuation process in U.S. history” in the event of a
nuclear accident or reactor sabotage that threatened to release
radiation. He said “real-life drills” should be conducted of
all evacuation plans.  State, local and utility officials conduct exercises every
two years at nuclear plants to test emergency communications. He
called those test “a reasonable approximation for how the
evacuations should work,” Jaczko said.  Gwen DuBois, a member of  Physicians for Social
Responsibility , said she wasn’t confident the commission “would
ask all the very hardest questions” about plans for worst-case
scenarios at nuclear facilities.  The U.S. called on Americans living within 50 miles of the
damaged facility in  Japan  to evacuate after the March 11
accident. The commission requires plant operators to plan for
evacuations outside a 10-mile radius of a reactor. Jaczko has
said the commission is reviewing whether to expand the required
evacuation zone in its review of safety rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  