-- 
Massachusetts Court Hears Pivotal Mortgage-Transfer Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-02T16:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/massachusetts-court-hears-pivotal-mortgage-transfer-case-in-foreclosure.html
A  Massachusetts  man should be allowed
to keep property he bought from U.S. Bancorp even though the
bank didn’t have the right to foreclose on the previous owner, a
lawyer argued before the state’s highest court.  The Massachusetts  Supreme Judicial Court  heard oral
arguments today in the appeal of a lower-court  decision  that
said the buyer of residential property in Haverhill,
Massachusetts, never owned it because U.S. Bancorp foreclosed
before it got the mortgage. If that decision is upheld it could
have wide implications in the foreclosure crisis in which banks
are accused of clouding home titles through sloppy transferring
of mortgages. The high court will rule at a later date.  The lower court’s “statement that my client received
nothing is what we disagree with,” Jeffrey Loeb, a lawyer for
so-called third-party buyer Francis J. Bevilacqua III told the
panel today.  The state high court already ruled Jan. 7 in a different
case,  U.S. Bank  v. Ibanez, that banks can’t foreclose on a house
if they don’t own the mortgage. That case didn’t address the
status of those who buy property from someone after an invalid
foreclosure.  “If the decision is upheld, and generally applied, it
likely will have adverse implications for hundreds or even
thousands of Massachusetts property owners if they find
themselves in Bevilacqua’s shoes,” the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  wrote in a friend-of-the-court brief.  Bundled Mortgages  Claims of wrongdoing by banks and loan servicers triggered
a 50-state investigation last year into whether thousands of
U.S. foreclosures were properly documented during the housing
collapse.  Bevilacqua’s case could affect trusts that bundled
mortgages and sold securities to investors. Like the Ibanez
case, the court’s decision may resonate with other states as
they grapple with the rights of new homebuyers who may hesitate
to complete a purchase for fear of uncertain title. That may be
especially so in states such as Massachusetts that don’t require
court action to seize a house.  “The Massachusetts case will have significant
repercussions in many states that allow nonjudicial
foreclosure,”  Alan White , a law professor at Valparaiso
University in  Indiana , said in an April 27 e-mail. “The
decision in Bevilacqua will not only determine the fate of past
foreclosure sale deeds, but hopefully provide guidance so that
lenders and their lawyers can get it right going forward.”  Four Condominiums  The Ibanez and Bevilacqua cases both originated before
Massachusetts Land Court Judge Keith C. Long in Boston.  Bevilacqua went to Long’s court to force the original owner
to say whether he had a claim on the property. A city assessment
 website  lists four condominiums at the location with four
separate owners and a total value of $600,300.  In August, Long ruled that Bevilacqua wasn’t the property’s
owner and didn’t have standing to inquire about claims. U.S.
Bancorp, which oversees the mortgage-backed trust containing the
loan, conducted an invalid foreclosure because it didn’t
properly own the mortgage when it sold the property to
Bevilacqua in 2006, Long said. The mortgage was assigned to it
after the  foreclosure sale  by Merscorp Inc.’s Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems, a national database of
mortgages.  All Bevilacqua had was a deed from an invalid foreclosure
sale, the judge said.  ‘Try-Title’ Statute  The servicer of the mortgage-backed trust the loan was in
would have handled the foreclosure and sale, not U.S. Bancorp,
Teri Charest, a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based bank, said
in January. U.S. Bancorp isn’t a party to the Bevilacqua case.  In their appeal brief, Bevilacqua’s lawyers argue that Long
confused requirements for the law used to prove one’s title to a
property with those for the law their client sued under, the so-
called try-title statute, through which one party seeks to force
another to assert or waive a potential claim on the property.  Loeb, Bevilacqua’s lawyer, at Rich May PC in  Boston , told
the court today that his client had the right to bring the try-
title case because he had “record title” to the property
through the deed he got from U.S. Bancorp.  Richard A. Oetheimer, a lawyer at Goodwin Procter LLP in
Boston for the mortgage bankers’ group, also argued today that
Bevilacqua had record title.  Bevilacqua should have been aware that U.S. Bancorp didn’t
have the right to sell the property to him when it did, Max
Weinstein, a lawyer with the WilmerHale Legal Services Center of
 Harvard Law School , told the court.  ‘Innocent’ Purchaser  “It matters not that you are the most pure-hearted and
innocent of purchasers,” Weinstein said.  “While Mr. Bevilacqua’s situation engenders some sympathy,
he lacks standing to bring a try title action,” Massachusetts
Assistant Attorney General John M. Stephan told the court.  Justice Robert J. Cordy asked Stephan about the potential
of thousands of people buying mortgages after faulty
foreclosures that had been transferred many times.  “They are all void and that’s a situation that you’re
comfortable with?” Cordy asked.  Stephan said there are other remedies available. A common
one the state has seen is the original borrower giving a release
to the third-party purchaser. Other possibilities are suing the
bank or other party that sold the property after an invalid
foreclosure, conducting a second and proper foreclosure against
the defaulting homeowner or using a Massachusetts law that
grants ownership of a property after possessing it for three
years, Stephan said.  “My client wants the property,” Loeb said in response to
a question from Justice Ralph D. Gants about the possibility of
Bevilacqua canceling his purchase.  The case is Bevilacqua v. Rodriguez, 10880,  Supreme
Judicial Court  of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 