-- 
H&R Block Sued by Antitrust Division to Stop Purchase of TaxAct Software

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-23T22:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/at-t-s-t-mobile-bid-said-to-be-subject-to-longer-justice-department-review.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  sued  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)  to stop its proposed purchase of the owner of TaxAct
products, saying the companies’ merger would stifle competition
and raise prices in the growing market for consumer tax-
preparation software.  The department claimed in an antitrust complaint filed
today in federal court in Washington that the deal would
eliminate a company that has competed aggressively with H&R
Block and “disrupted” the U.S. digital do-it-yourself tax-
preparation market through low pricing and product innovation.  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, agreed to
buy closely held 2SS Holdings Inc., the developer of TaxAct
digital tax-preparation products, on Oct. 13 in a transaction
valued at $287.5 million.  “The documents we acquired from the parties during the
course of our investigation will show that the principal purpose
of the transaction was to eliminate a competitor,”  Christine Varney , the head of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division,
said during a conference call today.  An end of head-to-head competition between TaxAct and H&R
Block would leave only two major providers of digital tax-
preparation services for consumers, the department said in a
statement.  ‘Stifle’ Growth  William C. Cobb, H&R Block’s president and chief executive
officer, said today in an e-mailed statement that the Justice
Department’s decision would “stifle smart business growth.”  Cobb said the Justice Department had rejected guarantees it
wouldn’t raise prices as a result of the acquisition. “The
synergies and enhanced functionalities realized from this merger
would create a more competitive landscape for tax preparation,”
Cobb said. “We continue to believe this merger makes sense, is
pro-competitive and will greatly benefit consumers.”  H&R Block “will explore all legal options with regard to
this matter,” according to the statement.  H&R Block, based in  Kansas City , Missouri, fell 7 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $16.26 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  “Companies that are mavericks, innovators and price
cutters have a special portent to the market,” said  John
Briggs , co-chairman of Axinn, Veltrop, Harkrider LLP’s antitrust
group and managing partner of the law firm’s  Washington  office.
“They may be small, but they are nimble and quick and they can
have a big impact by bending the conduct of the elephants to the
most innovative level.”  If the documents obtained by the Justice Department do show
H&R Block’s main motivation in buying TaxAct was to eliminate a
competitor, that’s “a gigantic red flag,” Briggs said. “I
would be surprised if the deal is still alive in five days.”  Blocked Deals  The Justice Department has blocked several transactions it
viewed as anticompetitive in the past month. On May 12, it sued
to block  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  from buying  Hypercom Corp. (HYC)  saying
the proposed deal would hurt competition in the market for
point-of-sale terminals.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  on May 16 abandoned their plan to
buy NYSE Euronext after the department said it would challenge
the deal in court. Had the transaction been completed, Nasdaq
OMX would have gained a monopoly on stock listings in the U.S.  The H&R Block case is another example of the Antitrust
Division suing over anticompetitive concerns rather than
negotiating a remedy with companies, said  David Balto , an
antitrust lawyer and senior fellow at the  Center for American
Progress , a Washington research group that favors Democratic
policies.  “Christine Varney has turned into General Patton,” Balto
said in a phone interview. The department increasingly “looks
at litigation as a critical element to helping consumers.”  Conditional Approvals  Varney has been better-known for approving transactions
with conditions, such as the April 8 decision to allow Google
Inc.’s $700 million purchase of ITA Software Inc., a maker of
travel information software.  Other deals forged with constraints by Varney include the
settlement for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s purchase of  NBC Universal  in
January and the department’s approval of Ticketmaster
Entertainment Inc.’s merger with Live Nation Inc. in January
2010.  As many as 40 million taxpayers use digital software
products to prepare and file federal and state income taxes, the
department said in the statement e-mailed today. Three companies
account for 90 percent of all sales of digital, do-it-yourself
tax preparation products, the department said.  The purchase of TaxAct by H&R Block would combine the
second and third-largest providers of these products, according
to the department’s complaint.  Julie Miller, a spokeswoman for  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , whose TurboTax
product is the most widely used digital and online software for
tax preparation, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. H&R Block, 1:11-cv-00948, U.S. District
Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  