-- 
AT&T Takes On Groupon With $10 Promotion for Daily Deal Site

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-02T20:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/at-t-will-take-on-groupon-with-10-promotion-at-daily-discount-deal-site.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , aiming to tap the billion-
dollar market for online coupons dominated by Groupon Inc., will
introduce its own discount site in about a month in  Los Angeles ,
Atlanta and Dallas-Fort Worth.  The site, on its  yellowpages.com  subsidiary, is sweetening
the deal for consumers who register with a $10 credit beginning
today, said Dawn Benton, an AT&T spokeswoman.  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, will have
to compete in the market against Groupon and a growing number of
new entrants, including Facebook Inc. and  New York Times Co. (NYT) 
Facebook, the social networking site with more than 500 million
users, last month said it is trialing a daily coupon site in
five U.S. cities.  The U.S. daily deals market, with discounts of as much as
90 percent at restaurants, clothing stores and nail salons, will
grow to $3.93 billion in 2015, from $1.25 billion this year,
according to  a projection  from BIA/Kelsey in March. Under the
most favorable conditions, sales could reach as much as $6.1
billion, the Chantilly, Virginia-based consulting firm said.  AT&T plans to roll out the daily deal site to other cities
and offer it on mobile devices, said Benton. She declined to say
which businesses may be part of the initial trial.  Market leader Groupon, based in  Chicago , is planning an
initial public offering later this year that would value the
company at between $15 billion and $25 billion, two people
familiar with the plans said last month.  In a bid to stand out from the growing crowd of daily deal
competitors, which include LivingSocial.com, the website also
recently introduced a new service called Groupon Now that
presents users with bargains based on their location.  Dallas-based AT&T rose 9 cents to $31.21 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  