-- 
Audi Plans Extra Shifts to Trim Waiting Times for SUV Models

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-03T09:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/audi-plans-extra-shifts-to-trim-waiting-times-for-suv-models.html
Audi,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s luxury brand,
will add shifts to ease waiting times for models including the
Q7 sport-utility vehicle, which starts at $46,250.  Audi plans additional weekend work this month at its two
main German factories to increase production, Chief Financial
Officer Axel Strotbek said in an interview yesterday.  “The extra shifts are required by the good order book,”
Strotbek said by phone from Audi’s headquarters in Ingolstadt,
 Germany . “The delivery times of several models are higher than
we’d like.”  Demand for Audi vehicles fueled a surge in VW’s first-
quarter earnings before interest and taxes, which more than
tripled to a record 2.91 billion euros ($4.3 billion).
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and Audi
are targeting their highest-ever sales this year, lifted by
growing wealth in  China  and a rebound in spending in the U.S.  BMW, the world’s luxury-car leader, said in March it may
add production capacity in Brazil, even as it expands in China
and India to keep pace with demand. Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said that handling the level of orders has
been a “tour de force” for the production team.  “Demand for luxury cars is being driven by China, the U.S.
and Europe,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Commerzbank AG. “Although we’re at historical levels, it
doesn’t look like we’ve hit the peak yet.”  ‘Profitable Growth’  VW’s plans to add factories and models will ensure
“profitable growth” at  Europe ’s biggest carmaker in coming
years, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said today at
the annual shareholders meeting in Hamburg.  “We’re now laying the foundations for profitable growth in
all segments and business fields,” Winterkorn said in his
speech. “VW moved into the fast lane in 2010; that’s where we
intend to keep the company in coming years.”  VW will introduce 30 models and vehicle upgrades in the
coming months across its brands, including Audi and Czech unit
Skoda, the CEO said. VW is expanding operations in China and
will open a U.S. factory in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on May 24.  Audi sold 18 percent more cars and SUVs in the first
quarter, a total of 312,600 units, and April deliveries confirm
that the VW division is on track to achieve its full-year target
of delivering more than 1.2 million vehicles, Strotbek said.  “Demand in the SUV segment has accelerated sharply,” the
CFO said. “The Q7 has the longest waiting times, but the Q5 is
also enjoying enormously high popularity.”  Porsche Merger  Volkswagen, which aims to merge with Porsche SE to
strengthen its position in luxury cars and overtake  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest carmaker, is proposing a dividend
of 2.20 euros per common share at today’s meeting.  Winterkorn reiterated today revenue and Ebit will increase
this year as demand rises in China. VW’s Chinese joint ventures,
which aren’t included in the group’s operating profit,
contributed an additional 557 million euros in first-quarter
earnings, the carmaker said last week.  “2011 looks set to be a good year despite the economic
uncertainties,” the CEO said today. “Both for the automotive
industry and for Volkswagen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  