-- 
Australia’s Wealth Fund Dumps Cluster Bomb, Mine Makers on Treaty

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T05:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australia-wealth-fund-dumps-cluster-bomb-mine-makers-on-treaty.html
Australia’s sovereign wealth fund
dumped holdings in mine and cluster bomb makers as the nation
prepares to ratify a treaty banning the weapons.  The  Future Fund , which has A$74.6 billion ($81.7 billion)
in assets, this year excluded 10 companies involved in making
munitions from its investments, including selling two of its
three biggest defense holdings in  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , Will Hetherton, a fund spokesman, said
in e-mailed comments.  The fund, established in 2006 to cover the pension costs of
retiring lawmakers, judges and public servants, had A$239
million invested in defense and aerospace as of Dec. 31,
according to portfolio holdings obtained by Bloomberg News
through an Australian Freedom of Information Act request.  “Having initially excluded a number of companies on the
basis of very clear evidence, during 2010 we undertook a
rigorous process to identify and assess companies where evidence
was less strong,” Hetherton said. “As a result we have now
excluded a total of 10 companies and unwound any investments we
held.”  While Australia  joined  more than 90 other countries in
signing the  Convention on Cluster Munitions  in 2008, the nation
has yet to ratify the treaty with legislation currently before
Parliament. The accord prohibits the use, development,
production, stockpiling and transfer of cluster weapons able to
release dozens of “bomblets” over a wide area and which have
been blamed for civilian casualties.  Defense Holdings Sold  Other stocks to be sold include  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) ,
 L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Singapore
Technologies Engineering Ltd. (STE)  The defense investments sold by
the Future Fund had a market value of A$74 million as of Dec.
31, according to the documents, which don’t say when the fund
bought the shares or how much they paid for them.  “We don’t direct the investment decisions of the Future
Fund,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters in Canberra today.
“Cluster bombs, my personal view of those, is that they are
very destructive weapons which can cause enormous amounts of
human misery.”  Lockheed Martin rose 25 percent since the start of 2006 and
the end of last week while General Dynamics is up 28 percent.
The MSCI World Index gained 10 percent in the same period.  The fund’s biggest defense holding is in  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , with a value of A$28.2 million.  Under  legislation  to ratify the treaty, it would be illegal
for an individual or bank to finance or help a company that
develops or produces cluster munitions.  Investment Decisions  “The board’s position is that it will not invest in
economic activities that are illegal in Australia or contravene
conventions,” Hetherton said. “We will continue to monitor the
portfolio and the activities of relevant companies to assess
whether further exclusions become necessary or whether current
exclusions can be removed.”  Cluster bombs have been used by at least 15 countries,
including the U.S.,  Russia , the U.K.,  France  and  Israel ,
according to the  Cluster Munition Coalition , an umbrella group
for 300 civil-society organizations.  “This is important given that  Australia  is a signatory to
the international convention banning these horrendous weapons,”
Michelle Fahy, Canberra-based spokesman at the coalition, said
in e-mailed comments. “Australia has one of the largest
investment markets -- we would really make a difference if our
finance sector ceased financing and investing in the manufacture
of these weapons.”  Sovereign Wealth Funds  The accord is the first international treaty to ban an
entire category of conventional arms.  Established as a statutory authority by the administration
of Prime Minister  John Howard , the fund has its own board.
Oversight is provided by the Treasurer and Minister for Finance
and Deregulation, according to its website.  The Future Fund states its purpose as “accumulating
financial assets sufficient to offset the Commonwealth’s
unfunded superannuation (pension) liabilities by 2020,”
according to a statement of investment policies on its  website .  The fund is the world’s 13th largest sovereign wealth fund
by assets under management, ranked behind the Qatar Investment
Authority, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute,
which analyses the sector. The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority is
the world’s largest with $627 billion, followed by  Norway ’s
Government Pension Fund-Global with $556.8 billion.  Investment Rules  Run by former  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief
Executive Officer David Murray, the fund targets an average
return of at least the rate of the  consumer price index  plus 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent per annum as its long-term benchmark with
an “acceptable, but not excessive, level of risk.”  The fund has faced calls from the Australian Greens, who
helped Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  win power last year, for its
investment rules to be revised since disclosing in March A$147.7
million of tobacco investments.  “It is time for the government to do some soul searching
on where the appropriate place is to invest taxpayers’ funds,”
Greens Party Senator Scott Ludlam said in a phone interview from
Broome, Western Australia. “I congratulate the fund for
divesting the cluster bomb stocks and they probably went further
than the bill before Parliament would have required them to
do.”  The  Future Fund  had A$74.6 billion in assets at March 31,
according to a portfolio update published on its  website  on
April 29. It had A$1.6 billion invested in Australia’s largest
telephone company Telstra Corp., part of the seeded capital
provided by the government when the then state-owned Telstra was
sold to the public. It has a further A$8.5 billion invested in
Australian equities and A$20 billion in international stocks.  The balance of its holdings are in private equity,
property, infrastructure, debt and cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  