-- 
Australian Manufacturing Shrank in April on Record Currency

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-02T06:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australian-manufacturing-shrank-in-april-on-record-currency-1-.html
Australian manufacturing contracted in
April for the seventh time in eight months as a record-high
currency and consumer caution hurt textile and other producers,
a private report showed.  The manufacturing index was 48.4 in April from 47.9 a month
earlier, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
today. A number below 50 indicates contraction.  The nation’s factories are lagging behind the  mining
industry , which is expanding to meet Chinese demand for raw
materials and pushing the job market near a level the government
views as full employment. The Australian currency’s 19 percent
gain against the  U.S. dollar  in the past year has hurt export
competitiveness.  “The continued weakness of the Australian PMI reflects
consumer caution and the substantial erosion in the
competitiveness of the industry related to the volatile and
rising dollar,”  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the
industry group, said in a statement.  “The uncertainty of how
this will evolve is the essence of the pressures on the
industry.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens is likely
to leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent
tomorrow for a fifth straight meeting, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Budget Release  The strength of the local dollar is allowing Stevens to
hold off on rate increases. The currency touched a record
$1.1011 today, the highest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Next week’s federal budget needs to address the challenges
facing manufacturers, Ridout said.  “There is clearly a requirement for more proactive
policies to build productivity in manufacturing through
investments in workforce development;  energy efficiency ; the
exploration of export opportunities” and research-and-
development, she said.  The index’s reading on wages rose 2.9 points to 60.1 and
inventories advanced 1.9 points to 49.3, today’s report showed.
Supplier deliveries climbed 1.7 points to 48.3.  A gauge of employment rose 1.3 points to 45 in April, and
new orders declined 2.7 points to 46.4, the report showed. The
production measure advanced 2.4 points to 53.3.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  