-- 
Australian House Prices Fall Most Since 2008 on Higher Rates

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-02T03:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australian-house-prices-fall-as-higher-borrowing-costs-discourages-buyers.html
Australian  house prices  declined in
the first quarter by the most since 2008 as higher borrowing
costs curbed demand and floods disrupted the  property market  in
Queensland state.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities slid 1.7 percent from
three months earlier, the biggest fall since the third quarter
of 2008, the  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney
today. There was a decrease in transactions in Queensland’s
capital, Brisbane, it said.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has held
rates at 4.75 percent for the past four meetings to help
Queensland’s economy recover from flood and cyclone damage. He
said after last month’s decision that borrowing costs are “a
little above average levels” after seven increases from October
2009 to November last year.  “Conditions were particularly dire in Queensland, with
floods early in the quarter, followed by the associated clean-up,
bringing housing-market activity there to a standstill,” said
Ben Jarman, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.
“Previous interest rate rises -- and importantly the prospect
of more to come -- are keeping prospective buyers sidelined.”  The median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 0.5 percent fall. Prices dropped 0.2 percent from
a year earlier.  Prices fell the most in Melbourne and Brisbane, with
declines of 2.5 percent from the prior quarter, while Sydney
fell 1.8 percent, today’s report showed. Prices advanced 0.5
percent in Perth and Hobart house prices gained 0.4 percent.  Record Currency  After the report,  Australia ’s currency was little changed.
The local dollar traded at $1.0933 as of 1:00 p.m. in Sydney,
from $1.0959 before the data. The so-called Aussie earlier
reached $1.1011, the highest since exchange controls were
scrapped in 1983.  A jump in  home prices  was among reasons Stevens increased
the benchmark rate by 175 basis points from October 2009.  Stevens has said the central bank’s management of the
biggest mining boom in a century has been aided by households
restraining spending. Savings as a share of disposable income
climbed to 9.7 percent from October through December, from 8
percent in the year-earlier period, according to Bureau of
Statistics data.  The RBA’s quarter-point increase in November was followed
by larger rises in the standard variable home-loan rates of
Westpac Banking Corp., National Australia Bank Ltd., Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia .  Twenty-one of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict Stevens and his board will leave the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent when the board releases a policy
statement tomorrow.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  