-- 
Australian Dollar Weakens on Speculation RBA Will Delay any Rate Increase

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-05-03T15:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australian-dollar-is-near-record-high-before-central-bank-policy-meeting.html
The Australian dollar declined against
most of its major counterparts after the central bank left
 interest rates  on hold and traders bet policy makers will extend
the pause until the third quarter.  New Zealand ’s dollar dropped against most peers after a
government report showed private-sector wages grew at a slower
pace than some economists forecast. The Aussie fell for a fourth
day versus the yen as Governor Glenn Stevens said the recent
surge in the currency may “exert additional restraint” on
industries related to trade. Both currencies extended losses as
commodities and Asian equities declined.  “If you were buying Aussie in hopes of a near-term rate
hike then you won’t have been pleased by this statement,” said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney. “They’ve elevated the importance of the
currency to the policy decision and quite rightly. They are
acknowledging that if the  exchange rate  remains at these sorts
of levels, then it would cause greater damage to trade-exposed
industries.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0915 as of 11:21
a.m. in  New York  from $1.0944 yesterday, when it rose to
$1.1012, the strongest since its free float in 1983. The
currency dropped 0.7 percent to 88.26 yen. New Zealand’s dollar
weakened 0.2 percent to 80.47 U.S. cents, and slipped 0.6
percent to 65.09 yen.  There is a 52 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
will raise its benchmark rate to 5 percent by October, down from
62 percent odds yesterday, according to trading in interbank
futures. Bets on a September increase dropped below 50 percent.  The central bank left the benchmark unchanged at 4.75
percent today for a fifth meeting.  ‘Mildly Restrictive’  The RBA “judged that the current mildly restrictive stance
of monetary policy remained appropriate,” Governor Stevens said
in a statement accompanying the decision. “In future meetings,
the board will continue to assess carefully the evolving outlook
for growth and inflation.”  Demand for the Australian and New Zealand dollars was also
dented by falling prices for equities and commodities.  Crude oil declined 1 percent today while the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials slid 0.5 percent.
Commodities make up a majority of exports for  Australia  and New
Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at   nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  