-- 
Australia TD Inflation Gauge Increased 3.6% in April on Health

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-02T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australia-td-inflation-gauge-increased-3-6-in-april-on-health.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s annual
inflation exceeded the top of the central bank’s target range in
April for an eighth straight month amid a seasonal increase in
 health services  and higher automotive fuel costs.  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in the 12 months through
April after a 3.8 percent gain a month earlier, according to an
index compiled by TD Securities Ltd. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney today. They increased 0.3 percent from a
month earlier after a 0.6 percent advance in March.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will keep
the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent for a
fifth meeting tomorrow, according to 21 of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. An earthquake in  Japan  in March, tensions
in the Middle East and natural disasters in northeastern
Australia at the start of the year may slow the nation’s
economic growth.  “We expect the RBA board tomorrow to again signal that it
can comfortably remain on the sidelines for several months to
assess the impact of various natural and geopolitical risks
buffeting global and local economic activity,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in
 Singapore . The RBA is “mindful of building global inflationary
pressure as well as upside risks to domestic inflation next
year.”  Health, Travel  Today’s report showed a seasonal price gain for health
services contributed most to the overall change in April, as
well as increases in overseas holiday travel and accommodation
prices, and a small rise in automotive fuel. These were offset
by a substantial fall in fruit and vegetable prices, and smaller
declines in audio, visual and computing, and household supplies,
the report showed.  The cost of fruit and vegetables slumped 12 percent in
April, following an 11.3 percent rise in March, it showed.  The  Reserve Bank  aims to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent.  “Our inflation gauge continues to tell a tale of
contrasting inflation trends,” Beacher said. “Headline
inflation is printing uncomfortably close to 4 percent while
underlying inflation continues to decelerate.”  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, one of  Canada ’s largest lenders. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  