-- 
Australian Stock Futures Drop on Declines in Commodity Producers, ANZ Bank

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-02T23:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/australian-stock-futures-drop-on-declines-in-commodity-producers-anz-bank.html
Australian stock futures fell,
following U.S. equities lower, as declines in U.S. commodity
producers overshadowed the killing of Osama bin Laden.  American depositary receipts of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, fell 0.4
percent after crude oil prices retreated. Those of BHP Billiton
Ltd, the world’s biggest miner, declined 0.9 percent and
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group lost 0.5 percent. It
shares may move today in Sydney after Australia’s third-biggest
lender by market value reported first-half profit of A$2.66
billion (2.91 billion).  “Attention will be focused on the first of the Australian
banks to report this morning -- being ANZ,”  said  Angus Gluskie ,
who manages about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in
Sydney. “Banks have been strong over the past week against a
backdrop of selling in other market sectors.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index futures contract due in June
fell 0.4 percent to 4,798 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The stocks
gauge has rallied 6.6 percent from this year’s March 15 low amid
the nation’s economic and employment growth. New Zealand’s  NZX
50 Index (NZSE50FG)  dropped as much as 0.2 percent today. Japanese markets
are closed for a public holiday.  Inflation Concerns  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens is
expected to keep the benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent
today after the local currency soared 13 percent to $1.09 since
this year’s low on March 17.  “The RBA’s commentary later today will be scrutinized to
ascertain whether Glenn Stevens is inclined to look through the
one-off, short-term factors in the recent inflationary data,”
Gluskie said.  Futures on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. U.S. stocks fell in New York yesterday from a
near three-year high as producers of energy and raw materials
led declines on the  S&P 500 . The S&P 500 lost 0.2 percent to
1,361.22 in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  was
little changed at 12,807.36.  U.S. economic growth slowed in the first quarter to a 1.8
percent annual rate after a 3.1 percent pace in the final three
months of 2010 as government spending declined and consumer
purchases cooled.  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
fell to 60.4 in April from 61.2 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona- based group said. Other data indicated construction
spending rose more than forecast in March.  European Stocks  European stocks advanced for an eighth straight day, the
longest winning streak in 10 months, on news of  bin Laden ’s
death. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.1 percent
to 283.93 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, a two-month high.
The gauge had the biggest monthly increase so far this year in
April.  European manufacturing growth accelerated more than
estimated in April, driven by higher output in Germany and
France, suggesting the region’s economy is weathering surging
energy costs.  Bin Laden was killed by U.S. operatives after a firefight
at a compound in Pakistan, U.S. President Obama said yesterday.
The news comes almost 10 years after the Sept. 11 attacks on the
World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Virginia,
just outside of Washington.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index of stocks has
risen 6.3 percent this year through yesterday.  Rating Changes  Shares in  Orica Ltd. (ORI)  may move in Sydney. The world’s
largest industrial explosives maker was cut to “sell” from
“hold” by Citigroup Inc. analysts and to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Credit Suisse AG.  GPT Group (GPT)  was cut to “underperform” from “neutral” at
Credit Suisse.  Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA)  was downgraded to “sell”
from “hold” by Royal Bank of Scotland Plc analysts.  OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , the second-largest Australian producer of
the alloy, was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Pacific Brands Ltd. (PBG)  was boosted to
“neutral” from “underweight” at JP Morgan.  China Yangtze Power Co. may be active in Shanghai after
reporting first-quarter net income that rose 443 percent from a
year earlier.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-biggest lender, is in
discussions with banks to raise at least $500 million selling
bonds to investors overseas, according to two people familiar
with the situation.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 