-- 
U.S. April Auto Sales May Rise Ahead of Japan Earthquake Effect

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/automobile-sales-in-u-s-may-have-topped-13-million-annual-pace-in-april.html
U.S. auto sales may have reached a 13
million annual pace for the third straight month, accelerating
from a year earlier, as  consumer confidence  rose before vehicles
produced prior to Japan’s earthquake began to run out.  April light-vehicle deliveries, to be released today, may
have run at a seasonally adjusted 13 million annual rate, the
average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace
was 13.1 million in March and 13.4 million in February,
according to Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than forecast in
April, signaling that six straight months of job growth is
helping Americans endure the highest gasoline prices in almost
three years. Inventories for Japan-based manufacturers such as
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. may begin to dwindle next
month, executives at the largest auto retailers said last week.  “We’re going to get a demand picture that should not be
significantly affected by supply constraints, and that picture
looks pretty good in spite of gas-price headwinds,” Itay Michaeli, an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. The 13 million annual rate
predicted by Citigroup is “a pretty good number with a backdrop
to firmer industry pricing.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, and its Japanese
peers may begin to have shortages of new vehicles beginning this
month and through the rest of the year, said  Mike Jackson , chief
executive officer of AutoNation Inc., the largest U.S. auto
retailer. Weak supply may result in a 30 percent to 50 percent
drop in deliveries of Japanese-brand vehicles this summer in the
U.S., said Earl Hesterberg, CEO of Group 1 Automotive Inc.  Japan Quake  The March 11 earthquake in Japan and ongoing shortages of
parts from the region may result in about 200,000 units of lost
sales this year for Japanese brands that will mostly benefit
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Michaeli said.  GM may report a 14 percent gain in April deliveries, the
average of seven analysts’ estimates. Detroit-based GM is
managing through parts shortages and is unlikely to have
production disruptions, CEO Dan Akerson said last month.  “We’ve managed to stay ahead of the wave,” Akerson said
at a forum hosted by the National Automobile Dealers Association
and IHS Automotive in New York. “I don’t think there’s anything
we see on the horizon that would materially affect the year.”  Ford, which reported a $2.55 billion first-quarter profit
last week, may have increased sales 14 percent in April, the
average of seven estimates. There has been no lost production in
 North America  and the quake will have no “material” impact on
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s earnings, Chief Financial
Officer  Lewis Booth  said.  Hyundai, Kia  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Kia Motors Corp.,  South Korea ’s
biggest carmakers, also have been “relatively unscathed by
Japanese supply shortages,” said  Chris Ceraso , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. The Seoul-based companies’
ability to take market share may be limited compared to GM and
Ford because of their “tight” production capacity in North
America, Ceraso wrote in an April 28 research note.  Hyundai and Kia are running full shifts with overtime at
factories in Montgomery, Alabama, and West Point, Georgia, to
build 10 percent more Sonata and Elantra sedans and additional
Sorento sport-utility vehicles, spokesmen said last month.  While Chrysler Group LLC, operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , may have
the smallest  Japan  supply risk of the major U.S. automakers, it
is disadvantaged by a lineup heavy on pickups and SUVs, said
Jesse Toprak, vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.com.  Chrysler, Fiat  “Chrysler’s exposure to what happened in Japan is quite
limited,” Toprak, who’s based in  Santa Monica ,  California , said
in a telephone interview. “The fact that they had the least-
direct relationship with Japan in terms of supply chain and had
a decent amount of cars and parts in inventory enabled them to
weather the storm with minimal damage thus far.”  Chrysler may say sales climbed 18 percent, the average of
five analysts’ estimates. The Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
automaker yesterday reported first-quarter net income of $116
million, the company’s first since emerging from bankruptcy
reorganization in 2009, as U.S. sales of its Dodge and Jeep
vehicles increased.  Deliveries of the Chrysler brand fell 9.2 percent during
the first quarter, according to Autodata. The company has been
slow to distribute new vehicles such as the Chrysler 200 and 300
sedans, largely because efforts to ensure quality caused delays,
CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday.  ‘Inadequate’ Car Inventory  “We’ve got less than two Chrysler 200s per dealer as of
the end of the first quarter,” Marchionne said during a
conference call with analysts and journalists. “That’s
inadequate to try and get traction.”  Deliveries at Toyota may have risen 1.4 percent in April,
the average of four analysts’ estimates. The Toyota City, Japan-
based company said April 22 it may lose production of 300,000
autos in Japan and 100,000 at plants abroad through the end of
April because of quake-related shutdowns. The automaker has said
it’s unlikely to meet its goal of building 7.7 million cars and
trucks this year.  Sales may have gained 14 percent at Honda, and Nissan Motor
Co. deliveries may have increased 33 percent, the average of
four analysts’ estimates.  Auto sales in Japan fell for the eighth straight month in
April after the earthquake shut down production. Sales of cars,
trucks and buses, excluding minicars, fell 51 percent from a
year earlier to a record-low 108,824 vehicles in April, the
Japan Automobile Dealers Association said in a statement
yesterday.  Gas Prices Rise  Analysts’ expectations for higher U.S. market share in
future months for GM and Ford have been offset by concerns about
higher gas prices and a consumer shift to smaller, less-
profitable cars from pricier SUVs and trucks. The average price
of regular unleaded gasoline in the U.S. was $3.95 a gallon on
May 1, according to AAA. The price peaked at $4.11 in July 2008.  “We don’t feel that gasoline prices will derail the
recovery,”  George Pipas , Ford’s sales analyst, told reporters
yesterday at a briefing in Dearborn, where he predicted a 13
million U.S. auto sales rate for April. “And why? Because
incomes are growing more than the increase in food and fuel
prices.”  GM fell 13 percent this year to close yesterday at $32.18
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford dropped 8
percent in that span to $15.45.  Light-vehicle sales climbed to 11.6 million in 2010 from a
27-year low in 2009. Deliveries still were 31 percent fewer than
the 16.8 million annual average from 2000 to 2007, according to
Autodata. A 13 million rate this month would be a 16 percent
increase from the 11.2 million pace in April 2010.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from April 2010, unadjusted for the difference in selling
days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate, or
SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  April had 27 selling days, one more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 