-- 
Aviva, Aberdeen, Rolls-Royce, Xstrata: U.K., Irish Stock Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t
-- 
2011-05-03T06:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/aviva-plc-rolls-royce-xstrata-plc-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index rose 1.74 points, or less than
0.1 percent, to 6,069.9 on April 28. The FTSE All-Share Index
gained 0.2 percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.5
percent on April 29.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  : The U.K.  fund
manager  said fiscal first-half underlying pretax profit rose 54
percent to 142.8 million pounds ($237 million) from a year
earlier. The stock gained 1.2 percent to 229 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  : Malaysia’s  Robert Kuok  agreed to buy
Aviva’s headquarters building in the City of  London  for almost
290 million pounds, the Sunday Times reported, without saying
where it obtained the information. The shares rose 1.1 percent
to 446.8 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is
claiming $500 million from Barclays for allegedly failing to pay
all of the bonuses the U.K. bank agreed to when it bought the
defunct investment firm’s North American business. The stock
dropped 1.8 percent to 282.3 pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  : OAO Rosneft sees BP as an “important and
strategic partner” in developing the Arctic offshore, Pavel
Fedorov, first vice president at  Russia ’s largest oil producer,
said during a conference call. BP’s shares retreated 0.7 percent
to 462.55 pence.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  : Juan Beckman is seeking to become
Diageo’s largest shareholder as he negotiates the sale of his
controlling stake in the maker of the Jose Cuervo brand of
tequila, the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it
obtained the information. The shares rose 0.2 percent to 1,218
pence.  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  : The London-based fund
manager said assets under management rose to 106.1 billion
pounds at the end of March from 105.8 billion pounds at the end
of December. The shares rallied 5.4 percent to 79.55 pence.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  : Sanofi-Aventis SA is studying
the possible purchase of Glaxo’s obesity treatment Alli, as well
as its Valda cough sweets,  Les Echos  reported, without saying
where it got the information. The stock advanced 1.5 percent to
1,305.5 pence.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  : Chief Executive Officer  Stuart
Gulliver  may announce plans to cut costs at the bank’s U.K.
retail unit, the Sunday Telegraph reported, without saying where
it got the information. The stock retreated 0.4 percent to 655.4
pence.  Minerva Plc (MNR)  : Shareholders of the second-biggest
developer of  office space  in central London may demand a
boardroom shakeup because of the lack of progress in takeover
talks and leasing the company’s City of London office buildings,
the Sunday Times said, without naming the investors. The stock
rose 0.8 percent to 93 pence.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  : Gatehouse Bank Plc, a
Shariah-compliant wholesale bank based in London, acquired a
Rolls-Royce manufacturing and logistics facility in Glasgow,
 Scotland , for 52.7 million pounds. The shares rose 0.2 percent
to 641.5 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : A report by the
U.K. Financial Services Authority into the collapse of RBS has
been held up by tensions between the regulator, politicians and
the bank’s lawyers, the Financial Times reported. The stock
gained 0.1 percent to 41.47 pence.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  : The U.K.’s biggest
publicly traded non-life insurer began a search for Chairman
John Napier’s replacement as part of an overhaul of the
company’s board, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing a person
with knowledge of the matter it didn’t identify. The shares
advanced 0.6 percent to 137.6 pence.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  :  Europe ’s largest discount
carrier has approached the Irish government to acquire Ireland’s
25 percent stake in Aer Lingus Group Plc, the Mail on Sunday
said, without saying where it got the information. The stock
rose 0.6 percent to 3.495 euros.  Uniq Plc (UNIQ)  : Greencore Group Plc, the Irish food
company, is considering a bid for rival Uniq, the Sunday
Telegraph reported. Uniq’s shares were unchanged at 75 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  : The mining company with operations in
19 countries wants Glencore International AG to pay at least a
third more than the current share price if it makes an offer for
the 64.5 percent of the miner that it doesn’t already own, the
Mail on Sunday reported, without saying where it obtained the
information. The shares rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,521.5
pence.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  : The company has signed a binding
agreement to buy Brandywine Bookmaking LLC, a sports betting
business operating in Nevada and  Delaware . The shares gained 0.9
percent to 223.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  