-- 
Bachus Says Consumer Bureau Proposal Isn’t Attack on Motherhood

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-02T15:48:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bachus-says-consumer-bureau-proposal-isn-t-attack-on-motherhood.html
U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus,
the chairman of the House  Financial Services  Committee, said his
proposal to change the leadership of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is “hardly a radical concept.”  “You’d think I’m attacking motherhood or apple pie,”
Bachus, an Alabama Republican, said today as he defended the
legislation at an Independent Community Bankers of America
conference in Washington.  Bachus’s committee plans to begin work this week on efforts
to reshape or repeal part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial-
regulation overhaul approved by Congress last year before
Republicans took control of the House. Two subcommittees are
 scheduled  to mark up 10 bills to change the law, including
measures to restructure the consumer bureau.  Elizabeth Warren , the adviser appointed by President  Barack Obama  to stand up the agency, has clashed with Republicans in
congressional testimony, speeches and television interviews over
the structure of the agency, which is to start work on July 21.  Bachus introduced a bill in March that would replace the
post of director with a five-member bipartisan commission,
saying the structure imposed by Dodd-Frank places too much power
in the hands of one person.  “It has nothing to do with Elizabeth Warren, it really has
nothing to do with her,” Bachus said.  After a pause, Bachus drew laughs from the bankers when he
said, “I will not take a lie detector test.”  ‘Knife in the Ribs’  In response to Republican criticism, Warren and Obama
administration officials noted that the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, a panel of regulators responsible for
oversight of the entire banking system, has the power to
overrule any regulation crafted by the bureau.  Warren, in an interview last month on  Comedy Central ’s
“The Daily Show With  Jon Stewart ,” said some in Washington,
are trying to put “a knife in the ribs” of the new agency.  Bachus, who has called the FSOC oversight insufficient,
will need broad support from Republicans and bipartisan backing
in the Democrat-led Senate and White House to win enactment of
his proposal. Bachus told reporters today that he believes he
can get the support of some Senate Democrats.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, has said he will fight efforts to undo the law.
Representative  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts , the top Democrat
on the Financial Services committee, said he also will oppose
the Republican efforts to change to the law that bears his name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  