-- 
Banks Said to Be Quizzed by European Union Over Libor Rates

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-03T13:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/banks-role-in-setting-libor-rates-said-to-be-examined-by-eu.html
European antitrust regulators, who
last week opened probes into 16 banks over credit derivatives,
are also examining whether lenders manipulated the daily London
interbank offered rate, according to two people familiar with
the investigation.  The European Union sought information from banks last month
on how rates are calculated, said the people who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private.  The EU probe into Libor adds to U.K. and U.S. financial
regulators’ inquiries into the possible breach of rules
governing the benchmark borrowing rate.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by assets, said last week that it was
cooperating with U.S. and British regulators on their Libor
investigations.  “This case will be difficult to prove -- and the
construction of Libor is such that it is difficult to manipulate
as extreme pricing is smoothed out of the calculation,” said
Simon Maughan, co-head of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in
London.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, has
made financial markets one of his  priorities . Last week he
announced a probe into  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and 14 other investment banks over agreements in the
market for credit-default swaps that may harm competition.  ‘Digging Its Nose’  “It’s very good news that the commission is eventually
digging its nose into these money-market behaviors,” Guillaume
Prache, managing director of EuroInvestors, a Brussels-based
association of national shareholder groups, said in a phone
interview yesterday. Libor is “very important for investors.”  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for Almunia, declined to
comment on the Libor probe.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said in March it
received demands for information from U.S. and Japanese
authorities investigating possible attempts to manipulate the
setting of Libor.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are based on data from banks
reflecting how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for various periods of time in currencies including dollars,
euros and yen. The rates are compiled daily by Thomson Reuters
Corp. for the British Bankers’ Association, BBA Chief Executive
Officer Angela Knight said today in an interview.  Calculation  Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman for Thomson Reuters in London,
said the company “calculates and publishes” the Libor rate on
behalf of the BBA.  The Bank for International Settlements questioned in 2008
whether Libor rates may have been manipulated  during  the credit
crisis. Stripping out the highest and lowest rates quoted by
participating banks may have “minimized their impact,” the BIS
said in a report at the time.  “In a time of high stress it is likely that Libor quotes
would diverge from normal or predictable patterns,” said
Maughan. “I am not sure what investors gain by regulators
raking over old coals.”  JPMorgan,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , UBS,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and WestLB AG declined to
comment on the EU probe.  The FTSE 350 Banks Index advanced 0.6 percent to 4755.30 at
2:35 p.m. in London.  ‘Regulatory Matters’  Giles Croot, a spokesman for Barclays in London, also
declined to comment today. Rabobank Groep spokesman Kees
Nanninga said the Utrecht, Netherlands-based bank does “not
comment on specific regulatory matters.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s press office didn’t immediately respond
to a call seeking comment today.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA said they couldn’t immediately comment.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., declined to comment.  If the EU finds that the banks are in breach of antitrust
rules “then the maximum fine is 10 percent of global revenue
and multi-million euro fines are not impossible,” said Stephen
Smith, a competition partner at law firm Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 