-- 
Banks Adding Treasuries Signal Lower Confidence in Recovery

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-02T14:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/banks-buying-most-treasuries-in-nine-months-in-signal-for-slowing-recovery.html
U.S. banks are buying U.S. government
securities at the fastest pace in nine months as lenders retreat
to the safety of Treasuries with the economy expanding slower
than forecast and loan demand dormant.  Commercial banks bought $65 billion of  U.S. debt  in the
past seven weeks, as their total holdings reached $1.68
trillion, Federal Reserve data show. The purchases were the most
since $79.1 billion in the period ended July 21, just before the
recovery began to falter and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled policy makers would conduct a second round of bond
purchases to spur growth.  Economists from JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-largest
U.S. bank by assets, to Credit Suisse Group AG, the No. 2 Swiss
lender, are lowering growth forecasts as rising fuel prices cut
disposable income and housing prices continue to fall. Bonds are
helping bolster earnings as the Fed keeps its target interest-
rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low.  “The idea that we’re going to see anything remotely
approximating robust growth is quickly fading,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City  who
advises community banks on investments of more than $30 billion.
“They simply don’t have the loan demand, or good loan demand.
They have to keep their money working for them, so there’s no
place else to go but the  bond market .”  Drop in Loans  Debt analysts at New York-based JPMorgan said in an April
29 report that total loans at the 30 banks they cover, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Citigroup Inc., fell by 1.08 percent,
or $46.7 billion, in the first quarter to $4.29 trillion. They
increased 0.14 percent in the final three months of last year.  Loans fell even though assets increased by 1.47 percent, or
$146.6 billion, to $10.1 trillion, according to the JPMorgan
analysts. While Fed data show banks are carrying 3.5 percent
more commercial and industrial loans on their books now than in
September, or $1.25 trillion, that’s still 23 percent below the
peak reached in October 2008 of $1.62 trillion.  Banks’ U.S. government debt purchases are helping to
support demand for the record amount debt the Obama
administration is selling to finance the $1.4 trillion  budget
deficit  as the Fed winds down its $600 billion bond-purchase
program known as quantitative easing in June.  Treasuries returned 1.15 percent on average in April,
including reinvested interest, the most since they gained 2.05
percent in August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Treasury Master index.  Bond Rally  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, last week to 3.29 percent, and
is down from the this year’s high of 3.77 percent on Feb. 9,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 3.625
percent note maturing in February 2021 rose 29/32, or $9.06 per
$1,000 face value, to 102 25/32 last week.  Treasuries today halted last week’s rally after President
 Barack Obama  said Al Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden had been
killed in a U.S. military operation, reducing demand for the
safest assets. Ten-year bond yields rose one basis point to 3.30
percent at 10:07 a.m. in New York.  Credit Suisse, one of the 20 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities obligated to bid at Treasury auctions,
sees yields ranging from 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent through
year-end. The weighted average of 76 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey that gives a greater emphasis to recent estimates is for
the yield to end the year at 3.93 percent.  Fed Outlook  “Our base case for the looming end of QE is not a
catastrophic sell-off,” strategists at Credit Suisse led by
 Carl Lantz  in  New York  wrote in an April 29 report.  Bonds rallied last week as Bernanke signaled no plans to
raise rates and the Commerce Department said April 28 that gross
domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, compared with 3.1 percent at the end of 2010. The
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey was for 2
percent growth.  GDP will likely expand 2.9 percent this year, based on a
survey of 74 economists by Bloomberg, down from estimates of 3.2
percent in February. Forecasts dropped as the average price of a
gallon of gasoline reached $3.89 on April 27, the highest in
more than two years. Average hourly earnings adjusted for
inflation shrank 1 percent in the 12 months ended in March.  Residential real-estate prices measured by the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of properties in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, the biggest drop since November
2009.  Bank Revenue  Banks are facing the biggest percentage drop in quarterly
revenue in three years, led by lower lending and reduced fees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue at Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley fell 13.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  “Bank earnings are not good,” said Hideo Shimomura, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $73.2 billion in  Tokyo  as chief
fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of
 Japan ’s biggest lender. “They cannot take much risk. It’s
supportive for Treasuries.”  Banks can profit by borrowing money from the Fed at almost
nothing and investing in Treasuries, profiting from the near
record gap between short- and long-term rates.  Record Gap  Ten-year Treasuries have yielded an average of 2.89
percentage points more than the Fed’s target federal funds rate
since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.
In the decade before that, the difference averaged 1.15
percentage points.  Lenders have raised U.S. government bond holdings 4.3
percent since March 2, after keeping them unchanged in the first
nine weeks of the year. Banks increased Treasuries by more than
12 percent annually in each of the past three years as they
sought less risky assets following the collapse of global credit
markets.  “Banks are getting some leading indicators from their own
loan growth,” Amitabh Arora, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Citigroup. “There continues to be a decline in consumer
loans” including mortgages and credit cards, he said.  Few Alternatives  Banks have few alternatives to Treasuries as sluggish home
sales reduce the amount of AAA-rated mortgage-related debt sold
by government-chartered agencies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Offerings of bonds backed by consumer loans have fallen to
$35 billion this year from $127 billion in all of 2010 and $184
billion in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. The U.S. savings
rate has risen to 5.5 percent from 1.2 percent in 2005,
according to government data.  The Fed said last month that consumer borrowing totaled
$7.62 billion in February, compared with the peak of $17.3
billion in August 2007. Total bank assets have grown about 17.6
percent over that time to $12.2 trillion.  Lenders have an added incentive to buy Treasuries after the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed rules on Oct. 4
that banks increase available capital and improve their
measurement and control lending risk.  Banks will have less than five years to comply with the so-
called Basel III rules for minimum tier-1 capital ratios and
until Jan. 1, 2019, to meet the capital buffer requirements. The
Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee forecast in February that
banks may have as much as $1.6 trillion in demand for Treasuries
in the next five years based on the evolving rules.  “You have an environment effectively where the private
markets are in deleveraging mode and the governments are in re-
leveraging mode,” said  Jeffrey Rosenberg , head of global credit
strategy research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  