-- 
Bank Margins at Risk as EU Probes Credit-Default Swaps Market

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bank-margins-at-risk-as-eu-probes-credit-default-swaps-market.html
U.S. and European Union regulatory
crackdowns on credit-default swaps threaten to erode the largest
banks’ control over the $30 trillion market.  The EU is examining whether 16 investment banks, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , colluded in giving information to Markit Group Ltd., a data
provider majority-owned by Wall Street’s biggest lenders.
Regulators also will probe whether nine of the firms struck
unfair deals with Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s European
derivatives clearinghouse, shutting out rivals.  Global regulators have sought to toughen oversight of the
market for credit-default swaps, which were blamed for
contributing to the biggest financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The U.S. Justice Department began an investigation
into the derivatives in July 2009 to determine if companies have
unfair access to price information.  “The undertones through this whole process have been to
take power away from the big banks,” said Kevin McPartland, a
senior analyst with Tabb Group in  New York . “This seems like
another sort of attack on the banks.”  Ownership of the data provider may give banks access to
price information before it’s available to the rest of the
market, according to Mark Williams, a former Federal Reserve
examiner who teaches finance at Boston University. Regulators
said it also may block competitors and limit access for other
swaps dealers.  ‘Abusive Behavior’  “Lack of transparency in markets can lead to abusive
behavior and facilitate violations of competition rules,”
 Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said in an
e-mailed statement. “I hope our investigation will contribute
to a better functioning of financial markets.”  Dealer trades account for more than $23 trillion of the
outstanding gross notional credit-default swaps market,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a
central repository for the market.  The EU’s probes add to separate investigations in the U.K.
and U.S. into whether banks colluded to manipulate the London
interbank offered rate.  The credit-default swap investigations are the first by
antitrust regulators in Europe. The U.S.  Justice Department ’s
probe of the credit derivatives clearing, trading and
information services industries is “ongoing,” said Alisa
Finelli, a spokeswoman. The department first confirmed the
investigation in July 2009. She declined to comment further.  Markit “does not believe it has engaged in any
inappropriate conduct,” Michael Gormley, a spokesman for the
company in New York, said in an e-mailed statement. Bloomberg
LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, competes with Markit in selling
information to the financial-services industry.  Greek Crisis  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy called last year for the European Union to ban
the use of credit-default swaps by investors to profit from
defaults on government bonds they don’t own. Merkel and Sarkozy
blamed so-called naked short-selling for worsening Greece’s debt
crisis, which later spread to other euro-area countries.  “Antitrust authorities going around like a bull in a china
shop could wreak huge damage and undermine their efforts” to
encourage clearinghouses as a means of reducing risk, Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the University of Houston, said
in an interview.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
 Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Morgan Stanley,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA will also be investigated for possible collusion in
giving “most of the pricing, indices and other essential daily
data only to Markit,” EU regulators said.  1,500 Customers  Markit provides data on debt and derivatives to more than
1,500 customers. It owns the most actively traded credit swap
indexes and pricing services in the market.  Markit “has no exclusive arrangements” with any data
provider and is “unaware of any collusion by other market
participants,” Gormley said.  The EU will also separately investigate credit-default swap
clearing agreements struck by ICE Clear Europe with Bank of
America, Barclays, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank,
Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS.  “Banks have taken charge not because they’re being good
Samaritans in these exchanges, but because they see a profit
opportunity,” Boston University’s Williams said.  Kelly Loeffler, an ICE spokeswoman, declined to comment.
The company’s U.S. clearing arm is owned by dealers including
JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and UBS.  Creating Incentives  Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the probe, said
Michael Duvally, a spokesman for the bank in London.  Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, JPMorgan, Bank of America, BNP
Paribas, Morgan Stanley, Barclays, UBS, Credit Suisse, RBS,
Societe Generale, HSBC, Wells Fargo and Citigroup also declined
to comment.  The agreements with ICE have clauses on preferential fees
and profit-sharing arrangements “which might create an
incentive for the banks to use only ICE as a clearinghouse,”
the EU said. That may block other clearinghouses from starting
up and limit choice for CDS dealers, it said.  The investigation also will cover fee structures used by
ICE to check if they give “an unfair advantage to the nine
banks by discriminating against other CDS dealers,” the EU
said.  Antitrust Complaint  The commission must send companies an antitrust complaint
before it takes any decision to fine them up to 10 percent of
yearly revenue. Businesses may avoid fines if they agree to
change contracts that harm competition. There’s no legal
deadline to end an investigation.  “I can’t imagine that there’ll be a large punishment for
banks because the probe seems to be about delivering information
and not about demanding too high prices from clients or price
fixing,” Philipp Haessler, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet
AG, said in an e-mail.  Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower defaults less the value of the
defaulted debt. Lawmakers in the EU plan to encourage the use of
clearinghouses and transparent trading systems.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post margin
and contribute to default funds, reducing the possible risks
that a derivatives trade may collapse.  Dealers of credit-default swaps in  Europe  bowed to pressure
from the EU in 2009 to conduct trades through clearinghouses,
such as ICE Clear, to cut risk to the financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 