-- 
Bankruptcy Alert: After the Philadelphia Orchestra, Who’s Next?

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bankruptcy-alert-the-philadelphia-orchestra-declared-it-so-who-s-next-.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra paid former
music director  Christoph Eschenbach  $693,000 to conduct 21
concerts in the 2008-09 season, according to its latest publicly
available  tax return . Chief conductor Charles Dutoit made $1.2
million that season.  Last month, the high cost of music-making pushed the
orchestra into becoming the first major U.S. symphony to file
for  bankruptcy protection .  The board’s move surprised the music world. Attendance had
dwindled since the golden days of Eugene Ormandy and Riccardo Muti, but the orchestra has an endowment valued at about $116
million according to court papers.  The orchestra seeks relief from pension obligations and
unfavorable contracts.  Where does that leave  Lincoln Center ’s  New York City Opera ,
with its fourth consecutive annual deficit and an endowment of
around $10 million, down from $64.5 million a decade earlier?  Members of its board have discussed bankruptcy in passing,
according to one trustee, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  NYCO Chairman Charles R. Wall, the former general counsel
of  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and vice chairman of Philip Morris
International, projected a deficit of $5 million this season.  That’s its fourth consecutive shortfall, totaling about $31
million since 2007. The company, once a feisty rival of the
 Metropolitan Opera  next door, has postponed announcing its 2011-
2012 season until mid-May.  Sea Change  Usually, companies plan years in advance to secure artists,
conductors, designers.  “According to the company, there will be a drastic change
in the way they produce opera,” Alan Gordon, executive director
of the  American Guild of Musical Artists , which represents City
Opera singers, said in an interview. “I suspect there will be
much less work.”  The union’s contract with the opera expired on Friday.
Gordon said the opera indicated it can’t bargain until it
reviews its budget for next season.  Gordon regards an imminent bankruptcy as unlikely, in part
because legal fees would be burdensome.  “Declaring bankruptcy is a very expensive proposition, but
you never know,” he said. “When you don’t have the money, you
don’t spend $300,000 on lawyers.”  Maggie McKeon, a City Opera spokeswoman, didn’t return
calls for comment. In an e-mail she wrote that Wall was
unavailable.  More Pain  The other tenant at the David H. Koch Theatre is also in
dire straits -- the  New York City Ballet  projects a $6 million
deficit for the 2010-2011 season, according to spokesman Rob
Daniels.  Gordon’s union also represents dancers, who have been
without a contract since August 2010 and without a pay increase
since 2008. He said Peter Martins, ballet master in chief, has
presided over poor scheduling, hefty overtime and advertising
geared to people who are already ballet diehards.  “Its marketing strategy is 25 years out of date,” said
Gordon.  The ballet has run deficits since 2003 and aims to balance
its budget within three to five years, Daniels wrote in an
e-mail. He added that the ballet has sought to appeal to new
audiences with a marketing campaign introduced last year.  A contributing factor in the Philadelphia Orchestra
bankruptcy was a legal fight between the 111-year-old symphony
and Grammy-winning pianist  Peter Nero , artistic director of the
Philly Pops, a lawyer for the orchestra said in court this
month.  The orchestra lost an arbitration involving the Pops, and
sought to cancel its participation because it cost at least
$600,000 a year, chairman Richard Worley said in an interview.
The orchestra projected a deficit of $14.5 million this season.  Tensions between the musicians and the board have
flourished at least since the hiring of Eschenbach, who did not
enjoy the affection of some of the players.  When his predecessor went to the National Symphony at the
Kennedy Center, Dutoit stepped to the podium without much of a
mandate. Perhaps the new music director, Yannick Nezet-Seguin,
will bring a little pizzazz when he takes charge in September
2012.  “He’s a young conductor, very engaged with the public and
the musicians,” said  Jeffrey Kallberg , a professor of music
history and an associate dean at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Mismanaged  As for City Opera, it’s been “grossly mismanaged,” Gordon
said. Productions rarely fill more than 40 percent of the Koch
Theater. He blamed misguided programming for the company’s woes.  “Does the company present what people want to see or some
obscure opera no one knows about?”  When NYCO’s board received permission to withdraw $24
million from its endowment, it told the office of the attorney
general in  New York  that it planned to repay as much as $2
million by mid-2010. That did not happen, and the company has no
plans to begin repayment this year either, according to records
released by the AG.  The case is In Re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  (With assistance from Steven Church in Philadelphia. Philip
Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Editors: Zinta Lundborg, Daniel Billy.  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 