-- 
Berlusconi Says Bid to Limit Libya Role Not a Problem

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-02T12:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/berlusconi-says-bid-to-limit-libya-role-not-a-problem-correct-.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said
a key ally’s attempt to limit Italy’s role in the military
campaign against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  doesn’t threaten
the unity of his government.  Parliament  tomorrow will begin debate on a motion by the
 Northern League , Berlusconi’s main coalition partner, to set an
end date for Italy’s expanded role in the bombing campaign. The
motion was prompted by Berlusconi’s decision last week to widen
Italy’s participation from providing support to taking part in
air strikes to protect civilians from the Libyan military.  “I don’t think there will be difficulties for the
government,” Berlusconi told journalists in Milan today. “The
League, an essential member of the coalition, has presented a
motion and has taken a position that is reasonable. We can vote
on the whole thing or modify part of it, but the overall sense
of the motion is something that is acceptable.”  The government’s majority in parliament “is not in
doubt,” Berlusconi said.  Northern League  leader  Umberto Bossi 
threatened yesterday to bring down the government if there was
no vote on the motion.  The Northern League, a regional anti-immigration party, has
opposed Italy’s participation in the campaign against Qaddafi
and said the decision to take part in military actions will lead
Qaddafi to encourage a flood of refugees to Italy. In a speech
on April 30, Qaddafi threatened to bring the war to Italian soil
because of the decision and the Italian embassy in Tripoli was
attacked yesterday.  Berlusconi and Bossi will meet today to discuss the motion,
Leonardo Boriani, head of the League’s official newspaper, said
in an interview with Radio24.  Parliament is likely to vote on the motion on May 4,
Italian media including RAI television reported. The government
will also face motions on  Libya  presented by opposition parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 