-- 
Bin Laden’s Death Ends ‘Favorite Excuse’ of Leaders to Crush Arab Spring

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-02T23:02:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-s-death-ends-favorite-excuse-of-leaders-to-crush-arab-spring.html
The killing of  Osama bin Laden  has
given autocrats in the Middle East one less reason to argue
brutal suppression of protests was needed to keep out al-Qaeda.  “This gives momentum to the Arab Springs,” Christopher
Davidson, author of “Power and Politics in the Persian Gulf
Monarchies,” said in a telephone interview. “Bin Laden served
as a bogeyman that could be wheeled out when needed to justify
that limits on political expression were needed. Leaders in the
region have just lost their favorite excuse.”  With the 10-year hunt for the world’s most-wanted terrorist
over, the U.S. has signaled it will no longer be swayed by
rhetoric echoing that of discredited leaders such as  Egypt ’s
 Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who often
resorted to citing the threat of al-Qaeda as an excuse to crush
pro-democracy movements.  The al-Qaeda “narrative is becoming increasingly
bankrupt,”  John Brennan , President Barack Obama’s top
counterterrorism adviser, told reporters in  Washington . “There
is a new wave sweeping through the Middle East right now that
puts a premium on individual rights and freedom and dignity.”  Rachid Ghannouchi, who returned to Tunisia after 22 years
in exile to lead the main Islamic party, quipped that Bin Laden
died in his country before dying in Pakistan. The so-called
Jasmine Revolution sparked a series of similar protests that
spread from neighboring  Libya  to Arab nations such as  Syria .  As events unfolded in the Middle East, President  Barack
Obama  hand-picked which long-standing regime leaders to tell it
was time to go. In the case of Mubarak and  Muammar Qaddafi , both
raised to no avail the specter of potential al-Qaeda strikes.  ‘Scapegoat’  “There can be no more using bin Laden or al-Qaeda as a
scapegoat to get away with murder,” said Pam Lalib, a 26-year-
old student from Cairo. “Those days are over.”  Still, the administration has not called for a regime
change in Yemen, the bin Laden family’s ancestral home, where
President Ali Abdullah Saleh has withstood three months of
popular protests demanding he step down.  To extend his 32-year reign, Saleh seems willing to keep on
playing the al-Qaeda card.  “Al-Qaeda are moving inside the camps and this is very
dangerous,” he said in an April 24 interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp. “Why is the West not looking at this
destructive work and its dangerous implications for the
future?”  U.S. tolerance for such arguments after the death of the
movement’s symbolic leader will be tested in coming weeks. So
far, the administration’s restraint in how it criticizes Saleh’s
crackdown stems from concerns about the Yemen-based offshoot of
al-Qaeda, known as AQAP.  AQAP  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  calls it the serious
terrorism threat to the U.S., and the U.S. this year has doubled
military aid to Yemen to $155 million. AQAP claimed credit for
the December 2009 attempted bombing of a Northwest Airlines
flight on its approach to Detroit and the October 2010 attempted
bombings of air cargo flights headed for the U.S. from Yemen.  The administration has not spoken on violence in Yemen
since April 5, when the White House press office said Saleh
“needs to resolve the political impasse with the opposition so
that meaningful political change can take place in the near term
in an orderly and peaceful manner.”  Discredited bin Laden  Judging by the muted response in the Middle East to his
death, bin Laden’s political appeal in the Arab world has long
been superseded by enthusiasm for pro-democracy activists. Pew
Research said support in nations ranging from  Pakistan  to  Turkey 
had plummeted to record lows, according to a survey conducted
predominantly in Muslim countries between March 21 and April 12.  “One of the challenges the U.S. has had in dealing with
al-Qaeda was that their narrative had greater appeal to the
people they were trying to recruit than our narrative,” said
Martin Indyk, a former ambassador to  Israel  and now director of
foreign policy at  The Brookings Institution . “Violence was the
way to restore Arab dignity. That narrative has taken a body
blow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  