-- 
Bin Laden Death Takes Weapon From Republicans in 2012 Race

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-03T20:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-killing-in-u-s-raid-takes-weapon-from-republican-12-candidates.html
President  Barack Obama ’s approval of
the U.S. raid that killed Osama bin Laden stymies a central
tenet of Republican campaigns for the White House: that
Democrats can’t pull the trigger.  As he seeks re-election next year, Obama can claim a
willingness to take military action -- including authorizing
attacks on pirates in the Indian Ocean, the firing of missiles
on  Libya  and, most prominently, the successful mission that
landed helicopters inside Pakistan in the compound of the
world’s most-wanted fugitive.  “The fact that he got Osama bin Laden is something that’s
going to be a very quick and powerful talking point right up to
the 2012 election,” said John Ullyot, a Republican strategist
and former spokesman for the Senate Armed Services Committee.
“Given the success of the operation, President Obama has clear
and undisputed credentials” in the national security area.  Ullyot said the specific praise of Obama by several of the
Republicans considering a run “shows they acknowledge how
powerful this moment is.”  The May 1 attack was the highest-profile military effort
since the  Iraq war , he said, and highlights the relative lack of
foreign policy experience among the potential 2012 Republican
candidates.  “There’s very little defense or foreign policy experience
among the field as it now stands,” he said.  Middle East Trips  Most of the leading possible candidates, some of whom will
gather May 5 in South Carolina for their first debate, have
stronger credentials on taxes, budgets and business than in
foreign affairs. Among the Republicans, former governors Sarah Palin of  Alaska , Mitt Romney of  Massachusetts  and Mike Huckabee
of  Arkansas  have traveled to the Middle East in recent months to
boost their foreign policy resumes.  Obama, who entered the White House with just four years of
U.S. Senate experience following eight years in the Illinois
Senate, faced a similar challenge in his 2008 campaign.  In making their case against Obama, the major Republicans
who may seek the presidency have been spotlighting rising
gasoline prices, the shaky  U.S. economy  and a national debt
that’s approaching $14.3 trillion. That was the focus at a
multicandidate forum April 29 in Manchester,  New Hampshire , and
they are themes the Republicans will hammer at throughout the
campaign.  Reactions  While some of the potential candidates lauded the president
for the bin Laden mission, others extolled the U.S. military
while skirting mention of Obama.  Romney, the front-runner for the Republican nomination in
some polls, included praise for Obama in a statement he issued
six minutes after the president finished his nationally
televised comments on bin Laden’s death.  “This is a great victory for lovers of freedom and justice
everywhere,” Romney said. “Congratulations to our intelligence
community, our military and the president.”  Asked today, while in Nashua, New Hampshire, about the
raid’s political impact, Romney said, “I don’t know whether it
helps or hurts politically the president, but I really don’t
care. The right thing is we got the bad guy and the nation
celebrates that.”  Tim Pawlenty, a former governor from Minnesota exploring a
presidential bid, issued a statement that included praise for
Obama, as did former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia ,
another possible candidate.  ‘Seven Long Years’  “I commend both President  George W. Bush  who led the
campaign against our enemies through seven long years and
President Obama who continued and intensified the campaign in
both Afghanistan and  Pakistan ,” Gingrich said in his statement.  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, who is considering a run,
said in a televised interview today on “Fox and Friends” that
he had “immense pride and gratitude” for those who caught bin
Laden, starting with Obama and Bush. Daniels, who served as
director of the Office of Management and Budget during Bush’s
administration, said he has spoken to the former president about
a potential campaign.  Donald Trump, the real estate businessman who in a May 1
interview suggested he likely will enter the presidential race,
said in a statement he wanted to “personally congratulate
President Obama and the men and women of the Armed Forces for a
job well done.”  Palin Omission  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate who
may seek the White House next year, didn’t mention Obama in a
statement on bin Laden’s killing posted to her Facebook webpage.
That was also the case for Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota , a favorite of the Tea Party movement who is also
considering a bid.  Huckabee focused on the al-Qaeda leader, writing “welcome
to hell, bin Laden,” in a  statement  on his website.  Former Senator Rick Santorum, a Pennsylvania Republican who
set up a presidential exploratory committee last month,
yesterday applauded the mission while attacking Obama’s overall
national security record. “The president’s foreign policy with
respect to our security is to make our allies less confident in
us and has resulted in them distancing themselves from us,” he
said yesterday in Pella,  Iowa , according to the  Des Moines
Register.   Presidential historian Robert Dallek said the bin Laden
operation will likely enhance Obama’s hand in pursuing both his
foreign policy and domestic goals.  ‘Big Victory’  “This is a big victory for Obama,” Dallek said. “It
strengthens him not only in foreign relations, but with the
American public and I think with the Congress, too.”  The success in eliminating bin Laden also casts Obama’s
cool, reserved style that some critics have interpreted as a
lack of passion in a more favorable light, Dallek said. Compared
to the swagger of his predecessor -- “Bring it on,” Bush once
challenged Iraqi insurgents -- Obama can claim effectiveness.  “Bush was a big talker who didn’t capture bin Laden. Obama
in his quiet way gets results,” Dallek said. “He won in 2008
because he was the anti-Bush. This brings the contrast back into
play very nicely.”  ‘Obama’s Watch’  Lawmakers who during the 2008 campaign criticized Obama’s
lack of foreign policy experience and expressed concerns about
how he would deal with national security were among those
congratulating him for the bin Laden raid.  “This is a success that happened on President Obama’s
watch as commander in chief and he deserves credit for it,”
Senator Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent who caucuses
with Democrats, told reporters on  Capitol Hill  yesterday.
Lieberman, the Democratic vice presidential nominee in 2000,
supported Republican presidential nominee John McCain, an
Arizona senator, in the 2008 race.  The political benefits of military success can be
transitory, said  Christopher Gelpi , a political science
professor at Duke University who has studied public opinion and
war.  The bounce in public approval Bush received after U.S.
forces captured Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein  in December 2003
faded within months, Gelpi said. Bush’s father, President George H.W. Bush, won a victory over  Iraq  in the Persian Gulf War in
early 1991 only to lose re-election in late 1992 to Democrat
Bill Clinton.  ‘One-Time Event’  “It’s a one-time event but as that event fades in salience
people turn their attention back to the economy,” Gelpi said.
“We can’t kill bin Laden every day. But people experience the
economy every day.”  The outcome of the NATO-led mission in Libya that Obama
joined also remains to be seen, as the battle continues between
rebels and forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Earlier in his presidency, Obama authorized military action
against Indian Ocean pirates. In February, Somali pirates killed
four American hostages aboard their yacht before it was taken
over by the U.S. military and the pirates were killed or
captured. In another incident, in April 2009, U.S. commandos
freed an American cargo-ship captain being held hostage and
killed three pirates.  The long-awaited retribution against bin Laden, the leader
of the Sept. 11 attacks, comes as polls show Obama’s approval
rating near the lows of his presidency.  A CBS News/New York Times  poll  taken April 15-20 showed 46
percent of Americans approving and 45 percent disapproving of
the job Obama is doing as president. The poll had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The successful operation “takes off the table”
questioning of Obama’s handling of the war on terrorism,
“certainly in the short term and probably in the long term,”
said Republican pollster Ed Goeas.  Still, Goeas said Obama is likely to receive only a short-
term benefit in public opinion.  “What’s driving his negatives has little to do with
foreign affairs and everything to do with the economy,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  