-- 
Bin Laden’s Death May Be Marker in U.S. History: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-death-marks-turn-in-u-s-history-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Are we at a hinge of history? When I
heard the news about  Osama bin Laden  and saw the cathartic
outpouring of pride in this country, my mind went back not just
to Sept. 11, but to a couple of other dates that mark the course
of global events, pregnant with promise or peril.  We won’t know for years the consequences of the killing of
bin Laden for  U.S. foreign policy ; they might be transitory. But
this feels like a turning point, if not for the world then at
least for our sense of ourselves.  History’s arc must always include World War II. On April
30, 1945,  Adolf Hitler  committed suicide in his Berlin bunker.
By that time, Hitler had lost the war. It was another event, two
years earlier, that seems more relevant now. In 1943, the U.S.
was engaged in heavy combat in the Pacific. The 16 months since
 Pearl Harbor  hadn’t gone as well as Americans had hoped. U.S.
forces prevailed at the battles of Midway and Guadalcanal, but
casualties were heavy. Japanese forces were largely intact and
the leadership in  Tokyo  still expected to win.  The mastermind of the attack on Pearl Harbor was Isoroku
Yamamoto, the Harvard-educated commander of the Japanese fleet.
“Get Yamamoto” President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  ordered Navy
Secretary Frank Knox. On April 18, 1943, a squadron of P-38s
intercepted and shot down the plane carrying Yamamoto. The
impact on morale in both the U.S. and  Japan  was immediate. Much
heavy fighting lay ahead, but the psychological balance shifted
with Yamamoto’s death. After that, it was only a matter of time
before the U.S. won the war in the Pacific.  We can’t know for sure how bin Laden’s death will shape the
war on al Qaeda; this kind of war won’t end with a surrender and
a  signing ceremony . But we just won a decisive battle.  Failed Mission  A failed military operation had the opposite effect as
Yamamoto’s demise. In late 1979, Iranian militants seized the
U.S. embassy in Tehran and held 52 Americans hostage. With the
nation riveted and the government paralyzed, President Jimmy Carter ordered a mission by Delta Force commandos to free the
hostages. But a sandstorm crippled two helicopters and, after
the mission was aborted, a third chopper collided with a C-130
transport, killing eight U.S. servicemen on April 24, 1980.  After 444 days in captivity, the hostages were released,
but the failed rescue became a symbol of American ineptitude and
impotence.  Ronald Reagan  helped restore some of the old bravado, but
the record of the U.S. military didn’t improve much. The
victories were relatively small and brought no great catharsis.
Reagan’s triumph in Grenada,  George H.W. Bush ’s wins in Panama
and  Kuwait , and  Bill Clinton ’s successful bombing campaign in
 Serbia , while gratifying, hardly brought back that World War II
sense of mastery over events.  No Help  It didn’t help that U.S. intelligence flunked almost every
big test from the 1970s on, failing to predict everything from
the 1973 Arab-Israeli conflict, to Iraq’s 1990 invasion of
Kuwait, to the fall of communism. More recently, the CIA missed
9/11 and fell for bogus reports that  Saddam Hussein  had weapons
of mass destruction. Even the West’s great victory in the  Cold
War  was too diffuse and drawn out to bring the celebrations in
the streets we saw on the night of bin Laden’s death.  George W. Bush  rallied the country after 9/11 but his wars
in Afghanistan and  Iraq  were long, painful slogs marred by
intelligence failures, counter-productive chest-thumping (Bush’s
“ Mission Accomplished ” speech aboard an aircraft carrier was
eight years ago to the day of bin Laden’s death), and the
knowledge that we hadn’t brought the perpetrator of 9/11 to
justice.  Getting a Win  Changing that sense of control over events required a big
win like getting bin Laden. That demanded good intelligence and
good planning but also good fortune. In the White House
Situation Room on Sunday, Obama and his team had a heart-
stopping moment when one of the helicopters landing in the raid
malfunctioned. The specter of Delta Force surely came to mind to
those in the room. But then the mission succeeded. It’s still
too early to surmise whether Obama will be a great president,
but we now can be  confident  that he isn’t  Jimmy Carter .  The operation to kill bin Laden was handled with impressive
competence, down to the shrewd decision to cleanse his body
before burial at sea in deference to Muslim tradition. The same
cultural sensitivity that hurts Obama with American Know
Nothings will now help  minimize blowback  in the Arab world.
Although events, especially in the economy, may yet derail
Obama’s presidency, it will now be much harder for the right
wing to disparage him as weak and soft on terrorism; some voters
may even be convinced that he’s not a Muslim after all.  Rally Around  Should al Qaeda retaliate, Americans will rally around
their president as they did after 9/11. Were bin Laden still at
large, even a small attack on U.S. soil would have seemed more
menacing and lapses in security would have been blamed on the
president. The same goes for the withdrawal from  Afghanistan 
scheduled to begin in July. Obama now has a freer hand to de-
escalate without worrying about criticism from hardliners.  Beyond politics lie the intangibles of the American spirit.
The killing of bin Laden won’t end the war on al Qaeda or let us
keep our shoes on in the airport. The economy is still a rough
place for millions, the deficit is rising and  China  is gaining
on us. Partisan divisions will resurface. But we should see the
veil of fear and bitterness that has afflicted us for the last
decade begin to lift. The old can-do competence that beat the
Depression and won World War II isn’t dead yet. Happier days may
be here again.  ( Jonathan Alter , author of “The Promise: President Obama,
Year One,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Jonathan Alter at
 alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  