-- 
Terror Hunt’s Next Big Target Moves to Bin Laden’s Elusive Deputy Zawahiri

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-05-03T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-death-focuses-terror-hunt-on-elusive-deputy-zawahiri.html
The elusive Egyptian surgeon who
became al-Qaeda’s No. 2 leader,  Ayman al-Zawahiri , may be
unlikely to achieve Osama bin Laden’s level of power and
influence.  In the aftermath of bin Laden’s killing by U.S. special
operations forces at a house in Pakistan, the U.S. and its
allies are looking to strike a further blow against al-Qaeda,
such as apprehending his deputy who has championed a radical
interpretation of Islam that legitimizes  suicide bombers .  While his numerous  video  messages have made Zawahiri a key
motivational figure, his lack of recent combat experience and
the emergence of al-Qaeda splinter groups make it difficult for
him to fill the leadership void left by bin Laden’s death,
analysts said.  That may mean new threats will come from many directions --
from al-Qaeda central, al-Qaeda offshoots and independent
operators inspired by bin Laden or aspiring to succeed him.
Zawahiri’s challengers may include younger radicals such as
U.S.-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, a leader of Yemen-based al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula who has a following for his
English-language lectures. He allegedly dispatched a suicide
bomber wearing explosive underwear in an unsuccessful December
2009 attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound jetliner.  Young Cadre  “There is a large number of younger leaders much more
proven in combat and much more capable of organizing a threat,”
said  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington. Zawahiri is “the
person we focus on after bin Laden because it’s very hard to
explain that this is a complex structure and the cadre at the
top is not operating and controlling the organization.”  Zawahiri, who met bin Laden in the 1980s when both men
joined the fight against the  Soviet Union ’s occupation of
Afghanistan, may be even more difficult to find because he is
known for blending in with the masses in Pakistan. The U.S.
government is offering a $25 million reward for information
leading to his apprehension or conviction.  It was Zawahiri who urged bin Laden to deploy suicide
attackers against the West, persuading the al-Qaeda leader that
using the Palestinian tactic -- forbidden by the Saudi brand of
Islam on which he was raised -- is permitted “martyrdom,” said
Fawaz Gerges, author of the 2005 book “The Far Enemy: Why Jihad
Went Global.” He has been seen by terrorism specialists as
bringing organizing skills and strategic thinking to the core
al-Qaeda group.  Zawahiri’s Challenge  Bin Laden’s power and influence came from his role as the
founder of al-Qaeda, fighting the Soviet Army in  Afghanistan  in
the late 1980s, and orchestrating the Sept. 11 attacks, said
Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in Washington. Zawahiri won’t be seen as a true
replacement for bin Laden unless he does something al-Qaeda
followers see as equally “heroic,” Biddle said.  Zawahiri’s main contribution to the movement in recent
years has been a series of video and audio messages, said Dan Byman, a counterterrorism expert at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  While the messages are “small, rambling tidbits,” Byman
said in an interview, “they are important because they show the
organization is still active and they show a strategic plan of
what to target and they enthuse a new generation of recruits.”  In a video message in January 2006, two weeks after evading
a U.S. air strike in northwestern  Pakistan  that was meant for
him and killed as many as 18 people, sparking anti-U.S.
protests, Zawahiri taunted President  George W. Bush .  Mocking Bush  “Bush, do you know where I am?” Zawahiri, sporting his
trademark turban and owlish glasses, said in the English
translation of the videotape, which was aired by al-Jazeera
television. “I am among the Muslim masses.”  Locating Zawahiri, 59, may be tough. Unlike bin Laden,
whose height and thin build set him apart in crowds, Zawahiri
has frustrated U.S. forces with his ability to hide in
Pakistan’s cities. The  FBI  doesn’t have information about his
height, weight or build.  U.S. officials believe that Zawahiri is somewhere in
Pakistan, said Byman, who is also a former staff member of the
U.S. government’s National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon
the  United States , also known as the  9/11 Commission .  “Zawahiri will be very careful of his personal security,
but he needs to consolidate his position; he needs to be out
there,” Byman said in an interview. “In his new capacity he
needs to meet and communicate, and then he’s vulnerable.”  Planning Attacks  While  bin Laden  represented the face of terrorism to the
U.S. public, Zawahiri planned many of al-Qaeda’s attacks and
furnished arguments used to justify them. He has been indicted
in the U.S. for ordering suicide bombings and was jailed in his
native  Egypt  for seeking to violently overthrow the government.  “Zawahiri was al-Qaeda’s operations chief, but the whole
point of the group was to devolve power into cells that act more
like franchises,” said Gareth Price, an analyst at the
international affairs research center  Chatham House  in  London ,
who advises European governments.  In the decade since the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. that
killed more than 3,000 people at the  World Trade Center  in  New
York City , the  Pentagon  just outside  Washington  and a field in
 Shanksville, Pennsylvania , al-Qaeda offshoots have sprung up
around the Islamic world, from the Maghreb and sub-Saharan
 Africa  to  Iraq  and the Arabian peninsula.  Many Heads  “You are not going to defeat al-Qaeda by decapitating
it,” Cordesman said. “This is a movement that has not only
more than one head, it has a great many more than one body.”  Zawahiri was  wanted  in the U.S. even before the Sept. 11
attacks. He was indicted in absentia in 1999 for the August 1998
bombings of U.S. embassies in Tanzania and  Kenya  that killed 224
people, and was also considered the mastermind of the October
2000 bombing of the USS Cole in Yemen, in which 17 sailors died.  Bin Laden and Zawahiri began working together in 1988, and
the alliance between Zawahiri’s Egyptian Islamic Jihad movement
and bin Laden’s al-Qaeda was sealed in 1998 when the two signed
a “fatwa,” or religious decree, in the London-based Arabic
newspaper al-Quds al-Arabi calling for Muslims to murder
Americans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New
York at   psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  