-- 
Bin Laden Death Won’t Affect Al-Qaeda Operations, Gunaratna Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-02T07:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-death-won-t-affect-al-qaeda-operations-gunaratna-says.html
Rohan Gunaratna, head of the
Singapore-based International Center for Political Violence and
Terrorism Research, comments on the death of al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden. He spoke by phone from  Singapore  today.  On how it will affect al-Qaeda:  “It is a demonstration that al-Qaeda and its associated
groups have suffered very significantly in the most recent past,
and it’s also a demonstration that the momentum of operations
against al-Qaeda has increased.  “In the immediate term, there will be some retaliation,
there will be some revenge attacks. In the long term, the world
will be much safer without bin Laden. And it will also send a
clear message to his supporters and his followers that
terrorists can run but they cannot evade capture or death, that
governments will eventually get them.  “After 9/11 he was more a spiritual rather than
operational leader. But before 9/11 he was both operational and
a spiritual leader,” for al-Qaeda.  Bin Laden’s death “will not affect the operational
structure because  Ayman al-Zawahiri  has assumed leadership of
operations.”  On U.S.- Pakistan  relations:  “The cooperation between the U.S. and Pakistan has been
extensive despite western media speculation that Pakistan is
supporting terrorism. More than 600 al-Qaeda members have been
killed or arrested in Pakistan, so Pakistan has been an ally of
the U.S. in the fight against terrorism.”  On al-Qaeda’s operations in  Southeast Asia :  “Al-Qaeda links with Jemaah Islamiyah have come under
pressure, but certainly al-Qaeda continues to maintain a
relationship with Jemaah Islamiyah.  “But compared to what it was immediately after 9/11, the
al-Qaeda presence in this region has diminished, and also
governments in this region have developed significant
capabilities to fight terrorism. Today the region is much safer
compared to what it was.  “ Indonesia  is the main center of terrorism in the region.
There are a number of terrorist groups, extremist groups
operating in Indonesia and the Indonesian governments needs to
develop a sustained effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  