-- 
Bin Laden’s Friend Says Family Hopes Death Won’t Spark Revenge

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-02T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bin-laden-s-friend-says-family-hopes-death-won-t-spark-revenge.html
Osama  bin Laden ’s family hopes the
killing of the al-Qaeda leader won’t spark retaliation by his
group or its allies, according to Khaled Batarfi, a childhood
friend who spoke with at least one immediate family member.  “The general mood in the family is that this was a page of
history that’s closed and that family members hope there will be
no violent responses,” Batarfi said in a telephone interview
yesterday from the Saudi port city of Jeddah.  Bin Laden was killed in a firefight with U.S. commandos who
raided the compound where he was staying in Abbottabad, an
affluent suburb of the Pakistani capital Islamabad, U.S.
administration officials told reporters. CIA Director Leon Panetta said yesterday in a statement sent to agency employees
that “the terrorists almost certainly will attempt to avenge
him, and we must -- and will -- remain vigilant and resolute.”  Batarfi and bin Laden grew up as neighbors in the Red Sea
coastal city of  Jeddah , about 500 miles (800 kilometers) from
 Riyadh , the capital. When he was young, Bin Laden would take
friends for joyrides in a white Chrysler to play soccer, have
picnics and sometimes contests to test their knowledge of Islam,
Batarfi said.  Batarfi said he last saw bin Laden in 1990 and he “never
condoned his philosophy.” He declined to say which family
members he spoke to out of respect for their privacy.  “I was shocked when I heard the news,” said Batarfi, a
communications professor at King Abdulaziz University. “This is
a page that should be closed.”  Largely Silent  Bin Laden’s family has remained largely silent since Sept.
11, 2001. A telephone message left at the office of the family’s
construction company in Jeddah wasn’t returned.  The bin Laden family is one of the most prominent in  Saudi
Arabia . Bin Laden’s father, Muhammad, helped found Saudi
Binladin Group, a family construction business, in 1931. The
business became one of the kingdom’s largest construction
companies, building roads and bridges, renovating mosques in
Mecca and Medina and expanding into real estate, textiles,
telecommunications and distribution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  