-- 
Blagojevich Portrayed as Talker, Betrayer, as Retrial Opens

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-03T01:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/blagojevich-retrial-opens-for-extortion-fraud-without-racketering-charges.html
Rod Blagojevich , the ex-Illinois
governor, went on trial again in Chicago on charges he tried to
trade an appointment to the U.S. senate seat vacated by
President Barack Obama for campaign cash and personal favors.  “This is a case about a governor who betrayed the people
of Illinois,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Niewoehner
told jurors in his opening statement today. “The governor of
Illinois was shaking people down.”  Last year’s trial ended with Blagojevich convicted of lying
to federal agents while jurors deadlocked on 23 other counts.
Prosecutors have since dropped racketeering claims against the
ex-governor and all charges against his brother and one-time
campaign finance chief, Robert.  Still, the twice-elected Democrat stands accused of 10 wire
fraud counts plus charges of attempted extortion and extortion
conspiracy, conviction for any one of which could result in a
20-year prison sentence. He’s also accused of bribery.  Blagojevich, 54, has said repeatedly that he’s innocent of
the charges. U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel declined to act
on a March 9 defense request to sentence the ex-governor on the
one count for which he was found guilty and skip the retrial.  The crime of knowingly making false statements to
government agents carries a maximum penalty of five years in
prison.  ‘Sound and Fury’  “This is a tale of sound and fury signifying nothing,”
defense attorney Aaron Goldstein, paraphrasing a soliloquy from
William Shakespeare’s Macbeth, told the panel of 12 jurors and
six alternates who will hear the evidence against his client.  “Don’t be fooled and don’t be intimidated,” Goldstein
said. “Don’t get sucked into their ‘throw everything against
the wall and see what sticks’ approach,” he said of the
prosecutors’ case.  Blagojevich was arrested by agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in December 2008, just weeks after Obama had
defeated Republican nominee  John McCain  in a national election.
The ex-governor was later accused of trying to trade various
official acts for campaign cash.  A former chief of staff to the governor,  John Harris ,
pleaded guilty to a single count of bribery conspiracy and
testified against Blagojevich. The former governor didn’t take
the stand at the first trial.  Personal Debt  Niewoehner, one of three deputy prosecutors returning from
the prior trial, portrayed the former governor in the months
leading up to his arrest as short on campaign cash and mired in
personal debt.  “He decided to sell the senate seat to solve his
problem,” the assistant U.S. attorney said.  “He first tried to shake down President  Barack Obama ,” by
asking an intermediary to convey an offer to appoint future
presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett  as senator in exchange for
being appointed secretary of health and human services, a
cabinet post, Niewoehner said.  The ex-governor then wanted a salaried leadership position
with a nonprofit organization.  “Nobody was playing ball,” the prosecutor said.  Niewoehner also told the jurors that Blagojevich engaged in
four other “shakedown” schemes, including plots to wring
campaign money from an Illinois racetrack owner, the
head of the state’s asphalt paving trade association, a hospital
executive and the brother of former Chicago congressman, now-
mayor-elect  Rahm Emanuel .  ‘5-Step Process’  When Hollywood agent Ari Emanuel, Rahm’s brother, didn’t
hold a fundraiser for the ex-governor, Blagojevich decided to
punish the school by forcing it through “a 5-step process” to
get the $2 million grant it was seeking, Niewoehner said.  The prosecutor said the ex-governor tied other official
acts to his receipt of campaign contributions, telling jurors
that while Blagojevich was typically unsuccessful, the crime was
in the asking.  Goldstein seized on those results in delivering his own
opening remarks, in which he said, “Rod likes to talk a lot. He
talks and he talks and he talks.”  “Ask yourself,” he told the panel, “What ended up
happening? Absolutely nothing!” The  Chicago  school got its
money, Goldstein said, while his client got nothing.  ‘No Shakedown Here’  “There was no shakedown here,” the defense lawyer said.  Chicago’s mayor-elect was one of several emissaries of then
President-elect Obama, who were “bombarding” Blagojevich to
select Jarrett, said Goldstein.  “Rod wasn’t attempting to do anything,” Goldstein said.  Selection of jurors for the retrial started April 20 and
spanned six days. Some of the prospective jurors questioned said
they believed Blagojevich to be guilty.  Those chosen to be regular and alternate jurors include 15
women and three men. Zagel ordered their identities be kept
anonymous until after they render a verdict.  A lone juror last year stymied efforts by the other 11
panelists to convict Blagojevich on charges relating to his
alleged bartering of Obama’s senate seat, Stephen Wlodek, who
was a member of that jury, told Bloomberg News in a phone
interview after the verdict.  “We just could not sway her out of what her opinion was,”
said Wlodek, a human resources manager from suburban Bartlett,
 Illinois . “I don’t think justice was served. I think he was
guilty.”  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  