-- 
Bloomberg Link to Host Enterprise Technology Summit

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-02T14:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bloomberg-link-to-host-enterprise-technology-summit.html
                                
Press Release  Conference Features Key Leaders in Technology, Including  Richard
Falkenrath , Former NYPD Deputy Commissioner for
Counterterrorism; Ben Fried, CIO of Google; and Stanley Young,
CEO of NYSE Technologies  NEW YORK -- As new technologies continue to provide solutions to
drive business innovation, Bloomberg LINK will convene top
technology decision-makers in the financial services industry,
as well as Chief Technology Officers (CTOs) and Chief
Information Officers (CIOs) from leading companies for the
Bloomberg Enterprise Technology Summit.  The Summit, to be held on Tuesday, May 17, 2011 at New World
Stages at World Wide Plaza in  New York  City, will cover how
financial institutions are leveraging cloud technology,
decreasing latency, using virtualization, and securing data.
Speakers will also address the impact of the technology mergers
and acquisitions boom, how to comply with the new regulatory
environment and challenges with bandwidth capacity.  “The technology industry is rapidly changing and business
executives are looking at how to utilize new technologies to
drive competitive advantage and differentiation, as well as how
to navigate challenges,” said Robert Bierman, head of Bloomberg
LINK. “This event will convene the biggest procurers of
enterprise technology from the financial community to examine
how technology can give them a sharper edge in financial
markets.”  Key speakers include:  -John Bates, Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and
Head of Corporate Development, Progress Software Corporation;
Member, Technology Advisory Committee (TAC), U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)  -Art Coviello, Executive Vice President, EMC Corporation;
Executive Chairman, RSA, The Security Division of EMC  -Richard Falkenrath, Principal, Chertoff Group; Former Deputy
Commissioner for Counterterrorism,  New York City  Police
Department  -Ben Fried, Chief Information Officer, Google, Inc.  -Shawn Melamed, Founder, President and Chief Technology Officer,
Correlix  -Mark Palmer, Chief Executive Officer, StreamBase Systems, Inc.  -Jon Ramsey, Executive Director, Counter Threat Unit (CTU), Dell
SecureWork  -Stanley Young, Chief Executive Officer, NYSE Technologies  The conference is being sponsored by Juniper Networks, Tata
Consultancy Services and IDA Ireland.  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/tech . Follow us on  Facebook ,
 LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The hashtag for this event is
#BBTech.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jessica Turtletaub, +1 212-617-8476,  jturtletaub@bloomberg.net   #<262744.7291129.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
-0- May/02/2011 14:03 GMT
 