-- 
Bond Vigilantes Ignore Next Stage of Euro Crisis: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/bond-vigilantes-ignore-next-stage-of-euro-mess-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Greece? Been there. Ireland? Done
that.  Portugal ? Got the T-shirt. For the past year, countries
sharing the euro have been going bust one by one.  So where’s next? Plenty of people will point the finger at
Spain. Some at Italy. A few single out  Belgium , a country with
high debts, and no government.  But they should be looking somewhere else:  France .  It is increasingly politically unstable, its debt position
is getting worse all the time, it is losing competitiveness
against Germany, and it shows little willingness to change.
Those are all good reasons for the bond markets to make France
the next battleground. But the yield on France’s 10-year bond is
still hovering quietly at about 3.6 percent.  There isn’t, of course, a shortage of candidates for the
next leg of the euro-area’s rolling crisis of confidence.  Spain 
experienced a property bubble every bit as extreme as Ireland’s,
and has one of the biggest budget deficits in the euro area.
Italy has a legacy of government debt almost as bad as Greece’s,
and has struggled to grow since joining the single currency. The
same is true of Portugal. Belgium has just marked a year without
a government, a world record in peacetime: There isn’t much
chance of it getting a grip on the budget deficit while the
country can’t even agree on who is in charge.  Amidst all that, France has managed to slip off the radar.
It is  Europe ’s second-biggest economy and still a prosperous
one, even if its gross domestic product has expanded only 1.6
percent on average over the past two decades.  ‘Turn to France’  “It won’t be long before bond investors turn to France
after they have finished with Portugal and Spain,”  Xavier Rolet , the chief executive officer of London Stock Exchange
Group Plc,  told  the Independent newspaper in December.  There are four reasons to think France may be next in line.  First, it is entering politically dangerous territory. Next
year’s presidential election promises to be dramatic. The polls
suggest President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will struggle to make the
second-round run-off, and may well be relegated to third place
by the extremist National Front, led by Marine Le Pen. Only one
poll in the last seven weeks has shown Sarkozy defeating Le Pen
for the run-off.  Fierce Euro Critic  The interesting point is this: Le Pen is a fierce critic of
the euro. Spain and  Italy  don’t have popular politicians arguing
the case for bringing back national currencies. France does. Her
chances of winning power aren’t much better than they were for
her father, Jean-Marie, who once led the party. But all it will
take is a whiff of victory for the bond markets to take fright.
After all, a Le Pen victory could easily lead to the restoration
of the franc, followed by a devaluation. You wouldn’t want to
own French bonds if there was any possibility of that happening.  Second, France’s debt position is getting worse all the
time. In 2010, the nation ran the fifth-biggest budget deficit
in the euro area, at 7 percent of GDP. It was beaten only by
 Greece , Portugal, Ireland and Spain -- hardly great company. Its
stock of outstanding government debt hit 81 percent of GDP in
2010. That figure will reach 90 percent this year and 95 percent
in 2012, according to London-based consulting firm  Capital
Economics . Italy has more outstanding debt -- 119 percent of GDP
in 2010 -- but it isn’t adding to the pile the same way France
is. What the markets really look at is the direction you are
traveling in -- and in the case of France, it isn’t good.  German Competition  Three, France is losing competitiveness. The core problem
for all the countries struggling with the single currency is
that they can’t stay competitive with  Germany . That is certainly
true of France. German labor costs shrank 0.7 percent in the
fourth quarter, while in France they rose 1.1 percent. The
difference was even wider in the previous two quarters. The gap
isn’t massive in any single year, but enough to make France
steadily less competitive against its neighbor to the east.  Four, it is reluctant to change. Sarkozy came to power
promising to shake up the economy. He delivered little. At the
next election, he will face a challenge from the extreme, anti-
euro right. At the same time, the most likely Socialist Party
candidate, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , will be collecting the center voters. In
that contest, no one will promise tough action to control the
deficit, hold back wages or liberalize the economy. Spain and
Italy may have bigger debt problems, but the Spanish are working
hard to improve their finances and the Italians are at least
keeping their debts under control even if they aren’t doing much
to become more competitive. France isn’t doing either.  There isn’t much sign of the bond markets turning on France
yet. The country can still borrow on similar terms to Germany.
And there is still time to turn things around. A reduction in
the deficit this year or next would make things look better.  But it is hard to believe that the euro crisis will end
with the bailout of Portugal. Other countries are going to get
caught in the crossfire. When you look around for the next
candidate, France has what it takes to be the next blowup.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  