-- 
Boston Properties Funds From Operations Increase as Rental Income Climbs

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-02T22:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/boston-properties-funds-from-operations-increase-as-rental-income-climbs.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , owner of New
York’s General Motors Building and Boston’s John Hancock Tower,
said first-quarter funds from operations climbed 6.9 percent as
rental income increased.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, rose to $160 million, or $1.12 a share, from $149.6
million, or $1.07, a year earlier, the Boston-based real estate
investment trust said today in a statement. It was projected to
have FFO of $1.09 a share, the average estimate of 17 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Boston Properties, the biggest U.S. office REIT, may be
getting ready to buy more trophy buildings and proceed with
development as rents climb in its key markets of  New York ,
Boston and  Washington . The company agreed last week to sell its
Carnegie Center properties near Princeton,  New Jersey , for $468
million, and it is taking steps to resume construction of an
 office tower  at 250 West 55th St. in  Manhattan .  “With almost $1.5 billion of current liquidity, and
additional proceeds” from the Carnegie Center deal, “Boston
Properties is looking to broaden its holdings to new markets
with growth characteristics comparable to its operating
portfolio,” Mitch Germain, a REIT analyst with JMP Securities
LLC in New York, wrote in an April 26 note to investors. “The
company will remain disciplined in underwriting and will only
look to acquire trophy-quality properties.”  Rental Revenue Gain  Germain has a “market perform” rating on the stock.  Boston  Properties’ rental revenue rose 11 percent in the
first quarter to $404.5 million.  The company reduced the high end of its full-year FFO
estimate by 5 cents a share. It projects FFO of $4.45 to $4.55 a
share, compared with a January forecast of $4.45 to $4.60.  The company’s about 136 million square feet (12.6 million
square meters) of class A offices were already 93.6 percent
occupied as of Dec. 31, so growth in same-store leasing revenue
will probably be slow, Andrew Rosivach, a REIT analyst with
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in an April 14 report. Boston
Properties requires “continued upside surprise events,” such
as new developments or acquisitions or higher-than-expected rent
increases, to boost the stock price further, he said.  Rosivach has a “neutral” rating on the company.  First-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Boston Properties fell 43 cents to $104.10
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading today. It has
gained 21 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent increase
in the Bloomberg REIT Office Property Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  