-- 
Brazil Boosts 2011 Export Target After Trade Surplus Hits 4-Month High

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-02T20:13:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/brazil-trade-surplus-hits-4-month-high-imports-reach-record-2-.html
Brazil’s government boosted its 2011
export forecast after the  trade surplus  in April rose to the
highest this year.  The trade surplus rose to $1.86 billion last month from
$1.55 billion in March, the ministry said in a statement  posted 
on its website today. The figure compares with a $1.3 billion
surplus in April last year and was more than the $1 billion
median forecast by 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil will export $245 billion this year, up from a
previous estimate of $229 billion, as the country benefits from
a commodity boom, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel told
reporters in  Sao Paulo  today.  “This is a conservative target, our problem is not
quantitative, but qualitative,” Pimentel said. “The question
is how to export more industrialized goods.”  “Intense” foreign inflows to  Brazil  are causing the
currency to appreciate and inflation to accelerate, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said April 26. The strong currency,
which has gained 38 percent against the dollar in the past two
years, is affecting manufacturers, and the government will
announce measures to help industry’s ability to compete in
overseas markets this month, Pimentel said on April 29.  Brazil’s exports rose 33 percent in April to $20.2 billion
from the same month a year earlier, while imports rose 32
percent to a record $18.3 billion. Economists expected exports
of $19.4 billion and imports of $18.3 billion, according to the
median forecast of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “These are very good export figures as food commodities
prices are rising, while imports will continue growing given the
strong real and economic growth in Brazil,”  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said. “We shouldn’t
get too excited, commodities will fall as measures to curb
inflation begin to take effect by June, not only in Brazil but
also in  China  and other emerging markets.”  Futures Market  Yields on interest-rate future contracts maturing January
2013, the most traded today in BM&F Bovespa stock exchange in
Sao Paulo, fell 0.01 percentage point, or one basis point, to
12.67 percent at 3:40 p.m. New York time. The real fell 0.38
percent to 1.5814 per dollar.  The Brazilian government levied a tax on foreign loans and
debt sales by banks abroad and raised capital and reserve
requirements on foreign exchange deals, while the central bank
has purchased $29.8 billion in the  spot market  this year in a
bid to contain the strengthening real.  An increase in Brazil’s exports in January and February was
due to a 25 percent increase in price and an 8.6 percent
increase in volume exported, according to data compiled by the
central bank in its Quarterly Inflation Report, published March
30. The increase in imports over the same period was due to an
18.5 percent rise in volume, and a 10 percent rise in price, the
bank said.  Commodities and raw materials accounted for 51 percent of
Brazilian foreign sales in April, from 46.3 percent a year
earlier, the ministry said. Exports of raw materials and
commodities rose by 55 percent to $10.3 billion last month.  The share of manufactured goods in Brazil’s exports fell to
46 percent in April, from 52 percent a year-ago, according to
ministry’s figures. Brazil exported $9.37 billion of
manufactured goods in April.  Bigger Surplus  In the inflation report, the central bank raised its
forecast for the 2011 trade surplus to $15 billion this year,
from an earlier forecast of $11 billion. The Trade Ministry
today will also revise its current target of exporting $228
billion this year, Pimentel said last week.  Commodities prices rose 40.5 percent in March from a year
earlier and 0.6 percent from the previous month, according to
the central bank’s commodities price index.  Brazil’s current account deficit in March widened more than
economists expected to the most since December 2009, fueled by
multinational companies remitting profits and trips by
Brazilians abroad.  The deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade and services, widened to $5.7 billion in March from $3.4
billion in February, pushing the gap over the past 12 months to
$50 billion, the central bank said last week. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expected a monthly deficit of $5 billion,
according to the median projection of 22 analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  