-- 
Breast Cancer Survival May Be Hurt by Guidelines on Mammograms, Data Show

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-05-02T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/breast-cancer-survival-may-be-hurt-by-guidelines-on-mammograms-data-show.html
Women under 50 who follow the advice
of a U.S. panel to forgo annual mammograms are risking more
severe forms of  breast cancer  because of it, three studies led
by radiologists suggest.  Failing to get regular breast screenings left women more
likely to discover cancer at an advanced stage, retrospective
research at hospitals in Ohio and  Missouri  found. The delay
resulted in larger tumors and a worse prognosis once the cancer
was uncovered, the data found. A study in Colorado suggests 62
percent of doctors changed their advice to match the U.S.
guideline and 16 percent fewer women got the test.  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force  said in 2009 that
most women ages 40 to 49 don’t need mammograms, restricting the
test to those with a disease history or who had a greater risk
for another factor. The  American Cancer Society  disputed the
advice, and insurers still cover annual screenings.  “If you get a mammogram and a cancer is diagnosed, you are
likely to have a better prognosis and a less toxic form of
treatment,” said Donna Plecha, a radiologist at  University
Hospitals Case Medical Center  in  Cleveland , who analyzed biopsy
results from Jan. 1, 2008, to Dec. 31, 2009. “If you don’t, you
will have the opposite.”  The three studies were presented at separate medical
meetings held today and Friday by the  American Society of Breast
Surgeons  in Washington and the  American Roentgen Ray Society ,
representing radiologists, in  Chicago .  40,000 Women Killed  Breast cancer killed an estimated 40,000 women last year
and is the second leading cause of death among women, exceeded
only by  lung cancer , according to Atlanta-based Cancer Society.
The group estimated that about 207,090 new cases of invasive
breast cancer were diagnosed in 2010.  In issuing its recommendations, the federal task force said
women in their 40s are more likely to get false-positive tests
that lead to unnecessary biopsies and anxiety than to discover
cancer through a mammogram. The guideline was challenged by the
cancer society, which urged doctors to advise women of that age
to continue routine annual screenings.  The independent  task force , under the U.S. Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality, was first formed in the 1980s
to give advice on screening, counseling and preventive medicines
based on an assessment of scientific evidence. The panel has
been known for its conservatism, said Therese B. Bevers, medical
director of the Cancer Prevention Center at M.D. Anderson Cancer
Center in Houston, when the guideline was issued in 2009.  30 Topics in Review  Academic and practicing doctors and nurses make up the
group, according to the panel’s  website . They have published
guidelines on more than 100 topics and are reviewing 30 more,
involving cervical cancer tests, dementia and glaucoma screening
and the use of electrocardiographs for detection of coronary
 heart disease .  “Despite significant objections to the new guidelines, few
researchers have specifically looked at mammography and its
long-term impact on outcomes in younger women,” said Paul Dale,
a study researcher and chief of surgical oncology at the Ellis
Fischel Cancer Center at the University of Missouri School of
Medicine, Columbia, about the breast cancer advisory.  Dale and colleagues analyzed breast cancer cases in women
younger than 50 from 1998 to 2008. The study showed that 94
percent of the women ages 40 to 49 diagnosed through a mammogram
were considered disease free after five years compared with 78
percent of those who didn’t receive the screening exams.  ‘Important Information’  “This study provides important new information,” Dale
said in a report issued at the  Washington  breast surgeon
meeting.  Plecha’s team studied biopsy results from Jan. 1, 2008, to
Dec. 31, 2009. Seventy-one of 108 diagnosed breast cancer cases
were detected by a mammogram and 37 resulted from discovery of a
lump or other symptom. Twenty-two cases were non-invasive cancer
in the tested group compared with one among those who were not.  None of the cancers in the mammogram group had progressed
to latest stage form of the disease compared with 17 among those
who weren’t screened.  More than half of the women who had a mammogram showed no
evidence of cancer in their lymph nodes compared with 39 percent
in the group that hadn’t been screened, Plecha said in a
telephone interview. Her study also showed the size of the
tumors to be on average smaller among the women whose cancer was
discovered in a mammogram.  Lara Hardesty , a radiologist at the University of  Colorado 
in Aurora, led a team that conducted an e-mail survey of primary
care physicians and gynecologists at her institution to see if
they changed their recommendations for women younger than 50
because of the Preventive Services Task Force advice.  Treatable Early  “The earlier we find cancer the more treatable it is and
it’s my concern that, for some of them, we will be missing an
opportunity for early diagnosis,” Hardesty said in a telephone
interview. “I realize I am a radiologist and this is my
livelihood, but I am also the one who has to tell a young woman
she has breast cancer.”  In a separate study, Hardesty’s team compared the number of
women in that age group who received mammograms in the nine
months before and after the guidelines were issued. The
researchers reported a 16 percent reduction in the number of
screenings in the time period after the task force’s
recommendations.  “We didn’t look to see how many cancers developed or how
bad they were,” Hardesty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  