-- 
Buffett Extols Berkshire’s CEO Candidates, Faults Sokol’s Trades

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-05-02T20:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/buffett-extols-berkshire-s-ceo-candidates-faults-sokol-s-trades.html
Warren Buffett, the  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  chief executive officer preparing the firm for his eventual
departure, praised the company’s roster of CEO candidates as he
criticized former manager  David Sokol  for his stock dealings.  “There is no real chance the next CEO comes from outside
of Berkshire,” the 80-year-old billionaire said yesterday at a
press conference in Omaha,  Nebraska , site of the company’s
annual meeting. “If you picked the worst of the candidates we
have, that person would be very, very good.”  Buffett sought to reassure investors as he fielded
questions about the departure of Sokol, who announced his
resignation in March after he’d purchased shares in Berkshire
takeover target  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  Buffett said Sokol violated the
company’s insider-trading rules.  Sokol’s stock deals, which Buffett called “inexplicable”
considering his wealth, depleted Berkshire’s list of possible
CEOs. Berkshire said in February that it had four candidates,
without identifying them.  “The leading candidate right now, I would lay a lot of
money on him being straight as an arrow,” Buffett said at the
April 30 meeting. He didn’t name the executive.  Berkshire may have to revamp its internal controls, said
Lawrence Cunningham, a professor at George  Washington 
University, who compiled selections from Berkshire’s annual
letters into a book.  Tasks Ahead  “This fellow built it over 40 years, he knows all the
managers personally and hand-selected most of them, and relies
heavily on personal, informal trust relations that any successor
won’t have,” Cunningham said in an interview. “The tasks
facing the successor include installing a conventional reporting
and control structure that will inherently alter the governance
structure.”  Buffett defended Berkshire’s rules and code of conduct. He
said the company would evaluate its policies after Sokol,
adding, “We hope to get some value out of this experience.”  Berkshire’s Class A shares dropped $1,918, or 1.5 percent,
to $122,832, at 3:59 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock climbed 2 percent this year.  Buffett’s responsibilities will be split, upon his death or
retirement, among at least three people. A CEO will oversee the
operating units and one or more investment managers will take
charge of the portfolio. Buffett said his son Howard will
probably assume the position of non-executive chairman and has
“no designs” on taking over.  Praise for Jain  Buffett, who’s also Berkshire’s biggest shareholder,
singled out reinsurance chief  Ajit Jain , for praise on April 30.
Jain, 59, has a mind that “works like a machine,” he said.  “I can’t think of any decision he’s ever made that I could
have made better,” Buffett said. “I don’t know what his best
deal was. I know what my best deal was: It was hiring him.”  Buffett visited India in March, after learning about
Sokol’s Lubrizol trades. At a press conference in Bangalore, he
praised Jain as “totally honorable” and said Berkshire
directors would support him as CEO. The remarks came the week
before Buffett disclosed Sokol’s trades and resignation.  Howard Buffett , who may help select his father’s successor,
said Berkshire’s circle of most trusted managers, like Jain and
Tony Nicely, will expand to include railroad chief Matthew Rose.
The billionaire’s son said the heads of many of the company’s
units have won his father’s trust.  Earning Trust  “A lot of these CEOs are close to my Dad,” Howard Buffett
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “I mean Tony, Ajit.
And I’m sure Matt will be closer as time goes on.”  Rose, 52, joined Berkshire last year after selling
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , which he runs as CEO, to Buffett
for $26.5 billion. Buffett has overseen Nicely, 67, CEO of car
insurer Geico, since 1996 when Berkshire acquired full control
of the unit. Buffett hired Jain more than 20 years ago to run a
reinsurance business for Berkshire.  “Candidates change,” Howard Buffett said. “People often
want him to come out and say, ‘Here’s the person,’ but that’d be
foolish because that person can change.”  Warren Buffett ’s eventual replacements will take charge of
a $200 billion company whose composition and culture are largely
the expression of just one person. The CEOs of each operating
unit, from Fruit of the Loom to  Dairy Queen  to Geico, were
vetted by Buffett before acquisitions and promotions.  Sokol’s Stock  Sokol, 54, was considered by Buffett biographer Andrew Kilpatrick as the top CEO candidate before stepping down.
Buffett announced Sokol’s departure in a March 30 statement that
also described the Lubrizol stock deals.  Sokol bought about $10 million of Lubrizol shares in
January while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying
the lubricant maker. Lubrizol jumped 28 percent on the  New York 
Stock Exchange on March 14 when Buffett announced a deal to buy
the company for about $9 billion.  Berkshire turned over “very damning evidence” about
Sokol’s deals and acted promptly in informing the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Buffett said. “He violated our insider-
trading rules and he violated the principles I lay out every two
years to our managers,” he said.  Those remarks contrast with comments from March 30, when
Buffett cited Sokol’s “extraordinary” contributions to
Berkshire.  Lack of Outrage  “What I think bothers people is that there wasn’t some big
sense of outrage,” Buffett said when asked about his original
statement. “This fellow had done a lot of good things for us
over 10 or 11 years, and I felt that if I’m laying out a whole
bunch of facts that are going to create lots of problems for him
for years to come, that I also list his side of the equation.”  Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger, who also took
questions, said he was glad that Buffett hadn’t initially acted
out of anger.  “That press release was not the cleverest press release in
the history of the world,” Munger said. “You want to display
as much ruthlessness as your duty requires, and you do not want
to add one single iota because you’re angry.”  “At no time did Mr. Sokol violate the law or any Berkshire
policy,” Barry William Levine, a lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein
Shapiro LLP in Washington, said in an e-mailed statement. “At
no time did Mr. Sokol intend to personally profit at the expense
of Berkshire or its shareholders. At no time did Mr. Sokol
mislead or deceive.”  Berkshire’s Structure  Buffett oversees the heads of Berkshire’s more than 70
subsidiaries with the help of Munger, 87, and a staff of about
20 at the company’s headquarters in Omaha. Berkshire employs
more than 250,000 people across industries spanning insurance,
energy and consumer goods, and Buffett entrusts operational
authority to the CEOs of the individual units.  “The next CEO will do it his own way and he’s likely to do
it somewhat differently,” Buffett said yesterday of Berkshire’s
reporting structure. “He won’t be changing the culture.”  Buffett hosted his annual gathering for thousands of
investors over the weekend at the Qwest Center, an arena in
Omaha, and discussed topics ranging from Berkshire earnings to
the outlook for more acquisitions.  Berkshire announced that its first-quarter profit slumped
by 58 percent as natural disasters led by the  Japan  earthquake
in March eroded insurance earnings. Buffett said the firm may
have its first annual insurance underwriting loss in nine years.
Net income dropped to $1.51 billion from $3.63 billion a year
earlier, Berkshire said in a statement.  Berkshire is seeking purchases in the U.S. and abroad,
Buffett said. It is considering a “small” acquisition in
 Canada  for its Marmon Holdings unit, which produces industrial
products, he said.  The firm would consider deals in “dozens” of countries if
“we like their prospects and we like their management,”
Buffett said at yesterday’s news conference. “We will answer
the phone or open the letter that comes from  Taiwan ,  China ,
Japan,  India .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Omaha at   afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in Omaha at   bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  