-- 
Canada March Industrial and Raw Materials Prices (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-02T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/canada-march-industrial-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as
reported by  Statistics Canada .  In March, the Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI)
rose 0.9% and the Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) grew a
substantial 5.7%. The strong increase in petroleum prices
was the main reason for the advance of both indexes.  The IPPI was up 0.9% in March, the same growth rate as
in February. The growth in March was primarily driven by
an 8.2% increase in petroleum and coal products. Meat,
fish and dairy products (+1.4%) and chemical products
(+0.7%) made more modest contributions.  Prices for petroleum and coal products rose sharply in
March, influenced by reduced production in oil-producing
countries.  In March, excluding petroleum and coal products, the
IPPI would have decreased 0.1% following seven consecutive
monthly increases.  The IPPI advance was moderated by a 0.8% decline in
prices for motor vehicles and other transportation
equipment. The decrease was largely the result of the 1.1%
appreciation of the Canadian dollar relative to the US
dollar.  Some Canadian producers who export their products to
the  United States  are generally paid on the basis of
prices set in US dollars. Consequently, the strength of
the Canadian dollar in relation to the US dollar had the
effect of reducing the corresponding prices in Canadian
dollars. Without the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI
would have risen 1.1% instead of 0.9%.  After contributing to the increase in the IPPI during
the previous eight months, prices for primary metal
products declined 0.3% in March. Copper and copper alloy
products and nickel products, which both decreased 5.8%,
made strong contributions to the decline in primary metal
prices. Reduced production in  Asia  had a significant
impact on demand for metals. However, the decline in these
primary metals was moderated by higher prices for precious
metals, which continued to rise in March.  12-month change in the IPPI: The upward trend continues  The IPPI rose 5.0% in March compared with the same
month a year earlier, after advancing 3.1% in January and
3.8% in February. Of the 21 major commodity aggregations,
15 were up and 4 decreased.  In the past 12 months, the IPPI advance was driven
mainly by higher prices for petroleum and coal products
(+24.3%) and primary metal products (+13.6%).  Year over year, the largest contributors to the
increase in primary metal products were precious metals,
particularly silver and platinum (+83.6%), as well as
precious metal basic manufactured shapes (+85.6%).  In March, the 4.8% year-over-year increase in the value
of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar dampened
the IPPI advance. Without the impact of the exchange rate,
the IPPI would have risen 6.0% instead of 5.0%.  Prices for motor vehicles and other transportation
equipment, which are particularly sensitive to the
exchange rate, fell 2.3% in March compared with the same
month a year earlier, continuing the downward movement
that started in October 2009.  If petroleum and coal prices were excluded, the year-
over-year IPPI would have increased 2.5% in March, a
faster growth rate than the 2.1% advance observed in
January and February. This index, year over year, has been
increasing since May 2010.  Raw Materials Price Index: Strong upward trend  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) rose a substantial
5.7% in March, almost exclusively as a result of higher
prices for crude oil (+16.2%).  Non-ferrous metals (-4.0%) and vegetable products 
(-4.3%) slightly dampened the impact of higher crude  oil
prices  on the RMPI.  Copper and nickel concentrates (-8.8%), radioactive
concentrates (-6.0%), and zinc concentrates (-5.9%) were
the biggest contributors to the decline of non-ferrous
metals prices. However, the decrease in non-ferrous metals
was moderated by the rising prices of precious metals,
particularly silver and platinum (+12.1%).  The decrease in vegetable product prices in March was
mainly attributable to lower prices for natural rubber and
allied gums (-14.7%), partly as a result of weaker demand
from  Japan . Following prospects of good harvests,
including an increase in seeding intentions, the price of
grains declined, specifically wheat (-4.6%) and corn 
(-3.5%).  Excluding mineral fuels, the RMPI would have decreased
1.9% in March, registering the first decline since July
2010.  Compared with the same month a year earlier, the RMPI
was up 16.7% in March, following gains of 9.6% in January
and 11.3% in February. Year over year, the RMPI has been
on an upward trend since November 2009. The main
contributors to the RMPI year-over-year increase in March
were mineral fuels (+16.5%), non-ferrous metals (+23.1%),
vegetable products (+38.9%), and animals and animal
products (+9.0%).  Year over year, if mineral fuels were excluded, the
RMPI would have risen 16.9% in March, slower than the
19.8% growth rate observed in February.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
are subject to revision for six months (for example, when
the July index is released, the index for the preceding
January becomes final).  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave
the plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer
pays. Unlike the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes
indirect taxes and all the costs that occur between the
time a good leaves the plant and the time the final user
takes possession of it, including the transportation,
wholesale, and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often
indicate their prices in foreign currencies, especially in
US dollars, which are then converted into Canadian
dollars. In particular, this is the case for motor
vehicles, pulp, paper and wood products. Therefore, a rise
or fall in the value of the Canadian dollar against its US
counterpart affects the IPPI. But the conversion into
Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents provide
their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes
into account the full effect of exchange rates, since that
is a more difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is
based on the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot
rate) established by the  Bank of Canada , and it is
available on CANSIM in table 176-0064 (series v37426).
Monthly and annual variations in the exchange rate, as
described in the text, are calculated according to the
indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for example,
CAN$1=US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the
prices paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw
materials. Many of those prices are set on the world
market. However, as few prices are denominated in foreign
currencies, their conversion into Canadian dollars has
only a minor effect on the calculation of the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  