-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Voters Head to the Polls, RIM Analyst’s Day

-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 
2011-05-02T04:02:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/canada-daybook-voters-head-to-the-polls-rim-analyst-s-day.html
After a weekend of last-minute
campaigning,  Canada ’s political leaders head to their home
constituencies to wait for the results of Canada’s 41st general
election.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Prime Minister Stephen Harper will be in Calgary, while
Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  and New Democratic Party leader
 Jack Layton  will be in Toronto. Polls close in a majority of
Canada’s 308 electoral districts at 9:30 p.m. New York time,
and will be closed everywhere by 10:00 p.m. Public opinion polls
last week suggested Harper may form another minority government.  ECONOMY:
* Statistics Canada reports on factory inflation data for March.
The industrial product price index is forecast to have risen 0.7
percent on the month and the raw materials price index is
forecast to increase by 2.5 percent, according to Bloomberg News
surveys.  EVENTS:
* Electricity generator  Capital Power Corp. (CPX)  is scheduled to hold
a conference call to discuss first-quarter financial results at
7 a.m. in Edmonton,  Alberta .
* Research In Motion Ltd., maker of the BlackBerry smartphone,
begins its annual BlackBerry World trade show in Orlando this
morning and also holds an investor day, starting at 9:30 a.m.
New York time. The event will be webcast and can be accessed on
 http://www.rim.com/investors/events/index.shtml . Technology
investors will be watching for news of fresh smartphone models
or software innovations. RIM fell as much as 14 percent on
Friday after the company cut its sales and profit forecast as
sales growth of an aging portfolio of phones slowed in  North
America .
* Centerra Gold Inc., which mines in Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia, is
to hold a conference call to discuss first-quarter earnings at
11 a.m. in Toronto.
* Papermaker Canfor Pulp Products Inc. is to release first-
quarter earnings after market close.  MARKETS:
* The S&P/TSX rose 0.4 percent to 13,944.79, to end April with a
1.2 percent monthly decline.
* Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell 4 basis
points to 1.70 percent, down from 1.83 percent at the start of
April.
* The Canadian dollar gained 0.6 percent to 94.54 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 4 p.m. yesterday in Toronto.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@Bloomberg.net  