-- 
Canada Election Result Bloggers Face Fines Under 1938 Law

-- B y   G a r y   N o r r i s
-- 
2011-05-02T10:59:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/canada-election-result-bloggers-face-fines-under-1938-law.html
Social media and a 73-year-old law may
be headed for a collision today when  Canada  holds a national
election as tweeters and bloggers face the possibility of
C$25,000 ($26,400) fines for posting results before the polls
close in the West.  Under section 329 of the Canada Elections Act, no one is
allowed to transmit early election results from one region to
other areas where the polls are still open. The provision dates
to 1938 - long before television and the Internet - and was
intended to prevent broadcasts of results in Eastern Canada from
influencing voters in the West, as much as four and a half hours
behind.  The law distinguishes between transmission - broadcasting
to an audience - and communication among individuals. In the
modern world of instant tweets and blogs, that distinction may
be blurry. Elections Canada says that section 329 applies to all
transmissions, regardless of the medium.  “What we’re seeing now is the advent of what’s being
commonly called social media platforms, Facebook etcetera, which
are adding a new dimension to the immediacy of communication,”
 Elections Canada  spokesman John Enright said in a phone
interview from Ottawa. “That being said, 329 is still on the
books.”  The penalty for a violation is a fine of not more than
C$25,000, although only one Internet-related case has been
prosecuted. That reached the  Supreme Court  of Canada and ended
with a $1,000 fine plus legal costs.  The Supreme Court case dealt with Paul Bryan’s contention
that his publication of results in the November 2000 election
was protected by the constitutional Charter of Rights and
Freedoms.  Equality  The high court cited the principle of “informational
equality” for all voters, and its 2007 ruling said Section 329
“contributes in a positive way to the fairness and reputation
of the electoral system.”  David Elder, a specialist in communications law with
Stikeman Elliott LLP in Ottawa, said a key issue is to
“determine where the line is between what constitutes a
transmission to the public, something akin to a publication, and
what is really legitimate and in fact vital discussion on
political issues.”  The legislation has been perceived to be focused on mass
media such as radio and TV, he said.  “In smaller circles, the lines are a lot less clear,”
Elder said.  Narrows Gap  The time gap across six time zones from Newfoundland to the
Pacific Coast has been reduced in recent elections with
staggered polling hours, Enright said.  “The true lag between an Eastern vote and a Western vote
is 1½ hours,” Enright said. Including the time taken to count
ballots “realistically, the lag is probably closer to 30 to 45
minutes.”  How the issue might be further dealt with is up to
Parliament, not Elections Canada, Enright added. In the meantime,
the law stands.  “It is on the books, and there is provision in the act to
declare an offence; whether or not anyone can be prosecuted
under that is under their discretion,” lawyer Julia Kennedy
said from the Ottawa office of Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP.  A decision on whether to prosecute would be up to the
Commissioner of Elections Canada, who Enright said normally acts
on the basis of complaints.  Kennedy’s advice to tweeters, bloggers and Facebook users
on Election Day is: “They should be aware that it is an
offence.” As for freedom of expression, “Certainly people can
express opinion without contravening section 329,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gary Norris in Toronto at 
 gnorris1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 