-- 
TCF Bank Seeks Order Blocking Fee Caps to Process Debit Card Transactions

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-02T20:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/tcf-bank-seeks-order-blocking-fee-caps-to-process-debit-card-transactions.html
TCF National Bank has asked a U.S.
appeals court for an order that would block federal regulations
capping the amount of money the biggest U.S. banks can charge
retailers for processing debit-card transactions.  The bank, a  TCF Financial Corp. (TCB)  unit that sued Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, is challenging U.S. District
Judge Lawrence L. Piersol’s April 4 decision denying its request
to halt implementation of the rule.  The lender challenges legislation appended to last year’s
Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul bill. The provision,
sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat,
and known as the Durbin Amendment, bars banks with more than
$10 billion in assets from collecting from retailers more money
for debit-card transactions than the actual cost of providing
that service.  “We are talking about the establishment of a confiscatory
rate regime fully 15 years after banks began their debit
businesses,” TCF’s attorneys argued in their brief filed today
with the St. Louis-based  U.S. Court of Appeals .  Matt Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  TCF has argued that the proposed fee cap, which isn’t yet
in force, is unconstitutional.  After an April 4 hearing in  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota ,
Piersol denied the bank’s motion to stop the rule on rates. The
judge also denied a government request to dismiss the case
outright.  TCF Financial is based in Wayzata, Minnesota.  The lower case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-cv-
04149, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota (Sioux
Falls). The appellate case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 11-
1805, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 