-- 
Chastity Belt Is Needed to Keep U.S. Budget Pure: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 1 5 8 ]   C h a r l e s   W .   S t e v e n s   [ ]
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/chastity-belt-needed-to-keep-u-s-budget-pure-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Gramm-Rudman or something like it.  That’s the consoling phrase I keep hearing as lawmakers
talk about implementing an automatic control on  government
spending  in the style of the 1985 Gramm-Rudman plan. President
 Barack Obama , for example, has called for a “debt failsafe”
that would cut spending and raise taxes if the ratio of the
federal debt to gross domestic product doesn’t stabilize by
2014.  Top Senate Democrat  Harry Reid  advocates a limit on the
deficit, a law binding Congress to reduce the deficit when it
reaches certain levels. Others are proposing simple caps on
spending that make it harder for committee chairmen to push
through extra outlays when no one is looking.  Of course the calm counsel on the need for devices is
supposed to distract us from the fact that the devices are being
put forward as part of a wild package that would increase the
debt ceiling well above the appalling and unsober level of $14
trillion.  But what was Gramm-Rudman and what did it accomplish? A
look back a quarter century makes clear that some of today’s
consolation Gramm-Rudmans might yield the opposite of the result
their advocates intend.  The first Gramm-Rudman gesture was, just as now, a gesture
of contrition. Spending seemed to be out of control, everyone
blamed Congress. “It is 1985,” said a Wall Street Journal
editorial, “there’s congressional government, and there’s
chaos.”  Threat of ‘Sequesters’  There were proposals to raise the debt ceiling to the
then-dreadful sounding level of $2 trillion from $1.8 trillion.
Three senators, Phil Gramm of  Texas , Warren Rudman of  New
Hampshire  and Ernest Hollings of  South Carolina  proposed an
amendment to the debt ceiling increase: a plan setting deficit
targets for each year from 1986 to 1991. Under the rule, failure
to meet those deficit limits would trigger equal spending cuts,
called “sequesters,” for defense and non-defense expenditures.  Gramm-Rudman contained no tax increases; the punishment hit
the spending side alone. As Gramm, who will testify before the
 Senate Budget Committee  tomorrow on the current debt ceiling,
recalls, “by threatening across-the-board cuts, it gave
congressmen and senators an incentive to make hard choices and
provided a shield against those who criticized their choices.”  The law permitted the Senate to halt an automatic cut by a
vote of 60 or more. Emergencies like wars or recessions were
considered valid pretexts for suspension.  Reality Check  These exceptions weakened the device; by 1990, there was
both recession and the first  Iraq war , and Gramm-Rudman became
history.  Nonetheless, Gramm-Rudman didn’t fail. Spending growth
indeed slowed in the late 1980s. The device’s very presence
served as a sort of reality check that discouraged new
entitlements. The only big new entitlement of the Gramm-Rudman
period was catastrophic coverage of Medicare.  Pundits usually depict this step as a failure. They enjoy
recalling the humiliation of House Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski when angry seniors assailed him over the coverage’s
upfront premium tax.  But the catastrophic coverage event was in its way a model
of civics. Congress was honest about the costs of a program and
didn’t conceal those costs in the out-years; voters were honest
about what they wanted to pay and killed the program. In short,
Gramm-Rudman’s statutory rules may have emphasized the deficit
and helped keep the federal government smaller than it otherwise
might have been, and the private sector, larger.  Tighter Restraints  Fast forward to today and evaluate new plans in this
context. The failings of Gramm-Rudman suggest that this time
undoing the automatic mechanism ought to be tougher. Gramm has
suggested that the House and Senate both require high majorities
to halt a sequester. These days wars and recessions come
annually, or even weekly, rather than once or twice a decade the
way they used to.  This time, lawmakers might think twice about writing a law
that permits suspension of the mechanism in case of war or
economic contraction.  More important though is to decide what the goal here is,
mere budget balancing or government cutting. A new constraint
mechanism that includes  tax  increases may indeed check
government growth, or even shrink it. Such a trigger plan,
however, may also allow the House and Senate to prance around
claiming they are demonstrating discipline even as they expand
government. It is, after all, possible to maintain a large
balanced budget. My preference would be for a mechanism whose
sole aim is to make government smaller, where any spending
increases triggered spending cuts of double the size.  Smaller Government Goal  The same beneficent “shield” effect that Gramm describes
in relation to budget cuts would here, in relation to tax rate
increases, work perniciously. Congressmen would be able to say
raising taxes wasn’t their fault, and therefore would find them
easier to permit. This is especially likely if the tax increases
come years after the outlays, as would be the case under the
Obama formula.  A constraint mechanism that contains triggers for budget
cuts alone will by contrast impose pressure on everyone for
smaller government.  “Something like Gramm-Rudman” sure sounds good. The
details matter, and should be scrutinized by both lawmakers and
voters, even though both groups find it easier to bask in the
shame of recent expenditures.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) 