-- 
Chinese Inflation, Wage Rates Will Curb Competition, Group Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-02T17:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/chinese-inflation-wage-rates-will-curb-competition-group-says.html
China ’s rising wages and inflation
soon will make its exports too expensive to compete with low-
cost manufacturers, according to a group representing U.S.
companies with operations in the world’s second-largest economy.  “China’s competitiveness in terms of wage rates will
evaporate,” Christian Murck, president of the  American Chamber
of Commerce in Beijing,  said today in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Washington office. Factories are “being squeezed
very, very severely by rising wages.”  Murck said the Chinese yuan is likely to continue its
steady appreciation against the dollar because Chinese
policymakers want to curb inflation and limit their accumulation
of U.S. Treasury bonds. A rising currency also makes exports
more expensive.  China’s yuan strengthened to 6.49 per dollar on April 29,
the first time it exceeded 6.50 since 1993. Consumer prices in
 Asia ’s biggest economy rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier in
March, exceeding the government’s 4 percent goal for this year.  Murck’s group, representing U.S. companies with operations
in China such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Boeing
Co. (BA) , is in Washington this week discussing ways the
administration of President  Barack Obama  can confront a growing
range of commercial challenges in China. At the top of the list
are mounting competitive threats from state-backed operations.  “These state-owned enterprises are something the U.S.
government needs to look at,” said James McGregor, senior
counselor at  APCO Worldwide . The American Chamber of Commerce in
Beijing will host a conference in Washington tomorrow on the
topic with Undersecretary of State  Robert Hormats  and former
U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab.  ‘National Champions’  Chinese efforts to develop “national champions” in high-
technology industries reflects an awareness that its supply of
low-cost labor from provinces is drying up as its population
ages, McGregor said.  As a result, the Chinese government is using aid combined
with restrictions on trade and investment to favor the
development of the champions. China is requiring foreign makers
of electric cars, nuclear power, high-speed rail and green
energy to transfer their technology to Chinese joint-venture
partners if they want to sell there, McGregor said.  “They are using the power of their market,” he said.  Wage increases in China and the appreciation of the yuan
have reduced the profitability of small industrial companies in
the southern province of Guangdong, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  in Beijing said March 15.  The profit margin for small-scale industrial companies fell
to 3.9 percent last year, a drop of 0.2 percentage points from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said on its website.  Labor shortages in manufacturing hubs on China’s east coast
are persisting and spreading to central and western regions as
economic growth spurs demand for workers and population growth
in rural areas slows, Yin Weimin, Minister of Human Resources
and Social Security, said in Beijing March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 