-- 
Chrysler Posts $116 Million First-Quarter Profit as Vehicle Sales Rise

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-02T17:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/chrysler-group-reports-first-quarterly-profit-since-2009-bankruptcy-filing.html
Chrysler Group LLC reported first-
quarter net income of $116 million, its first since emerging
from bankruptcy reorganization in 2009, as U.S. sales of its
Dodge and Jeep vehicles increased.  The profit compares with a net loss of $197 million a year
earlier,  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler, which is
operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , said today in a statement. The average
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for net
income of $96 million.  First-quarter net revenue rose 35 percent to $13.1 billion.
U.S. sales of the Jeep brand gained 34 percent from a year
earlier and Dodge model deliveries increased 28 percent while
Chrysler Group spent 12 percent less on sales incentives and
discounts, according to researcher Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff
Lake ,  New Jersey .  “Chrysler’s performance in the first quarter is
significant,” Warren Browne, a Northville, Michigan-based vice
president at consultant AutomotiveCompass LLC, said in an e-mail
after the release. “The performance keeps them as a solid
Detroit Three player.”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, aims to refinance Chrysler’s government debts,
report a net profit of $200 million to $500 million this year
and boost its worldwide sales 32 percent to 2 million vehicles.
The automaker said last month that first-quarter global
deliveries rose 18 percent from a year earlier to 393,879.  Modified Profit  First-quarter modified operating profit, a measure that
excludes items such as taxes, interest and pension-related
costs, more than tripled to $477 million from $143 million a
year earlier, the company said. The improvement was mainly
because of higher sales and better pricing and mix, Chrysler
said.  Chrysler’s first quarter included the introduction of the
redesigned Chrysler 300 full-size sedan, the start of deliveries
of the Fiat 500 and a Super Bowl commercial featuring the
Chrysler 200 sedan and rap star Eminem.  “Chrysler Group’s improved sales and financial performance
in the first quarter show that our rejuvenated product lineup is
gaining momentum in the marketplace and resonating with
customers,” Marchionne said in a statement.  ‘Promising Future’  The first-quarter results show that Chrysler is “on the
right course” for long-term viability, Marchionne said in a
memorandum to employees today. “We now have a clear view of a
promising future.”  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler spokeswoman, confirmed the memo.  The company had $9.87 billion in cash on hand at the end of
March, an increase of $2.51 billion from the end of December,
Chrysler said.  The company has been slow to distribute new vehicles such
as the Chrysler 200 and 300 sedans, largely because of efforts
to ensure quality, Marchionne said during a conference call with
analysts and journalists. U.S. sales of the Chrysler brand fell
9.2 percent during the quarter, according to Autodata.  “We’ve got less than two Chrysler 200s per dealer as of
the end of the first quarter,” Marchionne said. “That’s
inadequate to try and get traction.”  He said he expects sales to accelerate as distribution
increases.  Truck Lineup  Chrysler’s performance has been good given that its lineup
relies heavily on pickups and sport-utility vehicles, said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with TrueCar.com.  The automaker’s average transaction prices rose 1.1 percent
to $29,742, according to Edmunds.com, a website that tracks auto
sales trends. Chrysler increased the portion of its sales from
leases in the U.S. by 6.9 percentage points to 16.3 percent,
Edmunds said.  Marchionne plans to increase Fiat’s 30 percent ownership in
Chrysler to 51 percent this year and has said he aims to sell
shares of the U.S. automaker to the public as well.  Chrysler last week announced it would issue new debt to pay
off $7.53 billion in U.S. and Canadian government loans this
quarter, allowing Fiat to exercise an option to purchase 16
percent of Chrysler Group this quarter.  Chrysler said today that it plans to obtain senior secured
credit facilities including an expected $3.5 billion six-year
term loan and a $1.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility
as well as an expected $2.5 billion in new secured debt
securities with eight- and 10-year maturities.  Profit Guidance  While the automaker confirmed its net-income guidance for
the year, it said the forecast excludes the effects of
refinancing and potential conversion of Chrysler from a limited-
liability corporation to a corporation.  Chrysler expects to save $100 million in the second half
because of its debt refinancing and have charges of about $500
million associated with paying off the loans early, Chief
Financial Officer Richard Palmer said.  Marchionne has said he expects to meet a performance
milestone tied to Chrysler assembling a 40 mpg vehicle in the
U.S. by the end of the year, triggering the final 5 percent
stake and giving Fiat 51 percent ownership.  As soon as Fiat exercises its 16 percent option in
Chrysler, the Italian automaker must consolidate the U.S.
automaker’s results on its balance sheet, Marchionne said.  “The consolidation of Chrysler will be accretive to the
earnings of Fiat going forward,” he said. Fiat is working on
the accounting issues now, he added.  “Mergers of Fiat and Chrysler are not on the table -- I’ve
been rather clear on this,” Marchionne said. “Whatever
discussion that needs to happen on this topic is a longer-dated
issue than the ones we’re currently dealing with.”  Fiat rose as much as 33 cents, or 4.6 percent, to 7.54
euros and closed at 7.49 euros in Milan trading. The shares have
gained 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  