-- 
Claudia Schiffer Lolling in Cheese Tub Boosts Memory: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/claudia-schiffer-lolling-in-a-tub-of-cheese-will-boost-memory-interview.html
For mental athletes, the U.S.A. Memory
Championship requires remembering 99 names and faces, a shuffled
deck of cards, and various long lists of random numbers and
words.  By imagining Dom DeLuise spitting on Einstein and kicking
 Pope Benedict XVI  in the groin, among other things, Joshua Foer
won the competition in 2006.  “ Moonwalking With Einstein : The Art and Science of
Remembering Everything” is Foer’s account of learning powerful
techniques from the masters, as well as a larger exploration of
how memory determines the shape of our lives.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  Manhattan .  Lundborg: How did you train for the memory competition?  Foer: There were several different events with different
sorts of training for each one. But a number revolve around this
idea of the memory palace, which is an imagined edifice in your
mind’s eye that you populate with things you want to remember.  Lundborg: Sex and jokes are the best mnemonic devices?  Foer: That’s old advice that goes back to the earliest
things written about memory in ancient  Rome .  If you want to make things memorable, you have to make them
colorful. You have to make them weird. You have to make them
big. You have to make them ugly. And sometimes it helps to make
them raunchy.  Chicken Sexers  Lundborg: You had to remember a list containing, among
other things, a dry ice machine, hula hoops, a snorkel and
cottage cheese, so you put Claudia Schiffer in a tub of cottage
cheese?  Foer: Yes, Claudia Schiffer in a tub of cottage cheese is
pretty unforgettable.  Lundborg: In the course of your research, you came across
some strange things -- what led you to professional chicken
sexers?  Foer: It’s an arcane form of expertise based on memory.
When you’re raising chicks for eggs, male chickens are useless.
You want to get rid of them as quickly as possible, but it’s
hard to distinguish between male and female chicks until they
are four to six weeks old.  Eventually somebody figured out that you could actually
look in their rear ends, and, from the constellation of bumps
and protrusions, train yourself with thousands of hours to make
this distinction.  Lundborg: You say chess is not simply a cognitive game,
it’s also highly dependent on memory?  Foer: When a grandmaster at chess looks at a board, he’s
seeing that board in the light of every board he’s played before
and all of the games that he’s read about.  Almost every decision we make is informed by things that
are knocking around in our skulls, in our experiences and the
things that we’ve seen before.  Wall Street   Lundborg: How would this sort of skill apply to Wall
Street? Don’t a lot of young guys without a lot of experience
come and take Wall Street by storm?  Foer: Right, and then screw everything up. Maybe a few of
them should go become chicken sexers. The world might be better
off.  Lundborg: Can you go to Vegas, or use your new memory
skills in other ways?  Foer: Card counting is a slightly different skill, though
I’ve been told several of the people who compete on the world
level are persona non grata in Vegas.  Lundborg: You got an advance of $1.2 million for the book.
Were you surprised?  Foer: Yes.  Lundborg: How is it changing your life?  Foer: It’s not.  Lundborg: The film rights have been sold to Columbia -- I
wouldn’t have thought that watching someone in goggles and
earmuffs memorize big lists of numbers was inherently dramatic.  Foer: I’ll be curious to see how they sex it up.  Lundborg: Who do you see playing yourself?  Foer: Dwayne Johnson. The Rock.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 