-- 
Cohen’s ‘Liz,’ $10 Million Bear Star in $1.4 Billion Art Sales

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/cohen-s-liz-10-million-teddy-bear-add-sizzle-to-1-4-billion-art-sales.html
A 1905 Maurice de Vlaminck
landscape owned by hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen  could
sell for as much as $25 million at  Christie’s International 
this week, more than double the artist’s $10.8 million
auction record.  As the big May art auctions start, “the  market
sentiment  is very strong,” said New York dealer Christophe
van de Weghe. “There are a lot of new buyers who want to
get into the game. They like sure value.”  The two weeks of sales include Impressionist, modern,
postwar and contemporary art. Together, Christie’s,
Sotheby’s and Phillips de Pury estimate they could raise as
much as $1.4 billion.  Here are six highlights:  Cohen, the founder and chairman of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, is also putting on the block Warhol’s portrait
of  Elizabeth Taylor , who died in March.  The legendary actress is depicted with a clownlike red
mouth and aquamarine eye shadow that matches the
background. Offered on May 12 at  Phillips de Pury , “Liz
#5” could fetch as much as $30 million. The work is
guaranteed by a third party, which means that Cohen will
get an undisclosed amount whether the work sells or flops.  Warhol accounts for the top lot of the season at
Christie’s on May 11. His magnetic red and black self-
portrait wearing a spiky wig has a presale estimate ranging
from $30 million to $40 million.  Monumental Seven  The work is believed to be one of seven monumental
self-portraits Warhol made that were shown six months
before his death. Each is about 9 feet square. A purple
self-portrait from the series fetched $32.6 million at
 Sotheby’s (BID)  a year ago.  The septet changed the way people viewed the artist,
according to Brett Gorvy, deputy chairman and international
head of postwar and contemporary art at Christie’s.  “By that time he’d had 15 years of pretty bad
press,” Gorvy said. “Suddenly you realized that this man
was the most important artist of the ‘80s generation.”  A 1934 Pablo Picasso painting of his mistress Marie-
Therese Walter leads Sotheby’s Impressionist and modern art
sale on May 3 with an estimate of $25 million to $35
million.  “Femmes Lisant (Deux Personnages)” depicts Walter as
a blue-faced, supple figure reading a book with another
woman. Walter is a popular subject among contemporary
collectors. Sotheby’s in  London  sold her 1932 portrait “La
Lecture” for 25.2 million pounds ($40.6 million) in
February. She is also the subject of “Picasso and Marie-
Therese: L’amour Fou” exhibition at Gagosian gallery in
Chelsea.  Wooden Tahitian  The same sale will include  Paul Gauguin ’s “Jeune
Tahitienne,” a small wood sculpture with a presale
estimate of $10 million to $15 million. Made during
Gauguin’s first trip to Tahiti, it’s painted, adorned with
coral necklaces and features different types of wood. A
pair of fox faces is carved on the back of the young
woman’s neck.  A previously undocumented 1961 Mark Rothko canvas
could fetch as much as $22 million at Christie’s on May 11.
“Untitled No. 17” depicts pink and red rectangles on a
tangerine-yellow background. The work has been vetted by
the Rothko scholar David Anfam.  Big Bear by Urs  Urs Fischer’s giant yellow teddy bear takes the prize
of being the season’s biggest artwork. Its $10 million
estimate is also the heftiest among works by young artists.  Painted canary yellow, “Untitled (Lamp/Bear)” weighs
35,000 pounds and is the size of a small house. Slumping by
a huge desk lamp, the bronze creature will remain parked
outside of the Seagram building through September.  It comes up for sale on May 11. Consigned by dealer
and collector Alberto Mugrabi, the work comes in an edition
of two with one artist’s proof. Two other versions belong
to Cohen and Adam Lindemann.  “Buyers are looking for global icons,” said Tobias Meyer, Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary art.
“Something they can show on their iPhones and people will
recognize it.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 