-- 
Commerzbank First-Quarter Profit Climbs 40% to Record as Provisions Fall

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-05-02T10:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/commerzbank-has-preliminary-first-quarter-operating-profit-of-1-6-billion.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, said profit in the first three months of the
year climbed 40 percent to a quarterly record as it set aside
less money to cover risky loans.  Net income rose to 1 billion euros ($1.48 billion), the
Frankfurt-based bank said in a statement today. That compared
with 716 million euros of net income before minorities in the
year-earlier period and beat the average estimate of 626 million
euros from three analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rallied as much as 3.5 percent.  The record result comes after the lender said last month
that it’s planning to repay about 14.3 billion euros of
 government aid  by June by selling new shares and using excess
capital. Commerzbank has raised more than half of a targeted 11
billion euros from investors and Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue
fund by selling exchangeable notes and plans to raise the
remainder through a rights offer.  “The better-than-expected earnings figures should provide
a tailwind for the second part of the capital increase,” said
Michael Seufert, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hannover, Germany. “Commerzbank is definitely
benefiting from the German economic boom.”  Shareholder Approval  The country’s economy, which is driving euro-region growth,
may have expanded as much as 1 percent in the first three months
of 2011 and will probably maintain its growth momentum in the
current quarter, the Bundesbank said April 18.  Loan-loss provisions declined “significantly” to 320
million euros in the first quarter, Commerzbank said today.
Operating profit totaled 1.1 billion euros and gross revenue was
3.6 billion euros, the lender said, without providing year-
earlier figures. The bank is  scheduled  to report detailed
results on May 6, the day of its annual general meeting, where
it will ask shareholders to approve the rights offer.  Commerzbank climbed as much as 3.5 percent to 4.45 euros in
Frankfurt trading and was at 4.43 euros as of 12:12 p.m. local
time.  The lender said its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength being assessed in this year’s round of
European stress tests, was 11 percent at the end of March. Total
assets declined to 700 billion euros, Commerzbank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  