-- 
Tenet Falls on Doubts Community Health Bid Can Seal Takeover

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-02T20:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/community-health-systems-raises-offer-to-buy-tenet-by-21-to-7-25-a-share.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  declined in New
York trading as investors bet  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ’s
$4.07 billion offer for the rival hospital chain won’t result in
a takeover.  Tenet fell 24 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $6.69 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Franklin,
Tennessee-based Community Health said in a statement today that
it raised the unsolicited offer for Tenet by 21 percent, to
$7.25 a share in cash.  Community Health said the bid to create the biggest U.S.
hospital chain was its “best and final offer” and would expire
unless “good-faith discussions” begin by May 9. Dallas-based
Tenet accused its competitor on April 11 of overcharging the
U.S. Medicare program at least $280 million in a lawsuit and
said a government probe of the allegations would raise questions
about whether Community Health could finance the takeover.  “People believe this is not going to get done, and without
the potential of being acquired by Community Health, you really
lose the support for Tenet’s stock,” Michael Wiederhorn, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview.  Tenet traded as high as $7.70 on April 1. Community Health
dropped 51 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $30.22.  Today’s offer is 4.6 percent higher than Tenet’s closing
price on April 29 and is based on the number of diluted shares.
It doesn’t include about $4 billion in net debt on Tenet’s books
that Community Health would assume in a deal. Community Health
originally offered $5 a share in cash and $1 a share in stock,
which Tenet rejected in December.  ‘Grossly Undervalued’  Shareholders should take no action while Tenet’s board
reviews the offer, the company said in a statement. Past offers
had “grossly undervalued” the company, it said.  The hospital operator also asked the U.S. District Court to
expedite discovery in the lawsuit against  Community Health ,
according to a separate filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today.  Community Health may have trouble raising the cash for the
proposed acquisition and could be “subject to liability and
damages of well over $1 billion” for its Medicare practices,
Tenet’s  lawsuit  said. Community Health today reiterated it is
confident financing can be obtained.  Community Health’s language on financing the deal today was
weaker than in past statements, signaling the deal is less
likely, said Oppenheimer’s Wiederhorn.  In an April 11 statement, Community Health said that
financial advisers Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
“have reaffirmed their confidence in financing the
transaction.” Today’s statement said the two were “highly
confident that financing for CHS’s offer can be obtained in the
capital markets.”  Likely Rejected  “The $7.25 all cash bid is likely to be rejected,” said
 Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We have serious doubts as to how
Community Health would be able to obtain the financing given the
unfolding of recent events,” including a U.S. Justice
Department probe of the Medicare allegations.  Brooke Gordon, a Community Health spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment on the financing
language or Tenet’s legal filing today.  Community Health said in an April 15 filing that it had
been subpoenaed by the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services in an investigation of its billing of the Medicare and
Medicaid insurance programs. The agency has requested documents
related to emergency room procedures, including use of a
software system that helps make decisions about when patients
are admitted to the hospital, Community Health said.  Texas Request  The Texas Attorney General’s office also requested
information about the hospital chain’s emergency rooms in
November, Community Health said in the  filing .  Community Health said in a separate statement that it was
buying Mercy Health Partners of Scranton,  Pennsylvania  in a deal
that includes three hospitals. Terms of the acquisition weren’t
disclosed.  There have been 925 deals in the hospital industry over the
last five years, with an average size of $268.9 million and an
average premium of 36 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The largest was the 2006 purchase of HCA Inc. for
$32.2 billion by a private-equity group including Bain Capital
LLC, KKR & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc.  -- With assistance from Pat Wechsler in New York. Editors: Chris Staiti, Angela Zimm  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  