-- 
Death of Bin Laden May Strengthen Obama’s Hand in Domestic, Foreign Policy

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-02T17:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/death-of-bin-laden-may-strengthen-obama-s-hand-in-domestic-foreign-policy.html
The long-awaited retribution against
al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden  for the Sept. 11 attacks likely
will strengthen President  Barack Obama ’s hand in pursuing both
his foreign policy and domestic goals.  Six days after the terrorist attacks in 2001, President
 George W. Bush  declared bin Laden was “Wanted: Dead or Alive,”
Nearly 10 years later, after the bearded terrorist eluded
capture when the U.S. invaded Afghanistan and continued to taunt
the nation with videotaped statements, Obama last night
announced: “Justice has been done.”  “This is a big victory for Obama,” said presidential
historian Robert Dallek. “It strengthens him not only in
foreign relations, but with the American public and I think with
the Congress too.”  Rivals and allies alike offered congratulations to the
administration for the U.S. raid that killed bin Laden yesterday
in  Pakistan .  Bush, Obama’s Republican predecessor, called the mission
“a momentous success” and “a victory for America.”  Cheney Accolade  Former Vice President  Dick Cheney  praised “President Obama
and the members of his national security team.”  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , one of the
Republicans who may run against him next year, also included
Obama among those deserving credit, offering ‘congratulations to
our intelligence community, our military and the president.’’  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , another Republican
weighing a presidential bid, congratulated Obama and the
military for ’’a job well done.’’  The timing of bin Laden’s death bolsters Obama’s standing
as he begins negotiations with congressional Republicans on a
long-term deficit reduction package and on legislation to raise
the national debt ceiling. He is scheduled to have a dinner with
bipartisan congressional leaders at the White House tonight, and
Vice President  Joe Biden  opens budget negotiations on May 5.  For Obama -- who last week released his birth certificate
to quiet critics who questioned his eligibility to be president
and who, as a White House candidate in 2008, fended off false
rumors that he was a Muslim -- his role in ordering the
operation and announcing its successful completion provides a
counterweight to criticism of his foreign policy, particularly
his use of U.S. power.  Bush Contrast  The success in eliminating bin Laden also casts the cool,
reserved style that some critics have interpreted as a lack of
passion in a more favorable light, Dallek said. Compared to the
swagger of his predecessor -- “Bring it on,” Bush once
challenged Iraqi insurgents -- Obama can claim effectiveness.  “Bush was a big talker who didn’t capture bin Laden. Obama
in his quiet way gets results,” Dallek said. “He won in 2008
because he was the anti-Bush. This brings the contrast back into
play very nicely.”  Perceptions of presidential competence established in the
international arena tend to bleed over to the public’s overall
assessment of job performance, Dallek said.  Rick Nelson, director of the homeland security and
counterterrorism program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington , said the killing of bin
Laden won’t immediately change the tactical battle against
terrorism because, at the time of his death, the al-Qaeda leader
wasn’t delivering operational orders to the group’s affiliates.  ‘Seize’ the Moment  “Its ultimate significance will be on a strategic-symbolic
level,” Nelson said. “It’s incumbent on the Obama
administration to seize on this moment, especially amid the
popular uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa.”  The killing of the man who had come to embody the global
terrorist threat gives a victory to celebrate for a public
soured by a slow economic recovery, high gasoline prices and
dissatisfaction with the wars in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan .  In a CBS/New York Times  poll  completed April 20, 70 percent
of Americans said the country is on the wrong track, the worst
reading in more than two years. Perceptions about the country’s
direction historically have been among the factors predicting an
incumbent president’s re-election prospects.  Cheering Crowds  As news of bin Laden’s death spread, crowds gathered last
night outside the White House and at the “Ground Zero” site of
the attack on the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  to cheer,
shout “USA” and wave American flags. Shortly before Obama
addressed the nation, the crowd outside the White House began
singing “The Star Spangled Banner,” the national anthem.  Matthew Murray, 24, of Arlington,  Virginia , stood in front
of the White House waving an American flag. Dressed in shorts,
sneakers and a t-shirt, Murray said he ran five miles from his
home to join the crowd.  “It’s a struggle we’ve spent years working on, and it’s
finally over,” Murray said. “I’ve never seen a spontaneous
outpouring of joy like this.”  Still the political benefits of military success can be
transitory, said Christopher Gelpi, a political science
professor at  Duke University  who has studied public opinion and
war.  The bounce in public approval Bush received after U.S.
forces captured Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein  in December 2003
faded within months, Gelpi said. Bush’s father, President  George
H.W. Bush , won a victory over Iraq in the Persian  Gulf War  in
1991 only to lose re-election a year later to Democrat  Bill Clinton .  ‘One-Time Event’  “It’s a one-time event but as that event fades in salience
people turn their attention back to the economy,” Gelpi said.
“We can’t kill bin Laden every day. But people experience the
economy every day.”  Democratic pollster Celinda Lake said the success in
finding bin Laden will make it more difficult for Obama to gain
public support for maintaining U.S. military efforts in
Afghanistan and Iraq. Independent swing voters as well as his
Democratic base have soured on the two wars, and the death of
bin Laden removes a rationale for the military commitments, she
said.  “It definitely puts pressure to get out of Afghanistan and
Iraq and bring the troops and the money home,” Lake said. “If
he stays in, he’s challenged.”  Obama used his television address to shift the ground to
themes of national unity and optimism that were pillars of his
2008 election campaign. He asked the country to “think back to
the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11.”  He also said that, while the task of securing the nation
against terrorism isn’t finished, “we are once again reminded
that America can do whatever we set our mind to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  