-- 
Debt-Limit Deniers Say Geithner Tries to Stampede Republicans Into Vote

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-02T20:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/debt-limit-deniers-say-geithner-tries-to-stampede-republicans-on-debt-vote.html
It’s debt-limit hysteria, says
Pennsylvania Senator Pat Toomey. Scare tactics, says Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina . To Representative Joe Walsh of
Illinois, it’s fear-mongering.  A growing number of Republicans are scoffing at warnings
that failing to raise the U.S. debt limit would trigger a
financial catastrophe. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ’s
cautions are merely aimed at stampeding Republicans into lifting
the $14.3 trillion limit, said Toomey.  “They don’t want to make any concessions on spending,” he
said. The administration is using the specter of a government
default “as a cudgel to beat Republicans into submission and to
prevent any real cuts” in the federal budget, he said.  As Congress returns to  Washington  from a two-week recess
and edges closer to a showdown on the debt limit, more and more
Republicans are contemplating what had been unthinkable:
allowing the government to crash right into the cap. These
lawmakers -- as well as former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ,
a potential Republican presidential candidate -- argue that
there is an alternative to an unpopular vote to lift the limit
or economic chaos.  Tax Revenue   The government can hit the limit and avoid a first-ever
default because that can only occur if payments to bondholders
are actually missed. And those obligations, the Republicans say,
can be met with the tax revenue that will continue to pour into
the Treasury, regardless of whether Congress raises the
borrowing cap. All of the government’s other bills -- including
those for defense contracting work, office supplies and highway
maintenance, and to cover federal employees’ paychecks -- are
secondary, they contend, and can be delayed or cut without
panicking financial markets.  The theory amounts to a major gamble on the market’s
reaction to a failure to act on the debt limit. And the
Republican argument is likely to complicate President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to push a debt increase through Congress.  Geithner said today Congress will have until Aug. 2 to act,
nearly a month longer than he had previously estimated.
Stronger-than-expected tax revenue will allow the agency to
postpone the deadline, he said in a  letter  to lawmakers. At
issue is what happens if Congress doesn’t act by then.  ‘Very Weird’  “This hypothetical is a very weird hypothetical,” said
Donald Marron, a former economic adviser to President  George W. Bush , because most debt crises in other countries have involved
governments that can’t pay their bills, not ones that merely
choose not to.  “There is not a lot of historical record in the U.S. or
abroad” in a case where “we have the financial capabilities to
pay all of our near-term obligations but are for some peculiar
political reason choosing not to,” Marron said.  The administration, as well as many economists, says it
would be calamitous for the U.S. to make that choice because the
government would have to offer much higher  interest rates  to
entice investors to continue buying its bonds. Those increases
would cascade through the economy, according to Treasury
officials, because interest rates on items as varied as
mortgages and municipal debt are tied to the bonds.  The scenario would also require dramatic cuts in federal
spending, which administration officials say would cause another
shock to the economy.  ‘Catastrophic’ Impact  “Default by the  United States  on its obligations would
have a catastrophic economic impact that would be felt by every
American,” Geithner wrote today. “Default would cause a
financial crisis potentially more severe than the crisis from
which we are only now starting to recover.”  A problem for lawmakers, especially House Republican
freshmen elected on promises to slash spending, is that polls
show most voters opposing any increase in the debt limit. A
McClatchy-Marist  poll  released last month found that 69 percent
of registered voters are against lifting the cap, including 79
percent of Republicans.  The Tea Party Patriots, an advocacy group and part of the
movement that fueled Republican gains in the 2010 elections, has
announced that it opposes any debt-limit increase. “We stand
with the vast majority of Americans in this fight for the future
of our nation,” said Mark Meckler, the group’s national
coordinator.  Toomey, a freshman senator and former bond trader, said
there would be no reason for investors to panic if Congress
deadlocks on the debt limit. With tax revenue projected this
year to reach $2.2 trillion, the government will have more than
enough to cover the $214 billion it is projected to owe in
annual interest payments on the debt.  ‘Very Disruptive’  Treasury could decide what other programs to finance out of
the remaining revenue, and while Toomey acknowledged that
required cuts would be “very disruptive,” he said that
shouldn’t rattle financial markets.  “The markets do not equate all obligations of the federal
government to all others,” Toomey said. “Furloughing a bunch
of government workers is a failure to fulfill an obligation to
those workers, but the market does not see that as equivalent to
refusing to pay interest or principal on a bond.”  DeMint, in an opinion piece published yesterday in his
home-state  Greenville News , wrote that supporters of a debt-
limit increase “are using scare tactics to keep up their big-
borrowing and spending sprees.”  ‘Simply Not True’  “The Chicken Little claims that a debt ceiling lapse would
mean the nation’s creditors will not be paid are simply not
true,” DeMint wrote.  Philip Swagel, a former adviser to Bush administration
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , agreed that there is a
difference between delaying payments to someone who “sells
paper clips to the park service” and the “absolute
catastrophe” of defaulting on bondholders.  “Those are different -- they’re both bad, but they’re
different degrees of bad,” he said. Failing to raise the debt
limit is “really the wrong way to run the government,” he
said. He added, though, “I don’t think it literally means
catastrophe in July.”  Toomey said he could support upping the debt limit if it is
tied to significant spending cuts, a position taken by
Republican leaders in Congress. While Democrats have said they
are willing to consider additional cuts, they scoffed at
suggestions the significance of hitting the debt cap has been
overstated.  ‘Deadbeat’ Signal  “This is a hare-brained scheme that would really damage
the country’s economy,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
 Maryland , the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. “When
the United States stops paying its bills, whether it’s servicing
the debt on the bonds or paying for ongoing operations of the
U.S. government, that’s a credit problem” because “the signal
that sends to the market is that United States is a deadbeat.”  Walsh, the Republican House member from  Illinois ,
acknowledged the risk that the market’s response to Congress’s
failure to act on the debt limit could be swift and harsh. “Who
knows? -- we don’t really know,” he said.  “Why take the gamble? Because unless we shake things up,
we will not get this town, both parties, to get serious about
this fiscal crisis,” he said. “I don’t know how else you’re
going to change the direction of things unless you really think
outside the box.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  