-- 
Dollar Rebound Delayed to 2012 as Fed Meets Slower Growth

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-05-02T17:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/dollar-rebound-delayed-to-2012-as-fed-policy-conspires-with-slowing-growth.html
Slowing U.S. growth and the widening
interest-rate gap between America and the rest of the world may
mean no rebound this year for the dollar, the world’s worst-
performing major currency in the past three months.  The  Federal Reserve ’s U.S. Trade-Weighted Major Currency
Dollar Index fell to a record low last month after policy makers
in Australia and Canada, and the European Central Bank raised
rates to damp inflation. Even after the declines, strategists
from Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley are cutting their forecasts
for the greenback.  Optimism that the dollar would strengthen as soon as June
when the Fed stops printing cash to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries is giving way to bearishness after the economy slowed
more than forecast last quarter and the Fed said record low
rates are needed to foster growth. While a weaker dollar may
signal waning confidence in the U.S., it may help President
 Barack Obama  reach his goal of doubling exports by 2015 and
reducing unemployment.  The dollar is “probably going to get even cheaper,” said
 Thomas Stolper , the chief currency strategist at New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank . The
outlook for growth in the next few months “doesn’t look
particularly strong,” he said in a phone interview last week.  Decelerating Growth  The Fed index, measuring the dollar’s performance versus
seven currencies, dropped to a record low of 69.0337 on April 21
from last year’s high of 80.5195 in June. U.S. growth
decelerated to a 1.8 percent annualized pace in the first
quarter from 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2010, a
Commerce Department report on April 28 showed. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 80 economists was for
expansion of 2 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has kept the target rate
for overnight loans between banks in a record low range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008, said last week that there
will be no change for an “extended period,” which means “for
a couple of meetings.” The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets
every six to eight weeks.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other speculators on a decline in the dollar against a range of
currencies compared with those on a gain rose to 357,410 on
April 26 from 339,796 a week earlier, approaching the record
398,594 set in March, figures released by the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission on April 29 showed.  ‘Less Attractive’  The last time the contracts indicated a bet on a rise in
the dollar was July.  “If the Fed is keeping rates very, very low for a long
period of time, it just makes the dollar less and less
attractive,” Stephen King, the chief economist at London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an April 28 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua . The decline
“will continue through the course of this year,” he said.  Central banks in  Sweden , Canada and the euro region have
raised borrowing costs, attracting foreign investment and
boosting their currencies. The  European Central Bank  increased
its rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.25 percent last month.  Yields on Treasuries due in one to three years are 1
percentage point below that of government debt with similar
maturities in the rest of the world on average, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. A year ago, there was no difference.
Shorter maturity German notes yield 117 basis points, or 1.17
percentage points, more than Treasuries, up from about 15 basis
points in December.  Remaining ‘Bearish’  “Longer-term, we remain bearish on the dollar because of
the U.S. policy,” said Mark Hewlett, a managing partner at
Anello Asset Management in  London . The company declined to say
how much it oversees. “The Fed has probably forgotten how to
raise rates.”  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show the dollar fell
5.9 percent the past three months, more than any of nine other
major currencies and exceeding the yen’s 5.5 percent drop. It
weakened 0.8 percent last week to 81.19 yen and 1.7 percent
against the euro to $1.4807. Goldman’s Stolper said the dollar
will trade at $1.50 per euro in the next 12 months.  The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the greenback versus
six trading partners, fell 3.9 percent last month, while the
 Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities rose
4.6 percent, the MSCI World Index of equities gained 4 percent,
and bonds of all types returned 0.9 percent on average, based on
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Weaker Forecasts  Strategists are struggling to keep up with the dollar’s
decline. While they raised their year-end euro estimate an
average of 2.2 percent in April, the most of any Group of 10
currency, the median forecast of $1.38 per euro is still
stronger than current market rates, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Barclays revised its dollar forecast last month, estimating
it will trade at $1.46 per euro by the end of the year, from
$1.44 predicted earlier. Last week Morgan Stanley said it sees
the euro at $1.49 by the fourth quarter of 2011, up from a
previous estimate of $1.45.  The dollar may rebound if signs emerge that growth is
picking up enough to prompt the Fed to tighten credit sooner
than forecast or a shock to the financial system causes
investors to seek the safety of U.S. assets. The Dollar Index
surged 12 percent in the second half of 2008 as the credit
crisis intensified and jumped more than 10 percent in the first
half of 2010 as  Europe ’s sovereign debt woes emerged.  ‘Powerful Reversal’  “The main scenario is for more policy normalization in the
U.S.,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a strategist in London at Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s biggest currency trader according to
Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. “If we see signs that the
global recovery is losing some momentum, that wouldn’t be good
for risk appetite and what isn’t good for risk appetite would be
positive for the dollar.”  The Dollar Index fell for a 10th straight day today, the
longest slump since May 1994, dropping 0.1 percent to 72.848. It
earlier rose after Obama said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
was killed by U.S. operatives in  Pakistan .  While the economy slowed in the first quarter, reports this
week may show that the Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing index held at about the highest level since 2004
in April and that the economy added at least 190,000 jobs for
the third straight month, Bloomberg surveys show.  Export Boost  Gross domestic product is likely to grow at a 3.4 percent
annualized rate in the fourth quarter, according to the median
estimate of more than 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley strategists said in an April 28 report that
although they “remain bearish” on the dollar in the “near
term,” they “foresee a powerful reversal” when the Fed begins
to tighten policy in 2012.  The dollar is helping U.S. sales abroad. Exports rose to
$165.1 billion in February from $126.9 billion two years
earlier. Obama said in January that the country was on course to
meet his goal of doubling annual foreign sales to more than $3
trillion by 2015.  A weaker  exchange rate  hasn’t diminished demand for U.S.
financial assets that the Treasury Department relies on to
finance the $1.4 trillion deficit. The Fed said its holdings of
Treasuries on behalf of foreign central banks and investors rose
to a record $2.675 trillion as of April 27, up from the low this
year of $2.598 trillion on Jan. 19.  The biggest beneficiaries of the decline are the currencies
of nations that have begun raising  interest rates .  Aussie Positions  Australia ’s dollar has risen 7 percent this year, reaching
a record $1.1011 today. The nation’s central bank has raised its
main rate to 4.75 percent from 3 percent in 2009. Its two-year
government notes yield 4.38 percentage points more than
Treasuries of similar maturity, above the average of 2.57
percentage points the past decade, Bloomberg data show.  CFTC data show net long positions, or bets the so-called
Aussie will appreciate, reached 90,938 on April 5, the highest
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1993.  In Sweden, where the Riksbank has boosted its key rate to
1.75 percent from 0.25 percent in June, the krona has
strengthened about 11 percent this year.  Canada ’s dollar is up
5.2 percent and the euro almost 11 percent. Canada raised its
key rate in September, with Sweden increasing its benchmark for
a sixth time since July last month.  Even if relative rates weren’t an issue, the U.S.’s bulging
deficit and debt load would still likely weigh on the greenback,
according to  Jeremy Stretch , London-based executive director of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  Standard & Poor’s put a “negative” outlook on the U.S.
AAA credit rating April 18, saying there is a one-in-three
chance of a downgrade unless lawmakers agree on a plan by 2013
to reduce budget deficits and the national debt. Congress is set
to begin debate soon on raising the government’s $14.29 trillion
limit, which the Treasury predicts will be reached this month.  “The ability of the U.S. to get its own fiscal house in
order is becoming increasingly pertinent,” Stretch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
A. Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  