-- 
Dollar Trades Near Five-Week Low Versus Yen on Fed Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-02T23:44:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/dollar-trades-near-five-week-low-versus-yen-on-fed-interest-rate-outlook.html
The dollar was 0.3 percent from a
five-week low against the yen on speculation  Federal Reserve 
officials speaking this week will reiterate their intention to
keep  interest rates  low to stimulate economic growth.  The New Zealand dollar extended yesterday’s decline against
the yen after a statistics bureau report showed private-sector
wages grew at a slower pace than some economists predicted.
Canada’s dollar held losses from yesterday on prospects the New
Democratic Party will deny Conservatives a majority in a
national election.  “The market is very negative on the U.S. story, and the
market knows that the Fed is sitting on its hands while the ECB,
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia and likely the Bank of Canada
going to be raising rates,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , the
nation’s largest lender. “The dollar is still going to be quite
weak.”  The U.S. currency traded at 81.25 yen as of 8:42 a.m. in
Tokyo from 81.22 yen in  New York  yesterday, when it fell to 81,
the least since March 25. The euro was at $1.4799 from $1.4830,
after rising to $1.4902 yesterday, the strongest since December
2009. The single currency bought 120.23 yen from 120.45 yen.
Financial markets in Japan are shut today for a public holiday.  The greenback has weakened 4.1 percent in the past month,
the worst performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, on signs the Fed will maintain record monetary
stimulus to support the recovery.  Fed Policy  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has kept the target for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008, said last week there will be no change in
the rate for an “extended period,” which means “for a couple
of meetings.” Kansas City Fed President Thomas Hoenig speaks in
Washington today, while Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren 
speaks in Boston tomorrow.  “It is inevitable that the dollar will weaken as the U.S.
runs a loose monetary policy relative to the rest of the
world,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview with Willow Bay
and Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s “Fast Forward.” The
Newport Beach, California-based firm runs the world’s biggest
bond fund.  Interest-rate futures on the Chicago Board of Trade showed
a 21 percent chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by
December, down from 38 percent odds a month ago.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 80.48 U.S. cents
and dropped 0.2 percent to 65.37 yen.  Wages for non-governmental workers excluding overtime rose
0.4 percent in the first quarter from the prior three months,
according to Statistics New Zealand’s labor cost index released
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.6 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 