-- 
Egypt Stocks Rise Most in 2 Weeks, Lead Mideast Gain, as Bin Laden Killed

-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-05-02T13:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/dubai-shares-gain-ending-drop-as-gulf-shares-rise-after-bin-laden-death.html
Middle East shares rose, with  Egypt ’s
benchmark stock index gaining the most in almost two weeks, as
global markets advanced after President Barack Obama said al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, climbed 3.1 percent and  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  rose for a second day. In  Saudi
Arabia , Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co. increased the
most in a week. Egypt’s EGX 30 stock index rose 1 percent, the
most since April 19, to 5,052.81 at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.5 percent
and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  added 0.3 percent.  “News of Bin Laden’s death is giving international markets
a good feeling, which in turn is trickling down into our
region,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at Shuaa Capital
PSC in  Riyadh . “The euphoria will most probably be short lived
as investors realize this was more of a political stunt that
will have little effect on international or regional political
stability.”  European stocks advanced for an eighth day and U.S. index
futures and Asian shares rose.  Bin Laden , who helped found al-
Qaeda, has been killed in a U.S. operation, Obama said in a
televised address. Bin Laden was killed by U.S. operatives after
a firefight at a compound in Pakistan, he said. The news comes
almost 10 years after the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade
Center in  New York  and the Pentagon in  Virginia  just outside of
 Washington .  Lending Rises  EFG-Hermes advanced to 18.03 Egyptian pounds. Commercial
International Bank, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded lender,
gained 1.6 percent to 27.86 pounds.  Credit extended to Egyptian private companies rose for a
second month in March to 321.6 billion Egyptian pounds ($54
billion) at a time when the economy was reeling from the effects
of the revolt that toppled President Hosni Mubarak, the central
bank said April 28.  Rabigh Refining gained 2.5 percent to 28.9 riyals.  In Morocco,  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  increased 1.5 percent at
2:52 p.m. in Casablanca. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rose 0.6 percent,
Kuwait’s SE Price Index and Bahrain’s measure gained 0.1
percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  was little changed declining less
than 0.1 percent, while  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased
less than 0.1 percent. Qatar’s gauge lost 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  