-- 
Telekom Austria Hasn’t Put In New Bid for Telekom Srbija as Deadline Looms

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-05-02T14:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/telekom-austria-hasn-t-put-in-new-bid-for-telekom-srbija-as-deadline-looms.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  hasn’t submitted a
new bid for Telekom Srbija AD, the Austrian company and the
Serbian government said today, refuting a media report the two
sides negotiated a price for a smaller than expected stake.  “Speculation that appeared in certain media that 30
percent of Telekom Srbija was sold to Telekom Austria for 840
million euros ($1.25 billion) is absolutely not correct,” the
Serbian government said in a statement, referring to an
unattributed  report  by Belgrade-based B92 broadcaster.  As the majority owner of Telekom Srbija, Serbia has asked
for at least 1.4 billion euros in cash for a 51 percent stake of
the national provider of land line, mobile phone, Internet and
multimedia services.  Telekom Austria  has until May 4, at 2 p.m. local time, to
reconsider its standing offer of 950 million euros in cash and
450 million euros in investments for the majority stake. Telekom
Austria has made no new offer by now, said spokeswoman Elisabeth Mattes.  The government in Belgrade reiterated its asking price
today. Serbian opposition groups demanded a criminal probe last
week against Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  and several others
for allegedly mishandling the Telekom tender. Cvetkovic rejected
the criticism, as well as claims that the company was offered
below its value.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  advisers have valued the entire company at
2.43 billion euros. Twenty percent of the company belongs to
 Greece ’s Hellenic Telecommunications Organizations AS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  