-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise to Three-Year High on Inflation Data, Bin Laden Death

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-05-02T21:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/emerging-stocks-advance-as-inflation-slows-obama-says-bin-laden-killed.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with the
benchmark index reaching its highest close in almost three
years, after inflation in South Korea and Indonesia slowed and
U.S. President Barack Obama said Osama bin Laden was killed.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.2 percent to
1,206.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York , its highest close since June 2,
2008. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rallied 1.7 percent while the
Jakarta Composite index advanced 0.8 percent. Hungary’s BUX
Index gained 0.5 percent, Brazil’s Bovespa fell 1 percent and
Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 0.4 percent. Markets in
 China ,  Hong Kong  and Taiwan were closed for holidays.  Hyundai Development Co. paced gains among South Korean
builders after the government announced measures to aid the
industry.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  jumped after the government allowed
the utility to raise gas prices. Eton Properties Philippines
Inc., a Philippine real estate developer, added 2.5 percent
after posting higher earnings.  “Slower inflation numbers are positive, although we need
to see whether that’s sustainable or not,” said Han Sang Soo, a
fund manager at Samsung Asset Management Co. in Seoul, which
oversees about $29 billion in assets. “While I think the news
on  Osama bin Laden  is somewhat good for investors’ sentiment, it
doesn’t mean that terrorism was eradicated.”  The MSCI gauge of developing nations has gained 4.8 percent
this year, trailing a 8.7 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index, a measure for developed markets. Stocks in the benchmark
for developing equities are valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings, less than the multiple of 13.1 times for developed
countries.  Korean Builders  Bin Laden, who helped found the al-Qaeda terrorist network,
was killed in Pakistan yesterday in a firefight with a team of
U.S. operatives who raided the compound where he had been
hiding, Obama said.  Hyundai Development surged 12 percent in Seoul trading.
 Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  and Daelim Industrial Co. rallied more than 3
percent.  South Korea ’s government announced policy measures
yesterday to aid troubled builders and the property market,
including tax incentives for real estate investment trusts that
buy unsold housing.  South Korean shares also received a boost after Statistics
Korea said the nation’s inflation slowed in April from the
fastest pace in 29 months. Lotte Shopping Co., South Korea’s
biggest department-store owner, rose 2.2 percent, while Hyundai
Department Store Co. surged 6.1 percent.  Korea Gas  Korea Gas jumped 7.2 percent. South Korea raised city gas
prices an average 4.8 percent yesterday after natural-gas import
costs climbed, the energy ministry said in a statement.  In Indonesia, inflation slowed for a third straight month
in April as food prices declined during the harvest period,
giving the central bank room to refrain from raising  interest
rates  when policy makers meet May 12. PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia 
gained 1.6 percent, while PT Bank Mandiri added 2.8 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa fell after economists covering the
Brazilian economy raised forecasts for interest rates and a
Chinese manufacturing gauge declined, indicating that growth may
moderate in Brazil’s biggest trading partner. Miners Vale SA and
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA retreated.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index declined in April from
March, indicating that efforts by policy makers to cool
inflation in the world’s second-biggest economy may be
succeeding. Figures from the logistics federation and statistics
bureau yesterday showed the index fell to 52.9 from 53.4, below
a median forecast of 53.9 in a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists.  Premier Wen Jiabao aims to restrain inflation that he
describes as a “tiger” that once out of control is difficult
to tame, while also boosting private consumption and shifting
the economy from an excessive dependence on exports and
investment. The  International Monetary Fund  indicated last week
that the premier may be winning the battle to contain prices.  Eton Properties advanced in Philippine trading after saying
it posted a 154 percent increase in net income last year to 732
million pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  