-- 
Henry Cooper, British Boxing Champion Who Knocked Ali Down, Dies at Age 76

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-05-02T00:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/henry-cooper-british-boxing-champion-who-knocked-ali-down-dies-at-age-76.html
Henry Cooper, the former U.K.
heavyweight boxer who once knocked down  Muhammad Ali  with his
trademark left hook, has died. He was 76.  Cooper died yesterday at his son’s house in Oxted,  England ,
two days before his 77th birthday, the British Boxing Board of
Control said.  Cooper, known in his homeland as “Our ‘Enry,’’ won 40 of
his 55 fights, including 27 knockouts, and was British champion
for about 11 years. He also held the European and Commonwealth
heavyweight titles.  ‘‘He transcended boxing, he was a true gentleman of sport
and had a huge place in the public’s affection,’’ boxing
promoter Frank Warren said in an interview with Sky Sports News.
‘‘He never won the world title but he had true British grit, he
tried.’’  The most famous fight of Cooper’s 17 years in professional
boxing was a meeting on June 18, 1963, at London’s  Wembley
Stadium  with Ali, then known as Cassius Clay. Cooper knocked
down the future champion at the end of the fourth round with the
punch known as ‘‘’Enry’s ‘Ammer.” The bell rang seconds later,
preventing him from recording a knockout.  Ali was floored only four times in his career, though he
was never knocked out. The other three fighters to send Ali to
the canvas were Sonny Banks, Joe Frazier and Chuck Wepner.  “I knew when I hit him he was in trouble, but
unfortunately it was too late in the round,” Cooper told the
British Broadcasting Corp. years later. Ali said Cooper hit him
so hard his “ancestors in  Africa  felt it.”  Torn Glove  Ali’s trainer Angelo Dundee brought the referee’s attention
to a tear on his fighter’s glove, causing a delay to the start
of the next round. Cooper said years later that Dundee admitted
to deliberately sabotaging the glove.  Ali won in the fifth round by a technical knockout after
causing further damage to a gash on Cooper’s eye. A tendency to
cut was a perceived weakness during Cooper’s career.  Three years later, the Briton again faced Ali -- who had
become world heavyweight champion -- at Arsenal Stadium in
Highbury, north London. Ali triumphed once more after Cooper
sustained a cut eye.  Henry Cooper was born on May 3, 1934, in South East  London .
He grew up with his twin brother George in council housing
before they were moved to Lancing, Sussex, during World War II.
He attended  Athelney Road School  in Lewisham, London, where he
took an interest in history. Cooper, whose father was serving in
the military during the war, took odd jobs delivering newspapers
and recycling golf balls at a local club.  Boxing Twins  Cooper, whose twin George also boxed, turned professional
in 1954, two years after representing the U.K. in the light-
heavyweight class at the Olympics in Helsinki. He never weighed
more than 196 pounds during his career, less than most fighters
in the heavyweight division. Cooper retired after a loss to Joe
Bugner in 1971.  “For such a small man he put up some great performances in
a world-class context,” Robert Smith, general secretary of the
British Boxing Board of Control, told Sky News. “He served
boxing wonderfully.”  His exploits in the ring, and modest demeanor, helped
Cooper become one of the most popular sportsmen in Britain. He
was the first two-time winner of the BBC’s Sports Personality of
the Year, a prestigious annual award in the U.K., and in 2000
became the first boxer to receive a knighthood.  Cooper in 2006 received a pacemaker to regulate his
heartbeat, though he continued working as an after-dinner
speaker. He also continued to play golf into his 70s and was
active in charity work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  