-- 
Terex Bids $1.3 Billion for Demag Cranes to Boost Its Port Equipment Sales

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-02T22:38:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/terex-bids-1-3-billion-for-demag-cranes-to-boost-its-port-equipment-sales.html
Terex Corp. (TEX) , a U.S. heavy-equipment
manufacturer, made an 883.9 million-euro ($1.31 billion)
takeover offer for  Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  to expand in harbor cranes.  Terex, which has its headquarters in Westport,  Connecticut ,
is bidding 41.75 euros for each share of Dusseldorf-based Demag
Cranes, the U.S. company said today in a statement. The offer,
which is 15 percent more than Demag’s closing price on April 29,
requires acceptance from at least 51 percent of Demag Cranes
shareholders, Terex said.  A takeover would be the material-handling industry’s
largest in at least a decade. Terex is the latest suitor to
pursue Demag, which rebuffed an approach in February by
 Finland ’s  Konecranes Oyj. (KCR1V)  Terex’s move may renew interest in
Damag, the world’s largest maker of mobile harbor cranes, from
European competitors such as  Cargotec Oyj (CGCBV) , said Gordon Schoenell, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf.  “Konecranes may pull their plans for a takeover back out
of the drawer, and Cargotec may also join in,” Schoenell said
by phone. “The chances are high we may see a bidding war.”
Schoenell recommends clients “hold” Demag stock and today
raised his one-year share-price estimate to 45 euros from 36
euros.  Demag jumped 8.71 euros, or 24 percent, to 45 euros in
Frankfurt trading, suggesting investors expect the offer price
to rise. Before today, Demag’s stock was little changed this
year.  Terex dropped 87 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $33.91 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  ‘Antitrust Issues’  “For investors who like to speculate on an improved
takeover price, it could be worthwhile continuing holding the
stock,” Thomas Wissler, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Hauck &
Aufhaeuser who today cut his recommendation on Demag to
“sell,” said in a report to clients.  Wissler, who has a share-price estimate of 37 euros on
Demag, said he doesn’t expect Konecranes to make a counter-bid
because of “severe antitrust issues.” Ulrich Scholz, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich, said Konecranes may start a
competing offer because regulatory questions would be
“manageable.”  The proposed takeover by Terex would be the largest among
213 acquisitions involving material-handling companies announced
in the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Demag first sold stock to the public in 2006, and its biggest
shareholder is Cevian Capital, a Swedish fund founded by
activist investor Christer Gardell.  ‘Highly Complementary’  “We expect shareholders to be pleased by the offer,” said
Alistair Hammond, a spokesman for Terex. He said the U.S.
company’s management hadn’t contacted Demag’s boards about the
offer before it was made.  Nikolai Juchem, a Demag spokesman, and Mikael Wegmuller, a
spokesman at Hyvinkaa-based Konecranes, declined to comment.  Terex said Feb. 9 it had $1.4 billion at the end of 2010,
consisting of $894.2 million in cash and a $503.4 million credit
facility.  Demag’s earnings before interest and taxes, depreciation
and amortization will rise 29 percent to 92.9 million euros in
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, according to the average of 15
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Global commerce will
grow 6.5 percent this year after expanding a record 14.5 percent
in 2010, the  World Trade Organization  said on April 7.  Demag is “highly complementary” to Terex’s operations,
and a combined company would be a “leading worldwide player in
port equipment” with a combined $5.8 billion in 2010 sales, the
U.S. manufacturer said. The deal is “predicated upon growth and
not cost reduction,” Terex Chief Executive Officer Ronald DeFeo
said in the statement.  Terex is being advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Commerzbank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  