-- 
MetLife Names Goulart to Oversee $450 Billion Portfolio

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-02T13:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/metlife-names-goulart-to-run-insurer-s-450-billion-investment-portfolio.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, selected Steven J. Goulart as chief investment officer
to oversee a portfolio valued at more than $450 billion.  Goulart, 52, replaces Steven Kandarian, who became chief
executive officer of the New York-based insurer yesterday. The
 portfolio  expanded by about 75 percent in six years under
Kandarian through acquisitions and investment gains.  MetLife is one of the largest bond investors, with more
than $320 billion in fixed-income holdings, including corporate
debt,  government bonds  and asset-backed securities. Kandarian, a
former private-equity executive, had braced MetLife for the
housing slump by selling  Manhattan ’s largest apartment complex
in 2006 at a $3 billion gain.  “You’re invested in every asset type globally, and you
have to manage credit and interest rate risk, it’s a big job,”
 Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in an
interview last week. “They are not there to take too much risk,
but at the same time, they need to find yields that are adequate
to back up the liabilities and for MetLife to still make a
profit on behalf of shareholders. That is not easy.”  MetLife is expanding in nations including  Japan  after the
purchase of a unit from rival American International Group Inc.
last year for more than $16 billion. The insurer had purchased
credit-default swaps to protect against declines in  Portugal ’s
sovereign debt.  ‘Very Global View’  The investment chief needs a “very global view because
increasingly MetLife is going to be generating cash flows in
non-U.S. dollar liabilities,” Binner said.  Goulart was head of mergers and acquisitions at MetLife
where he worked on the deal to buy the American Life Insurance
Co. business from AIG. He also served as treasurer, a role he
was appointed to in 2009.  “Steve’s experience both inside and outside of MetLife
makes him well suited to lead our investments department,”
Kandarian, 59, said in the statement today announcing the
promotion. “The investments department will continue to provide
value for our shareholders through solid returns and security
for our policyholders through a strong balance sheet.”  Goulart will oversee a staff of more than 650 in his new
role, the insurer said. He joined MetLife in 2006 after working
at Bear Stearns Cos. as senior managing director in the
financial institutions group and co-head of the insurance
practice. He has a master’s degree in business administration
from  Harvard University .  “It’s a pretty rarefied world,” of managers who are
qualified to oversee such a portfolio, said Tim White, managing
partner at recruiting firm Kaye/Bassman International Corp. in
 Dallas , in an interview before the announcement. “There might
be less than 100 people that could do that job globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  