-- 
DAX Index Snaps Longest Winning Streak Since July 2009; VW, Metro Retreat

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-05-03T15:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/metro-infineon-man-qsc-german-equity-market-preview.html
German stocks retreated, with the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  snapping the longest winning streak since
July 2009, as carmakers led declines.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  dropped as a study
commissioned by the  Environment Ministry  said German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s government should change the way it taxes
company cars.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, slid after
posting a loss for the first quarter.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) 
surged after raising its yearly outlook.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  gained
as Deutsche Bank AG and CA Cheuvreux both recommended the stock.  The DAX Index lost 0.4 percent to 7,500.70 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, ending eight days of gains. The gauge had
the biggest monthly increase so far this year in April as
companies from Deutsche Bank to Volkswagen reported better-than-
estimated earnings and the  Federal Reserve  maintained its pledge
to keep  interest rates  low for an “extended period.” The
broader HDAX Index tumbled 0.4 percent today.  “We’re overdue for a consolidation or a correction in the
very short term as the market has to digest a strong upward
move,” said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt Trust
Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion. “We will
still see rising earnings but falling momentum.”  Of the 10 companies in the DAX that have reported earnings
since April 11, 7 have beaten analyst estimates for earnings per
share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 30
companies in the HDAX that have released results in the period,
65 percent beat estimates.  Carmakers Decline  Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, sank 1.7 percent to
132.50 euros, while Daimler, the world’s second-biggest maker of
luxury cars, dropped 1.6 percent to 51.65 euros. Carmakers were
among the worst performers in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index today, falling 1.5 percent.  The German government should replace the current system
that taxes the private use of company cars based on their list
price with a system based on the purchase price and kilometers
traveled, according to a study by the Fifo economic institute
posted on its website. The revised rules should also discourage
companies from buying cars that use a lot of gasoline, it said.  Metro slid 2.2 percent to 48.37 euros as the retailer
reported a first-quarter net loss of 3 million euros on sales
that were little changed. Metro said revenue stagnated and
earnings fell at its Media Saturn electronics unit in the first
quarter as Spanish and Greek consumers refrained from major
purchases.  Hannover Re  Falls  Hannover Re slipped 1 percent to 40.65 euros as the world’s
third-biggest reinsurer cut its full-year earnings forecast
after quarterly profit fell 65 percent on claims from the
earthquake in  Japan .  CentroTherm AG sank 4.1 percent to 38.35 euros as HSBC
Holdings Plc downgraded the solar company to “underweight”
from “neutral,” saying it expects “solar cell prices to
remain under pressure.”  Infineon surged 2.3 percent to 7.92 euros, the highest
level in two months, after Europe’s second-largest chipmaker
raised its full-year forecast for the fifth time since the
beginning of 2010 as second-quarter revenue and profit surged on
higher demand.  Wacker Chemie jumped 3.6 percent to 172.80 euros, the
highest price in more than three years, after Deutsche Bank
upgraded shares of the chemical maker to “buy” from “hold,”
and Cheuvreux added the stock to its “selected list.”  Hochtief AG rose 2.4 percent to 64.84 euros as Citigroup
Inc. rated the builder “buy” in new coverage with a price
forecast of 72 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 