-- 
Europeans Hail Bin Laden’s Death, Warn Terrorist Threat Not Over

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-02T08:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/europeans-hail-bin-laden-s-death-warn-terrorist-threat-not-over.html
European governments said the death of
Al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , while welcome, won’t bring an
end to terror attacks. The U.S. State Department advised its
embassies and citizens to be more vigilant.  “The scourge of terrorism has suffered an historic defeat,
but it’s not the end of Al-Qaeda,” French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in a statement. “The combat against these
criminals must be pursued without rest and unite all states that
are victims of their crimes.”  Sarkozy, British Prime Minister David Cameron, Dutch Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte , German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle ,
Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini and Norway’s Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg were quick to salute last’s night
killing of the mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks
by U.S. special forces in Pakistan.  “Osama  bin Laden  was one of the most brutal terrorists in
the world,” Westerwelle said today in an e-mailed statement.
“That an end has been put to this terrorist’s bloody deeds is
good news for all peace-loving and free-thinking people of the
world.” The death was a victory of “good over evil,” Frattini
said in an interview on Italy’s Canale5 television.  The State Department asked its embassies and citizens
around the world to be aware that there may be violence against
Americans in the wake of Bin Laden’s death.  “The Department of State has requested all U.S. embassies
to go to a heightened level of alert in the wake of the news,”
David McGuire, assistant public affairs officer at the U.S.
Embassy in Helsinki, said in a telephone interview. It has also
issued a worldwide travel alert to U.S. citizens, McGuire said.  ‘Common Responsibility’  Bin Laden was killed in  Pakistan  yesterday in a firefight
with a team of U.S. operatives who raided the compound where he
had been hiding, President Barack Obama said.  Obama delivered the news to the nation almost 10 years
after the Sept. 11 attacks that killed almost 3,000 people at
the World Trade Center in  New York , the Pentagon in suburban
 Washington  and a field in  Pennsylvania  where hijacked United
Flight 93 crashed.  Bin Laden had eluded U.S. forces that had invaded
 Afghanistan  following the 2001 attacks on the U.S., escaping
across the mountainous border with Pakistan. After years of
“painstaking” work, U.S. intelligence last August picked up
his trail in Pakistan, and after months of investigation he was
tracked to a compound in a city north of Islamabad, Obama said.  An “important blow has been struck against Al-Qaeda,”
Holland’s Rutte said today on his Twitter feed. “But this by no
means the end of the battle against terror.”  “I am satisfied that Osama bin Laden finally has been found
and no longer will be able to continue his terror campaign,”
 Norway ’s Stoltenberg said. “The fight against terrorism is
however not won, we all have a common responsibility to continue
to combat international terrorism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  