-- 
Europe Manufacturing Growth Gains More Than Estimated as Germany Thrives

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-05-02T14:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/europe-manufacturing-growth-gains-more-than-estimated-as-germany-thrives.html
European manufacturing growth
accelerated more than estimated in April, driven by higher
output in Germany and  France , suggesting the region’s economy is
weathering surging energy costs.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area rose to
58 from 57.5 in March, London-based Markit Economics said in an
e-mailed report today. That’s above an initial estimate of 57.7
on April 19. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  European manufacturers, led by German companies such as
Volkswagen AG, are boosting production and hiring more workers
to meet increased export orders. With euro-area capacity
utilization at the highest since 2008, oil prices up 23 percent
this year and companies trying to pass on higher input costs,
the risk is growing that inflation may accelerate and slow the
recovery.  “Euro-zone manufacturers reported that the growth surge
continued into April, meaning 2011 has so far seen the best
start to a year since the dot-com boom of 2000,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in a statement.
“April also saw the third-highest rate of  job creation  over the
past decade.”  The euro was higher against the dollar, trading at $1.4870
at 3:22 p.m. in  London , up 0.4 percent on the day.  S-Class Sedan  Orders from  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, are
helping to fuel Europe’s manufacturing growth, including record
demand for luxury cars from  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and Volkswagen’s Audi unit. Daimler, the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury vehicles, said on April 29 that first-
quarter operating profit jumped 71 percent as China boosted
deliveries of the Mercedes-Benz S-Class sedan.  The increased orders from Asia are helping push down the
jobless rate in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy. German
unemployment fell below 3 million for the first time in almost
19 years in April, suggesting that household spending will rise.
The government expects the economy to expand 2.6 percent this
year after last year’s record 3.6 percent growth.  China’s economic growth may moderate after the government
raised  interest rates  and allowed faster gains in the yuan. A
Chinese manufacturing index fell in April from March, China’s
logistics federation and the statistics bureau said yesterday.  Supply Management  In Japan, manufacturing contracted for a second month in
April in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake. U.S.
manufacturing cooled last month, according to a report today by
the Institute for Supply Management.  “Euro-zone manufacturers will be hoping that global growth
holds up and that economic activity is not hit significantly by
extended high  oil prices ,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “There is also the
risk in the near term that some euro-zone industries could be
hit by the problems in Japan causing supply chain disruptions,
most notably in the autos sector and consumer electronics.”  A gauge of euro-area services slipped to 56.9 in April from
57.2 in the previous month, while a composite index of
manufacturing and services rose to 57.8 last month from 57.6 in
March, according to preliminary data released April 19. Markit
will release the final numbers on May 4.  European inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 2 1/2
years in April and confidence in the economic outlook declined,
data showed last week, as surging energy prices threatened to
undermine growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  