-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Commodities Beat Financial Assets

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-05-02T09:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/europe-commodity-day-ahead-commodities-beat-financial-assets.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Commodities Beat Financial Assets in Longest Run Since 1997 (1)  Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for a fifth
straight month, the longest stretch in at least 14 years, as
demand for raw materials increases with expanding economies and
 Federal Reserve  promises to boost growth.  Funds Cut Bullish Sugar Bets to Two-Year Low as Supplies Climb  Hedge funds  cut their bullish bets on sugar futures to the
lowest in more than two years as supplies surged in  Thailand ,
the world’s second-biggest exporter.  Parched  Kansas  Wheat Boosting Prices for Panera Bread, Wheaties  Wheat production in Kansas, the second-largest U.S. grower,
probably will drop as dry weather persists, threatening to
increase costs for bread makers and restaurants that are already
boosting prices.  Archer Daniels Unit Joins Foodmakers’ Push Into Money Management  The financial units of Archer Daniels Midland Co.,
Continental Grain Co. and Cargill Inc., among the biggest names
in agriculture, are pushing into the money management business
as  commodities markets  are soaring.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Silver Futures Plunge Most Since 2008 as CME Increases Margins  Silver futures plunged as much as 13 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since October 2008, as CME Group Inc. raised the
amount of cash that traders must deposit for speculative
positions.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Drops to Seven-Week Low as Chinese Manufacturing Declines  Copper fell to a seven-week low in New York on concern
growth in China, the biggest metals user, may  moderate after a
drop in a manufacturing index in April.  Codelco Waning Copper Pressures $17.5 Billion Bet to Catch Boom  Andres Avendano steps out of his Toyota Hilux pickup
halfway down a 20-kilometer-long tunnel under  Chile ’s
Chuquicamata copper mine. He lifts a cylindrical chunk of rock
from the diamond-bit-studded drilling machine that extracted the
sample.  MINING:  Korea Buys Noble Group Stake to Partner in Infrastructure (1)  Korea Investment Corp.,  South Korea ’s sovereign wealth fund,
took a minority stake in Hong Kong-based commodity supplier
Noble Group Ltd. as the two said they seek to jointly develop
infrastructure projects.  AGRICULTURE:  South Korea to Boost Wheat, Soybean Production to Lower Imports  South Korea,  Asia ’s second-biggest grain buyer, plans to
increase domestic output of grains including wheat and soybeans
to cut imports as food prices gain.  Corn Declines as Dollar’s Gain Reduces Demand for Commodities  Corn dropped as the dollar gained for the first time in 10
days, reducing the appeal of commodities as a hedge against
inflation and on speculation that yields in the U.S., the
largest exporter, may improve on favorable weather.  Rubber Slumps as  China ’s Manufacturing Declines, Silver Plunges  Rubber declined almost to a six-week low after data showed
manufacturing in China, the world’s largest consumer, fell more
than economists forecast and as a slump in silver spurred
selling of industrial commodities.  Cattle Ranchers Defy Evacuation as Radiation Threatens Farms  Takeshi Yamada frowns as he surveys his herd of 28 wagyu
beef cattle, prized for their marbled meat and fetching as much
as 1 million yen ($12,320) per head.  ECONOMIES:  China Census Shows Export Hubs Add Most People: Chart of the Day  Guangdong, China’s largest export hub, had the biggest
population rise of any province or municipality in the decade to
2010, as people sought factory jobs, according to the latest
census from the world’s most-populous nation.  China’s 300 Million Smokers Banned From Smoking in Public Areas  China, the world’s largest cigarette market, banned its
estimated 300 million smokers from lighting up in public places
in a bid to reduce deaths from tobacco use.  China Economic Growth May Moderate as Manufacturing Index Slips  A Chinese manufacturing index declined in April from March,
indicating that growth may moderate in the world’s second-
biggest economy after the government raised  interest rates  and
allowed faster gains in the yuan.  OTHER MARKETS:  Osama Bin Laden Killed in U.S. Raid on Compound, Obama Says  Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by a team of U.S.
operatives early yesterday morning after a firefight at a house
in  Pakistan  where he had been hiding, President  Barack Obama 
said.  Crude Oil Drops Most in Two Weeks as U.S. Says Bin Laden Killed  Oil dropped the most in two weeks in  New York  after
President Barack Obama said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had
been killed, raising expectations that risks of supply
disruptions in the Middle East will decline.  SPORTS:  Bubba Watson Gets Third PGA Tour Win in  New Orleans  Playoff  Bubba Watson claimed his third U.S. PGA Tour victory in the
past 10 months by beating Webb Simpson on the second playoff
hole at the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.  Arsenal Rewards Wenger’s Faith in Youth With 1-0 Win Over United  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has faced criticism from fans
for developing young soccer talent instead of buying ready-made
stars. Yesterday, his players backed up his case in the 1-0 win
over  Manchester United .  Bubba Watson  Wins Playoff at Zurich Classic of New Orleans Golf  Bubba Watson beat Webb Simpson on the second hole of a
playoff to win the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, his second
title on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  