-- 
Teva Bets on Stem Cells, Cancer in $6.2 Billion Bid for Cephalon

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-05-02T22:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/teva-to-acquire-cephalon-for-81-50-per-share-in-cash.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
swooping in to outbid  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) 
for  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) , is counting on “high-risk, high-reward”
stem-cell treatments and therapies for asthma and lung cancer to
help it overcome growing competition to its biggest product.  The $6.2 billion deal gives Teva, which relies on the
multiple sclerosis medicine Copaxone for 21 percent of its
revenue, more than 30 compounds in late-stage trials. The
pipeline will ensure future growth as Copaxone faces competition
and Cephalon’s top-selling drug, the narcolepsy treatment
Provigil, loses patent protection next April, Teva Chief
Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai said.  Teva and Cephalon executives said they see potential in a
therapy for congestive heart failure under development with
 Mesoblast Ltd. (MSB) , reslizumab for asthma and the lung-cancer
treatment obatoclax. Teva needs two or three of Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based Cephalon’s drugs to succeed to offset lost
revenue once patent protection ends for the U.S. company’s top
products, said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Global
Healthcare Fund in  Tel Aviv .  “Teva’s making four or five shots on goal with a very
high-risk, high-reward kind of profile,” Hershkovitz said in an
interview. Sphera owns Teva shares. “If they pull off the stem-
cell product, they’re in the clear. But if they pull off two or
three of the others, it would also be a very good deal.”  Branded Drugs  Teva will pay $81.50 a share in cash, 12 percent above
Valeant’s March 29 offer, the  Petah Tikva , Israel-based
drugmaker said yesterday in a statement. Including assumed debt,
the purchase values Cephalon at $6.8 billion. Valeant, based in
Mississauga, Ontario dropped its plan to buy Cephalon after Teva
announced its bid.  The deal will make Teva, the world’s biggest maker of
generic drugs, less dependent on Copaxone for the branded
portion of its business, Yanai said.  Cephalon said in some circumstances it may accept a better
offer and, in certain instances, pay a fee of $275 million if it
terminates the takeover, according to a company filing.  Cephalon rose $3.09, or 4 percent, to $80.11 at the 4 p.m.
New York time close yesterday of Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Teva’s American depositary receipts climbed $1.54, or 3.4
percent, to $47.27. Valeant, based in Mississauga, Ontario, fell
$3.05, or 5.8 percent, to $49.58 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  After the Valeant offer, Cephalon  estimated  that a dozen
projects aiming to reach the market by 2016 may have peak sales
of more than $9 billion combined. The company reported 2010
revenue of $2.81 billion, of which $1.12 billion came from
Provigil.  Cephalon has a better new-drug pipeline than  Wall Street  has
given it credit for, Bill Marth, president of U.S. operations
for Teva, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Excited’  “Cephalon didn’t seem like they could get a break for the
pipeline,” Marth said. “We are very excited about it and we
think it will bear a lot of fruit.”  The deal gives Teva a 20 percent stake in Melbourne-based
Mesoblast, a maker of stem-cell therapies, under a deal Cephalon
signed in December. Revascor, an adult stem-cell therapy for
congestive heart failure, a progressive weakening of the  heart
muscle , may revolutionize treatment if it’s effective,
Hershkovitz said.  In a second-stage study in 60 heart failure patients, 45
patients who got the  stem cells  had fewer adverse cardiac events
than 15 patients in a control group who didn’t, Cephalon
announced in January. Therapies like Mesoblast’s aim to use
adult human stem cells to replace and repair damaged tissue.  ‘Consistent Results’  “We saw improvements in every cardiovascular measure we
looked at,” said Kevin Buchi, chief executive officer of
Cephalon, in a telephone interview yesterday. “It is a very
small data set, but the consistent results across all the
endpoints make us believe that these cells are doing
something.”  Among the most advanced of Cephalon’s experimental drugs is
a novel biotech medicine, reslizumab, which may help treat
asthma patients whose symptoms aren’t controlled by existing
medications. A trial on 106 patients with a certain kind of
severe asthma found that the drug improved asthma control and
lung function, Cephalon announced in February 2010. Final-stage
human trials are ongoing and may yield results in late 2012,
Buchi said.  ‘Expensive’ Treatment  “It will be injectable, and it will be expensive,
certainly tens of thousands of dollars a year,”  Eric Schmidt , a
New York-based analyst with Cowen & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “It certainly has multi-hundred million if not
billion-dollar sales potential.”  Another drug in Cephalon’s pipeline, obatoclax, targets
small-cell lung cancer, a type of tumor that is difficult to
treat. In a mid-stage clinical trial, patients who got the drug
in addition to chemotherapy lived longer than those who received
chemotherapy alone, Buchi said. Those results haven’t been
published, he said.  There had been discussions between Teva and Cephalon over a
possible deal “long before” Valeant came along, Marth said.
“We’ve had contact between the companies for a long time, for
many months,” he said.  The death of Cephalon founder and then-chief executive
Frank Baldino in December slowed those discussions down, he
said. Valeant’s offer “sped up things a little bit.”  “The previous talks were at a very, very early stage,”
Buchi said. “There was obviously a lot more haste and focus”
once Valeant became involved.  Previous Bets  Both companies have profited from gambles on risky drugs in
the past. When Baldino acquired Provigil in 1993, analysts
estimated it would generate no more than $50 million in annual
revenue. In 2009, the drug became a blockbuster.  Former Teva Chairman Eli Hurvitz picked up Copaxone after
it had been rejected by Johnson & Johnson and Upjohn, a U.S.
drugmaker later bought by Pfizer. One of the first therapies for
multiple sclerosis, the 14-year-old injected drug now has sales
of about $3 billion a year.  Teva estimates the deal will result in $500 million in
annual cost savings in the third year after closing. Alongside
Cephalon’s branded pipeline, Teva gets control of the Mepha
generic-drugs unit Cephalon acquired last year. The unit was one
of two drugmakers sold by  Germany ’s Merckle family; Teva bought
the other, Ratiopharm GmbH, last year.  Nuvigil’s Effect  After the Provigil patent expires, Teva will continue to
benefit from sales of a next-generation version of the treatment
called Nuvigil, said David Maris, an analyst with CLSA in  New
York . Investor concerns that patients will switch from Nuvigil
to cheaper generic copies of Provigil are overblown, he said.  “The market thinks that when Provigil goes generic,
Nuvigil will be hurt badly,” Maris said in a telephone
interview. “But evidence has shown in previous drug examples
that it doesn’t happen. Part of why they are buying Cephalon is
that they must believe that Nuvigil won’t fall apart.”  Copaxone accounted for about 70 percent of Teva’s branded
sales last year. The addition of Cephalon will drop that to
about 47 percent in 2015, Yanai said.  “It’s about taking this business from relying on one
product,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in New York at  nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  