-- 
Extract Confident Namibia Uranium Mine Will Continue After Policy Change

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-02T03:59:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/extract-says-namibia-uranium-mine-to-continue-after-new-policy.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , aiming to
develop the world’s third-largest uranium mine, is “confident”
its project in  Namibia  will continue even as the government
proposes to give all mining permits to a state-owned company.  “Extract continues to have regular and positive
consultation with the government of Namibia,” the Perth-based
company said in a statement today to the Australian stock
exchange.  Extract fell 20 percent in two days in Sydney last week
after reports that uranium, copper, gold and coal would face
Namibian legislation, giving the state exclusive exploration and
mining rights. Namibia’s cabinet said in an April 29 statement
that it supported the proposal to issue all permits to the
African nation’s state-owned mining company Epangelo.  Extract also halted its shares in Sydney before an
announcement about China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co.’s
proposal in March to acquire  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  for 756
million pounds ($1.26 billion), according to a separate
statement today.  Kalahari’s biggest asset is a 43 percent stake in Extract,
developer of the $1.7 billion Husab uranium project in Namibia.
China is seeking access to a uranium venture that Extract
expects will become the largest producing asset after Cameco
Corp.’s McArthur River mine and the unfinished Cigar Lake mine.  Kalahari Acquisition  China Guangdong said March 7 that its bid depended on the
Australian Securities and Investment Commission granting an
exemption allowing the company to hold more than 20 percent of
Extract. With Kalahari owning 43 percent of the explorer,
Australian rules would normally require China Guangdong to make
a bid for all of Extract, Patersons Securities Ltd. said in
March.  The Kalahari offer should proceed only if Extract holders
receive the same terms and are “not disadvantaged in any way,”
Extract said in a March 9 statement.  Extract, whose shares declined 29 percent in Sydney trading
this year, closed at A$6.68 on April 29.  Shares of uranium explorers and producers tumbled after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  amid concerns that the
crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station would
prompt countries to delay plans to build more reactors.  Husab is about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from London-based
Rio Tinto Group’s Rossing mine and about 30 kilometers from
Perth-based  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) ’s Langer Heinrich project.  Extract said the proposed changes to Namibia’s minerals
policy wouldn’t “adversely affect” its exploration licenses or
the Husab mining license application lodged on December 10.  Husab, currently the world’s fifth-largest uranium deposit,
is expected to produce 15 million pounds of uranium oxide a year
and begin in 2014, Extract said in April.  Namibia, the world’s fourth-largest uranium producer and
biggest miner of offshore diamonds, is considering legislative
changes to ensure its citizens receive more benefit from the
southern African nation’s mineral wealth, Finance Minister Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila said March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 