-- 
Facebook Sued Over Social Ads Using Minors as Endorsers Without Permission

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/facebook-sued-over-social-ads-using-minors-as-endorsers-without-permission.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking site, was sued for not getting
parents’ permission before displaying that minors “like” the
products of its advertisers.  The lawsuit seeks class-action status on behalf of Facebook
users in  New York  state under the age of 18 who had “their
names or likenesses used on a Facebook feed or in an
advertisement sold by Facebook Inc. without the consent of their
parent or guardian.” The suit was filed in federal court in
Brooklyn yesterday.  Facebook began offering “social ads,” which display the
names and likenesses of users’ Facebook friends who click on the
ads’ “like” button, in November 2007, according to the
complaint. The names or likenesses are also displayed to friends
when a user RSVPs for an advertised event, according to the
complaint. The endorsements also show up on Facebook friends’
home-page feeds.  “Users can prevent their endorsements from being shared
with their friends by limiting who can see their posts through
their privacy settings,” according to the complaint. “There
is, however, no mechanism in place by which a user can prevent
their name and likeness from appearing on a Facebook page if
they have ‘liked’ it.”  The suit was filed by Justin Nastro, a minor in  Brooklyn ,
through his father, Frank Nastro. Facebook doesn’t seek parents’
permission for the minor users’ endorsements, according to the
complaint.  The suit invokes the New York Civil Rights Law, which
prevents using a person’s picture for advertising purposes
without that person’s permission. The law allows suits for
damages. The Nastros’ suit seeks revenue Facebook derived from
the unauthorized commercial use of the names and images.  “We have not received the complaint so I’m unable to
comment at this time,” Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is Nastro v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-2128, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 