-- 
Fed Says Banks Eased Loan Terms as Demand for Credit Rose in First Quarter

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-02T19:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/fed-says-banks-eased-loan-terms-as-demand-for-credit-rose-in-first-quarter.html
Banks eased lending terms in the first
quarter as they forecast improvement in the  U.S. economy  and
companies sought more loans, according to a Federal Reserve
survey.  “The April survey indicated that, on net, bank lending
standards and terms generally had eased somewhat further during
the first quarter of this year,” the central bank said today in
its quarterly survey of senior loan officers. The looser
standards for business loans reflected more competition among
banks and some banks “also pointed to a more favorable or less
uncertain economic outlook,” the Fed said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking last week in his first
press conference after a Fed policy statement, said tight credit
following a financial crisis is one factor behind the
“relatively slow recovery.” The  Federal Open Market Committee 
renewed their pledge to hold  interest rates  low for an
“extended period” and complete a $600 billion bond purchase
program by the end of June.  “Clearly, we are seeing a turn in the cycle,” said  Mark Vitner , senior economist for  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Commercial lending has picked up as
businesses have repaired their balance sheets ahead of
households and the public sector. We are seeing some improvement
in the household sector as well.”  Better Credit Quality  Fifty-five percent of domestic banks surveyed reported
improvements in the credit quality of large and middle-sized
loan applicants, the Fed said. About 35 percent reported
improvements in the credit quality of small firms, according to
the survey.  U.S. economic growth slowed in the first quarter to a 1.8
percent annual rate after a 3.1 percent pace in the final three
months of 2010 as  government spending  declined and consumer
purchases cooled. The economy will probably expand by 2.9
percent this year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 74
economists in April.  The survey of loan officers at 55 domestic banks and 22
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
March 29 to April 12, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  Stocks fell after the report. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index declined 0.1 percent to 1,362.01 at 3:25 p.m. The  S&P 500 
has rallied more than 8 percent this year as higher-than-
estimated profits, corporate takeovers and economic reports
bolstered investors’ confidence.  Signs of Improvement  Some categories of lending have shown signs of improvement
in recent months. Commercial and industrial loans increased at
an annual rate of 11.3 percent in March, the largest gain since
October 2008, according to Fed data, and the fifth consecutive
monthly increase.  Lending to businesses is still far from its peak.
Commercial and industrial loans rose to $1.25 trillion as of
April 13 after reaching a trough of $1.21 trillion in October.
Commercial real estate loans have dropped to $1.46 trillion from
$1.73 trillion in December 2008, according to a separate Fed
report.  Banks reported demand for commercial loans from large and
medium-sized companies increased over the past three months,
while reports of increased demand by small businesses were
“less widespread.” The survey also found demand for commercial
real estate loans “increased, particularly at larger banks.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, is hiring about 250 small-business bankers this year to
keep pace with a pickup in loan demand and an expanded lending
goal.  Bolstering Staff  The bank is bolstering staff to accommodate customers in
California and  Florida  who were added after the firm’s 2008
acquisition of Seattle-based thrift Washington Mutual Inc.,
Michael Cleary, head of small-business lending, said last month.
The unit provides direct loans, lines of credit and credit cards
to companies with less than $20 million in revenue.  Commercial real estate prices remain 45 percent below their
peak in October 2007, according to the Moody’s National All
Property Commercial Property Price Index.  Some banks also eased standards for consumer loans, though
demand was mixed, according to the survey. Consumer interest in
residential mortgages declined, while demand for auto loans
strengthened last quarter and credit card loans were little
changed.  Highest Level  “Regarding changes in standards and terms on loans to
households, several large banks eased lending policies on credit
card and auto loans, and the net fraction of banks that reported
having become more willing to make consumer installment loans
rose to its highest level since the first half of 1994,” the
Fed said.  “Moderate net fractions of banks reported a net easing of
the spreads of auto loan rates over their own cost of funds, and
roughly similar fractions of large banks also eased several
other terms on such loans,” the central bank said.  U.S. consumer borrowing rose for a fifth straight month in
February on an increase in non-revolving credit as education
loans expanded, the Fed said in a separate report last month.  Credit climbed $7.62 billion, the most since June 2008, to
$2.42 trillion. Revolving credit, which includes credit cards,
indicates Americans remain reluctant to take on more debt even
as the economy and job market improve.  Portfolio Improved  Last month Citigroup Inc. reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the bank’s loan portfolio improved. Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, relied on a $3.3 billion
cut to provisions for future loan losses to report the New York-
based bank’s fifth profitable quarter in a row. Losses on
troubled loans declined 25 percent as fewer customers missed
payments compared with the same period last year.  Home prices  have fallen as foreclosures swell the supply of
unsold homes. Residential real-estate prices dropped in the 12
months to February by the most in more than a year, putting the
market on the verge of eclipsing the lowest prices seen during
the recession.  The Fed said last week that “the housing sector continues
to be depressed.”  Mortgage rates  have risen since the Fed began
its second round of asset purchases in November, rising to 4.8
percent on April 21 for a 30-year fixed-rate loan from 4.17
percent in November.  Though lending has shown some signs of improvement, credit
standards remain much tighter than before the financial crisis.
In the loan officer survey in November, banks mostly reported
that their standards would not return to their long-run norms
until after 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  