-- 
Financing China Costs Poised to Rise With CDB Losing Sovereign-Debt Status

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-02T21:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/financing-china-costs-poised-to-rise-with-decision-on-cdb-debt.html
China Development Bank  Corp.’s
private-equity unit sports three bronze busts of Communist Party
leaders in its Beijing lobby. Chairman  Mao Zedong  is there, and
so is his eventual successor as leader,  Deng Xiaoping . Then
there’s Chen Yun, once  China ’s top economic planner.  The state-owned policy bank, created in 1994 to support the
government’s economic and infrastructure goals, has been led
since 1998 by Chen’s son, 66-year-old Chen Yuan. His father,
like Deng, is among the Communist Party’s so-called eight
immortals, who wielded power in the 1980s and 1990s, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  The younger Chen, who led CDB through the Chinese banking
crisis more than a decade ago by offloading 100 billion yuan
($15.3 billion) in bad debt, has made the bank the engine of the
national government’s economic development policies. CDB had
$687.8 billion in loans on its books at the end of 2010, more
than twice as much as the  World Bank .  The Beijing-based institution financed the Three Gorges
Dam, the world’s largest hydro-electric project, and helped pay
for the expansion of China’s most successful companies,
including Huawei Technologies Co. It set up a private-equity
fund in December.  “Chen’s bank has been a crucial financier to China’s
rapidly expanding economy,” says Fred Hu, founder of Beijing-
based Primavera Capital Group and a former Greater China
chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “CDB has really assumed a
prominent role in China’s economic development.”  Special Financing Bonds  That role may be about to change. The bank is fighting a
decision by Premier Wen Jiabao’s cabinet to strip it of one of
its biggest competitive advantages: special financing bonds.
Unlike debt issued by other state-owned banks, CDB bonds are
classified at the same level as sovereign debt by the
government. Banks that buy the bonds can count them at a zero-
risk weighting on their balance sheets.  Wen’s plan reclassified CDB as a commercial bank instead of
a policy lender. That means the bank, almost completely financed
by 3.95 trillion yuan in bonds as of May 2 would have to pay
more to borrow money.  The change comes as analysts question its investments in
countries with high-risk debt-ratings, including  Venezuela , and
the bank’s domestic loans are threatened by any popping of
China’s property price bubble.  Obstacle to Profit  “I hope the country makes the decision to extend their
sovereign status because, if they don’t, their yields will
definitely go up; it will be an obstacle to its profit,” says
Liu Kegu, a former CDB vice governor who’s now an adviser to the
bank in Beijing.  Wen’s government wants CDB to compete on an equal footing
with other state-owned banks that now have commercial bank
status, such as  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China. (1398)  While
still majority owned by the state, those lenders have sold
shares to global investors during the past decade.  Yan Qingmin, assistant chairman of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission, says the commercialization will increase
CDB’s “capitalist skills.”  “Their cost of capital is low; that is their advantage
compared to other commercial banks,” Yan says.  CDB is the second-biggest bond issuer in China after the
Ministry of Finance, accounting for about a quarter of the
country’s yuan bonds at the end of 2009, according to the bank’s
annual report.  Resisting the Conversion  Losing its sovereign status may boost CDB’s interest costs
by as much as 30 basis points, says China International Capital
Corp., the country’s first joint-venture investment bank. That’s
on top of four interest-rate increases by the People’s Bank of
China that raised the country’s one-year bank lending rate by
100 basis points from October to the end of April. (A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.)  Chen is resisting the conversion, hailing the benefits of
banks designed to support government goals.  “China Development Bank’s role in promoting the sound and
rapid development of China’s economy and society has been
irreplaceable,” Chen wrote in the January issue of China
Reform, a finance magazine.  Chen has won at least a temporary reprieve. On March 29,
the government extended the special financing status through the
end of 2012. The bond ratings will be reviewed after that
“according to the bank’s commercialization reform,” the CBRC
said.  ‘Consider Credit Risks’  Chinese banks say commercializing CDB would force it to
adhere to the same business principles as other lenders. CDB can
currently underwrite projects that are “too big” for most of
the country’s banks, says Chris Cheng, general manager of global
trade services at  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ’s corporate banking unit.  “We have to consider credit risks, country risks, these
sort of things,” Cheng says. “Their main task is to support
China’s exports.”  CDB in 2009 eclipsed Bank of China, the world’s seventh-
largest by market capitalization, as the country’s biggest
foreign-currency lender, with $97.4 billion compared with Bank
of China’s $96 billion.  Outside China, politicians and labor unions complain that
CDB’s subsidized credit gives unfair advantages to both the bank
and its industrial customers, such as telecommunications giant
Huawei Technologies.  Getting an Edge?  U.S. Senators  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent,
and  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican,  wrote  to the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission  in October, questioning whether
Huawei’s loan from government-owned banks gave it an edge over
U.S. rivals. CDB gave  ZTE Corp. (763)  and Huawei, both based in
Shenzhen, a combined $45 billion line of credit starting in 2004
to provide financing for customers, including  Mexico ’s America
Movil SAB.  Huawei and ZTE “received tens of billions of dollars in
export financing and low- to no-interest loans that needn’t be
repaid from the Chinese government,” Kyl and Lieberman, along
with Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, and
Representative Sue Myrick, a North Carolina Republican, said in
the letter.  “It is the amount and it is the scale,” says Jeremie Waterman, senior director for Greater China at the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce. “There is a growing concern that these loans
combined with other advantages are allowing these companies to
compete on steroids.”  Huawei says the Chinese government doesn’t influence its
activities.  ‘No Puppet Master’  “There is no puppet master,” spokesman Ross Gan says. In
February, Huawei posted a  letter  on its website that said the
lines of credit “are actually designated for Huawei’s
customers, not Huawei.”  Ken Hu, chairman of Huawei USA, said in the letter:
“Huawei recommends loans to our customers and, once taken, our
customers are responsible for paying the principal and interest
directly to those banks.”  CDB has also sparked controversy with its support of the
Chinese government’s efforts to expand the country’s solar and
wind industries. CDB approved more than 126 billion yuan in
credit facilities in the second half of last year for Chinese
solar companies, including Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. In March, Linuo Group
Co., another solar firm, said it had secured a 12 billion yuan
loan from CDB.  Government Support  It’s financing like this that led Marlboro, Massachusetts-
based  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  to announce in January that it would
close a U.S. factory while keeping a Chinese one open because it
can’t compete with companies that, it says, get “considerable
government and financial support.”  The administration of U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
October agreed to investigate a complaint by the United
Steelworkers that China gives clean-energy producers subsidies
that violate World Trade Organization rules.  “It’s been a long-term aggravation with the Chinese banks,
including China Development Bank,” says Gary Hubbard, a
Washington-based spokesman for the union. “It is all because
China provides these subsidized interest-free or low-interest
bank loans and provides lots of other subsidies.”  Analysts, meanwhile, are raising concerns about CDB’s loans
to foreign governments. In August, CDB completed a $20.6 billion
oil-for-loans agreement with Venezuela, negotiated with the help
of New York law firm  White & Case LLP . The loans commit
Venezuela to deliver at least 250,000 barrels a day to China
this year and 300,000 barrels starting next year, until the loan
is repaid.  ‘Shrewd Banker’  Oil was also behind $25 billion in loans in 2009 to two
state-owned Russian companies and a $10 billion loan to  Brazil ’s
state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   This kind of lending may hinder Chen’s efforts to modernize
CDB, says Erica Downs, a former Central Intelligence Agency
analyst who authored a 105-page  report  on CDB for  Washington ’s
 Brookings Institution .  “Here’s this guy who has a reputation for being a shrewd
banker, who has a reputation for having created a whole culture
of risk management in CDB, and now he’s lending all this money
to Venezuela,” Downs says of Chen.  Market researcher CMA Datavision ranks Venezuela, along
with  Greece , as having the highest risk of default.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the country’s long-term debt BB-, the third-highest
noninvestment grade. Chen told reporters on April 14 that
backing loans with oil shipments “effectively keeps risks to a
minimum level.”  Communist Party Elite  Chen, like his father before him, is a member of the
Communist Party elite. As a student at Beijing’s Tsinghua
University in the 1960s, he studied English while his classmates
took to the streets as Red Guards, Primavera Capital’s Hu says.  “He is really a sophisticated economic and financial
expert,” Hu says. “He is very private, maybe a bit aloof. He
likes to read. Mostly economic stuff.”  China Development Bank has its roots in six state-owned
investment companies that were under the State Planning
Commission, the Mao-era organization that was overseen for years
by Chen’s father. The elder Chen helped draft China’s first
five-year plan in the 1950s and emerged in the 1980s as an elder
leader opposed to Deng’s program of rapid economic reform.  The bureaucracy created by Chen Yun, a former type-setter
and labor organizer, set prices and production quotas for
everything from coal to bicycles.  Basket Case  The  new bank  was established in 1994, and a year later the
elder Chen died. His son, who was then a deputy governor at the
central bank, got passed over for the top job there and took
over CDB about three years later. He inherited a basket case.
Nonperforming loans stood at 33 percent, Chen said in a 2003
interview with the Xinhua News Agency.  Chen brought the lender’s risk management system up to
global standards, rejecting 94 loans sought by the government
from 1998 through 2003 because they were in unpromising sectors
such as steel, cement, glass and textiles, according to He
Yuxin, a Hong Kong-based analyst at China Resources Holdings Co.  “Even though it is a government arm, it is really treated
by the marketplace as a well-managed and well-run modern
financial institution,” says  Jacob Frenkel , chairman of
JPMorgan Chase International and a former governor of the Bank
of  Israel .  Frenkel, 68, is an unpaid member of CDB’s international
advisory board, a group that has included former Australian
Prime Minister Paul Keating and former U.S. Secretary of State
 Henry Kissinger , according to a November 2010 bond prospectus.  ‘Global Thinker’  Peter G. Peterson , co-founder of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private-equity firm, met Chen more than 25 years
ago and was impressed with his multinational outlook. Chen later
joined the board of the Peter G. Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  “He stood out for his focus on the world economy at a time
when many were focused on national economies; Chen Yuan was and
is a global thinker,” Peterson says in an e-mail.  Chen’s focus may now be closer to home. His bank helped
pioneer the country’s network of local-government-owned
companies that borrow money for bridges, sewers and subways,
which other lenders followed. The counties and cities rely on
ever-rising land sales to pay back CDB for the financing.  In Tianjin, a coastal city about 140 kilometers (87 miles)
southeast of Beijing, CDB underwrote new highways and a light-
rail line.  AAA Rating  In 2005, the bank loaned 50 billion yuan to Tianjin Binhai
New Area Construction & Investment Group Co., a company set up
with the Tianjin government. The company issued 2.9 billion yuan
of bonds in December 2009 with a top AAA rating from China
Lianhe Credit Rating Co. in Beijing. In 2009, it reported a
negative  cash flow  of 6.8 billion yuan, according to its annual
report.  CDB’s loans to Tianjin Binhai are to be paid back with
revenue from land sales, and the guarantor of the bonds is
another local-government platform that relies on lending,
according to the bond prospectus.  The income stream could be at risk if China’s long-running
property boom reverses and local real-estate prices fall. Land
provided 41 percent of Tianjin’s income in 2009, according to
China Index Academy, a Beijing real-estate research firm.  ‘Credit Quality Problems’  “This could be a source of credit quality problems,
possibly leading to debt rescheduling,” says David Marshall of
CreditSights Inc. China faces a 60 percent risk of a banking
crisis by mid-2013 in the aftermath of record lending and
surging property prices, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Yan, of the regulatory commission, says just one-third of
local-government loans have been issued for projects with
sufficient cash flow to cover repayments.  “Local-government-backed financing vehicles in Tianjin
have no risk,” Tianjin Mayor Huang Xingguo says.  Chen says the bank has about 700 billion yuan in
outstanding loans to local governments.  “I’m not worried about them defaulting because China
Development Bank has a special relationship with the
government,” he says, speaking in an April 14 interview from
China’s tropical island of  Hainan . “CDB has been financing
local governments from the outset.”  New Privileges  Even as the Chinese government may take away some of CDB’s
privileges, it continues to grant new ones. CDB Capital, the
bank’s private-equity arm led by Zhang Xuguang, is licensed by
China’s cabinet as the only Chinese bank allowed to make direct
investments. In a December brochure for its fund of funds, CDB
Capital said it “inherits CDB’s primary goal of servicing the
state.”  CDB Capital’s investments include the 7.8 billion yuan
 China-Africa Development Fund , which was inaugurated by Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  in 2006. It also holds stakes in state-owned
companies such as Qingdao Beihai Shipbuilding Heavy Industry Co.
and Shanghai -Meishan Iron & Steel Co., according to
the brochure.  “China’s private-equity industry is very particular,” Xie Ping, vice president of China’s $332 billion sovereign wealth
fund, which along with the  Finance Ministry  owns 100 percent of
China Development Bank, told business leaders at Beijing’s
Diaoyutai State Guest House on Dec. 28. “It has the imprint of
the state.”  If CDB Capital pleases its Communist Party bosses, Chen
Yuan may yet find a statue of himself in the private-equity
unit’s Beijing lobby, next to that of his father. That may
depend on whether he can navigate the bank’s loss of its special
lending status and can rein in its debt risks at home and
abroad.  --Michael Forsythe,  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Edmond Lococo and Regina Tan in Beijing. Editors: Tony Aarons, Gail Roche  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  