-- 
Former Pakistan Leader Musharraf Warns of al-Qaeda Retaliation

-- B y   L a r a   S e t r a k i a n   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-02T21:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/former-pakistan-leader-musharraf-warns-of-al-qaeda-retaliation.html
The former president of Pakistan,
 Pervez Musharraf , warned of retaliation by al-Qaeda’s followers
in the aftermath of the U.S. raid that killed  Osama bin Laden ,
leader of the terrorist group.  “They will react, they will react violently maybe,” he
told Bloomberg Television today in an interview at his home in
Dubai.  Whatever the short-term risks, he added, the U.S. raid
“will be beneficial because the big leader of al-Qaeda has been
eliminated.”  The decade it took to locate bin Laden after the attacks on
Sept. 11, 2001, highlights an intelligence failure for both the
 United States  and Pakistan, he said.  “This was a failure of intelligence on both sides,”
Musharraf said, adding that he is “very sure” Pakistani
authorities did not know that  bin Laden  was holed up in a villa
in Abbottabad, about 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the capital,
Islamabad.  The elimination of bin Laden doesn’t lift the threat of
terrorist attacks, he said. “We think very naively” to believe
the fight against terrorism ends with the death of Bin Laden.  President Barack Obama announced yesterday that bin Laden
had been killed in a firefight with U.S. forces. U.S. officials
said that they didn’t share their intelligence about the al-
Qaeda leader with any other country and that they informed
Pakistani officials only when the operation was over.  Musharraf, predecessor to Pakistan’s current president, Ali Asif Zardari, worked closely with the administration of
President  George W. Bush  in the years following the Sept. 11
attacks. The former general stepped down in 2008 in the face of
opposition pressure and now lives in exile.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Leslie Hoffecker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 