-- 
France Telecom Scours Africa as German Rival Keeps to Europe

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T10:25:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/france-telecom-scours-africa-as-deutsche-telekom-keeps-to-europe.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom
SA (FTE)  are split over where and how to offset their declining phone
businesses in  Europe , even as they deepen cooperation on
equipment purchasing, networks and technology.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  is
refocusing the Bonn-based company around Europe and increasing
network spending in its home market after agreeing to sell the
customer-losing  T-Mobile USA  business. The stagnant French
market is pushing  France  Telecom CEO Stephane Richard to scour
 Africa  and the Middle East for further acquisitions.  France Telecom, based in Paris, said today first-quarter
sales from its three biggest European markets shrank 1.8 percent
to 7.53 billion euros ($11 billion). Deutsche Telekom, Europe’s
biggest phone operator, may  report  this week that revenue from
Europe fell 3.2 percent to 9.86 billion euros, according to the
average estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The two companies approach the topic from a completely
different angle,” said Bruno Lippens, who manages about $11
billion in a telecommunications fund at Pictet Asset Management
in Geneva. “France Telecom is essentially being kept from
reducing labor costs by the French government. If you are
operating in a market where margins are limited in this way, the
only thing you can do is to have more growth, and that’s forcing
them into  emerging markets .”  Telecom Italia, Telefonica  Deutsche Telekom, which releases earnings May 6, may say
net income fell 30 percent to 538 million euros, according to
analyst estimates.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , scheduled to report a day
earlier, may say profit climbed 1.7 percent to 611 million
euros, helped by growth in Brazil and Argentina.  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,
the Nordic region’s biggest phone operator, and  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  also
report this week.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  will release earnings next week.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the former Dutch phone monopoly, surprised
shareholders on April 21 by cutting a full-year profit forecast
and announcing as many as 5,000 job cuts, underscoring the
deterioration in its home market. Unlike rivals with a presence
in emerging economies, KPN’s only major assets outside the
Netherlands are in Germany and Belgium.  Deutsche Telekom has gained 16 percent this year, the
 second-best performance  on the 21-company Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index, which added 2 percent. Telecom
Italia rose 4.9 percent, while France Telecom was up 1.3
percent.  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , the Greek
phone also known as OTE and controlled by Deutsche Telekom, was
the best performer with a 28 percent increase.  Morocco, Iraq  Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.8 percent to 11.19 euros at
12:23 p.m. in Frankfurt, giving the company a market value of
48.3 billion euros. France Telecom lost 0.5 percent to 15.79
euros on the Paris exchange, valuing the operator at 41.8
billion euros.  France Telecom’s emerging-market assets are taking on a
larger share of revenue as economic growth in those markets
outpaces that of Europe.  Sales in the  Middle East  and Africa, excluding Egypt,
climbed 5.8 percent in the first quarter. Revenue from France,
which contributed to half of the group’s total, fell 2.6 percent
to 5.6 billion euros. The company last year set a target of
doubling its overall emerging-market revenue by 2015, from about
3.3 billion euros in 2009.  African Growth  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization slipped 1.3 percent because of a consumer tax
that took effect this year and the unrest in Egypt, France
Telecom said today.  Since taking over in March 2010, CEO Richard has led France
Telecom to  acquisitions  in Morocco and Iraq, adding to
businesses in Jordan, Egypt, Senegal, and the Ivory Coast. He
has said the company may spend as much as 7 billion euros on
deals focused on the region, while in France it prepares for the
entry of a fourth French mobile operator next year.  “Africa is probably the last growth market for telecoms --
even in  Latin America  you already have quite a high penetration
rates,” said Leon Cappaert, who manages about 320 million euros
in assets at KBC Asset Management in Brussels. “If attractive
assets come on the market, there will be lots of competition.”  France Telecom is reviewing its European portfolio, Chief
Financial Officer Gervais Pellissier said on a conference call
today. Aside from France, Poland, and Spain, “all the other
countries are involved in this review,” which will examine
opportunities for consolidation as well as possible sale of
operations, he said.  Eastern Europe  Deutsche Telekom, by contrast, has ruled out acquisitions
in Africa and Asia and is concentrating on growth in new data
and network services and turning around southern and eastern
European units after agreeing to sell  T-Mobile USA (T)  to AT&T Inc.
in March for $39 billion.  Obermann reported a surprise fourth-quarter net loss
because of writedowns on Romanian and Greek assets. Deutsche
Telekom has spent 3.8 billion euros since 2008 to acquire 30
percent of OTE, seeking to tap growth in its Romanian, Bulgarian
and Albanian markets. The Greek government is planning to cut
its remaining 20 percent stake this year.  The decline in European sales excluding Germany will
probably slow in 2012, while adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will remain stable,
Deutsche Telekom said in its annual report published Feb. 25.  “In eastern Europe the challenge is to stabilize
revenue,” said Heinrich Ey, who manages a 65 million-euro
telecommunications fund at RCM/Allianz Global Investors in
Frankfurt. “There are plenty of construction sites even without
the U.S., and it would already be a great achievement if the
company manages to turn around the markets in the region.”  Per-User Revenue  Both companies are looking for ways to offer higher-end
services in European markets while cutting costs. In Germany,
Deutsche Telekom has pledged 10 billion euros through 2012 to
build next-generation wireless and fiber-optic networks. It’s
pushing its Web TV service Entertain and the use of smartphones
to compensate for customers canceling fixed lines.  France Telecom  and Deutsche Telekom last month announced a
joint purchasing venture, aiming to save 1.3 billion euros a
year. The pact is of greater urgency for France Telecom, as the
German rival has “more freedom to address all the lines in
their profit and loss statements,” Pictet’s Lippens said.  Increasing revenue in Europe will be a challenge. Deutsche
Telekom’s wireless average revenue per user, or ARPU, declined
or was stagnant in most European markets. More of the region’s
phone users have dropped more profitable contracts in favor of
pre-paid cards.  “Smartphones have been shown not to be a blessing,” said
John Strand, owner of Copenhagen-based phone company adviser
Strand Consult. “They increase revenue, but also increase
costs, and there’s no link between costs and revenue in a
positive way. Mobile broadband doesn’t generate enough  cash flow 
to compensate for the pressure you see in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  