-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Set to Return Tomorrow After Medical Day Off

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/galleon-s-raj-rajaratnam-had-emergency-surgery-defense-lawyer-dowd-says.html
The jury weighing insider-trading
charges against Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam will
take today off because of a juror’s medical procedure.  Rajaratnam missed court yesterday after emergency
surgery on May 1 to treat a bacterial infection of his foot,
defense lawyer  John Dowd  said in a written statement distributed
to reporters after his client didn’t show up at  Manhattan 
federal court.  “It is hoped that he will be recovered sufficiently to
return to the courthouse this week,” Dowd said in the
statement. He said Rajaratnam waived his right to be in court
during deliberations, which began April 25. “The court has
approved this absence,” Dowd said in the statement.  Dowd told reporters that Holwell spoke to Rajaratnam on the
phone before excusing him from the trial to make sure he
voluntarily chose not to attend court while the jury was
deliberating.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund  insider trading  in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and traders about 15 stocks.  The jury finished its sixth day of deliberations yesterday
without reaching a verdict.  “As you may have noticed, Mr. Rajaratnam is not in the
courtroom,” U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell told the jury
before dismissing them for the day. “He couldn’t be here and
I’ve excused him for a good reason.”  Holwell and his clerk, Bill Donald, said earlier yesterday
that there will be no deliberations today due to a juror’s
medical procedure.  No Pressure  “No juror should feel any time pressure whatsoever,” he
said in a letter to the panel. “The jury will have all the time
it needs to reach its verdict.” The announcement came in
response to a note from a juror that wasn’t released to the
public.  The Galleon case was the first one focused exclusively on
insider trading in which prosecutors wiretapped their targets’
telephone conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime
investigations.  Jurors listened to more than 40 recordings of Rajaratnam,
in some of which he can be heard gathering information from his
sources. Since deliberations began, the jury of nine women and
three men has asked to re-hear about 15 of the wiretap
recordings.  Rajaratnam used inside tips to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to prosecutors.  Twenty Years  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, is
charged with five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of
 securities fraud . He faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  Jim McCarthy , a spokesman for Rajaratnam, told reporters
that the defense team met with the judge yesterday to discuss
the defendant’s condition. He said the lawyers wanted Holwell’s
guidance on what to say publicly about their client.  McCarthy wouldn’t say whether Rajaratnam was at home or at
the hospital and declined to comment on his condition.  “It’s of a sensitive and personal medical nature,” he
said.  McCarthy said that he believed that Rajaratnam wouldn’t
have to be in court when the jury resumes deliberations May 4
and that a verdict could be handed down in his absence.  Rajaratnam’s case was the most prominent amid a widespread
U.S. crackdown on insider trading. In  New York , the Galleon
probe and related cases have led to more than 40 arrests since
2009 and guilty pleas from about 30 of the accused.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  