-- 
GDF Suez Stays Out of Amazon Dam Project Criticized by Clinton

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-02T17:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/gdf-suez-stays-out-of-amazon-dam-project-criticized-by-clinton.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the French energy company
that operates  13 hydroelectric plants in Brazil , said it
declined to participate in the country’s Belo Monte dam project
because the venture’s risks outweighed the potential returns.  Possible setbacks on the project in Brazil’s Amazon, such
as environmental and construction risk, were higher than what
the company could afford, Jan Flachet, chief executive officer
of GDF Suez for  Latin America , said in an April 29 interview.  The 25.8 billion-real ($16.4 billion) Belo Monte dam
 project , which will flood 516 square kilometers (199 square
miles) of the world’s largest rainforest, is a key policy in the
Brazilian government’s plan to boost power supplies. The
Organization of the American States requested April 5 that
 Brazil  suspend work on the dam, echoing  protests  from Avatar
director James Cameron and former U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
because of the potential environmental impact from the venture.  “It’s a project that could be very good but at the time
we considered that its risks were higher than what we were
inclined to accept,” Flachet said. “That’s why we declined.”  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA, the world´s largest iron ore
company, said on April 28 that it agreed to buy a stake and
invest about 2.3 billion reais in the project, which is set to
be the world’s third-biggest dam. The announcement came after
the ouster of its chief executive for the past decade,  Roger Agnelli , amid government criticism for supposedly not investing
enough in projects in Brazil.  GDF Suez, based in Paris, started to produce from the
1,086 megawatts Estreito hydroelectric power plant last month
and is working on the construction of the  Jirau  dam in the
Northern state of Rondonia. The company is considering adding
four turbines to the Jirau project to boost the power generation
capacity to 3,750 megawatts from the 3,450 megawatts planned.  The company is also considering installing a floating
storage and regasification unit in  Colombia  to have the capacity
to handle liquefied natural gas and compensate for declines in
the country’s hydro-generated power generation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  