-- 
GDF Suez CEO Sees Nuclear Costs Rising, Renewable Energy Not Filling Gap

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-02T16:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/gdf-suez-ceo-sees-nuclear-costs-rising-renewable-energy-not-filling-gap.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Mestrallet said the nuclear accident in  Japan  may raise
expenses for operating atomic reactors and cause delays in
developing new plants.  “The cost of nuclear will be higher,” Mestrallet said
today in Paris at a shareholders meeting for the former natural
gas monopoly. “The pace of development of nuclear can only
slow. Will this slowdown be short or long? It’s still too early
to tell.”  Before the March 11 accident at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant, GDF Suez was vying for French government approval
to develop a reactor in the Rhone River valley. The company,
which operates  Belgium ’s seven nuclear reactors through its
Electrabel unit, was part of a group including  France ’s Areva
SA, Electricite de France SA and Total SA that lost a bid in
2009 to develop EPR-model reactors in  Abu Dhabi .  “Some countries may decide not to come back to nuclear,”
Mestrallet said, adding that it’s “too early” to say whether
there will be consequences for dismantling reactors and storing
atomic waste. The lost electricity production may not be made up
by technologies such as wind and solar power, he said.  “We don’t think that renewable energies will be enough to
compensate an eventual lowering of the nuclear energy
contribution,” he said. Natural gas-fired plants have a future,
he said.  GDF Suez today reported first-quarter earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose 6.1 percent
and maintained its profit targets.  Ebitda Advance  Ebitda climbed to 5.51 billion euros ($8.2 billion) from
5.19 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. That fell short of the 5.65 billion-euro
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
increased 6.9 percent to 25.48 billion euros.  The European Union decided to put the region’s nuclear
reactors through so-called stress tests to determine how they
would hold up to earthquakes, floods and power cuts after Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s disaster, the worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl. Four of the station’s six reactors were damaged after
the earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  