-- 
German Bonds Decline After U.S. Says Osama Bin Laden Is Killed

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-02T16:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/german-government-bonds-decline-after-u-s-says-osama-bin-laden-is-killed.html
German bonds fell, after rising last
month for the first time since August, as the U.S. said  Osama bin Laden  was killed in a military operation in Pakistan.  The securities extended declines after a report showed
German manufacturing grew at a faster pace in April, bolstering
the case for higher  interest rates . French bonds also retreated
as President Barack Obama said bin Laden died near Islamabad.
Greek and Portuguese five-year notes fell amid speculation some
nations in the region may need to restructure their debts.  “A report on bin Laden will create a thrill in the market
that would reduce demand for a safe haven,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. “The impact in  Europe  could be short-lived. It doesn’t
change the bigger picture in terms of debt overhang among
periphery countries and the interest-rate outlook.”  German two-year note yields rose four basis points to 1.81
percent at 4:55 p.m. in London. The 1.50 percent security due
March 2013 fell 0.07, or 70 cents per 1,000-euro ($1,484) face
amount, to 99.44. Yields on 10-year bunds increased one basis
point to 3.25 percent after rising to 3.28 percent earlier. The
similar-maturity French yield increased one basis point to 3.57
percent.  Five-year Greek yields rose nine basis points to 17.23
percent, with yields on five-year Portuguese debt climbing 19
basis points to 11.71 percent.  Bond trading volumes dropped as the U.K. market was closed
for a bank holiday. In  Germany , 259,770 contracts of bund
futures maturing in June were traded today, compared with an
average of 648,020 contracts in the previous five sessions.  Debt Restructuring  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year Greek debt instead of bunds increased to as high as 12.71
percentage points today, from 12.42 percentage points last week.  Greece  may face difficulties borrowing a planned 25 billion
euros in financial markets next year, European Financial
Stability Facility head Klaus Regling told German newspaper
Handelsblatt. The Greek government’s plans may be “too
optimistic,” the newspaper cited Regling as saying in an
interview.  Regling said he doesn’t expect Spain to tap the EFSF.  Spain 
needs between 20 billion euros and 100 billion euros to overhaul
its banking industry, and any amount within that range is
“manageable,” he said. The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond
rose two basis points to 5.32 percent.  True Finns  True Finns leader Timo Soini said Finland and the European
Union will need to agree on a financial rescue plan for Portugal
without his party’s backing, adding he expects Greece and other
euro members to restructure their debt.  The yield difference between 10-year Irish bonds and
benchmark 10-year German securities slipped to 724 basis points
from 733 basis points on April 29 even as the  Finance Ministry 
cut Ireland’s economic growth forecast for this year to 0.75
percent from 1.75 percent.  The  European Central Bank  has a meeting on May 5, where
policy makers are expected to leave the main rate unchanged,
according to all 45 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The ECB
raised its key rate by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent at its
April 7 meeting to contain inflation.  Inflation Fight  The ECB may step up its inflation fight as up to a third of
its Governing Council is replaced this year, analysts said. An
unprecedented seven seats on the ECB’s 23-member council may
change hands in a year marked by the retirement of President
Jean-Claude Trichet.  The new generation of central bankers under the likely
leadership of Italy’s  Mario Draghi  will reinforce the ECB’s
inflation-fighting resolve, say economists at Citigroup Inc. and
 Societe Generale  SA.  “In the short term, the ECB may turn more hawkish,” said
 Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-area economist at Societe Generale
in  London . “Draghi will want to show he’s not lax about
inflation risks and the new members will keep their voices down,
strengthening the influence of established hawks.”  The central bank will increase its benchmark rate to 1.75
percent by the end of this year, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.5
percent this year through April 29, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasuries  have returned 1.2
percent. Greek debt lost about 12 percent, with Portuguese
securities losing 15 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  