-- 
Greece Says Improving EU Loans Preferable to Restructuring

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-05-02T13:24:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/greece-says-improving-eu-loans-preferable-to-restructuring-1-.html
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said easier terms on the 110 billion euros
($163 billion) of international loans would help avoid a debt
restructuring, which he ruled out.  Papaconstantinou said in  Athens  today that he “expressed
the hope that we will have a better settlement of terms” for
last year’s bailout package. “There will be no restructuring or
haircut,” he said.  Greece received one extension of repayments on loans from
the European Union earlier this year as well as a cut in the
interest rate. The easier terms were intended to give the
country leeway to get over a “hump” in repayments hitting the
country in 2014 and 2015.  Papaconstantinou was responding to reporter’s questions
after he was quoted by  French daily Liberation  as ruling out a
restructuring while saying that “in several countries of
Northern Europe, the debate on financial aid to countries in
trouble has turned emotional, which doesn’t help us get to a
solution.”  “It would be better for us to extend once again the timing
of repayment of the 110 billion euros that we’re borrowing from
our partners and that we further reduce the interest rate,” the
finance minister said, according to the newspaper. “This would
allow us to keep meeting our payments.”  Greece, and officials from the EU and  European Central
Bank , have said restructuring or a so-called haircut, or losses
for bondholders, is not an option. Papaconstantinou has said the
move could hurt the country’s banks, economy and deepen the
recession, as well as keep  Greece  locked out of markets for
years.  He told Liberation he continued to believe Greece’s debt
was sustainable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  