-- 
Greg McElroy Follows Namath to Jets as Last of NFL’s Drafted Quarterbacks

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/greg-mcelroy-follows-namath-to-jets-as-last-of-nfl-s-drafted-quarterbacks.html
Greg McElroy followed in the footsteps
of Hall of Fame quarterback Joe Namath during his football
career at the University of Alabama and now gets another chance
to do so with the  New York Jets .  McElroy was the last of 12 quarterbacks taken in the
 National Football League ’s seven-round draft. He was drafted
208th overall by the Jets, two days and  207 players  after the
 Carolina Panthers  made quarterback Cam Newton from rival Auburn
University the No. 1 pick.  McElroy wore No. 12 at Alabama in honor of Namath, who was
his father’s favorite player. Like Namath, he led the Crimson
Tide to a national championship before pursuing an NFL career.
McElroy, who is seeking to land a backup job to starter Mark Sanchez, said he plans to wear No. 12 in New York, where Namath
won a Super Bowl title.  “He’s someone I have always looked up to and had the
utmost respect for,” McElroy, 22, told reporters two days ago.
“I can’t believe I’m going able to follow in the same footsteps
that he did. Having the opportunity to play for the  New York 
Jets is an absolute dream come true.”  McElroy said the Jets weren’t a “team on my radar,” as he
had limited meetings with team officials leading up to the
draft. The Jets have Mark Brunell, Kellen Clemens, Kevin
O’Connell and Drew Willy as quarterbacks behind Sanchez, who
helped them reach the American Football Conference championship
game in each of his first two NFL seasons.  “He has every attribute conceivable for a guy to be
successful at the quarterback position,” Jets General Manager
Mike Tannenbaum said of McElroy on a conference call. “He won
in high school, won in college, he’s smart, competitive, can
make all the throws. And he’s a natural leader.”  College Title  While McElroy helped  Alabama  to college football’s national
title as a junior following the 2009 season, he didn’t post big
passing statistics playing in a run-oriented offense that
featured Heisman Trophy winner Mark Ingram.  Ingram was the first of 31 running backs drafted, picked
28th overall by the  New Orleans Saints . The Jets used a fourth-
round pick on University of Louisville running back Bilal
Powell, three rounds before taking McElroy.  “In the offense I was asked to run in the University of
Alabama I was seldom asked to take over a game,” McElroy said.
“I was asked to make plays and minimize mistakes. In high
school I was a spread offense guy so I threw for a million yards
and touchdowns. My role changed when I got to college.”  Quarterbacks  Four quarterbacks were among the draft’s  first 12 picks ,
with Newton’s selection followed by  Washington ’s Jake Locker to
the  Tennessee Titans  at No. 8, Missouri’s Blaine Gabbert to the
 Jacksonville Jaguars  at No. 10 and Florida State’s Christian
Ponder to the  Minnesota Vikings  at No. 12.  Texas Christian University’s Andy Dalton (Cincinnati) and
 Nevada ’s Colin Kaepernick ( San Francisco ) were the two
quarterbacks taken in the second round, while Arkansas’s Ryan
Mallett (New England) was drafted in the third.  Iowa’s Ricky Stanzi (Kansas City),  North Carolina ’s T.J.
Yates (Houston), Idaho’s Nathan Enderle ( Chicago ) and Virginia
Tech’s Tyrod Taylor (Baltimore) also went ahead of McElroy.  Of the 254 NFL draftees, 123 were offensive players, 129
were defensive players and two were kickers.  The  New York Giants  used their first-round pick on
University of Nebraska cornerback Prince Amukamara, who was one
of 53 defensive backs drafted -- the most of any position. The
Jets were among three of the NFL’s 32 teams that didn’t take a
defensive back, opting for McElroy after Buffalo and Cincinnati
looked to bolster their pass coverage by taking cornerbacks in
the final round.  Namath’s No. 12  McElroy said he received a congratulatory voice mail
message from Namath when he first committed to go to Alabama and
then met him several times while in school in Tuscaloosa. Namath
played at Alabama from 1962-64 and was taken by the Jets with
the first pick in the American Football League draft.  Now that he’s in New York and again wearing No. 12, McElroy
may get another phone call from the quarterback who was
nicknamed “Broadway Joe.”  “Meeting him face-to-face for the first time was an
unbelievable moment and something I haven’t forgotten,” McElroy
said. “I just can’t believe that not only am I going to wear
the same college uniform as Joe Namath, but I’ll have the
opportunity to wear the same NFL uniform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  