-- 
Grifols Wins U.S. Antitrust Staff Approval to Buy Talecris, to Battle CSL

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-05-02T20:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/grifols-wins-u-s-antitrust-staff-approval-to-buy-talecris-1-.html
Grifols SA (GRF)  won tentative U.S.
antitrust approval to buy  Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings
Corp. (TLCR)  for $4.09 billion after agreeing to sell some assets,
reducing the number of major companies in the blood-plasma
industry to three.  Grifols will sell two plasma collection centers, Talecris’s
Koate blood-protein unit and a Melville,  New York , plant under a
consent agreement with the staff of the Federal Trade
Commission, the companies said in a statement today. The accord
is subject to approval by the five-member commission, they said.
Grifols rose the most in five months in Madrid trading.  The deal gives Barcelona-based Grifols,  Europe ’s largest
maker of blood-plasma products, a bigger share of the $7 billion
U.S. market for blood-based infusions. The company will compete
with  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  and Melbourne-based  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ,
which scrapped a proposed $3.1 billion acquisition of Talecris
in 2009 following FTC objections.  “We are happy about the announcement as it’s a very
significant step, but we still need to wait for the final
approval,” Deputy Chief Financial Officer Nuria Pascual said in
a telephone interview. She said Grifols expects a decision in
three or four weeks.  The U.S. now accounts for about a third of Grifols’s sales.
The acquisition of Research Triangle Park, North Carolina-based
Talecris would increase that to two-thirds, Pascual said on Nov.
5. Grifols would have had to pay Talecris a $375 million breakup
fee if the FTC had blocked the deal.  Shares Jump  Grifols gained 71 cents, or 5.3 percent, to 14.08 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in  Madrid , the biggest gain since
Dec. 3. The stock has returned 50 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends.  Talecris holders will receive about $32.58 a share in cash
and stock in the sale, based on Grifols’ closing price today.
Talecris rose 87 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $28.79 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  “The remedies are those expected by the market and could
mean a final approval in the short term,” Eduardo Coelho, an
analyst at Banco BPI in Porto,  Portugal , said by telephone. Even
as “the approval seems to be clear, the financial conditions
are still unknown, which still generates uncertainty.”  Grifols will sell the assets to  Kedrion SpA  of  Italy  and
provide contract manufacturing, according to the statement. It
will also operate the Melville plant for as many as four years
under a lease agreement. Koate is a plasma-derived product to
treat hemophilia, a disorder in which the body lacks blood-
clotting proteins.  Sweetened Offer  The forecast of about $230 million in operating savings
from the Talecris purchase won’t be affected by the consent
agreement or the arrangements with Kedrion, the company said.  Grifols agreed to pay $19 in cash and 0.6485 of a Grifols
non-voting share for each Talecris share. The companies
sweetened an original offer of $19 in cash and 0.641 of a share
to settle a lawsuit by Talecris shareholders, according to the
filing in November. Talecris board members and Cerberus Partners
LP, the company’s biggest shareholder with a 49 percent stake,
will receive the original terms.  Grifols agreed to buy Talecris on June 7 to gain brands
such as Gamunex, a treatment for three immune system disorders,
and Prolastin, the leading treatment for emphysema patients who
were born with a protein deficiency. Talecris said at the time
it still planned to proceed with an $800 million expansion of
its blood-plasma production capacity.  ‘Great News’  “This represents great news for Grifols because the
agreement is very favorable for it,” Sebastien Malafosse, an
analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co., said by phone from Paris. “One
could have expected bigger divestments, selling products or
fewer synergies, but that’s not the case. It’s almost a blue-sky
scenario going forward.”  Talecris was created in 2005 when Bayer AG sold its plasma
business for about $590 million to New York-based Cerberus
Capital Management LP and Ampersand Ventures of Wellesley,
 Massachusetts . The plasma-product maker raised $950 million in
an initial public offering in 2009, and had $605 million in
long-term borrowings as of March 31 this year.  Grifols sold shares in an initial public offering in 2006.
The company was founded in 1940 by a Spanish hematologist, Jose Grifols Roig. His son, Victor Grifols Lucas, owns 6.2 percent of
the company’s shares, while his grandson, Victor Grifols Roura,
is chairman and CEO and holds 0.2 percent of shares.  Plasma is the watery, yellow liquid that carries blood
cells. Grifols, Talecris, Baxter and CSL pay healthy people to
donate plasma at  collection centers  across the U.S., then spin
it in centrifuges to extract products such as immunoglobulins,
albumin and blood-clotting proteins for treating hemophilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  