-- 
Middle East Shrugs Off Killing of Bin Laden as Revolts Sideline Al-Qaeda

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r ,   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-02T18:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/middle-east-shrugs-off-killing-of-bin-laden-as-revolts-sideline-al-qaeda.html
Osama bin Laden’s death may have had
more impact in  New York  and  Washington  than in the Middle East.  As crowds celebrated in the U.S. cities, there was no
immediate sign of celebration or protest on the streets of Arab
capitals, many of them roiled this year by protest movements in
which al-Qaeda and groups sharing its militant Islamist ideology
have been sidelined.  Popular revolts against autocratic regimes in  Tunisia ,
 Egypt  and other countries have largely been led by pro-democracy
activists. Islamist groups who joined the movements said they
shared the protesters’ goals, rather than the vision of a Middle
East under Islamic Sharia law that was the declared aim of bin
Laden. That suggests that al-Qaeda’s ability to inspire fear in
the West is no longer matched by its political appeal in the
Muslim world, a decade after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks turned
 bin Laden  into a cult figure in parts of the region.  “There are a lot of people who used to support him,” said
Mohamed al-Kheir Merghani, 52, a taxi-driver in Khartoum’s al-
Riyadh neighborhood, where bin Laden lived in the 1990s. “They
don’t anymore, because of his extremist actions.”  Egypt’s  Muslim Brotherhood , the region’s oldest Islamist
group and one that’s set to gain influence in elections due this
year, said al-Qaeda’s attacks on Sept. 11 had hurt the
religion’s image and helped provoke a Western backlash.  ‘Ideology of Violence’  “Muslims in particular suffered from the vicious media
campaign that identified Islam with terrorism and described
Muslims as violent,” the Brotherhood said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Mohamed al-Beltagy, a leading member, said
in a phone interview that the group has “always disagreed with
the al-Qaeda ideology and the ideology of violence.”  The Brotherhood, which was barred from contesting elections
as a party under Mubarak, also criticized Bin Laden’s killing,
saying the group is “against the use of assassinations and
supports fair trials whatever the crime may be.” It said U.S.
forces, which invaded  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  in the years after
al-Qaeda’s Sept. 11 attacks, should now pull out.  Iran took the same view. “We hope that this event will end
war, conflicts and the killings of innocent people and lead to
the establishment of peace in the region,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said. “With his death, foreign
countries no longer have an excuse to send troops to the region
using as a pretext the war on terror.”  ‘Major Setback’  Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement that bin
Laden’s death was a “major setback” to terrorist groups.
Pakistani television channels reported riots in several parts of
Karachi, with buses set ablaze and two people shot dead. Afghan
President Hamid Karzai said that the al-Qaeda leader’s location
and killing in  Pakistan  shows that “Afghanistan is not the
place to fight against terrorism.”  Leaders such as Mubarak and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
Tunisia used al-Qaeda’s threat as a justification for
restrictions on religious involvement in politics, with many
members of Islamist groups jailed and tortured.  “Arab tyrants and al-Qaeda needed each other,” said Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist who knew bin Laden. “Osama bin
Laden was to some Arabs a reaction to Arab tyrannies who had
brought them to a dead end. And the tyrants needed al-Qaeda to
exercise their iron fist.”  Other examples of the latter group included  Muammar Qaddafi 
in  Libya , who frequently blamed al-Qaeda for the uprising
against his rule this year, a revolt that was supported by al-
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, according to statements posted on
jihadist websites on Feb. 24, a week after the uprising began.  Qaddafi Warning  Qaddafi has warned Western countries who are carrying out
attacks on his forces in support of the rebels that his
overthrow will lead to an al-Qaeda presence in the country that
will pose a threat to  Europe . The newspaper Brnieq, which
supports the rebels and is based in their stronghold of
Benghazi, yesterday reported bin Laden’s death at the hands of
the U.S. as a “martyrdom.”  In Gaza, where demonstrations of support for al-Qaeda
erupted after the Sept. 11 attacks, Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh
denounced the killing of bin Laden as an atrocity.  Hamas, classified by the U.S. as a terrorist organization,
last week reached an agreement with the U.S.-backed  Palestinian
Authority  of  Mahmoud Abbas  to form a joint administration, an
accord condemned by  Israel .  Ghassan Khatib , a spokesman for the
PA, said bin Laden’s absence will be “good for peace and
stability.”  To some Arabs, bin Laden’s attacks on the U.S. were enough
reason to mourn him. “I am sad because he was a Muslim who was
fighting against the  United States ,” said Osama Abolmagd, a 22-
year-old security guard in Cairo. “Every time a man like Osama
dies, there will be another Muslim like him who will rise and
take his place.”  Terror Cells  In bin Laden’s native  Saudi Arabia , the government hopes
the death of bin Laden will help support international efforts
to dismantle terror cells and undermine the ideology behind
them, according to the official Saudi Press Agency.  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah has stepped up spending on
social measures such as housing to help avert the kind of
protests that have rocked other Arab countries. Among the
beneficiaries of almost $100 billion in stimulus spending will
be the religious institutions that critics say have helped
spread the Islamist beliefs that created support for al-Qaeda
and similar groups.  In Yemen, the bin Laden family’s ancestral home, his death
was welcomed both by the government of President Ali Abdullah Saleh and by the opposition movement that has held daily rallies
for more than two months to demand his ouster.  ‘Monumental Milestone’  The Foreign Ministry, in an e-mailed statement, called the
U.S. operation “a monumental milestone in the ongoing global
war against terrorism.”  Hasan Zaid, the leader of one of the six groups that make
up the Joint Meeting Parties, Yemen’s main opposition, said
there’s no place in his movement for the violence espoused by
al-Qaeda. While more than 100 protesters have been killed by
pro-government forces in 10 weeks of demonstrations, the
movement continues to advocate peaceful change.  “Osama Bin Laden and his followers could never be present
at peaceful protests,” Zaid said. “The choice of those in the
squares is a peaceful one. Peaceful revolutions are a defeat for
Bin Laden’s plan.”  That’s typical of attitudes in the region as a whole, where
“al-Qaeda’s narrative has not played at all in this Arab
awakening,” said Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings
Institute in Doha, Qatar.  “People want something else,” he said. Al-Qaeda’s
“policy of terrorism and killing civilians and fear has
backfired on them. Most people are sick and tired of that
philosophy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 