-- 
India’s Rupee Falls, Snapping Three-Day Gain, on Fund Outflows

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-05-02T12:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/india-s-rupee-falls-snapping-three-day-gain-on-fund-outflows.html
India ’s rupee fell, snapping a three-
day rally, after overseas investors pared holdings of local
equities on concern rising borrowing costs are pushing up costs
and eroding earnings at the nation’s companies.  Funds based abroad sold $487 million more shares than they
bought in the four days through April 28. Reliance Industries
Ltd., India’s largest company by market capitalization, and
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the biggest carmaker, said last month
that profits rose at a slower pace in the first quarter from the
year before. The central bank will raise its benchmark rate
tomorrow for the ninth time since March 2010, according to all
25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The rupee is under a bit of pressure ahead of the central
bank’s policy meeting,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency
trader at  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai. “A 25-basis point rate
increase is already priced in by the financial market. Stocks
and the rupee would react negatively if there’s a 50-basis point
increase.”  The Indian currency dropped 0.3 percent to 44.3325 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rupee appreciated 0.6 percent in the past
month, the second-worst performance among the 10 most-traded
Asian currencies.  Eighteen economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect a 25-basis
point rise in borrowing costs, while seven forecast a 50-basis
point increase. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.02 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 44.93
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  Risks to inflation have “amplified” and “policy
interventions” are necessary to curb price gains, the  Reserve
Bank  of India said in a report on the economy today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  