-- 
India’s Inflation Risks ‘Amplified,’ Central Bank Says Signaling Rate Move

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-02T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/india-needs-policy-interventions-as-inflation-risk-amplified-rbi-says.html
India ’s inflation risks have
“amplified” because of higher commodity prices and “policy
interventions” are needed, the central bank said, signaling the
possibility of increasing borrowing costs today.  “Persistence of inflation warrants continuation of anti-
inflationary monetary policy stance for sustaining growth,” the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in a report yesterday. The rate
decision is scheduled to be unveiled at 11 a.m. in  Mumbai .  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may boost the central bank’s
benchmark repurchase rate to 7 percent from 6.75 percent,
according to 18 of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
remaining seven including HSBC Group Plc predict a half
percentage-point move to contain India’s inflation, which is the
highest among the so-called BRICS nations after  Russia .  “The hawkish comments indicate more monetary tightening
today is a given,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes
Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, and who expects a quarter-point increase.
“Inflation will remain elevated in the near future.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index declined 0.7
percent at the close of trading in Mumbai yesterday, while the
yield on the 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 gained one basis
point to 8.14 percent. The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 44.33 per
dollar.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation quickened to
8.98 percent in March, more than the central bank’s 8 percent
estimate, prompting  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Standard Chartered
Plc and Barclays Plc to raise their forecast for rate increases
this year.  BRICS Inflation  By comparison, consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March,
9.5 percent in Russia, 6.3 percent in  Brazil  and 4.1 percent in
 South Africa .  Goldman Sachs April 21 estimated India’s central bank will
probably increase rates by another 1.25 percentage points in
2011, more than the half-point increase predicted earlier.
Standard Chartered forecast on April 18 the repurchase rate will
rise by 1 percentage point in six months, while Barclays
predicted a 75-basis point increase, compared with original
calls of 50 basis points.  Inflation may average 7.5 percent in the year ending March
31, according to a survey compiled by the central bank of
forecasts from agencies including the  International Monetary
Fund  and the Asian Development Bank, yesterday’s report showed.
The survey in January projected inflation of 6.6 percent.  India’s economy may expand 8.2 percent in the current
financial year, the survey said, scaling down its previous
estimate of 8.5 percent.  Growth Risks  “Given the risk that high and persistent inflation in
itself could jeopardize the growth momentum and inclusive growth,
the policy has to focus on anchoring inflationary expectations
as well as limiting the second-round impact of supply shocks,”
according to the report.  Risks to inflation have increased because of the
“uncertain outlook” on global commodity prices and as local
costs haven’t aligned to those prevailing abroad, central bank
said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , facing state elections in
five provinces, has sought to appease voters with price caps on
diesel, kerosene and cooking gas after inflation triggered
nationwide protests earlier this year.  Goldman Sachs said in a report April 27 that the government
may start allowing Indian Oil Corp. and others to charge more
for the fuels once elections in the four states and one union
territory conclude on May 10.  Fuel Prices  Indian Oil hasn’t increased diesel prices since June 26 and
gasoline since Jan. 16, according to the company’s website.  Oil has climbed 31 percent in  London  and 23 percent in  New
York  this year as revolts that overthrew the governments in
Tunisia and Egypt raised concern that supplies from the Middle
East would be disrupted as protests spread.  A report yesterday showed that India’s manufacturing grew
in April at the fastest pace in five months, a sign that
consumer demand remains strong even after Subbarao raised
borrowing costs by 200 basis points since mid-March 2010.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 58 from 57.9 in
March,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics said in the report.
A number above 50 indicates expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  