-- 
Indonesia Sulawesi Cocoa Bean Exports Slump on Sales Delay

-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-05-02T08:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/indonesia-sulawesi-cocoa-bean-exports-slump-on-sales-delay-1-.html
Cocoa-bean shipments from  Indonesia ’s
main growing provinces on Sulawesi island slumped 86 percent in
April from a month earlier as exporters delayed sales to benefit
from lower tax and as bad weather reduced supplies.  Exports from Central and South Sulawesi provinces fell to
1,570 metric tons last month from 10,957 tons in March,
according to data from the Indonesian Cocoa Association released
today. Sales were 5,715 tons in April last year.  Lower export duties may help “increase shipments in May,”
Dakhri Sanusi, secretary general of the group, known as Askindo,
said in a telephone interview today from Makassar, South
Sulawesi. Still, “there’s a concern that output may decline due
to bad weather and reducing supplies of beans.”  Falling supplies from the world’s third-largest grower of
the chocolate ingredient, which harvests most of its crop from
April to July, may help to sustain gains in prices, which have
risen about 10 percent this year amid a political crisis in
 Ivory Coast , the world’s top producer.  The Indonesian government cut the tax on exports of the
commodity to 10 percent in May from 15 percent last month
following a decline in prices, Deddy Saleh, director general of
foreign trade at the Trade Ministry, said on April 21.  Shipments from Sulawesi, which accounts for about three-
quarters of Indonesia’s sales and output, dropped 47 percent in
the first four months of the year to 34,033 tons, the
association said.  Cocoa for July delivery rose 1.8 percent to close at $3,340
a ton on the ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  on April 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  