-- 
Infosys to Add More People in U.S., China in Overseas Hire Plan

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-05-02T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/infosys-to-hire-more-people-in-u-s-china-to-boost-profit-curb-attrition.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s
second-largest software exporter, plans to step up hiring in the
U.S., China and other overseas markets as it seeks to check
rising employee turnover and boost profit.  “Our customers are global, so we want to create a global
footprint,” S.D. Shibulal, chief operating officer, said in an
interview on May 1. “We really need to get talent in the
 Philippines , in China, in the  Czech Republic  and  Brazil ,” said
the 56-year-old executive, who was last week named to take over
as the company’s chief executive officer from Aug. 21.  Infosys plans to hire as many as 1,500 workers in the U.S.,
its biggest market, in the year started in April and will more
than double the workforce in  China  in 18 months by adding a new
campus in Shanghai, Shibulal said. The Bangalore-based company
is expanding overseas after earnings missed estimates for a
third time in four quarters and employee attrition worsened.  “A lot of work is done from high-cost locations despite
the cost because of the value that is being provided there,”
said Hitesh Shah, vice president of research at IDFC Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “It could be a type of work that needs to be
delivered from close to the client’s premises. Having a local
resource might be more valuable than somebody you send from
India.”  Shanghai Campus  The software exporter plans to spend $130 million for the
 Shanghai  campus where it will hire as many as 4,000 employees
over 18 months. Infosys currently has 3,000 workers in China.  Infosys rose 0.6 percent to 2,922.55 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai trading yesterday. The stock has slumped 15
percent this year, compared with a 7.4 percent drop in the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index. Larger rival
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  has lost 0.6 percent in the
period.  The company plans to add people also in  Mexico , Shibulal
said. Infosys boosted revenue 14-fold in the past 10 years,
while increasing its workforce 13-fold to 130,820 employees.  “China is a very good place to have centers similar to
 India  because they produce a similar number of engineering
graduates,” he said. “Mexico is a very good place to have a
near-shore center for the U.S.”  Employee attrition at Infosys accelerated to 17 percent in
the year ended in March, its highest annual rate in at least 13
years. The company may give wage increases of 1 to 2 percent to
its workers outside India in the current year, while offering
staff within the country pay raises of as much as 12 percent,
Shibulal said April 15.  “One of the challenges of the industry is to expand the
value chain and increase high value work,” Shibulal said.
“That is why it is also important to look at global talent to
leverage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  