-- 
ING Said to Weigh Sale of Australia Online Banking Division

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-05-03T10:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ing-said-to-be-considering-possible-sale-of-australia-online-banking-unit.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, is weighing the sale of its
Australian online banking unit, said two people with knowledge
of the matter.  ING has canvassed interest from lenders including  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. ING may also consider selling
some of its commercial-banking operations in  Asia , the people
said.  The 12-year-old ING Direct unit in Australia, which offers
banking services over the Internet and telephone, has about 1.4
million customers, according to its  website . Amsterdam-based
ING, which received a bailout during the financial crisis, plans
to reduce its balance sheet by about 45 percent from 2008
levels. The company agreed to sell insurance and U.S. online
banking divisions as a condition for European Union approval of
its rescue.  “If they are selling both the U.S. and Australian online
banks, this would underline ING is increasingly focusing on the
a European retail market,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Group NV. “Giving up part
of your expansion by exiting growth markets in  Australia  and
Asia doesn’t have to be bad as long as you get a good price for
them.”  ING Direct Australia may be valued at between 2.6 billion
euros and 4.4 billion euros ($6.5 billion), Weidema estimated,
taking into account valuations for Australian competitors.  Record Profit  Raymond Vermeulen, an Amsterdam-based spokesman for ING,
declined to comment, as did Beverly Mathews, a Standard
Chartered spokeswoman in Mumbai. David Breen, a Sydney-based
spokesman for ING Direct in Australia, also declined to comment.  ING fell 1.1 percent to 8.90 euros by 11:22 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, valuing the company at 34.1 billion euros.
The stock has advanced 22 percent this year.  The Sydney-based ING Direct unit reported record profit in
2010 while competing against Australia’s four largest retail
banks --  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)   “I would expect any player other than the four major banks
to have a look,” said Frank Zumbo, a competition lecturer
specializing in banking at the Australian School of Business in
Sydney. “ING Direct has been a significant and growing player.
Any move by a major bank on ING Direct should be blocked.”  Full-year net income at the Australian lender rose 5
percent to A$275.9 million ($301 million) as mortgages and
deposits increased, it said in a  statement  on March 16.  Home Loans  Retail savings climbed 10 percent to more than A$23 billion
and new home loans increased by A$1.1 billion to A$37 billion.
ING Direct Australia added 100,000 customers, according to the
release. The bank said its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
ability to absorb losses, was 9.9 percent at the end of 2010.  “ING Direct Australia has a heavy portfolio of residential
mortgages,” Cor Kluis, an Utrecht-based analyst at Rabo
Securities said. “That will reduce valuations a bit if they were
to sell the unit.” The unit’s loan to deposit ratio exceeds 150
percent, compared to 61 percent for ING Direct in total, he
said.  A sale would also make sense in terms of balance sheet
management, as the Australian operations can’t be integrated
with the European businesses, he said. Taking into account the
ratio of loans compared to deposits, Kluis estimates a sale of
the Australian online bank could free up 1.2 billion euros in
capital.  Capital Rules  Australian  house prices  declined in the first quarter by
the most since 2008, according to an index measuring the
weighted average for established houses in eight major cities,
which dropped 1.7 percent from three months earlier, a report
showed yesterday.  The sale of the unit would add to other divestments by ING
as it complies with conditions of its bailout and faces tougher
financing rules worldwide. The bank said in March that its
capital strength under Basel III rules may be hurt more than
previously estimated.  Requirements proposed by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , if applied at the end of last year, would have cut
the firm’s core Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.3 percent from 9.6
percent under Basel II rules, ING said on its website.  U.S. Online Bank  ING Groep has received interest from several potential
buyers of its U.S. online bank, people familiar with the matter
said last month. SJB National Bank, formed by Related Cos.
executives, and Capital One Financial Corp. are among firms that
have expressed interest, the people said.  ING’s U.S. bank may fetch at least $10 billion in a sale,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in March. That price would
“free up” about 3.4 billion euros for aid repayment. ING
Direct, the U.S. unit, had $77.7 billion in deposits at the end
of 2010 and $40 billion in net loans and leases, according to
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data.  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and also
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government. ING, which paid back 5 billion
euros in December 2009, will return another 2 billion euros this
month and the remainder a year later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  