-- 
Israeli Stocks Poised to Gain as Economy Trumps Concern Over Hamas-Fatah

-- B y   S u s a n   L e r n e r   a n d   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T09:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/israeli-stocks-poised-to-gain-as-economy-trumps-concern-over-hamas-fatah.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index may
resume the bull-market rally that led it to a record last month
as economic growth boosts earnings, shrugging off the
reconciliation of Palestinian rival groups and regional unrest.  The TA-25 Index is down 3.5 percent since April 27, the day
Hamas and Fatah said they reached a preliminary agreement to end
their almost four-year divide, form a unity government and hold
elections. Fourth-quarter economic growth accelerated to an
annualized 7.8 percent, the fastest pace in four years, pushing
the measure to its highest close of 1,341.89 on April 21. The
gauge fell 0.4 percent to 1,286.67 at 11:46 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  “The geopolitical situation with its uncertainty and
possible escalation may temporarily weigh on the stock market
but what will determine its direction is the economy and the
fact that it is still not expensive,” said Eyal Dabby, the Tel
Aviv-based head of equity research at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.,
the country’s largest lender. “Therefore, it will continue to
rise.”  Israel’s index of the country’s 25 largest companies has
more than doubled from a 2008 low, driven by energy shares,
after the discovery of natural gas off the country’s coast and
rising corporate earnings. The measure trades at 11.4 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.1 times for the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Rapid”
economic growth continued in the first quarter, the Bank of
Israel said April 24. It forecasts growth of 4.5 percent this
year.  Hamas-Fatah Accord  Hamas and Fatah reached an understanding following protests
in March in which thousands of Palestinians, inspired by popular
uprisings in the Middle East, rallied in support of
reconciliation between the two groups. Hamas, which controls the
 Gaza Strip  and is a considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel, refuses to recognize the
Jewish state.  Deadly clashes in neighboring  Syria  have pushed the number
of deaths in the country to more than 550 since the revolt began
in mid-March. The protests are the latest in a series of
uprisings in the region that have toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt .  Nonresidents’ net investment in Israeli shares traded on
the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange dropped amid the turmoil to $3
million in February compared with $423 million in January, the
Bank of Israel said April 5.  “Escalation of events that will have a direct impact on
Israel can definitely lead to big outflows and a certain pain
trade in the short term, but the apparent economic indicators
will eventually, in the long term, attract investors back,”
said Uriel Goren, the head of equities sales at Tel Aviv-based
DS Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  Earnings Climb  Israeli shares have proven resilient to turmoil in the
past, gaining 8.4 percent during the country’s three-week
military conflict with Hamas from December 2008 to January 2009.
In the summer of 2006, the gauge recouped all of the losses
incurred during the 34-day military conflict with Hezbollah
within days of its end.  Shares of Avner Oil Exploration-LP and Delek Drilling LP
have surged about 50 percent in the past 12 months, spurred by
discoveries in the Tamar and Leviathan gas fields. Bank Hapoalim
Ltd., based in  Tel Aviv , gained 13 percent in the period. The
country’s second-largest lender by assets reported a 53 percent
surge in fourth-quarter profit as net interest income increased
and provisions for risky loans fell.  Higher Inflation  The shekel weakened for the first time in five days,
dropping 0.5 percent to 3.3855 against the dollar today.
Israel’s 10-year bond fell, lifting the yield to the highest
level in three weeks, as rising food and energy prices spur bets
the central bank will step up the pace of rate increases to curb
inflation.  Inflation will be “slightly above” the 1 percent to 3
percent target a year from now, before slowing within the range
by the second half of 2012,  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley
Fischer  said today in a letter that accompanied a quarterly
monetary policy report. “The Bank of Israel will continue to
reduce the extent of monetary expansion, which it has undertaken
since the beginning of the financial crisis, in order to keep
inflation within the target range,” the letter said.  The central bank, which left its benchmark lending rate at
3 percent on April 24, has increased rates by 2.5 percentage
points since August 2009, in an attempt to tame inflation that
accelerated to 4.3 percent in March. The  unemployment rate 
declined in February for a third consecutive month to 6 percent,
the lowest rate since September 2008, the Jerusalem-based
 Central Bureau of Statistics  said April 28.  Credit Swaps  The cost of protecting Israeli sovereign debt against non-
payment using credit default swaps fell seven basis points
yesterday to 128.5, the lowest level since Jan. 27, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  “An increase in  risk premium  should be evident in a
weakening of the shekel and increase in the credit default swaps
but we’re not seeing that,” said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist
at Leader Capital Markets Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “The trend is a
global one. If stocks in the U.S. continue to rise, Israel will
follow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Lerner in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net ;
Ronit Goodman in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  