-- 
Dish Shares Rise Most Since 2008 After Settling TiVo Lawsuit

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-02T22:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/tivo-will-receive-500-million-after-dish-echostar-settle-patent-lawsuits.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest
U.S. satellite-TV provider, rose the most since 2008 after a
patent settlement with  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  that helps ensure Dish’s
ability to keep offering video-recording services.  Dish and partner  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  will pay TiVo $500 million,
including an initial payment of $300 million, as part of an
agreement to dismiss all pending litigation, the three companies
said in a statement today. The settlement gives Dish and
EchoStar rights to use certain TiVo patents for video recording.  Investors had been hesitant to buy Dish before today
because of questions raised in the litigation, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.
There were concerns Dish would have to pay two or three times as
much to settle, and if Dish had been forced to disable its DVR
service, the result could have led to “potentially
catastrophic” customers defections, he said.  “It removes a very significant overhang that has been
clouding the picture at Dish for years,” said Moffett, who has
a “market perform” rating on the company.  Dish rose $4.75, or 19 percent, to $29.79 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, its biggest one-day
increase since Oct. 13, 2008. TiVo, which added 29 cents, or 3
percent, to $9.86.  “We are pleased to put this litigation behind us and move
forward,” Dish Chief Executive Officer Charlie Ergen said in
the statement. “Our agreement with TiVo provides us a
competitive advantage as one of the few multichannel operators
with rights to operate under TiVo’s Time Warp patent, which
ultimately will allow us to enhance the performance” of the
company’s digital video recorders.  AT&T and Verizon  TiVo, a pioneer in the market for home DVRs, had been
trying to shut down Dish’s DVR service since winning cases
before a jury four years ago and before an appeals court in 2008
and 2010. With the amount that Dish has already paid TiVo, it
brings the total to more than $600 million, said CEO Tom Rogers.  “It resolves the uncertainty of whether we are going to
get fees for our intellectual property,” Rogers said in an
interview. “It establishes the precedent that our intellectual
property is quite valuable.”  TiVo first filed its patent-infringement lawsuit in 2004
against Englewood, Colorado-based Dish and EchoStar when they
were a single satellite-TV and equipment company called EchoStar
Communications Inc. The business split in two in 2008.  The settlement will let TiVo focus on its patent lawsuits
against  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , Rogers said.  “Both companies built their business off the proposition
they have a DVR service better than what the cable industry
offers,” Rogers said. “We’ve always been open to settlement.”  Blockbuster Plans  Dish also reported first-quarter profit today that topped
analysts’ estimates. Net income reached $1.22 a share, the
company said in a separate statement. Analysts projected 68
cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ergen, also the chairman of EchoStar, which makes set-top
boxes for Dish, has bought assets including Blockbuster Inc.’s
movie-rental business this year to reposition Dish against
rivals such as  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV company.  Dish will keep some Blockbuster stores as long as movie
studios want them, Ergen said on a conference call. Keeping a
per-movie DVD-rental business may give studios a way to make
more money than streaming content on  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Ergen said.  “I don’t see Blockbuster being a competitor to Netflix,
directly, in terms of streaming, because Netflix has a
formidable lead, and probably insurmountable,” Ergen said.  Dish said today  Michael Kelly  will become president of
Blockbuster. Kelly had been Dish’s executive vice president of
commercial services. He joined Dish in 2000 after his company,
Kelly Broadcasting Systems, which distributed international
radio and TV programming in the U.S., was acquired by Ergen.  ‘Seinfeld’ Strategy  Last month, Dish agreed to buy nearly all of Blockbuster’s
assets for $320 million out of bankruptcy. In February, it
agreed to acquire DBSD North America Inc., a provider of voice
and data services over satellite, for $1.4 billion.  EchoStar, which today posted a 76 percent drop in first-
quarter net income to $17 million, agreed to buy Hughes
Communications for about $1.32 billion in February, giving Dish
the ability to offer broadband services. In January, EchoStar
bought Move Networks Inc., which makes technology for streaming
video online.  EchoStar fell $2.09, or 5.6 percent, to $34.99. Shares are
up 40 percent this year.  Ergen said there is a plan to tie together his recent
acquisitions, although he wouldn’t give details, referring to
the TV show “Seinfeld,” in which the various story lines often
merge in the “last couple minutes” of an episode.  Churn Fears  “Everything we do has a purpose, and we feel like it
ultimately fits together,” Ergen said. “You’ll have to just
wait and see where it all comes together. It’s a little hard to
explain it this early in the show, so to speak.”  Dish gained about 58,000 users in the first quarter, after
losing 156,000 customers in the fourth quarter.  Analysts on average estimated a loss of 50,000 to 100,000
subscribers, according to Moffett. The quarterly gain was a
surprise, said Moffett, because Dish increased subscriber costs
by $5 to all customers in February, the equivalent of a three-
year price increase in one installment. Churn was 1.47 percent,
lower than the 1.75 percent consensus forecast among analysts,
according to Ryan Vineyard, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
New York.  “There were fears churn would elevate, but that doesn’t
seem to be the case,” Moffett said. “Reports of Dish’s demise
were greatly exaggerated.”  Ergen said the price increase has gone “remarkably
smoothly,” although there may be more cancellations related to
the additional subscription cost in the second quarter than in
the first quarter.  Dish net income rose to $549 million from $231 million.
Sales climbed 5.5 percent to $3.22 billion, compared with the
$3.23 billion average analyst estimate. Shares have climbed 52
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  