-- 
Japan’s 10-Year Bond Yields Touch 6-Week Low on Policy Outlook

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-05-02T06:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/japan-10-year-bond-yields-fall-below-1-2-on-prospects-of-monetary-easing.html
Japan ’s 10-year bond yields touched a
six-week low on speculation the central bank will add to
monetary easing to contain the yen’s appreciation.  Bond futures gained for a fourth day after the yen climbed
to the highest level against the dollar since March, clouding
the earnings outlook for Japanese exporters. Demand for the
relative safety of government debt weakened after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had been
killed, spurring crude oil to fall and easing concern higher
commodity prices will slow the global economic recovery.  “Yields are expected to stay low,” said Toshiyuki Kurabayashi, assistant manager in Tokyo at the bond division of
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s largest
listed lender by assets. “There are prospects that the Bank of
Japan will reinforce its accommodative monetary stance.”  The 10-year yield rose half a basis point to 1.205 percent
as of 3:13 p.m. in  Tokyo , at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 fell 0.044 yen to 100.837 yen. The yield
earlier slid to 1.190 percent, the lowest level since March 17.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery advanced 0.05 to
140.10 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of regional shares jumped 0.7 percent.  The yen rose as high as 81 per dollar today, the strongest
since March 25. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas
earnings at Japanese exporters when repatriated.  ‘Severe’ Outlook  The extra yield investors demand to hold two-year U.S.
Treasuries over similar-maturity Japanese government notes fell
to 40 basis points on April 29, the least since March 18,
reducing the allure of dollar-denominated assets.  A stronger yen boosts “speculation the  Bank of Japan  will
have to take some steps,” said Makoto Noji, a senior bond and
foreign-exchange strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at government
debt sales. Additional monetary easing “would be supportive for
medium-term debt.”  Japanese  government bonds  with a maturity of between one
and 10 years have handed investors a return of 0.1 percent this
year, compared with a 0.3 percent drop in the broader market,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said April 30 the economic
outlook is “severe” after the central bank cut the nation’s
growth forecast. The economy will “inevitably continue to face
strong downward pressure” because of the March 11 earthquake,
the BOJ said in a  report  on April 28.  Bin Laden’s Death  Japan’s monthly wages slid in March for the first time in
13 months, declining 0.4 percent from a year earlier to 274,886
yen ($3,373), a report from the Labor Ministry showed today.  Bond futures trimmed earlier advances after Obama said bin
Laden was killed in a U.S. operation. Crude oil declined as much
as 1.5 percent in  New York , while the 10-year Treasury yield
gained two basis points.  The report on Bin Laden’s death is “leading to speculation
tension in the Middle East will ease, spurring crude oil to
decline,” said  Akito Fukunaga , the chief rates strategist at
the brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Tokyo.
“Speculation the downside risk to the economy derived from
higher  oil prices  will dissipate is prompting investors to buy
stocks,” reducing demand for bonds.  The 14-day relative-strength index for 10-year yields sank
to 39 today, nearing the 30 threshold that some traders see as a
signal the yields have fallen too rapidly and may change course.  “Ten-year yields are close to rebounding,” Fukunaga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 