-- 
Javer’s $300 Million IPO Plan Spurring Bets on Bond Rally: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-05-02T22:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/javer-s-300-million-ipo-plan-spurring-bets-on-bond-rally-mexico-credit.html
Servicios Corporativos Javer SAPI’s
plan to raise as much as $300 million in an initial public
offering is fueling speculation the homebuilder’s borrowing
costs will fall to a record low relative to larger rivals.  Javer’s dollar bonds due in 2021 yield 156 basis points, or
1.56 percentage points, more than similar-maturity notes sold by
Corp. Geo SAB,  Mexico ’s second-largest homebuilder, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield gap will shrink to 100
basis points this year, said James Harper, director of corporate
research at BCP Securities. Javer’s notes yield 147 basis points
more than global homebuilder bonds tracked by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  “Javer is my personal favorite in the space,” Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $300 million in emerging-market debt
at  San Diego , California-based Precise Securities, said in a
telephone interview. “They’re the cheapest, and I don’t think
they’re that different.”  Investors are betting Javer’s IPO will lower the Monterrey-
based company’s debt relative to profit and earn it ratings
increases. Javer’s plan to raise financing by selling as much as
40 percent of the company this year will allow it to shun the
 debt market  for the “foreseeable future,” Chief Financial
Officer Eugenio Garza y Garza said in an interview on April 26.
Javer’s B credit ranking from  Fitch Ratings  is five levels below
investment grade and two steps lower than Geo.  Javer’s notes yield 148 basis points more than bonds due in
2019 sold by Desarrolladora Homex SAB, Mexico’s biggest
homebuilder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Javer
issued the 9.875 percent notes maturing in 2021 on March 18 as
part of an exchange for its 13 percent bonds due in 2014.
Mexican  government bonds  due in 2020 yield 4.32 percent.  ‘Too Much’  “It’s trading so wide of its peers, and they’re the fifth-
largest player in the market,” BCP’s Harper said in a telephone
interview from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “There should be some
discount, but this is too much.”  Javer’s cash position would exceed its debt if the company
raises the $300 million, Harper said. He estimates Javer’s ratio
of net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, was 2.5 times at the end of 2010.  The IPO is a “positive factor” for the company’s credit
rating, according to Jose Vertiz, an analyst at Fitch Ratings in
New York.  Javer plans to boost Ebitda by 35 percent this year to 1.2
billion pesos ($104.2 million), according to Garza y Garza. The
company, which specializes in low-income housing, will build as
many as 19,000 homes in 2011, he said.  Yield Spread  Geo’s communications director Alejandro Haiducovich and
Homex investor relations officer Vania Fueyo Zarain declined to
comment.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed three basis points at
6:02 p.m. New York time to 138, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 98, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 11.5259 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on the interbank rate futures contracts, known as
TIIE, due in October fell two basis points to 5.03 percent,
indicating that traders expect a rate increase that month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As recently as April 5,
traders expected the bank to raise rates as soon as July.  Missed Forecasts  Moody’s Investors Service, which has a Ba3 rating on Javer,
will “probably not” increase the ranking based on the IPO
alone, said Philip Kibel, an analyst in  New York . Javer missed
home sales forecasts last year as construction permits slowed
building on land the company had already paid for, he said.  “The IPO is a positive thing from a liquidity perspective,
but we’re not concerned about liquidity that much,” Kibel said
in a telephone interview. “We’re more concerned about them
getting back to their cycle of titling the homes and selling
them.”  Javer’s smaller size means that it has more potential to
grow than competitors, Garza y Garza said in a telephone
interview from Monterrey. It also benefits from being based in
the state of Nuevo Leon, he said.  Mortgage loans  in Nuevo Leon
totaled 6,380 in February, the most in the nation, according to
the National Housing Commission. The state sits along the U.S.
border region, where drug gangs battling for control of
trafficking routes have sparked violence.  ‘Strength’  “Being based in Monterrey is a strength more than a
weakness,” Garza y Garza said. “Despite the slowdown in the
U.S., despite the violence and drug trafficking, it’s a state
that continues to be the state where most housing credits are
given.”  The yield on Javer’s bonds dropped ten basis points since
Garza y Garza unveiled plans for the IPO on April 26 to 9.06
percent. The average yield on Mexican corporate dollar bonds
fell six basis points over the same period to 6.23 percent,
according to JPMorgan.  “Its metrics will get all the better when they IPO,”
BCP’s Harper said. “If you raise equity, that can go to pay
down debt. That can grow the business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  