-- 
Higgins Beats Trump to Win Fourth World Snooker Title, Targets Hendry Mark

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-03T00:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/john-higgins-beats-judd-trump-to-win-fourth-world-snooker-championship.html
John Higgins twice overcame three-
frame deficits to beat Judd Trump 18-15 and win his fourth World
Snooker Championship.  Higgins, a 35-year-old Scot, fought back from 10-7 and 12-9
at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield,  England , yesterday to take
a 13-12 lead into the last session of the best-of-35 frames
final.  Higgins, whose father died in February, has won five
tournaments since returning from a six-month ban in November for
breaching betting rules.  “If someone had said this was possible back in November
then I would’ve just laughed,” Higgins said in a news
conference. “This is by far and away the biggest and best title
that I’ve won.”  Higgins’s 24th victory in a ranking tournament earned him
250,000 pounds ($416,000). He also won snooker’s top prize in
1998, 2007 and 2009 and trails Stephen Hendry, who has won a
record seven world titles, and Steve Davis and Ray Reardon, with
six each, since the event changed to a knockout format in 1969.  “I want to get to seven,” Higgins said. “I’ve won it in
three of the last five seasons. I don’t see any reason why I
can’t do it and I have another five years to try and win it
three times.”  The 21-year-old Trump, who won the China Open last month
for his first ranking tournament title, is a “new sensation in
the game” who has the potential to be a multiple world
champion, Higgins said. The left-handed Englishman reached the
final by playing “a brand of snooker I have never seen
before,” the champion added.  Trump began the tournament as an 80-1 long shot with
bookmakers and ousted defending champion Neil Robertson of
 Australia  in the first round.  “Seventeen days ago I was no one really, but every game it
kept building and the fan base I’ve created is unbelievable,”
Trump said. “But you only remember the winners and you never
remember the losers so I have a few things I have to work on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  