-- 
N.Z. Treasury Says Economy Will Expand About 1% in 2011

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-02T03:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/n-z-treasury-says-economy-will-expand-about-1-in-2011-1-.html
New Zealand’s economy will likely
expand about 1 percent this year as earthquakes in and around
the city of Christchurch disrupted businesses and hurt spending,
according to the Treasury Department.  First-quarter gross domestic product was “flat to slightly
negative” compared with the fourth quarter, the Wellington-
based department said in a report on its  website  today. The
monthly update doesn’t contain detailed forecasts.  The forecasts are similar to recent estimates from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, and add to the case for the central
bank to keep  interest rates  at a record low for some time to
restore confidence. Growth is likely to accelerate in 2012 as
rebuilding gets under way and high commodity prices buoy
spending, the Treasury said.  Recent indicators have shown that the effect of the
earthquake on business confidence “has been largely
temporary,” which supports a gradual recovery through 2011, the
department said. Business confidence slumped in March and
reversed half of that decline in April, according to an ANZ
National Bank Ltd. report.  A rise in commodity prices is buoying the agricultural
industry although the effects “are yet to be fully felt through
the  New Zealand  economy as farmers look to reduce debt,” the
Treasury said. An ANZ National index of commodity export prices
rose 1.6 percent to a record last month, the Wellington-based
lender said today.  The Treasury will publish revised economic forecasts when
Finance Minister Bill English releases his budget on May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  