-- 
Nasdaq Tightens Oversight of Reverse Mergers Amid SEC Scrutiny

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-05-02T04:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/nasdaq-tightens-oversight-of-reverse-mergers-amid-sec-scrutiny.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
biggest operator of U.S. stock exchanges, said it will more
closely vet reverse-merger companies before agreeing to list
their shares.  The decision follows Securities and Exchange Commission and
short-seller scrutiny of Chinese companies that bought publicly
traded shell corporations in the U.S. Since January 2007,
reverse mergers have allowed about 600 corporations -- more than
150 from greater  China  -- to trade in the world’s largest
capital market without the rigors of initial public offerings.  Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext’s decision to admit stocks
such as  Rino International Corp. (RINO)  and  Universal Travel Group (UTA)  on
their venues broadened access to investors prevented from buying
shares that trade over the counter. Rino is being investigated
by the SEC and Universal Travel is on its fourth auditor in
eight months.  Nasdaq  OMX’s new hurdles, which require SEC
approval, include a six-month waiting period.  “Exchanges just kind of ran to it thinking, ‘We want to
grab shares, and this is a good area of growth for us,’ without
really knowing what they were listing,” said Jeff Papp, a
senior analyst for the $250 million Oberweis China Opportunities
Fund in Lisle,  Illinois , which has less than 5 percent of its
assets in reverse-merger stocks. “There’s a lot of people you
can place the blame on -- the exchanges, the SEC, investors --
you name it, everyone got a little ahead of themselves.”  Trading Halts  Reverse mergers involve closely held corporations buying a
publicly traded shell company and retaining its U.S. listing.
The process is faster and less expensive than traditional IPOs.
Such deals don’t involve the “vetting from underwriters and
investors” of an IPO, SEC Commissioner Luis Aguilar  said  in a
speech in April.  On the Nasdaq Stock Market, eight of nine stocks in which
trading was  halted  as of April 29 are Chinese reverse mergers,
including  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , which hasn’t filed
its 2010 annual report after both its auditor and its chief
financial officer resigned. China MediaExpress of  Hong Kong  is
being sued by Starr International Co., one of its biggest
shareholders, for misrepresenting its business and finances.  Another, Beijing-based fertilizer maker  China Agritech
Inc. (CAGC) , is halted after firing its auditor, starting an
investigation related to audits and delaying its annual report.  Nasdaq OMX said in a statement to Bloomberg News last week
that it’s been using a third-party investigative service to
check reverse-merger listing candidates as part of heightened
review procedures over the past year.  More Seasoning  Reverse-merger companies will face new “seasoning”
requirements, according to  a Nasdaq OMX filing  to the SEC dated
April 18. Nasdaq OMX’s proposal requires that company shares
maintain a $4 minimum bid price for at least 30 of the 60 days
prior to applying, a period that isn’t mandatory for other
candidates. It also specifies that U.S.-based companies must
have filed at least two reports to the SEC and foreign issuers
at least one that covers a six-month period.  “Additional requirements for listing reverse merger
companies are appropriate to discourage inappropriate behavior
on the part of companies, promoters and others,” the filing
said. “Nasdaq believes that this proposal will result in
significant investor protection benefits.”  The filing cited instances where “promoters and others”
appeared to try to manipulate share prices higher to meet Nasdaq
OMX’s bid-price requirement for companies looking to list, and
also cases where companies gifted stock in order to artificially
meet rules on the number of shareholders.  Nasdaq OMX’s plan revealed in the  SEC filing  is “a little
late to the game,” said Papp. “To me it seems as if the bad
stuff has already happened, and companies are going to be forced
to go the traditional way through an IPO because of
perceptions.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest U.S. stock exchange operator,
has been assessing enhancements to listing standards to address
concerns about reverse mergers and already has the authority to
use qualitative factors in assessing eligibility,  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  