-- 
Nasdaq, ICE Plan to Take Unsolicited Bid for NYSE Directly to Shareholders

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-02T20:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/nasdaq-ice-plan-to-take-unsolicited-bid-for-nyse-directly-to-shareholders.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  approved a direct offer to acquire
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , formalizing their hostile bid for the biggest
U.S. market operator and taking it to shareholders.  The exchange offer, designed to circumvent NYSE Euronext
directors who have twice rejected the proposal, carries the same
price as the original $11.3 billion bid announced April 1. The
New York Stock Exchange owner has said it is prefers its
February merger agreement with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , valued about
7.7 percent below the Nasdaq bid, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of 4 p.m. today in New York.  “The NYSE Euronext board has continually challenged the
seriousness of our proposal and refused to engage us in
discussion despite the positive feedback we have received from
their stockholders,”  Nasdaq  OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in a statement. “The commencement of this
exchange offer should convince the NYSE Euronext board of the
seriousness of our intentions.”  While announcing a tender offer for NYSE Euronext shows
Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s urgency, it may carry little weight because
of rules in the exchange’s governing documents limiting how much
outsiders can own. The bylaws, mandated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, prevent investors from accumulating a 20
percent stake in the company without the approval of the board.  ‘Political Dynamics’  “If they can get people to tender 13 to 15 percent of the
shares, it may give them a little bit more wind for their
sails,” said Stephan Petersen, a Minneapolis-based senior
equity analyst at Thrivent Asset Management, which oversees $70
billion. “It can start to change the political dynamics of the
situation, perhaps prompting the New Stock Exchange and  Deutsche
Boerse  to sweeten their offer to shareholders.”  As of now, the Nasdaq-ICE offer exists only as a proposal
outlined in press releases and letters to NYSE Euronext.
According to today’s release, a formal exchange offer, which
represents a binding commitment to buy NYSE Euronext shares, was
approved by directors at Nasdaq OMX and ICE. It will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission this month.  Robert Rendine, a spokesman for NYSE, didn’t immediately
have a comment. Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq, and
Naomi Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse, declined to
comment. ICE spokeswoman Kelly Loeffler didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call.  Stock, Cash  The Nasdaq-ICE stock-and-cash bid is valued at $42.25 a
share based on prices as of 4 p.m. today, compared with $39.23
from Deutsche Boerse. NYSE Euronext rose 0.9 percent to $40.40,
its fifth straight advance. Nasdaq OMX gained 0.1 percent to
$27.14, while ICE lost 1.8 percent to $118.20. Deutsche Boerse
climbed 0.4 percent to 56.32 euros.  NYSE Euronext agreed on Feb. 15 to an all-stock deal with
Deutsche Boerse, a move that would create the world’s largest
stock exchange operator. Nasdaq OMX of  New York  and Atlanta’s
ICE made their first offer April 1 and sweetened it on April 19
with a $350 million reverse breakup fee and firmer funding
commitments from lenders. NYSE Euronext’s board held to its
rejection, saying the companies’ offer still faced
“unacceptable” hurdles from antitrust regulators.  NYSE’s merger announcement with the Frankfurt-based company
on Feb. 15 helped propel a wave of exchange consolidation that
has seen about $20 billion of deals announced in less than six
months. NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer considers the
Deutsche Boerse proposal a merger of equals that fits the New
York-based company’s long-term strategy of increasing revenue
through expansion.  Merger Wave  Nasdaq OMX had been left out of the consolidation wave
since October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  offered A$8.35
billion for Sydney-based ASX Ltd. In addition to the Deutsche
Boerse offer in February, London Stock Exchange Group Plc said
that month that it would buy Canada’s TMX Group Inc. The ASX
deal was blocked by the Australian government.  When rejecting the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer, NYSE Euronext’s
board said the combination would face too many hurdles to win
approval from antitrust regulators and would lead to the company
having too much debt.  NYSE Euronext shareholders will vote on the Deutsche Boerse
deal on July 7. Owners controlling at least half of NYSE
Euronext must back the transaction for it to be approved,
compared with 75 percent at Deutsche Boerse.  Biggest Owners  NYSE Euronext’s five biggest owners as of Dec. 31 -- T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., BlackRock Inc.,  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
Vanguard Group Inc. and Legg Mason Inc. -- controlled 22 percent
of the company’s stock, Institutional Shareholder Services data
show.  Bill Miller , the chief investment officer of Legg Mason
Capital Management Inc. in Baltimore, said April 27 that NYSE
Euronext’s refusal to meet with Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext is
inconsistent with the company’s obligations.  “It is in the shareholders’ interest that the board work
to maximize value for owners,” Miller, whose mutual-fund
company is the fifth-biggest NYSE Euronext holder with 7.48
million shares, said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.
“We don’t see how being unwilling to meet with Nasdaq furthers
that goal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  