-- 
National Aluminium Seeks to Buy 24% of Indonesian Coal Mine

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-05-02T12:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/national-aluminium-seeks-to-buy-24-of-indonesian-coal-mine-1-.html
National Aluminium Co., seeking to
build a smelter and a power plant in  Indonesia , is in talks with
two coal companies to buy a stake of as much as 24 percent in
one of their mines, Chairman B.L. Bagra said.  MEC Coal  and  Bumi Murau Coal  have offered stakes and
supplies for National Aluminium’s planned projects in East
Kalimantan province, Bagra said today in an interview in  New
Delhi . The company expects to complete the valuation of the
mines before the end of the month, he said.  National Aluminium,  India ’s second-biggest aluminum
producer, plans to spend $4 billion in Indonesia as it seeks new
overseas markets and raw material sources. Demand for the
lightweight metal is rising Indonesia, where economic growth
this year is forecast to reach as much as 6.5 percent, the upper
end of the central bank’s target.  “In two to three weeks, we hope to take one of the offers
to our board,” Bagra said.  National Aluminium plans to import 800,000 metric tons of
coal in the year that began April 1, 45 percent more than the
previous year, after increasing its refining capacity by about
one-third last month. The company has invited offers for
importing 300,000 tons of coal, Bagra said.  The company is likely to start production at its Orissa
 coal mine  by the end of 2012, producing 2 million tons annually.
National Aluminium needs about 7 million tons of coal annually
to produce electricity for its plants in India.  The state-run aluminum maker plans to spend 3 billion
rupees ($68 million) to build a 50-megawatt wind power plant in
India and expects to award contracts in about two months, Bagra
said. The company, which is also considering investing in
independent power projects, plans to hire advisors to help bid
for large power projects of 4,000 megawatt capacity that the
Indian government is offering.  The company is in talks with iron ore miner  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,
Neyveli Lignite Corp. Ltd. and power-equipment maker  Bharat
Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  to form a consortium to bid for these
projects. National Aluminium will also form a venture with
Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd. to set up a 1,400 megawatt
nuclear plant at Kakrapar near Surat in Gujarat, Bagra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 