-- 
National Football League Asks Court of Appeals to Let Lockout Continue

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-05-02T17:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/national-football-league-asks-court-of-appeals-to-let-lockout-continue.html
National Football League  team owners
asked a U.S. appeals court to delay enforcement of a lower
court’s order stopping their lockout of players, saying federal
law barred interference in labor disputes.  The league, based in  New York , ordered the lockout on March
12 after negotiations over a collective bargaining agreement
collapsed. The NFL Players Association on March 11 said it would
no longer act as a union, and 10 players led by New England
Patriots quarterback Tom Brady filed an antitrust lawsuit
against the league that day.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , stopped the lockout in an April 25 ruling. The league
appealed, asking the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  St. Louis  to delay
enforcement of the order and keep the lockout in place while the
appeal is pending.  “The absence of a stay would irreparably harm the NFL by
undercutting its labor law rights,” the league said in court
papers today. “Federal courts may not interfere -- on either
side -- in cases involving or growing out of a labor dispute.”  The league has asked the appeals court to preserve the
“status quo” during the appeal while the players have sought
an end to the lockout. The appeals court last week granted a
temporary delay.  ‘Suffering Harm’  The players are already suffering harm from the lockout,
“given, among other reasons, the need for professional football
players to market their services, train and participate in off-
season activities,”  Theodore Olson , one of their lawyers, said
today in a letter to the court. “The NFL defendants cannot
establish irreparable harm.”  Nelson found that the players would be harmed by a
continuing lockout and her “findings as to irreparable harm are
reviewable here only for clear error,” Olson said.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
8th Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  