-- 
New York Giants to Decorate Game Tickets With Photographs of Devoted Fans

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-02T12:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/new-york-giants-to-decorate-game-tickets-with-photographs-of-devoted-fans.html
The  New York Giants  will decorate
their game tickets with photographs of fans for the first time
next season, the National Football League team’s chief marketing
officer said.  Mike Stevens , senior vice-president, said fans can compete
to appear by submitting images with their stories to the
franchise’s website, www.giants.com later today. The team will
select 20 finalists and fans can vote to choose 10 winners on
the social networking site Facebook starting May 18.  Each will be scheduled to appear on tickets for one of the
Giants’ two preseason and eight regular-season home games. The
winners will also receive tickets to that game and be recognized
on the field.  “In effect, that game will be dedicated to that fan and
that fan’s story,” Stevens said in a telephone interview. “You
become part of Giants’ history at that point.”  Stevens said the ticket plan grew out of research showing
fans wanted more of a connection with the team and is also a way
to stay in touch with fans during the  National Football League ’s
work stoppage.  A similar contest to choose a fan to deliver the Giants’
 fourth-round pick  in last week’s NFL draft generated pictures
including a boy named after the Mara family that owns the team
and a Giants-logo floral arrangement from the funeral of a fan
who died about a week after the team upset the Patriots in the
2008  Super Bowl  title.  Eric Bedner, 23, sent the winning picture from his father’s
funeral and earned the right to announce the selection of
offensive tackle James Brewer.  “After he was diagnosed with cancer in 2006 all he wanted
was for the Giants to win the Super Bowl,” he wrote. “My
father passed away 6 days after his dream came true.”  ‘Here, You Pick’  The  Minnesota Vikings  and Houston Texans have also put fan
photographs on their tickets, Stevens said. The Giants added the
voting process because they found it hard to choose the winners.  “It made us think we should do a vote because all the
entries were really great,” Stevens said. “It was like, here,
you pick.”  The Giants also hosted a draft party at their $1.6 billion
stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , last week and held an
April 20 conference call with Commissioner Roger Goodell, who
answered questions from season ticketholders about the NFL’s
labor fight with players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.et . 