-- 
Norwich Seals ‘Miracle’ Promotion to Premier League With Win at Portsmouth

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-05-03T01:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/norwich-secures-promotion-to-premier-league-with-1-0-win-at-portsmouth.html
Norwich City won 1-0 at Portsmouth to
seal back-to-back promotions and a return to the Premier League
after five seasons out of English soccer’s top division.  Simeon Jackson’s 50th minute header last night lifted
Norwich to 83 points, guaranteeing the Canaries the second
automatic promotion spot behind leader Queens Park Rangers,
which has 88. Third-place Cardiff can’t overtake Norwich after
losing 3-0 at home to Middlesbrough earlier yesterday.  Norwich was demoted from the Premier League in 2005 and
dropped to the third tier in 2009. Following a 7-1 home defeat
to Colchester at the start of the 2009-10 season, the Canaries
hired their opponent’s coach, former Celtic and Scotland captain
Paul Lambert, who oversaw their return to the elite division.  “It’s absolutely incredible what has happened here,”
Lambert told Norwich’s website. “Just to stay in the
Championship would have been a great achievement but to actually
go up beggars belief. It’s a miracle.”  Norwich is the first club since  Manchester City  in 2000 to
secure back-to-back promotions into the top division. Joining
the Premier League is worth about 90 million pounds ($149
million) in television rights and other revenue, accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates.  Grant Holt has scored more than 20 goals this season and
many of Norwich’s vital strikes have come in the closing moments
of games. They include Jackson’s stoppage-time winner over Derby
County on April 25.  QPR won 2-0 at Watford three days ago to seal top place and
a return to the Premier League after 15 years, though it still
faces disciplinary action that could derail its promotion.  QPR could face a points deduction if it’s found guilty of
breaching rules in the signing of Argentine midfielder Alejandro
Faurlin in 2009. A decision is due by May 6, the day before the
last league game at home against Leeds. QPR denies wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  