-- 
Obama Says World Is ‘a Better Place’ After Death of Bin Laden in U.S. Raid

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-02T16:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/obama-says-world-is-a-better-place-after-death-of-bin-laden-in-u-s-raid.html
President  Barack Obama  said the world
“is a better place” following the death of al-Qaeda leader
Osama  bin Laden  in a raid by U.S. forces on his compound.  “This is a good day for America,” the president said to a
White House audience gathered for a ceremony awarding the Medal
of Honor, the nation’s highest military decoration, to two
soldiers who died while trying to save the lives of their fellow
soldiers during the Korean War.  “We’re reminded we are fortunate to have Americans who
dedicate their lives to protecting ours,” Obama said. “I could
not be prouder of our men and women in uniform.”  Obama made the remarks before presenting the  medals  to the
families of  Korean War  veterans Private First Class Anthony T.
Kaho’ohanohano and Private First Class Henry Svehla.  “They did not grow old; these two soldiers made the
ultimate sacrifice when they were just 19 and 21 years old,”
Obama said.  Kaho’ohanohano was awarded the medal posthumously for his
heroic actions while leading a machine-gun squad in Korea on
September 1, 1951.  According to an official narrative of the
battle, while under heavy enemy fire Kaho’ohanohano directed his
squad to take cover to a safer position and then he used
ammunition and grenades to fight the enemy on his own. After he
had used up all of his ammunition he engaged in hand-to-hand
combat until he was killed.  Threw Self on Grenade  Svehla is receiving the honor because of his bravery as a
rifleman during a June 12, 1952, battle in  Korea . According to
an official record of the battle, Svehla, while coming under
heavy fire, charged the enemy and threw grenades as he ran
toward them, which led to many casualties. He died when he threw
himself on a grenade thrown by enemy forces meant to kill his
comrades.  More than 3,400 Medals of Honor have been awarded since
Congress authorized them in 1861. In November Obama awarded the
medal to U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta, the first
living service member from wars in Iraq or  Afghanistan  to
receive the award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  