-- 
Lockheed Cost Overruns on Early F-35s May Be as Much as 15%

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-02T21:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/lockheed-cost-overruns-on-early-f-35-may-be-up-to-15-1-.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, the Pentagon’ most expensive weapons program,
may face cost overruns of as much as 15 percent on early
production models, U.S. Vice Admiral David Venlet said.  The plane’s expense may exceed the contracted target cost
by $964 million in the worst-case scenario, Venlet said in an
April 28 interview in Washington. The overrun is calculated on
$6.43 billion in aircraft and engine costs for 28 planes,
according to F-35 program data. The low end of the overrun
estimate is 11 percent, or $707 million, he said.  The first three “low-rate initial” production contracts
are cost-plus agreements that require the U.S. to pay most of an
overrun. Venlet inherited these contracts when he was assigned
last year by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  to improve the $382
billion program’s cost, schedule and performance.  “These bills are not all due now,” Venlet said in the
interview. “They are spread out over the delivery of the
program, so to the best of my ability I’ve told leadership I am
not going to cause pain to others, I’m going to try and resource
those” inside the program.  The Pentagon won’t have to pay all of the amount exceeding
the contract target because Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
will make up much of the cost by losing incentive fees, said
Venlet, who is the Pentagon’s F-35 program manager.  “That’s a lot of money,” he said. “We believe we have
access to funds to pay those bills, so it’s not going to drive
the program into a ditch.”  ‘Lockheed’s Pain’  “Where is Lockheed’s pain? It’s in the fee decrement,” he
said. “As target cost overruns, the fee comes down.”  Lockheed Martin spokesman Mike Rein said the company
confirms the higher cost stated by the government.  “Lockheed is absorbing approximately 30 percent of the
overruns cost,” Rein said in an e-mail.  The worst-case scenario would cost Lockheed about $289
million if the 30 percent forfeiture were realized. This fee is
separate from $614 million for development-phase performance
fees that Gates set aside last year.  The higher expense comes primarily from changes in material
requirements and labor costs, Rein said. Lockheed staff worked
with the government on the overrun estimates.  Early Costs  The early aircraft costs reflect more than the price of the
planes, engine and mission systems used to fly the jets. Other
expenses include one-time costs such as buying production
equipment and setting aside funds to address engineering changes
and retrofits.  Early-production planes generally have higher costs due to
initial tooling investments. As the program moves from
development jets into production jets, the learning curve and
other improvements will help drive down costs, Venlet said.  The first contract for two aircraft with  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  engines is valued at $591 million and is
estimated to have exceeded its cost target by 11 percent, Venlet
said. The work is complete.  The second contract for 12 aircraft and engines is valued
at $2.74 billion and is 80 percent complete. The third contract,
for $3.69 billion, covers 16 aircraft and engines and is 60
percent complete.  Unlike the first three cost-plus contracts, Venlet in
November accelerated use of a fixed-price contract that includes
an incentive fee and requires Lockheed to share overruns.  “We are positively protected,” Venlet said.  Shared Savings  Lockheed would earn $441 million in profit from the fixed-
cost contract if it meets the target of $3.46 billion for 32
jets, according to F-35 contract data. In this instance,
Lockheed and the Pentagon would share equally any savings if the
jets cost less to build than the target cost.  Similarly, they would share cost overruns up to 120 percent
of that figure. The full burden would fall on Lockheed for
overruns above that.  Venlet said 10 percent of the contract work is complete so
there isn’t enough data to estimate performance trends yet.  Lockheed is scheduled to accomplish 30 percent of its
contract work by December.  “Thirty percent ought to be enough work to start to see
deviations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  