-- 
Oil-Rich Sudanese Border State of Southern Kordofan Votes Amid Violence

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-02T09:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/oil-rich-sudanese-border-state-of-southern-kordofan-votes-amid-violence.html
Northern  Sudan ’s sole oil-producing
state, Southern Kordofan, started voting today in elections for
governor and the state legislature after a campaign marred by
violence.  Southern Kordofan, where the Nuba Mountains are located,
was the scene of heavy fighting during the two-decade civil war
between the northern and southern regions that ended with a
 peace agreement  in 2005.  The contest threatens to fuel tensions between the two
regions before Southern Sudan’s scheduled independence in July,
according to Fouad Hikmat, Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group ’s special adviser on Sudan. Under the peace accord,
Southern Kordofan will remain part of the north.  “It’s a pivotal state, and elections in Southern Kordofan
are important for the stability of the whole of Sudan and the
completion of the implementation of the peace agreement,” Hikmat
said today by phone from Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.  Ahmed Haroun, the current governor and the candidate of
President Umar al-Bashir’s National Congress Party, is wanted by
the  International Criminal Court  over allegations that he was
responsible for  war crimes  in the western region of Darfur.  He’s running against deputy governor Abdel-Aziz Adam Al-
Hilu, of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, Southern
Sudan’s governing party.  “Results will be a problem either way,” Hikmat said. “If
Haroun wins, a lot of people will wonder how, as he is not from
the region and he is not accepted by most people. Although al-
Hilu does not represent all the tribes, he has a bigger chance.
But how will the  National Congress Party  accept that their
candidate loses in the election?”  Oil Producer  Northern Sudan produces about 110,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to the state oil minister, Ali Ahmed Osman. Southern
Kordofan has northern Sudan’s only operating oilfields,
according to Al-Sir Sid Ahmed, media adviser to Sudan’s oil
minister.  At independence,  Southern Sudan  will assume control of
about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000
barrels, the third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co.  and Petro Energy E&P
Co. operate blocks in Southern Kordofan. The concessions are
mostly owned by  China National Petroleum Corp.  Other stakes are
held by  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas,  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Ltd. and Sudan’s state-owned oil
company,  Sudapet .  Images by  Google Inc (GOOG) .-backed  Satellite Sentinel Project ,
set up by founders including  George Clooney , showed at least 356
structures were deliberately burnt in the town of el-Feid in
Southern Kordofan last month, according to a  statement  by the
project.  Casualties  The Atlanta-based  Carter Center , which is monitoring the
vote, expressed concern about the violence that it said
“reportedly resulted in dozens of casualties.”  Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior NCP member and adviser to the
information minister, last month called the report of violence
“fabricated news.”  The three-day vote was postponed from last year’s
nationwide elections.  A credible vote would revive secession calls by the Nuba
people, who largely fought alongside Southern Sudan in the civil
war, London-based  Control Risks  wrote in an April 15 statement.  While it said “further clashes in the Nuba Mountains area
are likely in the coming months under any scenario,” more
violence is unlikely to lead to an all-out war between northern
and  Southern Sudan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 