-- 
Oil Drops on Economic Growth Concern as Bin Laden Death Boosts Volatility

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-03T06:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/oil-declines-on-economy-as-bin-laden-death-boosts-volatility.html
Oil dropped for a second day in New
York on signs growth in the  U.S. economy  may slow, while price
swings intensified on concern the death of Osama bin Laden will
lead to retaliatory attacks by terrorists.  Futures fell as much as 0.7 percent after the Institute for
Supply Management’s manufacturing index declined to the lowest
in four months. U.S. crude stockpiles rose last week from the
highest since November, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Oil options
volatility increased after the al-Qaeda leader was killed.  “The manufacturing sector in the U.S. has been the one
area that has been fast recovering, so any signs that it might
not be recovering as quickly as expected is going to dampen the
outlook for growth,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne who
forecast in an April 20 report that oil will average $113 in
the third quarter. “There was some sort of terror premium
factored into the oil price but, given the threat of reprisal,
that hasn’t changed much.”  Oil for June delivery dropped as much as 77 cents to
$112.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract was at $112.93 at 2:27 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, it lost 0.4 percent to $113.52 after
earlier reaching $114.83, the highest since September 2008.
Futures have gained 31 percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe Exchange fell as much as 87 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $124.25 a barrel. Yesterday, it dropped 0.6 percent
to $125.12.  Price Swings  Oil in  New York  yesterday decreased as much as 2.7 percent,
the most in two weeks, after bin Laden was killed in  Pakistan ,
before rebounding 0.8 percent. Implied volatility for at-the-
money options expiring in June, a measure of expected price
swings in futures and a gauge of options prices, was 28 percent
today, up from 26.2 percent April 29.  “Following the initial emotional response to bin Laden’s
death, markets soon snapped back to reality,” economists at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led by  Warren Hogan 
wrote in a note today. “There are now concerns that retaliatory
attacks could occur, and this has seen oil prices recoup most of
their early losses.”  Bin Laden  encouraged attacks on oil facilities as a way to
damage the U.S. and European economies. Crude infrastructure in
 Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest reserves, was
targeted by al-Qaeda from 2002 as it sought to bring down the
ruling al-Saud family. Saudi Arabian forces foiled the biggest
attempted attack in 2006 on the Abqaiq oil-processing center,
which handles two-thirds of the kingdom’s supply.  Rising Streak  Crude has advanced this year as unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to  Libya , Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen. Oil in
New York has increased for eight months, the longest rising
streak on record.  Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a premium of
$11.60 a barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference
between front-month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a
record $19.54 on Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76 cents last
year.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
stockpiles climbed 3 million barrels from 363.1 million last
week, according to the median estimate from seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The ISM’s manufacturing index declined to 60.4 last month
from 61.2 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
yesterday. That’s the lowest reading this year.  Credit Suisse cut its estimate of  China ’s economic growth
for this year and 2012 after the nation’s Purchasing Managers’
Index slipped to 52.9, below the median forecast of 53.9 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The country is the
world’s second-largest crude consumer, after the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  