-- 
Honda Extends U.S. Order Limits for Japan-Built Autos, Delays C-RV Sales

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 
2011-05-02T20:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/honda-extends-u-s-order-limitations-for-japan-built-autos-1-.html
Honda Motor Co. extended limits on
U.S. dealer orders of Japan-built autos and delayed the release
of a new CR-V sport-utility vehicle to manage the impact of a
record earthquake in March.  The Tokyo-based company doesn’t expect to restore full
production at plants in  North America  until late this year
because of the disruption of parts supplies caused by the March
11 quake, Gary Robinson, a U.S.-based Honda spokesman said. The
release of the 2012 CR-V is likely to be at least a month later
than planned and production of the redesigned Civic that went on
sale in late April will be limited for a few months, he said.  Japan ’s carmakers including Honda, the country’s third-
largest, are working to restore operations after the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami damaged factories and power plants,
causing shortages of components and electricity.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Japan’s largest automaker, said last month it also didn’t
expect to restore global auto assembly fully until at least
November.  “Recovery from this crisis is difficult and constantly
evolving, most notably the challenge of obtaining a few key
components required to maintain production at appropriate
levels,” John Mendel, Honda’s U.S. executive vice president
told U.S. dealers in a letter today. “Overall production volume
will be at significantly reduced levels as we continue
production adjustments through the summer months.”  Meeting Delayed  Along with the impact on North American auto assembly,
Honda is also delaying its annual meeting with U.S.  Honda  and
Acura brand dealers, Robinson said.  Separately, the company also said today it will shift
production of three SUV models among U.S. and Canadian plants.
In 2012, production of CR-V will be added at its Alliston,
Ontario, plant, in addition to already being built in East
Liberty,  Ohio .  The  Acura  RDX SUV, now built at Honda’s Marysville, Ohio,
plant, will move to the nearby East Liberty plant in 2012,
Robinson said. Midsize Acura MDX SUVs, now built in Ontario,
will be produced at Honda’s Lincoln,  Alabama , plant starting in
2013, Robinson said.  The change in production of the models is unrelated to the
current parts disruption, he said.  Honda’s U.S. operations are based in Torrance,  California .
The company’s American depositary receipts rose 79 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $39.14 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. They’ve fallen 0.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  