-- 
One in 10 Infants Get Herbal Supplements That May Pose Risks, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/one-in-10-infants-get-herbal-supplements-that-may-pose-risks.html
Almost one in 10 infants are given
herbal teas and supplements to ease digestion or fussiness, a
practice that is potentially harmful because of unknown drug
interactions or contaminants in the products, researchers said.  Gripe water, a formula containing ginger and fennel used
for colic and gas, chamomile, an herb used in tea, and teething
tablets, which may also contain botanical ingredients, were the
most commonly used supplements, according to researchers from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The study, the first to
estimate the prevalence of tea and supplement use in infants, is
published in the journal  Pediatrics .  Botanical preparations and herbal teas are not regulated by
the FDA in the same way as drugs and may pose health risks
because their ingredients aren’t  scrutinized for safety , the
study’s authors said. Some products may contain metals or
contaminants that are harmful to infants, they said.  “Parents of infants and young children should understand
that dietary supplements have not been evaluated by FDA to
treat, cure or prevent any disease and that using them as such
may not be appropriate,” said  Sara Fein , a study author and a
consumer science specialist at the FDA’s Center for Food Safety
and Applied Nutrition in  College Park ,  Maryland , in an April 29
e-mail. “Health-care providers should recognize that infants
under their care may have been given one or more of a wide
variety of different dietary botanical supplements and teas.”  Those most likely to give their babies supplements or teas
also used them themselves, the study said. Parents need to talk
to their doctors before using these products, Fein said.  2,600 Mothers Surveyed  The research included about 2,600 mothers who were given
questionnaires once before their babies were born and 10 times
during the first year after birth. About 9 percent of mothers
surveyed reported using dietary supplements or teas in their
children younger than 1 year old, usually for a short period of
time.  The study didn’t evaluate whether any of the infants
experienced side effects from the supplements or teas, because
it was only designed to find out how many infants are being
given the products, Fein said.  Other supplements and teas used by mothers included mint,
anise,  Echinacea , chrysanthemum tea, clove oil, flax seed oil,
garlic oil, goldenseal extract and lemon tea, Fein said.  Mothers most often got their information about supplements
from friends and relatives, followed by media and health-care
professionals, according to the study.  Supplement Sales  U.S. consumer sales of supplements were $26.9 billion in
2009, up 6 percent from 2008, according to the Nutrition
Business Journal, a Boulder, Colorado-based publication that
monitors botanical-product sales. The journal doesn’t break down
sales by users’ ages.  Mark Blumenthal , founder and executive director of the
American Botanical Council, a nonprofit organization based in
Austin,  Texas , said nobody would recommend the teas and
supplements for babies if they didn’t work or if there were side
effects.  “Many of the herbs that they surveyed reflect the use of
these herbs by hundreds of years by mothers for colic and upset
stomach,” he said in an April 29 telephone interview. “The
majority of these products and ingredients seem to be relatively
safe and mild especially when given appropriately.”  Blumenthal said parents should consult with midwives,
pediatricians, other health-care practitioners and family
members to educate themselves before administering anything
other than breast milk or formula to their infants.  Breast Milk  Roya Samuels, a pediatric attending physician at  Cohen
Children’s Medical Center  in  New Hyde Park , New York, said
infants need to get most of their calories from breast milk or
formula. Giving tea to infants could reduce the amount of milk
they drink, affecting their nutrition, she said. Samuels wasn’t
an author on today’s paper.  “There is a tendency to think that things marketed as all
natural or holistic would be safer for children,” she said in
an April 29 telephone interview.  Fein said the FDA is planning to survey the same mothers
from today’s study when their children are about 6 years old to
again ask about their use of botanical supplements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  