-- 
Oneok to Spend $1.2 Billion to Boost Gas Liquids Shipping

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-02T21:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/oneok-to-spend-1-2-billion-to-boost-gas-liquids-shipping-1-.html
Oneok Partners LP (OKS) , an operator of
natural-gas processing plants and pipelines, plans to spend as
much as $1.2 billion to expand its ability to ship gas
byproducts from the central U.S. to the  Gulf Coast .  Oneok Partners will build a 570-mile (917-kilometer)
pipeline to haul gas liquids such as propane and pentane from
the mid-continent region to the  Texas  coast, according to a
statement today from the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company.  Oneok Partners also plans to reconfigure two existing
conduits that cover the same route and build a plant in Mont
Belvieu, Texas, that will be able to process 75,000 barrels of
gas liquids a day, the company said.  “The additional capacity from the new and reconfigured
pipelines and the new fractionator at Mont Belvieu will enable
us to better serve our petrochemical customers who are expanding
their facilities or converting existing facilities," Terry K. Spencer, chief operating officer of Oneok Partners, said in the
statement.  Oneok Partners is expanding its shipping and processing
capacity in an area of growing gas production from new wells in
formations such as the Woodford Shale and Granite Wash. The
pipeline work and plant construction are expected to be finished
by the end of 2013, the company said.  Raw natural gas is processed in fractionating plants that
separate byproducts such as propane and butane from methane used
in power plants and home furnaces. propane, butane and pentane
are used as fuels, chemical feedstocks and gasoline additives.  The company is a master-limited partnership and its general
partner is a subsidiary of  Oneok Inc. (OKE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  