-- 
Morgan Aligned With Commodity Bulls as Goldman Says Sell

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-05-03T21:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/morgan-stanley-joins-funds-buying-commodities-as-goldman-sachs-says-sell-.html
Money managers are making near-record
bets on higher commodity prices, aligning themselves with Morgan
Stanley after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said investors should
reduce most of their holdings.  Funds held a net 1.49 million futures and options in 18
commodities by April 26, 57 percent more than a year earlier,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return
Index of 24 commodities beat bonds, stocks and the dollar every
month since December, the longest in at least 14 years. It rose
in April for an eighth month, the best stretch since 2004.  The surge in everything from oil to corn to gold has yet to
crimp demand, inventories are still tight, and getting out now
would be “premature,”  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodity
research at Morgan Stanley in New York, said on April 29. Prices
may no longer reflect supply and demand, and they are likely to
drop in the next three to six months before rebounding, Goldman
said in reports April 11 and April 15.  “The underlying demand, based on global growth and supply
constraints, makes that kind of call dangerous,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama, and correctly predicted a
decline in commodity prices two years ago, before the S&P GSCI
began a 15 percent drop.  “As an investor, I would rather focus on fundamentals, and
fundamentals are still positive,” Hellwig said. “The trend
will be higher over the next three months.”  Most Profitable  Goldman, the most profitable securities firm in Wall Street
history before converting to a bank in 2008, recommended Dec. 1
that investors buy a basket of commodities consisting of crude,
copper, cotton, platinum and soybeans. The research team, led by
 Jeffrey Currie  in  London , said on April 11 that investors should
close that trade after it returned 25 percent.  There are signs U.S. oil demand is weakening, speculators
are betting the most ever on higher prices, and there may be
less chance of violence spreading from a civil war in  Libya ,
 Africa ’s third-largest crude producer, the team said in an April
15 report. Higher energy costs and manufacturing disruptions
caused by an earthquake in  Japan  on March 11 may mean less
consumption of copper and platinum, the bank said.  Goldman also advised clients to end a separate bullish bet
on copper, which it had recommended in October, after prices
rose 23 percent, and one on platinum, made in July 2009, after a
36 percent advance. Investors should still buy European gasoil,
soybeans and gold, the bank said, reiterating advice in October
and November. The New York-based bank recommends being
“underweight” commodities in the next three to six months.  Total Return  The S&P GSCI Enhanced Total Return Index, Goldman’s
benchmark for commodities, fell 1.1 percent since the note to
clients on April 11. The team expects the gauge of 24 raw
materials to rise 10 percent in 12 months, less than the 14
percent previously forecast.  Copper has fallen 8.2 percent from the record $10,190 a
metric ton reached Feb. 15, and cotton has slumped 28 percent
from the all-time high of $2.197 a pound set March 7. At the
same time, oil has advanced 22 percent this year, and gold
futures reached a peak of $1,577.40 an ounce yesterday, heading
for an 11th consecutive annual gain.  Morgan Stanley, operator of the world’s largest brokerage,
is still “very long” crude and corn, and favors wheat and
gold, Allidina said in an April 29 telephone interview. Since
Dec. 15, 2009, when the bank advised investors to buy the oil
for delivery in December 2011 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , that contract has gained 38 percent. The firm is
bearish on sugar, natural gas, cotton and coffee, he said.  ‘Tight Inventories’  Betting on lower commodity prices, “broadly speaking,
right now is not a good idea, because you do have tight
inventories,” Allidina said. “You need to ration demand. You
are not doing that at current prices.”  Investors held a record $412 billion of raw-material assets
by the end of March, almost 50 percent more than a year earlier,
 Barclays Capital  estimates.  Net-long positions held by managed-money funds are within
4.8 percent of the record 1.56 million contracts reached in
October, CFTC data show. Open interest in 17 of 19 commodities
tracked by the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index reached 8.2
million contracts, data from the CFTC show. That compares with
an all-time high of 8.6 million on Feb. 18.  The rally means record profit for BHP Billiton Ltd., the
biggest mining company, and the second-highest earnings ever for
Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest publicly traded oil producer,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
top food company, said in February that its commodity costs will
rise as much as a record $3.4 billion this year. Gap Inc., the
leading U.S. apparel chain, is contending with cotton prices
that rose 92 percent last year.  Driven Into Poverty  The surge in commodities has wider implications. Global
food prices tracked by the  United Nations  reached an all-time
high in February. The  World Bank  says the increase contributed
to 44 million people falling into poverty in the past year.
Inflation is accelerating worldwide, spurring central banks from
China to the euro region to increase  interest rates , potentially
curbing economic expansion.  Rising oil prices could be “sowing the seeds of future
demand destruction,” the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency  said April 12.  China , the world’s biggest copper user,
imported 43 percent less metal in March than a year earlier,
customs data show. Holdings in exchange-traded funds backed by
gold fell 1.3 percent this year.  “Commodities are in the process of peaking, and will come
down in the next three to six months,” said  James Paulsen , the
chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion. The S&P GSCI
index rose 27 percent since Paulsen predicted Dec. 1 that raw
materials would continue to rally.  Copper May Rise  The most-accurate forecasters tracked by Bloomberg over the
last eight quarters expect more records this year. Copper may
rise 9.6 percent to $10,250 a ton within six months, according
to Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  Gold will advance 14 percent to $1,750 an ounce, according
to Jochen Hitzfeld, an analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich. Corn
is likely to gain 11 percent to a record $8 a bushel, according
to Commerzbank AG, last year’s most-accurate forecaster.  Crude will rise 31 percent to $145 a barrel, near the
record $147.27 set in July 2008, said  Michael Pento , the senior
economist at Euro Pacific Capital Inc. in  New York  who correctly
predicted the collapse in commodity prices in 2008, the rebound
in 2009 and last year’s rally in gold.  Weaker Dollar  Pento is bullish because he expects the dollar to weaken,
making dollar-denominated commodities cheaper for those holding
other currencies. The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six
major trading partners, fell 7.5 percent since the beginning of
January, the worst start to a year since 1995. The Dollar Index
has a negative correlation of 0.87 to the S&P GSCI Index. A
figure of 1 would mean they move in lockstep.  The dollar weakened as the  Federal Reserve  maintained
record-low U.S. borrowing costs and began pumping $600 billion
into the economy by buying Treasuries. The gauge may drop to the
lowest since July 2008 by the end of the year, estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled April 27 the Fed will
maintain the record monetary stimulus when its bond purchase
program ends in June.  Demand for commodities may also be bolstered by investors
hedging financial assets against inflation. The cost of living
in the U.S. rose at its fastest pace since December 2009 in the
12 months ended in March, the same month in which Chinese
consumer prices rose by the most since 2008.  ‘Alarming Rate’  Global demand for energy, metals and crops is outpacing
supply “at an alarming rate,” spurring a “permanent shift”
in the value of natural resources, said  Jeremy Grantham , the
chief investment strategist for Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co., which manages $107 billion in assets.  “The world is using up its natural resources at an
alarming rate, and this has caused a permanent shift in their
value,” Grantham, who correctly predicted the trough in U.S.
equities in 2009, said in a report April 25. “We now live in a
different, more constrained, world in which prices of raw
materials will rise and shortages will be common.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  