-- 
Osama bin Laden Is a Threat to West Even in Death: Paul Cornish

-- B y   P a u l   C o r n i s h
-- 
2011-05-02T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/osama-bin-laden-a-threat-to-west-even-in-death-commentary-by-paul-cornish.html
It has often been said in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  that while Western forces have expensive wrist
watches, their opponents have plenty of time. But the operation
that targeted and killed  Osama bin Laden  was months, if not
years, in the making, proving that the U.S. hasn’t forgotten the
meaning of strategic patience.  The mastermind behind the Sept. 11 attacks and the
inspiration for many others around the world, including those in
London in July 2005, was gunned down in a “safe” house that
proved not to be. In conception and execution this was an
extraordinary operation. Rather than launch another remote-
controlled drone attack, the commitment of boots on the ground
made it possible to guarantee mission success and to minimize
collateral damage to civilians and bystanders.  In short, the operation demanded timely intelligence,
precise targeting and personal courage; while U.S. intelligence
services and armed forces have these three qualities in
abundance, allies and adversaries alike will have been impressed
to see them combined with such effectiveness.  There are a number of awkward questions to be asked. Why
was  bin Laden ’s safe house just a stone’s throw from a Pakistani
military establishment and just 60 miles from the capital,
Islamabad? Did the Pakistani intelligence and military
establishment connive in hiding and protecting bin Laden? Or,
conversely, did they assist in the raid in some way? Why has it
taken the U.S. so long to track him down? And finally, while
this was a presidentially authorized kill operation, would it
have been preferable to bring him to trial for his crimes?  Defining Moment  Some of the answers we may never know. But the world’s most
notorious mass murderer is dead. This is good news for the U.S.
and its allies -- and may be the defining moment of what will
prove to be a two-term presidency for  Barack Obama . It is good
news of sorts for the families of his victims, albeit a poignant
reminder of the tragedy that overtook so many on 9/11, on 7/7
and on other occasions. It is also good news for mainstream
Muslims, oppressed by the association made by bin Laden between
their faith and the wave of international terrorism he inspired.  Bin Laden’s death will also be a blow to morale among his
followers and within al Qaeda, and the manner of his demise
might discourage others from stepping into his leadership role.
His passing might also dilute some of the potency of the jihadi
brand in the Middle East and North Africa, giving countries such
as Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya  a little more breathing space as
they seek to find their own way.  End of Beginning  But it’s not over yet. To paraphrase  Winston Churchill :
This might be the end of the beginning, but it’s almost
certainly not the beginning of the end. In the short term, there
will be reprisal attacks. Far from being forgotten, bin Laden
will be remembered for months to come. His followers will be
determined to show that the jihad isn’t over, just as the
Taliban in Afghanistan and  Pakistan  will be keen to show that
their insurgency isn’t over.  For the longer term, it would be a mistake to assume that
bin Laden’s death means the end of al Qaeda and jihad; as if bin
Laden, al Qaeda and jihad aren’t just closely connected but are
three interdependent pillars. It is widely understood that bin
Laden created a movement -- a franchise for international terror
that is designed to survive without him.  For his followers, and for others in future who subscribe
to the myth, bin Laden will be seen to have died like a warrior,
if not a martyr. As the man who symbolized jihad against the
U.S. and its allies, bin Laden will continue to inspire a small
minority of extremists for a long time to come.  (Paul Cornish is head of the international security program
at  Chatham House  in  London . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Paul Cornish at  pncornish@btinternet.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  