-- 
Housing’s Good News Is Government Cash Shortage: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/housing-s-good-news-is-federal-cash-shortage-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
With U.S.  home prices  back down to
their 2009 lows, you might be wondering what all the government
programs to stabilize the housing market have accomplished.  And for good reason. Various federal initiatives,
especially the first-time homebuyer’s tax credit, seemed to put
a brake on the three-year dive in prices from July 2006, the
peak, to April 2009. Home sales and prices bounced, only to hit
the skids when the program ended in April 2010. Which is what
you’d expect when the government stops cutting checks for
$8,000, payable to the homeowner on completion of his purchase.  Was the two-year respite worth it? Would prices have fallen
harder and faster if left to their own devices and now be
showing signs of stabilization?  It sure seems that way. Instead, two years and billions of
dollars later, home prices are back to their 2009 lows,
according to the S&P Case-Shiller Index for February. (For
sticklers, the unadjusted index was actually 0.01 point higher
than in April 2009.)  There are a couple of reasons to think that, without
intervention, the housing market would have “cleared” by now,
and that buyers would be attracted by falling prices rather than
taxpayer dollars.  First, a  home price index  constructed by CoreLogic, a real-
estate research firm in  Santa Ana ,  California , shows signs that
home prices are stabilizing. Unlike Case-Shiller, CoreLogic’s
index excludes distressed sales, which are driving the declines
in certain markets.  Case Study  The other piece of evidence is a case study by Tom Lawler,
president of Lawler Economic & Housing Consulting LLC in
Leesburg, Virginia, that, just coincidentally, tests my
hypothesis.  In “A Tale of Two Counties,” Lawler compares two
Washington metro areas: Prince William County, Virginia, and
Prince George’s County,  Maryland . Both counties witnessed rapid
home-price appreciation during the housing boom. Both had
higher-than-average (for the D.C. suburbs) shares of subprime
mortgages. And both saw prices take a dive from their 2006 peak.  Today, home prices in Prince William County are above the
2009 lows, while those in Prince George’s County still are
declining. The difference seems to be the speed with which
foreclosed homes were resold.  Virginia  has one of the fastest foreclosure timelines in
the nation, according to Lawler.  House prices  fell faster, and
inventories were reduced more quickly, in Virginia than in
Maryland, where judicial and legislative actions are drawing out
the process.  Free the Market  Lawler admits his study isn’t conclusive. In an economy,
unlike in model-land, one can’t hold everything else constant to
determine the effect of one variable.  It does support the idea that the faster prices are allowed
to fall, the faster unsold inventory can be allocated, and the
sooner the market will find its equilibrium.  That’s not much consolation to all the underwater
homeowners, whose mortgages still exceed the value of their
homes. They need another real estate bubble, which is unlikely,
to bail them out.  Maybe their children will live to see equity in the home
regained. Once the supply and demand dynamics that affect home
values in the short run are aligned, good old-fashioned economic
fundamentals, such as income growth and housing affordability,
come into play, according to Sam Khater, senior economist at
CoreLogic.  Dead-Cat Bounce  On that score, there’s little reason to expect much of a
bounce. Real incomes have been stagnant since the late 1990s,
according to Khater. Housing may be affordable now, thanks to
depressed prices and low  mortgage rates , but  interest rates  will
eventually rise. At the same time, “the rules of the game are
changing,” with tighter standards imposed for both underwriting
and securitizing of mortgages, he says.  CoreLogic looked at regions of the country that experienced
the biggest housing busts of the past: the oil-patch states,
including Texas and  Colorado , in the early to mid-1980s;
southern California in the late 1980s-early 1990s, following the
savings and loan crisis; and  New England , also in the late
1980s-early 1990s. In these cases, it took three to five years
for house prices to bottom and six to eight years to reach pre-
bust levels, Khater reports.  We should be so lucky. Almost five years after the peak,
home prices are still falling in most areas after a nationwide
boom and bust. Unemployment is high at 8.8 percent. And banks
are understandably cautious about making new real estate loans.  It turns out that burst asset bubbles, especially when the
asset in question is the major one for most households, aren’t
quite as easy to clean up as the  Federal Reserve  thought.  The only good news for housing is that  Washington  is now
preoccupied with reducing the deficit. Even if it wanted to,
federal government doesn’t have the resources to throw good
money after bad.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  