-- 
Tower of Babel Rises Again in 40-Ton Marble for Monumental Show

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/tower-of-babel-rises-again-in-40-ton-marble-for-monumental-jerusalem-show.html
The scale of the sculptures is
daunting. A new Tower of Babel is a cylinder of Carrara marble
rising above Jerusalem’s  Bible Lands Museum .  The 40-ton, 10.5 meter (34 feet) tower stands next to
artworks symbolizing the trees of life and knowledge. The wood,
iron and aluminum structures soar over the heads of visitors.  The 16 monumental pieces by  Manel Alvarez , based on the Old
Testament, took months of planning to ship from  Spain . The show
could have been even bigger. Alvarez’s favorite piece, based on
the walls of Jericho, was simply too large to transport.  The Barcelona-born sculptor plans to visit  Israel  regularly
during the show, which runs through Oct. 31, as he continues to
produce pieces for the collection, called “Inspired.”  “I’m not a very religious person,” Alvarez, 65, said in
an interview. “I remembered what I read when I was a child,
that the Bible was romantic and the people in it were kind of
heroes. When I visited the Sea of Galilee I just had to go and
touch the water.”  The exhibition, which is displayed inside the museum, in
its front courtyard and in its garden, includes a small bronze
model of Joseph and his brothers and two larger-than-life-size
marble statues of Jacob’s 11th son and his brother Benjamin.  The artist, with white beard, brown hair and black shirt,
was standing in front of his marble sculpture. The statue wears
the flowing robes of an Egyptian dignitary, Alvarez said, “to
distinguish him from his brothers.”  Amanda Weiss, director of the museum, said Alvarez’s works
blended into an “appreciation of biblical history.”  “ Jerusalem  is the perfect place, you get this exceptional
empathy,” said Alvarez. “Since I’ve been working on this
collection, I feel richer as a person.”  “Inspired,” runs through Oct. 31 at Bible Lands Museum,
Granot Street 25, Jerusalem 91046. Information:
 http://www.blmj.org/en/New_Exh_Eng.php  or +972-2-5611066.  (Gwen Ackerman writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 