-- 
Toyota May Report First Half-Year Loss Since Financial Crisis

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-05-02T20:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/toyota-may-report-first-half-year-loss-since-financial-crisis.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor
Co. may forecast first-half losses and continuing sales declines
as the two biggest Japanese automakers struggle to restore full
production disrupted by a record earthquake.  Toyota, the automaker most affected by the earthquake in
March, may post net losses of 155 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in
the three months ending June 30 and 241 billion yen for the six
months ending Sept. 30, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past four weeks. Nissan’s
six-month net loss may be 48 billion yen, based on the
estimates.  In the worst case, combined losses for the nation’s
carmakers and suppliers may be “the biggest ever,” surpassing
those at the time of the 2008 to 2009 financial crisis, Noriyuki Matsushima, an analyst in Tokyo at Citigroup Inc., said last
week. Citigroup also downgraded Japan’s auto industry to
“sell” from “buy” on April 8.  “Even if production comes back, demand for cars may not
come back as people are still fearing radiation contamination
and earthquake aftershocks are still going on,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo.  Toyota, Nissan and Honda Motor Co. are working to restore
full operations after the magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami
damaged factories and caused parts and power shortages. The
Toyota City, Japan-based company expects production may not
return to normal until November or December.  Toyota Shares  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, rose 48 cents to $80.16 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They’ve fallen 8.4
percent since March 10, the day before the earthquake.  Toyota’s vehicle sales in Japan plunged 69 percent last
month, leading the eighth straight drop in the nation’s monthly
auto deliveries after the earthquake shut down production and a
government subsidy program ended.  Industrywide sales of cars, trucks and buses, excluding
minicars, fell 51 percent from a year earlier to a record-low
108,824 vehicles in April, the  Japan  Automobile Dealers
Association said in a statement today. Toyota’s deliveries fell
to 35,557 vehicles, excluding Lexus-brand cars.  The industrywide total was the lowest for any month since
1968, when the association started tracking sales, while the 51
percent decline was the biggest for any month since May 1974.  Toyota Earnings  Toyota is scheduled to report fourth-quarter and full-year
earnings on May 11, followed by Nissan on May 12.  Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman for Toyota, said he couldn’t
comment on earnings projections or on the scale of the impact
from the March 11 earthquake relative to the financial crisis or
last year’s record vehicle recalls by the company. He also
declined to say whether Toyota will provide a half-year or full-
year forecast next week. Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  on April
22 also declined to comment on the quake’s impact on earnings.  Mitsuru Yonekawa, a spokesman for Nissan, didn’t return
calls made to his cellular phone.  All of Japan’s automakers halted production after the
earthquake and tsunami damaged parts factories and power plants,
causing shortages of components and electricity. Output
disruptions are continuing at car factories in Japan and
overseas.  Electronics Production  Renesas Electronics Corp., a chipmaker that has 30 percent
of the world market for microcontrollers used in cars, said
April 22 it will restart production at a damaged factory on June
15, prompting Toyota to say car production will return to normal
levels by the end of this year.  Citigroup’s Matsushima said output reductions by Japanese
carmakers may continue until April 2012.  “Japan’s automakers will run out of inventory at overseas
plants in the second quarter, so figures for that quarter may be
lower than those in the first quarter, even as they begin to
raise production levels,” he said.  During the financial crisis, Toyota’s net loss for the year
ended March 2009 was 436.9 billion yen, while Nissan’s was 233.7
billion yen. Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, reported a
profit of 137 billion yen.  Even before the earthquake, the dealers association had
forecast a 13 percent drop in vehicle sales in Japan to 2.8
million this year, after the government phased out subsidies for
fuel-efficient models in September.  Half Capacity  Toyota resumed output at all Japan plants on April 18 at
half capacity. The company may lose production of 300,000
vehicles in Japan and 100,000 overseas through the end of April
due to quake-related shutdowns, Executive Vice President Atsushi Niimi said April 22. He said the company may miss its global
production target of 7.7 million vehicles for the 2011 calendar
year.  Last month in  Shanghai , Toyota said it may not be able to
meet its China sales target of more than 900,000 vehicles this
year due to the impact of the natural disaster.  The earthquake and tsunami were another blow to the company
after Toyoda’s first full year on the job was consumed by
recalls that totaled more than 10 million vehicles, ranging from
luxury Lexus sport-utility vehicles to Prius hybrids. Toyoda,
54, was called to testify before the  U.S. Congress  on the
automaker’s safety record, and the company’s sales slumped.  Toyota Recalls  Toyota called back millions of U.S. vehicles in 2009 and
2010, mostly for defects related to unintended acceleration. The
carmaker also paid a record $48.8 million in fines for how some
of the recalls were conducted. The recalls caused the company to
briefly halt sales of some models in 2010 and contributed to its
0.4 percent U.S. sales decrease last year, the only decline
among large automakers.  Even as parts suppliers recover, carmakers in Japan will
suffer from power shortages after the March 11 disaster reduced
the nation’s electricity-generating capacity, said  Koji Endo , an
analyst at Advanced Research Japan in  Tokyo .  The impact from the earthquake is still less severe than
that of the financial crisis, Endo said.  “The situation now is different because demand isn’t hurt
at all,” he said. “Full-year earnings may not be that bad.”  For the fiscal year that ended March 31, Toyota earnings
may more than double to 471 billion yen, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past
four weeks. Nissan’s profit may rise sevenfold to 303 billion
yen.  Honda Profit  Honda said April 28 its fourth-quarter net income dropped
38 percent to 44.5 billion yen for the three months ended March
31, lower than the 93.8 billion yen average of analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Tokyo-based company may post a 37.4 billion yen profit
for the six months ending Sept. 30, according to the average of
analyst estimates. The automaker declined to provide a full-year
earnings forecast, citing the impact of the natural disaster on
production.  Honda’s cash position may become “strained” in the next
six months, given depressed production levels, Managing Director
Fumihiko Ike said last week. Honda obtained board approval on
April 28 to issue as much as 200 billion yen in commercial paper
“just in case” the need arises, and has no immediate plans to
do so, he said.  Honda said today that auto production at its plants in
 North America  won’t return to normal levels until late this year
and delayed the release of a new CR-V compact sport-utility
vehicle by at least a month because of tight parts supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  