-- 
Pakistan Military Needs to Explain on Bin Laden, Levin Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-02T16:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/pakistan-military-needs-to-explain-on-bin-laden-levin-says.html
Pakistan ’s army and intelligence
officials must explain whether they knew of Osama  bin Laden ’s
whereabouts before he was killed in a U.S. mission, said Senate
Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin .  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari must question his own military and intelligence
officials about whether they knew bin Laden was staying at a
fortified villa near Islamabad.  “I hope that he will follow through and ask some very
tough questions of his own military and his own intelligence,”
Levin said at a news conference with Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat. “They’ve got a lot of explaining
to do.”  Bin Laden was killed yesterday almost a decade after
orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that killed almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  New York , the Pentagon
in suburban Washington and a field in  Pennsylvania  where
hijacked United Airlines Flight 93 crashed. The al-Qaeda leader
was killed, after a decade on the run, in a firefight with a
team of U.S. operatives who raided the compound where he had
been hiding.  The three-story compound had security measures, including
walls as high as 18 feet topped with barbed wire, U.S. officials
said. Officials said they didn’t know for certain how long bin
Laden had been living there.  ‘Reluctant Ally’  Alabama Republican Senator Richard Shelby, in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television, said he believed some Pakistani
officials knew where bin Laden was hiding.  “Pakistan is what I would call a reluctant ally,” Shelby
said. “They’ve got one foot in the camp with the Taliban and
one foot with us.”  Reid of  Nevada  said he was notified about the attack last
night by the White House and spoke with the president about it.
Reid, the Senate’s top Democrat, said Obama doesn’t have plans
to change the schedule for drawing down troop levels in
 Afghanistan  as a result of yesterday’s developments.  “I think that’s appropriate,” Reid said.  Both Reid and Levin hailed bin Laden’s death as a
significant step forward in efforts to curb the threat of
terrorism.  “Today Americans across the country are welcoming the news
that this awful man, this man who epitomized evil, has been
brought to justice by American forces,” Reid said. “His death
is the most significant victory in our fight against al-Qaeda
and sends a strong message to terrorists around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  