-- 
Pakistan’s Jihadist Ties May Have Led U.S. to Hit Bin Laden Hideout Alone

-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-05-03T11:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/pakistan-s-jihadist-ties-may-have-led-u-s-to-hit-bin-laden-hideout-alone.html
The U.S. decision to strike alone in
killing al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden  at his Pakistani hideout
underscores American concerns over the decades-old links between
the Pakistani military and Islamic militants.  U.S. officials said they didn’t inform their Pakistani
counterparts of the attack on the compound, just a mile from the
 Pakistan Military Academy  in Abbottabad, the country’s
equivalent of  West Point . Located 50 kilometers (30 miles) north
of the capital, Islamabad, the city is surrounded by army
installations and weapons factories.  “It is inconceivable that bin Laden was hiding in a place
that is the alma mater of Pakistan’s army without some people in
our security establishment -- either military, intelligence or
police -- being aware that he was there,” Imtiaz Gul, director
of the Islamabad-based  Center for Research and Security Studies ,
said in a phone interview from his office yesterday. “It has
caused some shock for Pakistanis to learn that he was in such a
central place.”  The compound has the appearance of a “fortress,”  John Brennan , White House counterterrorism adviser, told reporters in
 Washington . He said it “raises questions” that a compound of
that size didn’t raise suspicion in the area.  U.S.-Pakistani Tensions  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have escalated with
American officials recently saying they were worried that
Pakistan’s intelligence agency maintains ties to guerrillas
fighting American-led forces in Afghanistan. Also straining
relations were Pakistan’s opposition to U.S. drone attacks on
Taliban targets that have killed civilians and American
insistence that the strikes continue.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
U.S.-Pakistani cooperation on counter-terrorism “contributed
greatly” in efforts to find bin Laden.  Echoing Clinton’s comments in Islamabad, U.S. Special
Representative to  Afghanistan  and Pakistan Marc Grossman said
the al-Qaeda leader’s death was a “shared achievement.
Cooperation between the two countries existed in the past and
will exist in the future,” Grossman told reporters. “We should
turn a new page in our relationship.”  Pakistan’s  foreign office  said yesterday that bin Laden’s
death was a “major setback” to terrorist groups.  Several of Pakistan’s guerrilla groups have been sponsored
or backed by the country’s military since the 1980s as proxy
forces to maintain influence and attack enemies in Indian-ruled
Kashmir, say U.S. officials and scholars of the region such as
Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid.  Taliban Faction  The army has resisted U.S. pressure to attack the Taliban
faction led by Jalaluddin Haqqani, one of its oldest allies, in
the border district of North Waziristan. The area is the main
base for Haqqani’s guerrillas who have struck U.S. forces
operating in at least six Afghan provinces, including the
capital, Kabul.  The Pakistan army’s  Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate ,
or ISI, “has a longstanding relationship with the Haqqani
network,” Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said during an April 20 visit to Pakistan.
“I’m extremely concerned in particular about that aspect.”  While al-Qaeda may have won or purchased the cooperation of
some low-level Pakistani security officials to hide bin Laden in
the army’s shadow, “I am quite certain that this would not have
involved anyone in the top military leadership,” said  Talat Masood , a retired army lieutenant general and analyst. “It
would be, and be seen among Pakistanis as, a criminal act after
the thousands of Pakistanis, including our security forces, who
have been killed by al-Qaeda.”  Al-Qaeda’s Shift  Bin Laden’s presence in a major Pakistani military center
reflects a move into the country by al-Qaeda fighters after U.S.
attacks helped force them out of their 1990s base in Afghanistan.
Al-Qaeda’s move to the cities and mountainous frontier regions
of Pakistan escalated already rising violence by Islamic
militant groups in the country.  Many of Pakistan’s militant groups -- including the
 Lashkar-e-Taiba , or Army of the Pure, and Jaish-e-Muhammad,
which translates as Soldiers of Muhammad -- maintained camps in
the mountains that surround Abbottabad.  Pakistan’s army, which has ruled the country for 32 of its
63 years and controls security policy, lost control of at least
some of its former jihadist allies and increasingly since 2007
has had to fight them in its mountainous northwest.  Fiscal Pressures  “There’s no question in my mind that there are elements in
the Pakistani government, possibly in the intelligence services
and/or the military, that have developed and maintain ties and
relationships with some of the more radical elements in
Pakistan’s society and in Afghanistan,” former Vice President
 Dick Cheney  told a business meeting in  New York  yesterday.  Pakistan, which received an $11.3 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  in November 2008, is under pressure
to reduce its deficit even as it copes with more than $10
billion in damage from record flooding in August and the war
against the Taliban.  The search for Bin Laden began three months after the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks, when he slipped away from a U.S. air assault
on the Tora Bora mountains along the Afghan-Pakistani border.
For years, the trail went cold, according to Bruce Riedel, a CIA
veteran and counterterrorism adviser to President  Barack Obama 
who wrote a 2008 book, “The Search for Al-Qaeda.”  Bin Laden Trail  U.S. intelligence last August picked up bin Laden’s trail
in  Pakistan , Obama said yesterday. As it tracked him to
Abbottabad, the U.S. sent teams of CIA personnel into the
country. On Jan. 27, CIA contract employee Raymond Davis sparked
a confrontation between the two governments and their
intelligence agencies, after he shot dead two armed Pakistani
men he said had threatened him in the city of Lahore.  Bin Laden’s final battle began shortly after midnight local
time yesterday. Abbottabad store owner Fayyaz Khan, 29, heard a
large explosion and volleys of gunfire in the city’s Bilal Town
area. U.S. Navy SEAL commandos attacked from at least two
helicopters, according to U.S. officials who briefed reporters
after Obama announced the killing of the U.S.’s most wanted man.  Bin Laden was living in a three-story villa that cost about
$1 million and was guarded by high walls, the officials said. It
was built about five years ago for the purpose of harboring the
al-Qaeda leader, they said.  The property, built on about 1.5 acres of land, “had huge
boundary walls and looked like a fort,” another local man,
Altaf Khan, said in an interview in Abbottabad. “There were TV
security cameras all around it and in the neighborhood we knew
that the women living inside spoke Arabic.”  Gun Battles  Pakistan’s military said last month its commander, General
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, “strongly rejected negative propaganda”
that Pakistan isn’t doing enough to defeat insurgents.  The army’s offensives against the Pakistani Taliban
movement and allied Islamist guerrillas have triggered
retaliatory bombings and gun battles in cities nationwide that
the government says have killed thousands of Pakistani citizens
and security personnel.  Pakistani leaders have also criticized the six-year-old
campaign of using U.S. drones to target militants. Kayani said
during Mullen’s visit that the deaths of civilians in the
strikes drained support for the army’s anti-insurgency efforts.  The U.S.-Pakistani strategic relationship can be a
“complicated matter,” Brennan told reporters at his briefing
about the raid on bin Laden. Pakistanis are “as much or more on
the front lines” in the fight against terrorism, he said.  Obama Budget  Obama’s 2012 budget proposes $1.2 billion in assistance for
Pakistan, largely to support counterinsurgency training for
military posted along the border with Afghanistan.  The killing of bin Laden as he sheltered in a stronghold of
Pakistan’s army may subject the country to more pressure, said
Hamid Gul, a retired lieutenant general and former ISI director.  “This will encourage the American CIA to conduct more
independent operations without Pakistan’s knowledge,” he said
in a phone interview. “On the other hand, Arab al-Qaeda
remnants will try to take revenge and may hit Pakistani
targets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Abbottabad, Pakistan at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  