-- 
Parched Kansas Wheat Crops Boosting Cost of Panera Bread, Wheaties Cereal

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-02T21:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/parched-kansas-wheat-boosting-prices-for-panera-bread-wheaties.html
Wheat production in  Kansas , the
second-largest U.S. grower, probably will drop as dry weather
persists, threatening to increase costs for breadmakers and
restaurants that are already boosting prices.  The state’s winter-wheat crop was in the worst shape in 15
years as of yesterday, after drought across the Great Plains
dimmed prospects for the harvest that starts in June, government
data show. Less output would erode inventories already expected
to drop 14 percent in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.  Wheat futures are up 57 percent in the past year after
adverse weather cut output from  Russia  to  Canada  in 2010,
spurring companies including Grupo Bimbo SAB, the world’s
largest breadmaker, to pass on higher costs to consumers. Panera
Bread Co., a St. Louis-based restaurant chain, and General Mills
Inc., the maker of Wheaties, plan to raise prices.  “It’s not going to be a great year,” said David Schemm, a
farmer in Sharon Springs, Kansas, who may abandon as much as
half of his wheat and plant other crops instead. “I look at my
wheat crop, and it’s kind of sad, kind of disappointing. I
really hope the remaining acres out here can have decent
production.”  Analysts and industry officials will meet tonight in
 Manhattan , Kansas, before beginning the Wheat Quality Council’s
annual tour of fields tomorrow. About 46 percent of the state is
experiencing drought, said Brian Fuchs, a climatologist at the
National Drought Mitigation Center in Lincoln. That was the most
since at least 1999, when the center began tracking data.  Texas, Oklahoma  Kansas may produce 257 million bushels this year, down 29
percent from last year, said Darrell Holaday, the president of
Advanced Market Concepts in Manhattan, Kansas. Texas and
Oklahoma crops may be cut by half, he said. The three states
made up 28 percent of all U.S. production last year, government
data show. North Dakota is the leading grower.  “The U.S. may have a significant reduction in hard, red
winter-wheat production, plus we know we have planting concerns
with the spring crop,” said Justin Gilpin, the chief executive
officer of Kansas Wheat, a Manhattan-based trade group. “We may
have another year-on-year where we have the world consuming more
wheat than we’re producing.”  About two thirds of crops are winter varieties planted in
the Midwest and Great Plains from September to November. They go
dormant until March, and are harvested from June to August.
Spring wheat, grown primarily in northern states, is planted in
April and May and harvested from August to September.  Delayed Planting  Only 1 percent of wheat in  North Dakota , which grows spring
varieties, had been  planted  as of yesterday, as wet weather and
slowly melting snow delayed field work, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said. About 10 percent of the nation’s total spring
crop was sown, down from 57 percent a year earlier, the USDA
said. An estimated 45 percent of the Kansas winter-wheat crop
was in poor or very poor condition, the most since 1996.  The USDA said in February, before most winter crops in the
Great Plains emerged from dormancy, that national production may
drop 5.8 percent this year to 2.08 billion bushels. The agency
will update its forecast on May 11.  Shrinking output in the U.S. may exacerbate a shortfall in
global grain supplies. In the year starting July 1, cereal
inventories, including wheat and coarse grains, may slide 2.6
percent to 334 million metric tons, a four-year low, as
consumption outpaces demand, the International Grains Council
said on April 20.  The group also cut its estimate for worldwide wheat
production.  Rising Food Prices  World food prices reached a record in February before
easing in March, according to the most-recent United Nations
data. High costs and corruption spurred political unrest this
year across the Middle East and northern  Africa , ousting leaders
in Tunisia and  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer.  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 9.5 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $7.9175 a bushel today on the Chicago
Board of Trade. On Feb. 14, the price reached $9.1675, the
highest for a most-active contract since August 2008, after
governments in the Middle East and Africa boosted grain imports
amid escalating turmoil.  Giancarlo Turano, a principal at Turano Baking Co. in
Berwyn,  Illinois , said commodity costs have increased about 30
percent in the past year. The company, which buys flour made
from wheat grown in the Great Plains for baking at facilities in
Georgia and  Florida , raised bread prices about six weeks ago, he
said in a telephone interview.  “It’s made it very, very challenging to manage our
business, just because prices are going to continue to go up,”
said Turano, whose 49-year-old company sells bread to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. “The unfortunate thing is that
as prices go up, consumption goes down throughout the country,
not only in retail, but also the food-service segment.”  Grupo Bimbo  Grupo Bimbo, based in Mexico City, has increased prices in
the U.S. twice since October amid higher commodity costs,
Armando Giner, an institutional-relations director, said on a
conference call on April 27. The company is set to complete an
acquisition of Sara Lee’s North American bakery business this
year.  Panera Bread will raise prices 1 percent in September
because of higher wheat costs, Jeffery Kip, the chief financial
officer, said on a conference call on April 27.  General Mills, based in  Minneapolis , said in March it would
raise prices amid “volatile costs for food ingredients.”  U.S. agricultural income is expected to rise to a record
$94.7 billion this year, according to the USDA. Farmers won’t
reap those rewards if crops deteriorate, said Schemm, who
manages 12,000 acres near Kansas’s border with  Colorado . He said
his area got 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain last week, which
may improve soil and allow replanting fields with sorghum or
corn.  Kansas is “a major supplier to the world of wheat,” he
said. “It’s critical that we start to grow a good crop, because
when we don’t have good production, it puts pressure on the
world market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  