-- 
Petrobras CEO Says ‘Too Early’ to Decide Gasoline Increases

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-02T21:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/petrobras-ceo-says-too-early-to-decide-on-brazilian-gasoline-price-rises.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  Chief Executive
Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said it’s “too early” to decide
on potential gasoline price increases even though the company
will probably need to import more of the fuel in May.  “We don’t pass through to the Brazilian market short-term
variations of the international price of oil,” Gabrielli said
today in an interview in Houston. “Our policy is a long-term
policy, and it’s too early to decide what to do.”  Petrobras’s refineries in Brazil are operating close to
full capacity, forcing the Brazilian state-run producer to buy
fuel abroad even as government price caps may prevent it from
passing on the full cost to consumers. Petrobras cut gasoline
prices by 4.5 percent in June 2009 and hasn’t raised them since,
while crude futures have surged 66 percent in the period.  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras won’t add any significant
capacity to its domestic refining network until it completes a
new plant in 2013, Gabrielli said.  Petrobras rose 0.5 percent to close at 25.73 reais in Sao
Paulo trading today. The stock has lost 22 percent in the past
year, compared with a 3.1 percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  Low  interest rates  in developed economies have encouraged
speculators to invest in oil futures, making it difficult to
predict when crude prices may retreat, Gabrielli said. Global
oil demand and supply are balanced, he said.  Oil Prices   Oil for June delivery fell for the first time in four days,
losing 41 cents to close at $113.52 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract settled at $113.93 on April
29, the highest level since Sept. 22, 2008.  Brazil’s government, which owns a majority of Petrobras’s
voting shares, has said it wants to hold gasoline prices stable
to keep inflation in check.  Petrobras is digging deeper in Brazil’s offshore Campos
Basin to find deposits beneath existing fields that may be
trapped under a layer of salt, Gabrielli said. The company has
discovered about 2 billion barrels of recoverable oil in the
basin since 2009, which will be easier to exploit than deepwater
fields in the nearby  Santos Basin .  “The beauty of those types of discoveries is we can
connect them to production platforms already in place,”
Gabrielli said. Petrobras has pipelines and platforms at Campos,
where it has produced for more than 30 years, Gabrielli said.  Salt Layer  A layer of salt under the seabed made it difficult for
geologists to explore the area until technology such as three-
dimensional seismic imaging improved. Two of Brazil’s most-
productive wells produce from so-called pre-salt deposits in
Campos, according to the country’s oil regulator.  Petrobras first discovered oil at Campos in 1974 and
started commercial production in 1977, according to the
company’s website. Campos produced 1.9 million barrels a day in
February, or 79 percent of  Brazil ’s oil and natural gas,
according to the regulator.  Petrobras is on track to increase domestic oil output 5
percent this year to an average of 2.1 million barrels a day as
the company increases production at offshore platforms,
Gabrielli said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  