-- 
Petrobras Cut in Santos Plan Allays Spending Concern, BofA Says

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-02T17:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/petrobras-cut-in-santos-plan-allays-spending-concern-bofa-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s reduced
spending outlook for some Brazilian offshore fields allays
concerns the oil producer may announce an excessive increase in
its $224 billion full investment program, Bank of America
analyst Frank McGann said.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based state-run company is
known, will likely increase its five-year plan to between $240
billion and $260 billion through 2015 to include the development
of  oil deposits  it bought from the government, McGann wrote in a
report today. Capital expenditures of $73 billion at so-called
pre-salt fields in the Santos Basin will be about 32 percent
less than predicted a year ago because higher production rates
will cut costs, Petrobras said in an e-mailed statement.  “The substantial capex reduction for the pre-salt plan
should help to allay a key investor concern for the 2011-2015
full business plan,” McGann said.  Petrobras is running the oil industry’s biggest investment
program to tap and refine crude from fields two miles below the
ocean surface and another four miles beneath the seabed,
including the two biggest discoveries in the Americas since
 Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. It raised $70 billion last year in
the world’s biggest stock offering, including $42.5 billion
worth of shares it transferred to the government in exchange for
rights to develop 5 billion barrels of crude.  Each deep-water well at Santos will produce about 20
percent more than previously expected, helping accelerate output
gains, the company said.  Production Targets  Petrobras expects to beat its previous production targets
at Santos, reaching 613,000 barrels a day in 2015 and 1 million
barrels a day in 2017. About 60 percent of the production
belongs to Petrobras, with the remainder controlled by partners
including BG Group Plc and  Galp Energia SGPS SA. (GALP)   Brazil  plans to double production to 5 million barrels a
day by 2020 as Petrobras and other companies tap Libra and Lula,
the country’s largest oil fields. Petrobras operates Lula and
will hold at least a 30 percent stake in Libra when the
government auctions the field.  Petrobras said April 8 that it plans to drill 20 deep-water
wells at Santos this year, including Lula, Cernambi, Guara and
Carioca. The government estimates that Libra holds as much as 15
billion barrels and Petrobras forecasts 6.5 billion barrels of
recoverable reserves at Lula.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Houston at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  