-- 
Phil Spector’s Conviction for Murder of Lana Clarkson Affirmed on Appeal

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-02T23:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/phil-spector-s-conviction-for-murder-of-lana-clarkson-affirmed-on-appeal.html
The murder conviction and prison
sentence of “wall of sound” music producer  Phil Spector  for
the 2003 shooting death of actress Lana Clarkson were upheld by
a California appeals court.  Spector, 71, is serving a sentence of 19 years to life at a
Corcoran, California, prison after being found guilty of second-
degree murder for shooting Clarkson, 40, at his mansion a few
hours after they had met at a nightclub where she worked.  The Los Angeles-based appeals court today rejected
Spector’s argument that the judge overseeing the trial from
October 2008 to April 2009 erred by permitting videotaped
evidence from the music producer’s first trial in 2007, which
ended with a hung jury. The appeals court also said the lower
court properly allowed evidence of Spector’s history of
threatening women with guns when he was drunk.  “Spector expressly tried to prove Clarkson had committed
suicide, and implicitly raised the alternative defense that she
might have shot herself accidentally,” the three-judge panel
said. “The other crimes evidence was relevant to disprove these
theories about how Clarkson died.”  Spector became famous in the 1960s with his “wall of
sound” music recording method. The dense, multilayered
productions resulted in hits for the Ronettes, featuring
Spector’s former wife Ronnie, the Righteous Brothers and others.
He went on to produce the Beatles’ album “Let It Be” and solo
projects by  John Lennon  and George Harrison.  Judge’s Instructions  Dennis Riordan, the lawyer representing Spector in the
appeal, said in an e-mailed statement that the trial judge for
the first time in the history of criminal trials in the U.S.
allowed the prosecution to show the jury video evidence that
included the judge himself.  “The trial judge approved of his being made a key part of
the prosecution’s case by refusing the defense’s demand that the
judge instruct the jury that he was not a witness for either
side and that nothing he said or did could be considered as
evidence against the defendant,” Riordan said.  The lawyer said he will ask for a new hearing before the
court of appeals and, if needed, seek a review by the  California 
Supreme Court.  The case is People v. Spector, B216425, California Court of
Appeals, Second Appellate District ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 