-- 
PPC Says 21 Groups Interested in World’s Biggest Solar Park

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-05-02T15:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ppc-says-21-groups-interested-in-world-s-biggest-solar-park-1-.html
     May 2 (Bloomberg) -- Public Power Corp SA (PPC) ,  Greece ’s biggest
electricity producer, said 21 companies expressed interest in
being a strategic partner for renewable energy investments,
including the biggest solar project in the world.  Applications came from nine countries including  China ,
 India , the U.S.,  Spain , Japan and  France , according to an e-
mailed statement from the Athens-based company today.  Lanco Solar International Ltd. of India; a group led by
 Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR) ;  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ; U.S-based
Sunedison; Siemens AG; China North Industries Corp. and Atese
SA; Spain’s  Elecnor SA (ENO) ; China’s  Shanghai Aerospace Automobile
Electro Mechanical Co. (600151)  were eight of the groups expressing
interest, according to the e-mail.  Earlier in the year  Public Power  announced the 600 million-
euro ($894 million) project to build a 200-megawatt photovoltaic
park and an associated panel factory in Kozani, northern Greece,
The biggest solar park at present is in  Canada  and generates 97
megawatts, PPC, as the company is called, said.  France’s  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN) ; Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co.;  Sunpower Corp. (SPWRA)  with  Metka SA (METTK) ; a group including
 Norway ’s Renewable Energy Corp. ASA; ESSE, a joint venture
including  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and Sharp Corp.; Hanergy Holding Group Ltd.,
U.S.-based AES Solar Energy Ltd.; and J&P Avax with Sorgenia SpA
and Wurth Solar Gmbh & Co. KG also expressed interest, the e-
mail said.  Public Power will review the expressions and invite parties
that qualify to proceed to the second-phase of the tender to
submit bids, the e-mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  