-- 
PPR CEO Says Volcom Acquisition Shows Scope of Future Lifestyle Deals

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-02T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ppr-buys-volcom-for-607-5-million-to-expand-in-skateboarding-surfing.html
PPR (PP)  SA’s agreement to buy skate- and
snowboarding clothier  Volcom Inc. (VLCM)  for $607.5 million is
indicative of further acquisitions the company may make as it
develops its sports and lifestyle division, Chief Executive
Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said.  “When it comes to other market segments, we will have the
same type of logic, trying to aim for small or mid-sized
companies with potential for growth,” Pinault said by phone
yesterday. “It shouldn’t be bigger than this one.”  Volcom, whose products include $79.50 board shorts and $52
messenger bags, will complement Puma, which specializes in
soccer and running, Paris-based PPR said. Pinault is seeking to
build a portfolio of brands around Puma as PPR has done in
 luxury goods , where smaller brands including Bottega Veneta
support flagship Gucci.  While the purchase would be PPR’s biggest since Puma in
2007, the size is “quite reassuring because the market was
worried that PPR could go for a big acquisition,” said Boris Bourdet, an analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris, by phone. He
recommends buying PPR shares.  Puma, known for its leaping-cat logo, is targeting an
11 percent increase in sales this year to 3 billion euros
($4.5 billion) and 4 billion euros by 2015. The total sports and
lifestyle unit will have revenue of more than 5 billion euros by
2015, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Francois Palus said
yesterday, adding that there may be other purchases in the
business.  No Other Talks  PPR, which is also looking for acquisition opportunities
in its luxury division, isn’t in talks with any other targets,
Pinault said. Volcom, which is aiming for sales of between
$366 million and $371 million in 2011 and $550 million by 2014,
will enhance PPR’s earnings from 2012, he said.  PPR is paying almost 14 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization for the 20-year-old Volcom,
which is more than the 11.9 times Ebitda it paid for Puma in
2007, according to Bloomberg data. Volcom sales had compound
average growth rate of 12 percent in the last five years,
Pinault said. Volcom had net cash of $90 million in 2010.  PPR will pay $24.50 a share in cash for  Costa Mesa ,
California-based Volcom, the companies said in a statement. The
purchase has an enterprise value of $516.1 million. The bid
values Volcom at 24 percent more than its April 29 closing share
price of $19.73. The stock rose $4.67, or 24 percent, to $24.40
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  ‘Lofty’ Premium  “The lofty transaction premium reflects the strong
authenticity of Volcom in the marketplace,”  Brian Sozzi , an
analyst at Wall Street Strategies Inc., said in a note. PPR,
which ruled out buying surf brand  Quiksilver Inc. (ZQK)  in December,
can help Volcom expand internationally, the analyst said.  Volcom has “significant growth opportunities” in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Australia , Palus said on a conference call. PPR
will develop the company’s store network globally and penetrate
untapped markets in  Asia , excluding  Japan , he said. Volcom
products are sold in 40 countries, according to Pinault.  PPR shares fell 15 cents, or 0.1 percent, to close at
120.6 euros in Paris. The company has gained 1.3 percent this
year, giving it a market value of 15.3 billion euros.  PPR is reorganizing to focus on luxury goods and sports and
lifestyle as it seeks to tap rising demand for branded clothing
and accessories in emerging markets. PPR spun off African
distributor CFAO in 2009 and sold furniture retailer Conforama
in March. The French company plans also to shed online retailer
Redcats and the Fnac electronics and media chain and use some of
the proceeds for acquisitions.  “There is no time relation between our divestitures and
acquisitions,” Palus said.  Volcom Targets  Volcom, known for its diamond-shaped logo, had net income
of $22.3 million in 2010 and revenue of $323.2 million,
according to Bloomberg data. The company, which says it
“embodies the creative spirit of youth culture,” generates
two-thirds of sales in the U.S.  Peter J. Solomon Co. acted as financial adviser to PPR
while  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  advised Volcom, according to
the statement. The transaction will be completed in the third
quarter, according to the statement. Volcom officials who own
14.4 percent of the outstanding shares have agreed to tender all
of their shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  