-- 
Ralcorp Rejected Unsolicited Takeover Proposal in March

-- B y   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-02T13:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ralcorp-rejected-unsolicited-takeover-proposal-in-march-3-.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the maker of
Honey Bunches of Oats cereal, rejected an unsolicited takeover
offer in March after deciding the bid wasn’t in the best
interest of shareholders.  The board isn’t in talks with anyone on a sale, the  St.
Louis , Missouri-based cereal maker said in a statement last
night. Ralcorp didn’t identify its suitor. Last week, CNBC
reported that  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  made an unsolicited bid.  Apollo Global Management LLC is seeking an investment in
Ralcorp and planned to meet with managers to discuss options, a
person familiar with the talks said April 29. Ralcorp, formed in
a spinoff from Ralston Purina Co. almost 20 years ago, generated
more than $4 billion in sales last year from selling store-brand
items such as peanut butter, cookies and condiments, as well as
the Post brand of cereal.  “I am not surprised by ConAgra’s interest, but the option
that might make most strategic sense would be an approach by
private equity,” said  James Amoroso , a food industry consultant
based in Walchwil,  Switzerland . A private-equity firm may decide
to sell the Post cereal business and focus on private labels, he
said. History suggests “that companies that mix branded and
private label business model do not do well.”  Ralcorp spokesman Matt Pudlowski didn’t return a call for
comment. ConAgra spokeswoman Teresa Paulsen declined to comment.  A ConAgra purchase of Ralcorp would make sense because of
ConAgra’s familiarity with store-brand industry trends,
 Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said in a note
to clients today.  ConAgra Offer?  “ConAgra could well still be lurking,” said the St.
Louis-based analyst, who recommends holding ConAgra’s shares. A
bid also may signal “a higher appetite for risk on the part of
senior management.”  Ralcorp rose 3.3 percent to $80.33 at 9:54 a.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra
gained 29 cents to $24.74.  There were almost 1,800 food-company takeovers in the five
years through 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Acquirers have paid an average of 8.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the data show.
Ralcorp had Ebitda of $628.60 million in the year ended
September 2010.  This year, New York-based Apollo, led by  Leon Black , bid
for Sara Lee Corp., before being rebuffed by the  Downers Grove ,
Illinois-based maker of Ball Park hot dogs. Apollo has been
working with former consumer executive C. Dean Metropoulos to
find investment opportunities in the industry.  Acquisition History  ConAgra, known for its Chef Boyardee pasta and Healthy
Choice frozen meals, has done a single acquisition in the past
12 months, the June purchase of American Pie LLC. Buying Ralcorp
would give ConAgra Chief Executive Officer Gary Rodkin the
biggest maker of store-brand pasta and cereal in the U.S.  Ralcorp added to its private-label pasta business with the
$1.2 billion purchase of the American Italian Pasta Co. last
year. The business’s branded cereals, including Raisin Bran.  Ralcorp, like rivals, faces rising prices for ingredients
such as milk and wheat. The company gets about a quarter of its
annual sales from its branded cereal unit, which sells products
including Post Shredded Wheat. Post Foods traces its roots to
the 1895 creation of cereal beverage Postum by C.W. Post. The
company’s biggest unit is its sauces and spreads business, which
makes products including Hoody’s Branded Snack Nuts and had $1.5
billion in revenue last year.  The company also reported results for the second quarter
ended March 31 yesterday. Net income climbed 78 percent to $83.3
million, or $1.50 a share, on sales of $1.17 billion, Ralcorp
said.  Acquisitions such as the American Italian Pasta purchase
helped bolster sales, according to the company. Excluding items
such as integration costs, earnings were $1.43 a share, compared
with the $1.25 average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  