-- 
Ramsay Protege Atherton Offers Creative Feasting, Ham Dessert

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-02T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/ramsay-protege-atherton-offers-creative-feasts-ham-dessert-richard-vines.html
Slice and dice it as you will, the two
most important new London restaurants of this year are those of
chefs  Heston Blumenthal  and now Jason Atherton, whose Pollen
Street Social received 5,000 bookings on the first day.  Blumenthal, 44, is best known for the Fat Duck and for
television shows where he shows a zany approach to food, such as
making a jelly wobble by inserting a vibrator. Atherton, 39, is
less of a showman yet no less creative. There’s more respect
than rivalry between the two, and Blumenthal was among the chefs
who attended the opening party at Pollen Street.  Atherton was the first U.K. chef to work at El Bulli and
went on in May 2005 to create Maze, an original and exciting
restaurant that combined modern European, British and Asian
influences and abandoned the traditional three-course style of
dining in favor of a meal constructed of small plates.  The owner was  Gordon Ramsay , from whom Atherton split in
2010. Pollen Street is his first solo venture in London. He’s
been working on it night and day and has plenty of pride and
capital tied up in it. The good news for him, and us, is that
it’s a worthy culinary rival to Dinner by Heston Blumenthal.  It’s not another Maze, though you will spot dishes that
carry through the fun theme of Atherton’s food there. His
deconstructed BLT (featuring lettuce veloute in a chilled
martini glass) is replaced by Full English breakfast: An egg is
slow cooked in its shell and served on a tomato compote with
morels and bacon with parsley, seasoned with pepper.  Creative Feasting  The menu is structured so you have a choice of about eight
starters that can be combined to create a meal, or you can
choose a main course in the usual way. My preference is to order
a bunch of starters and mains to share: There’s so much
creativity, so much exciting food, it’s hard to choose.  It reminds me of being young, entering a club full of
beautiful women and trying to decide who to ask for a dance.
(The main difference is that I’ve never been rejected by dishes
in a restaurant.)  Among starters, the Fowey oysters (with oyster ice cream,
dashi stock and herb yarrow) could only give you more of a taste
of the sea if you listened to a recording of crashing waves
while eating. (No one would do that, would they?)  A main of Cotswold lamb sirloin, braised belly, pea salad
and sheep’s milk curd is sensational, with deep, sweet flavors
balanced by the sourness of the curd. It’s a dish I love, but
I’ll happily two-time it with the Black Angus aged beef. Only
the duck-fat chips are a work in progress: If they were on
Facebook, they would have no friends.  Playful Desserts  Atherton lets rip on the playfulness when it comes to
desserts: “Ham, Cheese & Herbs” anyone? This consists of
watermelon rind slow cooked to resemble ham, creamed vanilla
cheese with icing sugar and goat’s curd, with basil sorbet.
Tiramisu is feather light and comes with hot-chocolate coffee.  The wine list by head sommelier Laure Patry -- one of the
many faces you may recognize from Maze -- is one of the most
enjoyable in  London . I can’t think of another restaurant with
the range and variety and so much choice below 40 pounds.  You might pick Grace Koshu Kayagatake, Katsunuma,  Japan ,
2009 (44 pounds/$66.60) for fun or a bet, though it isn’t bad.
The Slovenian Sauvignon Blanc, Verus, 2009 (35 pounds) you may
order again, and I fell in love with the Bulgarian Pinot Noir,
Edoardo Miroglio, Nova Zagora, 2007 (35 pounds).  Pollen Street Social isn’t yet great: The service started
with a wobble and Atherton is still tweaking the menu. The
prices are higher than the casual ambience suggests, though
there’s nothing casual about the cooking and few diners could
complain about 20 pounds for the two-course lunch.  Atherton last year opened a restaurant in  Shanghai  (Table
No. 1) and if I were a gambler, I’d be willing to bet that
Pollen Street Social is just the start in  Europe . He’s an
exceptional chef -- a fine technician with a creative mind.  Pollen Street Social is a work in progress and I’m giving
it a maximum four stars because I believe it’s progressing
toward excellence.  Pollen Street Social, 8-10 Pollen Street, London, W1S 1NQ.
Information: +44-20-7290-7600 or
 http://www.pollenstreetsocial.com/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Up to you, though easy to spend 100 pounds.  Sound level? Not noisy: about 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Try for the bar if the restaurant’s full.  Special feature? Dessert bar.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Perfect if you don’t mind waiting.  Rating? ****  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 