-- 
Treasury May Keep Three Debt Sales at $72 Billion, Survey of Dealers Shows

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-02T19:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/treasury-may-keep-three-debt-sales-at-72-billion-survey-of-dealers-says.html
The Treasury will probably keep the
total of next week’s auctions of three-, 10- and 30-year
securities at $72 billion as the government approaches its debt
limit, primary dealers forecast.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of three-year notes, $24
billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year bonds next
week, according to 14 of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary
dealers, which are required to bid in Treasury auctions. The
amounts are the same as the grouping of auctions of these
maturities in February.  Five of the primary dealers saw reductions in auction sizes
and one dealer didn’t respond to the survey.  “There is still reasonably good demand for supply coming
and not a lot of need to change issuance at the moment,” said
Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, a primary dealer. “The government’s funding
needs are close to the same.”  The U.S. 10-year note yield, which declined in April by the
most since August, touched six-week lows today as the Fed
purchased $7.24 billion of Treasuries due from May 2018 to
February 2021 as part of its debt-buying program. Treasuries
fell earlier on news Osama bin Laden died in a firefight in
 Pakistan , depriving the militant al-Qaeda group of its leader.  Budget Deal  Republicans in Congress and President  Barack Obama  agreed
April 8 to cut about $38 billion from federal spending this
year, pulling the government back from the brink of a shutdown.
Congress is facing a vote as early as this month on raising the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury Department projects
that it will hit the cap on May 16, though it could use
emergency measures to avoid default until about July 8.  The Treasury has sold $713 billion of notes and bonds so
far this year, compared with $812 billion at this point last
year, when the government issued a record of $2.249 trillion of
coupon securities.  Five of the primary dealers forecast the government will
cut borrowing between $1 billion and $3 billion at next week’s
offerings. Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc
in  New York , MF Global Inc., and Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
forecast declines of $1 billion at each of the three sales,
lowering the three-year note auction to $31 billion, the 10-year
note sale to $23 billion and the 30-year bond offering to $15
billion. Morgan Stanley projected only the three-year note sale
will be cut.  ‘Borrowing Needs’  “It just matches the borrowing needs as far as we can see
it,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at
primary dealer Morgan Stanley in New York. “That’s what we’re
seeing based on receipts.”  Next week’s auctions are scheduled to announced May 4 and
begin May 10 with the three-year note offering.  The U.S. is financing a  budget deficit  that the Obama
administration projected in February would reach a record $1.6
trillion. The gap reached $1.294 trillion in fiscal 2010, which
ended Sept. 30, the second highest on record.  Treasury Department lowered its estimate for  government
borrowing  from April through June because of higher revenue and
reduced  government spending .  Borrowing will total a net $142 billion in the current
quarter, or $156 billion less than estimated three months ago,
the department said in a statement today in  Washington . The
Treasury also projected borrowing of $405 billion in the three
months to Sept. 30. In the quarter that ended March 31, the
Treasury borrowed $265 billion, compared with a previous
estimate of $237 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  