-- 
RIM Introduces Touch-Screen Bold Phones to Challenge Apple

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-02T20:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/rim-introduces-touch-screen-bold-phones-to-challenge-apple.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the
BlackBerry smartphone, introduced two touch-screen handsets that
it expects to begin selling in the next few months to compete
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The Bold 9900 and 9930 phones, the thinnest BlackBerrys
yet, have keyboards and 2.8-inch screens, company executives
told reporters today on the first day of the annual BlackBerry
World trade show in  Orlando ,  Florida . The handsets will be based
on the new BlackBerry 7 operating system.  RIM is looking to generate buzz for new devices after its
new BlackBerry PlayBook tablet got mixed reviews last month and
the company last week cut its profit and sales forecasts, saying
new products were taking longer to develop than originally
anticipated. The reduced outlook prompted at least five analysts
to downgrade RIM shares and was followed by the stock’s biggest
one-day drop in 19 months.  Co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Balsillie told analysts last
week that he wished RIM’s new products would come sooner to
replace current BlackBerrys, which have lost market share to the
iPhone and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Carlo Chiarello, vice president of handheld portfolio
product management, told reporters today that the new phones
will begin to be available in “late summer.”  RIM fell 55 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $48.10 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 17
percent this year.  ‘Heavy Lifting’  In Orlando today, Balsillie faced questions from investors
about delays to the new phones and criticism that RIM didn’t
give the PlayBook and supporting software to carriers early
enough. AT&T Inc. said on the day of the PlayBook’s debut last
month that it won’t release software that enables e-mail on the
tablet because it had “only just received” the application for
testing.  “We can’t give them something to certify until it’s
ready,” Balsillie said.  RIM bought 14 companies in the past year, including
browser-software developer Torch Mobile and the company that
invented QNX, the software underpinning the PlayBook.  Integrating those companies with RIM to develop a new
browser and operating system was a huge task and RIM got the
PlayBook in to the market as soon as it could, Balsillie said.  “I’d love to have had it two months earlier,” he said.
“All of this has been heavy, heavy lifting.”  Balsillie said he has taken over management of BlackBerry
marketing following the March resignation of Chief Marketing
Officer Keith Pardy.  Faster Browsing  The PlayBook was criticized by technology reviewers for not
providing a separate e-mail program for the PlayBook. To access
e-mail, users need a BlackBerry smartphone to connect through,
or a Web-based e-mail account. Dedicated PlayBook e-mail and
instant messaging applications will come this summer, Alan Panezic, vice president of software, said today.  The 9900 and 9930 are essentially the same device though
they incorporate different radios designed for the GSM and CDMA
standards that dominate mobile-phone networks across the globe.  The announcement of just one device was “possibly less
than some investor expectations for 3-4 device launches,”  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in
a research note. He cut his rating on the stock last week to
“sector perform.”  Wall Street IPhones  RIM executives said the new operating system lets users do
voice-activated searches and has an improved Internet browser
that loads Web pages 1.6 times faster than devices running its
BlackBerry 6 operating system.  “07 BlackBerry Browser is now one of the elite browsers in
mobile today,” said Andrew Bocking, vice president of handheld
software product management.  RIM, which provides wireless e-mail service for businesses
and governments, said today it has bought software company
Ubitexx to build an application that will allow corporate
customers to manage iPhones, iPads and Android devices with the
same system used for BlackBerrys.  The announcement comes as more Wall Street banks and other
businesses change their security policies to allow their
employees to run corporate e-mail and software on their own
devices in addition to company-issued BlackBerrys.  In an afternoon discussion with analysts, co-CEO Mike Lazaridis said that RIM’s recent acquisitions have given it the
ammunition to stay competitive, including valuable technology
patents.  “We’ve not only been filing a lot of patents, but a lot of
the companies we’ve been buying have a lot of IP themselves, so
we’re building a really good war chest,” he said.  He declined to comment on whether RIM will bid for Nortel
Networks Corp.’s portfolio of 6,000 wireless patents and patent
applications. Google has offered $900 million for the
technology. RIM is weighing an offer to bid alone and may join a
group to keep Google from gaining control of the patents, two
people familiar with RIM’s plans said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  