-- 
Robert Toll Says Fewer Homebuyers Canceling as Market on ‘Comeback Trail’

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   W i l l o w   B a y
-- 
2011-05-02T20:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/robert-toll-says-fewer-homebuyers-canceling-as-market-on-comeback-trail-.html
Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  Chairman Robert Toll said fewer people who make deposits to buy new houses are
backing away from their purchases, a sign that demand is
starting to recover in some markets.  “Once they make a deposit, they haven’t been leaving,”
Toll, whose company is the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today with Willow Bay.
“The drop in deposit rate is about 3 or 4 percent, which is
very low.”  Toll Brothers, based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, reported a
cancellation rate of 5.7 percent for the quarter ended Jan. 31,
down from 6.7 percent a year earlier. The company described the
number for the most recent quarter as a return to “historic
norms after several years of elevation.”  U.S. homebuilders have been struggling to compete with
lower-priced existing houses as high foreclosure rates drive
down values. New homes sold at an annual pace of 300,000 in
March and 270,000 in February, a record low since the Commerce
Department began tracking the data in 1963.  Home prices and sales volume in April were up from March,
Toll said in the interview at the Milken Institute Global
Conference in  Beverly Hills ,  California . Toll Brothers’s average
selling price for its most recent quarter was $586,000, compared
with $246,800 for the average U.S. new home sold in March.  “It appears as though we’re on the comeback trail,” said
Toll, whose company sells homes in 19 states.  The stronger markets include New England, the mid-Atlantic,
and Charlotte and Raleigh,  North Carolina , according to Toll.
Parts of Florida remain “choppy,” he said.  Toll declined to say when the company expects sustainable
profitability because the homebuilder has yet to report results
for the three months ended April 30. Toll Brothers had a profit
in its three most recent quarters after losing money the
preceding 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 