-- 
Romania May Hold EU’s Highest Interest Rate as Leu Gains Curb Inflation

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-02T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/romania-may-hold-eu-s-highest-rate-as-leu-gains-curb-inflation.html
Romania ’s central bank will leave its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the eighth meeting as the
European Union’s highest borrowing costs boost the leu, helping
combat inflation, a survey showed.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will leave its monetary
policy rate at 6.25 percent today, according to all 11
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The bank will announce its
decision after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  Central banks around the world are struggling to rein in
accelerating inflation as global food and oil price rise amid
turmoil in the Middle East. Romania raised its value-added tax
last year to generate revenue and narrow the  budget deficit ,
prompting the monetary policy makers to halt a rate-cut cycle
aimed at helping the economy recover from a recession.  “The  exchange rate  appears to be a more efficient
instrument than the policy rate in containing inflation
pressures, and so it is likely for the central bank to focus
more on it,” Raiffeisen Romania SA economist Nicolae Covrig
wrote in a note to clients before the decision.  The leu has gained 4 percent against the euro in the past
three months, the best performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 4.0929 as
of 6:57 p.m. yesterday in Bucharest.  The central bank may allow the leu  strengthen to help
bring the inflation rate within its target this year, Catalin
Pauna, the  World Bank ’s economist to the country, said in a
Bloomberg interview on April 19.  Halting Cuts  Several countries in the region, including Hungary, Poland
and  Russia  have started raising interest rates since last year
to slow price increases. The  European Central Bank  last month
boosted borrowing costs for the first time in almost three
years.  Romanian policy makers stopped cutting the rate in June
2010 after lowering it four times to combat the worst recession
in two decades and contain price growth after a 5 percentage-
point increase in the VAT to 24 percent boosted consumer prices.  The inflation rate rose to 8 percent in March from 7.6
percent in February, the highest in 2 1/2 years, on rising food
and fuel costs.  “Due to rising risks on the inflation front and the
deterioration in forward-looking expectations, we believe that
the central bank is more likely to keep rates on hold in 2011,”
Istanbul-based Citigroup Inc. economists Ilker Domac and
Gultekin Isiklar wrote in a note to clients.  Inflation to Slow  The central bank, which aims to keep price growth between 2
percent and 4 percent this year, may raise raise its 2011
inflation forecast to as much as 5 percent from 3.6 percent,
Adrian Vasilescu, an adviser to Governor Mugur Isarescu, said on
April 12. Inflation will probably slow “substantially” in the
second half of the year, Pauna said.  The central bank lowered foreign-exchange reserve
requirements by 5 percentage points to 20 percent on March 31,
leaving commercial banks including Banca Comerciala Romana SA,
owned by Erste Group Bank AG,  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA and
 Banca Transilvania (TLV)  SA more money to lend to spur the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  