-- 
Rubber Falls as China’s Manufacturing Index Declines More Than Forecast

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-05-02T07:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/rubber-slumps-as-china-s-manufacturing-index-declines-more-than-forecast.html
Rubber declined almost to a six-week
low after data showed manufacturing in  China , the world’s
largest consumer, fell more than economists forecast and as a
slump in silver spurred selling of industrial commodities.  The October-delivery contract lost as much as 3.7 percent
to 374.6 yen a kilogram ($4,615 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, before paring losses to settle at 386.8 yen
as the  U.S. dollar  advanced against the Japanese currency after
President  Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden had
been killed. Futures fell to a six-week low of 372.2 yen in
after-hours trade April 27.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.9 in April from
53.4 in March, China’s logistics federation and the statistics
bureau said in an e-mail yesterday. That was below a median
forecast of 53.9 in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.
The drop indicated that growth may moderate in the world’s
second-biggest economy after the government raised  interest
rates  and allowed faster gains in the yuan.  “The data showing a slowdown in the Chinese economy raised
concern that the nation’s raw material demand may weaken,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo, said
today by phone.  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said in a statement yesterday that
the data show an increased likelihood that growth will slow.
China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and the  World Bank  last week
forecast a full-year expansion of 9.3 percent.  Fastest Inflation  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government aims to counter the fastest
inflation since 2008 and cool a real-estate market that has been
at risk of price bubbles. Credit Suisse Group AG says the
nation’s fifth increase in benchmark rates since the global
financial crisis may come as early as today, a Chinese holiday,
less than a month after the previous move.  Rubber was also sold as silver futures on the Comex in  New
York  plunged as much as 13.2 percent, spurring investor sales of
industrial raw materials, Saito said. The precious metal slumped
as CME Group Inc., the Comex parent, increased the minimum
amount of cash that traders must deposit for speculative trades.  Silver for July delivery dropped to $42.2 an ounce before
trading at $44.825 an ounce at 3:52 p.m.  Tokyo  time. The CME
increased the so-called initial margin by 13 percent to $14,513
per contract from $12,825 after the close of business on Friday.
Margins were $4,250 a year ago.  Weak Yen  The yen weakened against the dollar, raising the appeal of
yen-denominated futures, after Laden’s killing was announced.
The yen slipped as much as 0.6 percent to 81.69 per dollar from
81.19 on April 29.  Rubber also declined amid speculation that supply from
Southeast Asian producers will expand, Saito said. Natural
rubber output will increase in the coming weeks as farmers
resume harvesting after the traditional low-production season,
easing a “tightness” in global supplies, the  Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries  said in a report last week.  Production from its member countries, representing 92
percent of global supply, may climb 10.5 percent to 2.3 million
tons in the three months through June, the group said in a
monthly bulletin. Output in the first quarter is estimated to
have advanced 6.1 percent to 2.27 million tons, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  