-- 
Rubenstein Says Carlyle Moving Beyond Buyouts Ahead of IPO

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-05-02T18:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/rubenstein-says-carlyle-moving-beyond-buyouts-ahead-of-ipo.html
David Rubenstein , co-founder of the
 Carlyle Group , said the second-largest private-equity firm is
diversifying beyond buyouts as it decides whether to go public.  “We are diversifying because you don’t want to put all
your eggs in one basket,” Rubenstein said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Willow Bay and Cristina Alesci today.
There’s a limit to how much money can be put to work in
leveraged buyouts in the U.S., he said.  Carlyle and rivals including Blackstone Group LP are
expanding beyond buyouts to create a more stable revenue stream
and appeal to outside shareholders. Carlyle agreed in January to
buy AlpInvest Partners NV to grow in  Europe , and in December
bought 55 percent of hedge fund Claren Road Asset Management.  The Washington-based firm is considering a public offering,
 William Conway , Carlyle co-founder, said in December.
Blackstone, KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC, all
based in New York, have gone public.  Carlyle hasn’t made a “final” decision on a possible
initial public offering, Rubenstein, 61, said in the interview
at the Milken Institute’s Global Conference 2011 in  Beverly
Hills ,  California .  “Having stock enables you to retain and recruit
employees,” and it allows founders to cash out some of their
holdings in the firm, Rubenstein said. Still, “I can’t say the
current environment is perfect” for an IPO.  Blackstone, KKR  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, went
public in 2007, shortly before the financial crisis. Its shares
remain about 40 percent below their IPO price, even after
gaining 32 percent since the start of the year. KKR has risen
about 32 percent this year in  New York  trading, while Apollo has
declined 4.4 percent since its March 29 offering.  Blackstone has expanded its fund-of-hedge-funds business,
now part of its largest unit by assets, as well as its advisory
group, which counsels companies on mergers and restructuring.
KKR started a capital-markets unit in 2006 to build an
underwriting business.  Carlyle isn’t likely to move into traditional long-only
investing, Rubenstein said.  “If you are a private-equity manager and your specialty is
adding value, we tend to want to be in alternative
investments,” Rubenstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  