-- 
Saab Auto Targets Factory Restart After Securing Short-Term Loan

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-02T15:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/saab-auto-targets-factory-restart-after-securing-short-term-loan.html
Saab Automobile, the cash-strapped
Swedish carmaker that halted production nearly five weeks ago,
aims to restart auto assembly within a week after securing a
loan for 30 million euros ($44.6 million).  “I would like to apologize to our dedicated employees,
suppliers, dealers and customers for the disruptions of the past
weeks,” Victor Muller, chief executive officer of Saab’s owner
 Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , said in a statement. “We will do everything in
our power to restore the confidence in our company as soon as
practically possible.”  Spyker is borrowing the money from Gemini Investment Fund
Ltd., a shareholder in the Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company.
The loan matures in six months and is convertible to stock at
4.88 euros per share. Saab also plans to draw down 29.1 million
euros from the  European Investment Bank  next week, the carmaker
said.  Spyker rose 2 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 4.24 euros in
Amsterdam trading. The stock has risen 22 percent this year,
valuing the company at 85 million euros.  Saab first suspended manufacturing on March 29 after
component makers stopped deliveries and demanded payment. The
company ran into a cash crunch after sales last year failed to
meet the company’s forecast.  The 59.1 million euros in fresh funds would allow Saab to
restart production “pending agreements on delivery schedules
with its suppliers,” Spyker said.  Long-Term Funding  Saab has so far borrowed 217 million euros from a 400
million-euro loan that the EIB, the European Union’s lending
institution, agreed to last year.  Spyker and Saab continue to work on “securing medium- and
long-term funding,” they said. Saab is in talks with Chinese
carmakers Great Wall Motor Co., China Youngman Automobile Group
Co. and Jiangsu Yueda Group Co., about a possible investment and
partnership deal, people familiar with the discussions said last
week.  Saab is also trying to bring in Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  as an investor.  General Motors Co. (GM)  tentatively agreed to
that last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  