-- 
Sacramento Kings Drop Plan to Move NBA Team to Anaheim for at Least a Year

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-05-02T21:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/sacramento-kings-drop-plan-to-move-nba-team-to-anaheim-for-at-least-a-year.html
The owners of the  Sacramento Kings 
abandoned their plan to move the National Basketball Association
franchise to  Southern California  for at least a year, the Maloof
family said in a statement.  The Maloofs had until today to file a relocation request
with the league, which had questions about the Los Angeles
area’s ability to support a third team. Owners of the  Los
Angeles Lakers  and  Los Angeles Clippers  objected to the addition
of another club, which they contend would diminish the value of
their television contracts.  The decision by the Maloofs is a victory for the city of
Sacramento, whose mayor, former NBA player  Kevin Johnson , in the
past week secured about $10 million in commitments from local
sponsors for next season.  “During this process, Mayor Johnson has strongly indicated
to both the community and the NBA that he is capable of getting
the support to build a state-of-the-art entertainment and sports
facility that the Kings fans so rightly deserve,” the family’s
statement said.  If an arena plan cannot be completed, the statement said
the league’s relocation committee would support the team’s
application to move for the 2012-13 season.  The Kings are the only major professional sports team in
 Sacramento .  ‘Public/Private Partnership’  The Maloof statement didn’t say how a new arena would be
funded. NBA Commissioner David Stern said on a conference call
that “it is not uncommon for teams to make contributions to a
public/private partnership.”  Stern wasn’t specific as to how much the Kings would
contribute under such a plan.  The Kings in Anaheim would have shared the Honda Center
with hockey’s Ducks, who are owned by billionaire Broadcom Corp.
co-founder Henry Samueli.  The Maloofs say they need a new arena to remain in
Sacramento, where voters in 2006 rejected a proposed  sales tax 
that would have raised money for a new building.  The NBA then announced it would spearhead efforts for a new
arena. No agreement was reached, prompting the Maloofs to
explore relocation.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  