-- 
Sarkozy Slander Appeal Opens as Villepin Defends 2010 Acquittal

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-02T07:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/sarkozy-slander-appeal-opens-as-villepin-defends-2010-acquittal.html
Former French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin’s acquittal on allegations related to a slander
campaign waged in part against then-presidential hopeful  Nicolas Sarkozy  will be reviewed by the Paris appeals court from today.  The 2010 decision convicted former European Aeronautic
Defence and Space Co. executive Jean-Louis Gergorin and
mathematician Imad Lahoud, saying they created a fake list of
people purportedly hiding bribe payments. They appealed, as did
the Paris prosecutor against the clearing of Villepin.  The appeal trial comes a year before the first French
presidential poll since Sarkozy’s 2007 election after triumphing
over Villepin for their party’s nomination. Sarkozy, 56, has not
announced his re-election campaign. Villepin, 57, emerged as one
of the president’s most outspoken critics and formed a breakaway
political group after the lower-court victory.  “This morning, I am not thinking of me but of the
thousands of men and women fallen” to  Osama bin Laden , Villepin
said upon arriving at the courtroom today, referring to the al-
Qaeda leader killed by U.S. military forces yesterday. Villepin,
who gained international attention after a speech attacking the
U.S. policy on  Iraq , declined to comment on the appeal hearings.  More than a hundred people including business leaders,
politicians and celebrities were linked to the list of fake
accounts supposedly held at Luxembourg-based Clearstream
International SA. The list, which surfaced in 2004, was leaked
to a French judge investigating bribery allegations linked to a
1991 frigate sale to  Taiwan .  The hearings are scheduled to run through May 26 and will
feature testimony from former spy chief General Philippe Rondot
and Renaud Van Ruymbeke, the judge who led the investigation,
since closed, into the Taiwanese bribery allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 