-- 
Satyam Investors’ U.S. Lawsuit Over Audit Settled by PwC for $25.5 Million

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/satyam-investors-u-s-lawsuit-over-audit-settled-by-pwc-for-25-5-million.html
Investors in  Satyam Computer Services
Ltd. (SCS)  settled a lawsuit against  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  for
$25.5 million related to its audit of the Indian firm that
included a $1 billion overstatement of assets.  Satyam, the software exporter embroiled in  India ’s biggest
corporate fraud probe, reached a $125 million settlement in
February in the class action in  New York . Satyam agreed last
month to pay $10 million to settle a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  PricewaterhouseCoopers and four related entities audited or
played a role in the audits of Satyam’s financial statements,
according to the shareholders’ complaint. The settlement, which
requires a judge’s approval, was disclosed in filings April 29
in federal court in Manhattan.  “Plaintiffs and lead counsel believe that the proposed PwC
settlement represents an excellent result and is in the best
interests of the class,” lawyers for the investors wrote in
court papers.  In September, Satyam, based in Hyderabad, India, reported
its first annual earnings in two years. Former Chairman
 Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in January 2009 that he overstated
Satyam’s assets by $1 billion, triggering a stock plunge and
investor lawsuits in the U.S.  Tech Mahindra Ltd. (TECHM) , based in Pune,
India, acquired control of the software-services provider in May
2009. Satyam’s American depositary receipts traded on the New
York Stock Exchange.  PricewaterhouseCoopers India said in a statement it has 
reached an agreement to settle the class action arising out of
its Satyam audits.  ``The settlement agreement, if approved, would release all 
of the the named PwC defendants,'' according to the statement.  In addition to London-based PricewaterhouseCoopers
International Ltd., related India-based companies covered by the
settlement are Price Waterhouse (Bangalore),
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Ltd. and Lovelock & Lewes.  The case is In re Satyam Computer Services Ltd. Securities
Litigation, 09-md-2027, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  