-- 
Saudi Arabia Hopes Laden Death to End Terrorism Used at Home

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-02T18:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/saudi-arabia-hopes-bin-laden-death-to-combat-terrorism-spa-says.html
The Kingdom of  Saudi Arabia  hopes
 Osama bin Laden ’s death will help efforts to combat terrorism
and dismantle terror cells that have been used to attack the
Arab world’s largest economy, the official news agency said.  Bin Laden ’s death in a firefight with U.S. troops may
undermine the ideology behind terrorism, the Riyadh-based  Saudi
Press Agency  said today, citing an unidentified government
official. Saudi citizens have “been among the most targeted
ones” by the terrorist group, it said.  Islamic militants launched a serious of violent attacks in
the kingdom that aimed to weaken the Al Saud family’s control of
the world’s largest oil reserves and break the kingdom’s
relationship with its U.S. ally. Militants targeted Western
nationals in a campaign of kidnappings and bombings from 2003
until a crackdown suppressed militant activity in the kingdom.  “From 2003, there were large-scale attacks against
specific Saudi facilities,”  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis, said today in a phone interview. “These were
designed to bring down the House of Saud and establish an al-
Qaeda friendly government.”  The U.S. had been hunting for the 54-year-old bin Laden and
his supporters in Afghanistan and  Pakistan  since al-Qaeda
attacked the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001. He was killed yesterday by
U.S. forces in a compound in Abbottabad, 50 kilometers (30
miles) north of Pakistan’s capital.  Oil Prices   Crude oil jumped to the highest level since September 2008
early in the day, amid concern that bin Laden’s death might spur
retaliatory attacks that disrupt supplies, before declining. Oil
for June delivery fell 31 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $113.62 a
barrel at 1:30 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Earlier, it touched $114.65, the highest level since Sept. 22,
2008.  The Saudi Ministry of Interior under Prince Nayef cracked
down on al-Qaeda militants and their supporters in the kingdom.
Saudi Arabia has arrested 11,527 people since Sept. 11, 2001,
for their alleged involvement in terrorism, the ministry said on
April 24.  “The states in the Middle East, particularly and most
importantly Saudi Arabia, have had a very iron-fisted response
since 2004 to Osama bin Laden,” John Sfakianakis, chief
economist of  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Saudi Arabia faced terrorism of al-Qaeda
and others inside Saudi Arabia. They have been very
successful.”  Protecting the Oil  Saudi Arabia, with 20 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves, also set up in 2007 a 35,000-man specialized
protection force to guard crude processing plants,  oil fields 
and pipelines. That year, the Saudi government started a
rehabilitation program to assimilate militants returning from
the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Bin Laden, who studied management and economics at King
Abdulaziz University in Jeddah, on Saudi Arabia’s Red Sea coast,
attracted supporters and money with his criticism of the West
and the Al Saud family, which he denounced as corrupt and un-
Islamic, as well as his advocacy of Islamic causes.  Under a pact dating back to 1744 between the Al Saud and
Muhammad bin Abdul Wahhab, the kingdom maintains an austere
brand of Islam, known as Wahhabism, in return for the Sunni
Muslim hierarchy’s acceptance of the Al Saud monarchy.  ‘Deviant Thought’  Bin Laden formed al-Qaeda with money from a family
inheritance and preached an extreme interpretation of Islam.  Saudi Arabia hopes that his death will be a step toward
dismantling al-Qaeda “as well as the elimination of deviant
thought that stands behind it,” the Saudi  news agency  said,
citing an unidentified official.  In 2004, Islamic militants struck an oil installation and
stormed a housing city in the city of al-Khobar, killing 22
foreign workers. Saudi forces foiled an attempted attack in 2006
on the Abqaiq oil-processing center, which handles two-thirds of
the kingdom’s supply.  In June 2010, al-Qaeda ordered the group’s “soldiers” to
abduct Saudi princes, ministers and Christian residents of Saudi
Arabia, according to a recording posted on an Islamist website.
In August 2009, the group attempted to assassinate a top Saudi
internal security official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin
Abdulaziz.  There hasn’t been a terrorist attack against foreigners in
the kingdom since February 2007 when four people, including two
workers at  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , died in an attack by gunmen on
a desert road.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 