-- 
Scene Last Night: Kovner, Domingo Celebrate Met’s James Levine

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-02T16:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/scene-last-night-kovner-fleming-domingo-celebrate-james-levine-at-met.html
James Levine  surveyed the gala crowd
as he rolled along one aisle at the Metropolitan Opera House on
his motorized chair. Placido Domingo and Renee Fleming ambled
down another.  Then the curtain rose on “James Levine: America’s
Maestro,” a new documentary directed by Susan Froemke.  The maestro, 67, has been a halo-haired presence at the Met
since his debut in 1971 with “Tosca” starring Grace Bumbry and
Franco Corelli. He’s now conducting Wagner’s “Die Walkure” --
an epic that could upend younger stalwarts without his health
problems.  When the lights went up, Levine beckoned 620 guests to join
him on stage where tables decorated with white hyacinths and
tulips showed off vintage photographs of the maestro illuminated
by flickering votive candles.  Many of these pictures may also be viewed in the new
hagiography, “James Levine: 40 Years at the  Metropolitan
Opera .”  Gala chairmen Mercedes Bass and Sid Bass presided over a
meal including vegetable timbale, filet of beef and baked
 Alaska .  Guests included Ann Ziff, sponsor of the new “Ring”
cycle,  Bruce Kovner, chairman and chief executive of Caxton
Associates LLC, Frederick Iseman, chairman and CEO of CI Capital
Partners LLC, Barbara Walters and Frank Langella.  Levine sat at a long banquet table with the general manager
of the Met, Peter Gelb.  ‘Broadway Baby’  The motley group of entertainers included Elaine Stritch
who sang “Broadway Baby,” an acknowledgment of Levine’s love
for musical theater (though the Met bans cross-over repertoire
on its lofty stage). Bryn Terfel led the crowd in a round of
“Home on the Range.” “This is so you can tell your
grandchildren you sang on the stage of the Met!” he joked.  Barbara Cook offered a sprightly rendition of “Here’s to
Life!” Board members presented Levine with a portrait of
Richard Wagner by Elizabeth Peyton, whose lighthearted evocation
of “Die Walkure” fill the Met’s gallery space.  Domingo sang from “Otello,” which he first performed with
Levine in Hamburg in 1975. He recalled Levine’s advice.  “He said, ‘When you arrive at the fourth act, you’ve sung
such a difficult role. At the end, when the tragedy is so big,
you have to enjoy it and make the public feel it,’” Domingo
recounted. “In every one of the 250 performances I’ve done, I
remember those words.”  Callings and Choices  Finally, an emotional Levine stood up at his table.  “You know some things are jobs, and some things are
callings. Some things are inspirations and some things are
choices.”  He then thanked the board for its support “through thick
and thin, so it’s possible to triumph over this hydra-headed art
form.”  The event raised $2 million.  “James Levine: America’s Maestro” will air as part of the
PBS American Masters series on June 1.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 