-- 
Security Heightened in New York, Washington Following Killing of Bin Laden

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-02T18:19:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/security-heightened-in-new-york-washington-following-killing-of-bin-laden.html
Security was heightened across the
U.S. and at government installations worldwide following
President  Barack Obama ’s announcement last night that al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces.  New York City Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  ordered
increased police presence in the subway system during this
morning’s rush hours, and directed all officers to “remain
alert,” said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department.  The  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  increased
police at its facilities, including the  World Trade Center site ,
“out of an abundance of caution,” and directed its officers to
coordinate with local, state and federal law enforcement,
 Christopher Ward , the agency’s executive director, said in a
statement. The agency has jurisdiction over the site where the
twin towers were destroyed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks sponsored by  bin Laden .  “There is no doubt we remain a top target, and the killing
of bin Laden will not change that,” New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg told a gathering at the World Trade Center site today.
“Nor will it distract us from a mission that remains our
absolutely highest priority: defending our city and country
against all those who use violence to attack freedom.” The
mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  New York’s state Metropolitan Transportation Authority,
which runs the city’s subway system and the Long Island and
Metro-North commuter railroads, also increased security across
its transportation system and remains on “high alert,” Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  Washington  Metro  In Washington, riders on the Metropolitan Area Transit
Authority, or Metro, saw more uniformed officers today. Transit
police, along with other  law enforcement  in the area, have
increased security “as a precautionary measure related to the
death of bin Laden,” Metro spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein said in a
recorded voice message today.  Washington has also boosted security at government
buildings and critical infrastructure, although there are no
specific threats against the city, said Doxie McCoy, a
spokeswoman for Washington Mayor Vincent C. Gray, in an e-mail
today.  Amtrak police continue to “remain vigilant” and
commanders are in “close communication” with federal
intelligence partners and local law enforcement, Steve Kulm, a
spokesman for the national passenger railroad, said in an e-
mail.  Canine Teams  The railroad is fully staffing canine teams and squads of
officers trained to detect the presence of fumes left behind
after someone passes through with an explosive device, Kulm
said. Amtrak employees are being reminded to “be aware” and
report suspicious activity, he said.  The U.S. and allies must remain “vigilant and resolute”
against terrorism in the wake of Osama bin Laden’s death, which
“struck a heavy blow” against al-Qaeda, Central Intelligence
Agency Director Leon Panetta said today.  The U.S. State Department issued a worldwide travel alert
effective through Aug. 1 warning U.S. citizens traveling and
living abroad to the “enhanced potential for anti-American
violence given recent counter-terrorism activity in Pakistan,”
according to a  statement  posted on the department’s website.  ‘Avoid Mass Gatherings’  “Given the uncertainty and volatility of the current
situation, U.S. citizens in areas where recent events could
cause anti-American violence are strongly urged to limit their
travel outside of their homes and hotels and avoid mass
gatherings and demonstrations,” the statement says.  The fight against terrorism is a “long, hard war,” and
the U.S. has to be “very concerned” about attacks inside the
country or against U.S. installations overseas,  New York 
Republican Congressman Peter King, who heads the House Homeland
Security Committee, said on  CBS’ “Early Show”  this morning.  “We know that al-Qaeda will try to avenge the death of bin
Laden and I can assure you that the American intelligence
agencies and the counterterrorism agencies here in New York, the
NYPD, the Joint Terrorism Task Force, are all monitoring this
extremely carefully trying to anticipate what could happen next,
anticipate what attack al-Qaeda might try to carry out and how
we can head that off, how we can stop it, how we can prevent
it,” King said.  Embassy Security  The U.S. and  Australia  boosted security at their embassies
around the world and Interpol told its 188 member countries to
be on “full alert” for attacks to avenge the killing of bin
Laden.  Patrol cars, paramilitary forces and commandos wearing
bulletproof vests searched motorists and pedestrians outside the
U.S. consulate in Karachi,  Pakistan . Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said the nation’s embassies would review their
security and urged travelers to be on alert.  Philippine police tightened security in embassies and
airports, President Benigno Aquino’s spokesman Edwin Lacierda,
said in a press briefing in  Manila  today.  Indonesia  will increase security after the killing of bin
Laden, especially in areas that might become “new targets,”
Ansyaad Mbai, head of Indonesia’s National Counter-Terrorism
Agency, said at a press briefing in Jakarta today. He declined
to identify possible specific targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  