-- 
Senate Panel Investigates Medtronic for Cancelled Contracts

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-05-02T20:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/senate-panel-investigates-medtronic-for-cancelled-contracts-1-.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s biggest
maker of heart devices, is under investigation by Congress for
canceling contracts with at least two cost-saving organizations
that help hospitals negotiate discounts on medical products.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  announced the
inquiry today in an e-mailed statement. Baucus wrote Medtronic
Chief Executive Officer William Hawkins asking the Minneapolis-
based company to provide information on contracts it held with
Novation LLC and Premier Inc., two purchasing groups.  Medicare, the U.S. government health program for the
elderly and disabled, spent $502 billion in 2009, according to
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Spending under
the program has risen every year but one since its creation in
1965. Purchasing organizations such as Premier work with
hospitals to get discounts on medical supplies ranging from
tongue depressors to equipment like spinal and cardiac devices.  “Reports that this move was fueled by an attempt to
discourage transparency and increase costs are troubling,”
Baucus, a Democrat from  Montana , said in the statement.
“Medtronic canceling these contracts could considerably
undermine our efforts to reduce health-care costs and increase
transparency for consumers and taxpayers.”  Earlier today, Hawkins said he would continue as
Medtronic’s CEO and chairman until a successor is named. Hawkins
had announced Dec. 20 that he would retire effective at the end
of April.  Medtronic shares gained 62 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $42.37
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Medtronic canceled the contracts with Novation as a way to
cut costs, said Chris Garland, a spokesman for the device maker.
The company will respond to Baucus “in a timely manner,” he
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 