-- 
Singapore Exchange Says It’s Open to Talks With Hong Kong

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-05-02T14:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/singapore-exchange-says-it-s-open-to-talks-with-hong-kong-1-.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , blocked by
Australian regulators in its takeover of  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , is prepared
to discuss a merger with other bourses such as Hong Kong,
according to President Muthukrishnan Ramaswami.  The exchange isn’t currently working on a
“transformational deal,” and is focusing on expanding its
clearing services for derivatives, growing company listings and
finding collaborative agreements that drive revenue, he said in
an interview yesterday at  the World Federation of Exchanges
IOMA/IOCA conference  in Mumbai.  “If Hong Kong came to us and said: shall we merge, we
wouldn’t say no at all,” Ramaswami said. “Hong Kong would
bring us size. We have no problem being a junior partner. But it
would be all about the detail.” There has been no approach or
discussion to date, he said.  Singapore Exchange , operator of the city-state’s securities
and derivatives markets, had an A$8.3 billion ($9.1 billion)
offer to buy ASX rejected by the Australian government on April
8. The deal, unanimously recommended by the companies’ boards,
was an attempt to compete with rival exchanges in  Tokyo  and Hong
Kong, where a record $58 billion was raised in equity offerings
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record IPOs  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s largest
listed exchange operator by market value, on March 2 posted its
first annual profit gain in three years, as initial public
offerings reached a record. Net income rose 7 percent to HK$5.04
billion ($650 million). On April 19, Singapore Exchange said
third-quarter profit fell 10 percent to S$67 million ($55
million) on costs linked to its attempt to buy ASX.  Even accounting for the failed Australian deal, exchanges
have announced takeovers totaling about $20 billion since
October as competition forced chief executive officers to seek
to cut costs by expanding into new markets.  Deutsche Boerse AG agreed a $9.5 billion purchase of NYSE
Euronext that would create the world’s largest exchange
operator. London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it will acquire
 Canada ’s TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto bourse.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
announced a rival offer for NYSE Euronext, which the company’s
board has twice rejected.  Boosted Trading  SGX Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker , who stitched
together eight European stock markets and sold them to  Nasdaq 
four years ago, became president of Nasdaq before joining the
Singapore bourse. He boosted trading with the introduction of 19
American depositary receipts of Chinese companies in October and
announced a S$250 million order processor that may be the
world’s fastest when it goes live in August this year.  “We think we can continue to grow,” Ramaswami said.
“That’s why we aren’t searching desperately for a partner. We
are not in a rush.”  Hong Kong  has said it may seek strategic alliances with
organizations such as technology providers and “regional and
global counterparts” as part of its plan for 2010 to 2012. Hong
Kong has a market value of HK$191 billion, while Singapore
Exchange’s is S$8.4 billion.  “We collaborate with them on a number of things but we’ve
never had a ‘should we merge?’ conversation,” said Ramaswami,
who will also become chief financial officer of Singapore
Exchange from June 11. “We now think collaboration ventures in
 Asia  are more likely than an outright deal. We don’t see an easy
deal waiting to happen in Asia.”  Clearing, Settlement  Singapore Exchange operates both trading and post-trade
arms for its markets, including clearing and settlement, and may
seek partners for any of these businesses, Ramaswami said. The
bourse plans to expand the range of derivatives it clears to
U.S. dollar-denominated interest-rate swaps and foreign
exchange, he said.  “Trading is increasing steadily and we own the whole chain
so a collaboration can be in any of these areas,” he said. “If
you take Euroclear, Clearstream as settlement partners;
LCH.Clearnet, CME, ICE for clearing; and on the futures side:
CME, ICE, Liffe, Eurex -- potential exists for all of them. We
expect three or four exchange centers to emerge over time in
Asia and we’ll be one of them.”  Euroclear is a Brussels-based settlement agency and
Clearstream and Eurex are units of Deutsche Boerse AG.
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. is a London-based clearinghouse. CME
Group Inc. and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  operate the two
biggest U.S. futures markets. Liffe is NYSE Euronext’s London-
based derivates market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Mumbai at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  