-- 
Sonoma’s Harvard Winemaker Sells to Fifth-Generation Vintner

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/sonoma-s-harvard-winemaker-sells-to-fifth-generation-sichel-elin-mccoy.html
Patrick Campbell found his calling
tending grapes at a Zen Buddhism center on Sonoma Mountain.  Thirty-four years later, the  Harvard -educated, viola-
playing, kayak-racing winemaker is one of Sonoma’s old guard,
known for the long-lived cabernets from his Laurel Glen winery,
which he sold two months ago. Like many winery founders today,
at 64, he wants to move on.  Campbell, in open-necked blue shirt and black jacket, is in
town for a nostalgic wine retrospective, a tasting of 15
vintages of his iconic cabernet sauvignon, hosted by the
winery’s new owner Bettina Sichel at New York’s  Tocqueville 
restaurant.  Laurel Glen’s cab is surely California’s most under-the-
radar great wine, thanks to Campbell’s lack of patience for
marketing and his scorn for chasing critics’ scores.  The elegant reds in front of me span three decades,
starting with 1981, the first commercial vintage from his rugged
16-acre Sonoma Mountain estate. Many vintages can still be had
for $40 to $60.  Though all have finesse, balance, and smooth structure
rather than muscle and power, they mirror prevailing trends in
 California  winemaking. Vintages from the 1980s are leaner, more
classical, with spiciness, complexity, and a floral note, while
those from the mid-1990s on are darkly fruity, rich, chocolatey.  All have more acidity - necessary for longevity -- than the
state’s many overripe high-alcohol examples.  Wine Favorites  My favorites are the savory 1988 and 1989, plush, dark
1992, cedary 1993 reserve, spicy 1996, herb-scented 1999
reserve, and very elegant 2005. Campbell has stuck with his
vision of making 100 percent cabernet, but added a second wine,
Counterpoint, in 1988. Only the best barrels go into the Laurel
Glen.  After the tasting, Campbell and I settle in a corner to sip
and talk. He attributes the wines’ character to the vineyard’s
elevation - 800 to 1,000 feet above  sea level , above the fog
layer -- and its south-east-facing slopes that mean cool morning
sunlight, not afternoon heat.  “I decided to sell four years ago,” he explains, “I was
spending most of my time with projects in Lodi and  Argentina .
There’s not much new to do at Laurel Glen.”  He would not discuss the sale price, which is reputed to be
in the $4 million to $5 million range.  Sibling Rivalry  Campbell’s story is a textbook example of the wave of
family winery sales predicted in a 2008 report from  Silicon
Valley Bank ’s wine division and Napa-based Scion Advisors.  The overwhelming majority of U.S. wineries are family owned
and 82 percent of them have first generation owners like
Campbell.  Many founders are ready to pass responsibility to the
younger generation. Yet 46 percent either have no heirs or have
children who don’t want to toil in vineyards in the California
sun, carrying on someone else’s dream.  Campbell’s kids have gone in other directions. One is a
human rights lawyer at the  United Nations , another a college
professor. A third works at the winery but doesn’t want to take
it on.  At other wineries, sibling infighting points to selling as
the solution. There is also the temptation to cash in and head
for Bali. “The recession accelerated sales,” said Silicon
Valley Bank’s Rob McMillan.  Few wineries are the size of billion-dollar  Kendall-
Jackson , whose founder  Jess Jackson  died April 21 at age 81. To
ensure that his company stayed in the family, he set up a
complicated web of intergenerational trusts.  Sichel’s Blue Nun  Global law firm  Nixon Peabody  pointed out in its fall 2008
newsletter that the coming property shift provided opportunities
for private equity funds.  Such was the case for the seven wine-loving investors
Sichel pulled together to buy Laurel Glen.  She is the fifth generation in the wine business. Her
father, Peter M.F. Sichel, chaired the family’s German wine
company and made  Blue Nun  a household name in America. His
daughter chose California for her wine career. Peter Sichel put
together a similar group of investors to purchase Bordeaux’s
 Chateau Fourcas Hosten , sold in 2006.  A number of high-profile family estates have been snapped
up recently. Acquisition-thirsty William P. Foley II, chairman
of Florida-based  Fidelity National Financial , bought Sonoma’s
1,270-acre  Chalk Hill Winery  last August, a major addition to
his fast-growing wine empire. Owner Fred Furth, 78, said his
kids weren’t interested.  In December,  Fiji Water  acquired Paso Robles pioneer  Justin
Vineyards , founded in 1981. In April, Washington State’s  Bob
Betz  sold his eponymous winery, noted for its luscious syrahs.
His daughters have other careers.  And just last Thursday, Napa’s Chappellet Vineyard & Winery
announced its acquisition of Sonoma-Loeb, founded by former U.S.
ambassador to  Denmark , John Loeb Jr. in 1973.  No Chardonnay  I’m focused on the future quality of the wines, wondering
what direction new owners will take at these properties.  Campbell’s labels cost much less than famous, over-the-top
Napa cabs. Will Sichel up the ripeness -- and price -- levels?
She says no.  “I’d hate it if Bettina uprooted the vineyard and planted
chardonnay -- that would be stupid,” Campbell says.  “I think
she’ll give it a marketing kick in the pants.”.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 