-- 
Sony Declines to Testify at U.S. House Hearing on Data Breach

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-02T20:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/sony-declines-to-testify-at-u-s-house-hearing-on-data-breach.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , under scrutiny over delays
in warning 77 million customers that their personal information
may have been stolen, declined to testify at a U.S. House
hearing on data theft, according to a lawmaker’s aide.  The company told lawmakers it was unable to appear because
of an ongoing investigation into the intrusion, Ken Johnson, a
spokesman for Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California
Republican, said today in an interview.  Sony alerted customers of a breach in its PlayStation
Network and Qriocity services on April 26, six days after
shutting them down. The Tokyo-based company apologized for the
breach today and said it is cooperating with authorities
including the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation to track down
the intruder.  Bono Mack, who chairs a House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee, has scheduled the hearing on  data theft  for May 4.
Now that Sony has declined to appear, she has moved up the
deadline for the company to respond to written questions to
tomorrow from May 6.  Bono Mack and Representative G.K. Butterfield, a North
Carolina Democrat, sent a letter Friday to Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s
executive vice president in charge of consumer products and
network services, asking when the company learned of the breach,
why it waited to notify customers and what kind of data may have
been stolen.  In a separate incident, Sony Online Entertainment, a unit
that makes role-play games, suspended service today after
discovering a hacker gained access to its systems in a second
attack on the parent company’s entertainment networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  