-- 
Sony Closes Online Division After Credit-Card Data Stolen

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-05-03T00:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/sony-online-games-division-is-shut-down-in-second-network-attack.html
Sony Online Entertainment, a maker of
role-play video games, suspended service after discovering a
hacker gained access to 23,400 credit card and debit records
from non-U.S. customers.  The  Sony Corp. (SNE)  division took its network down last night,
according to an e-mailed statement today. The San Diego-based
producer of multiplayer online games such as “EverQuest” and
“DC Universe Online” said engineers and security consultants
discovered “personal information from approximately 24.6
million SOE accounts may have been stolen.”  The breach, which has shut down Sony’s PlayStation and
Qriocity video- and music-streaming services since April 20,
also exposed information from a 2007 database, including about
12,700 non-U.S. credit or debit card numbers and expiration
dates. The credit-card information that may have been stolen
didn’t include card security codes, or pins, that serve as a
second source of authentication, Sony said.  “This is not a second attack,” Taina Rodriguez, a
spokeswoman for the  Sony Corp. (6758)  unit, said in an e-mail. “The
temporary takedown of SOE services was related to the ongoing
investigation of the external intrusion that occurred in
April.”  The stolen data may include 10,700 direct debit records of
customers in  Austria ,  Germany , the Netherlands and  Spain . The
compromised debit account information included customer names,
bank account numbers and account names, Sony said.  Hirai Apology  Sony American depositary receipts rose 49 cents to $28.80
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have dropped 19 percent this year.  Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s executive deputy president in charge of
consumer products and network services, apologized on May 1 for
the security breach between April 17 and April 19 that exposed
77 million online customer accounts. Sony faces a legal and
regulatory backlash because it took more than a week to warn
subscribers.  Sony is trying to restore  consumer confidence  by moving its
 data center  from the current location in  San Diego , appointing a
chief information security officer, updating game-console system
software and requiring users to change their passwords.  Legal, Technology Costs  “We expect Sony to be able to overcome this issue by
implementing stronger security measures, enabling it to win back
the trust of its stakeholders,” Ryosuke Katsura, senior analyst
for Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo , who has an “outperform”
rating on Sony shares, said in a research note today.  Legal and technology costs are likely to increase because
of the incidents, further hurting Sony’s credit profile, Moody’s
 Japan  K.K. said in a statement today. Sony has an A3 rating at
Moody’s with a “stable” outlook. Moody’s will continue to
monitor developments regarding the data-security breach, it said
in the statement.  A lawsuit filed April 27 in federal court in San Francisco
alleges the delay left PlayStation users exposed to losses
related to any  credit-card  data theft. Officials in  Connecticut ,
the U.K. and Ireland began inquiries. The Italian Data
Protection Authority said April 28 it will contact Sony to
gather more information and Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry is also doing the same.  Sony won’t send representatives to a U.S. House hearing May
4 on data theft, citing the ongoing investigation, Ken Johnson,
a spokesman for Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California
Republican, said today in an interview.  Hacker Activists  Sony issued  warnings  on April 26 saying personal
information, such as e-mail addresses, birth dates and login
information, was stolen by a hacker. Purchase history and credit
card information may have been stolen, the company said.  The company is probing the extent of that  data theft  and
said yesterday that it had no evidence that information on
another 10 million credit cards registered to PlayStation
Network and Qriocity had been leaked.  Sony was singled out in a statement by a group of hacker-
activists known as ‘ Anonymous ’ after the company sued George
Hotz for posting online information about how to install
alternative operating systems for the PS 3 game console. The
group issued a separate  statement  denying responsibility for the
PlayStation Network disruption, while saying some of its members
may be behind it.  Sony has had attacks by hackers in the past few months,
Hirai said. Involvement of the so-called ‘Anonymous’ hacker
group in the late April incident hasn’t been proven, he said.  Hackers previously also targeted Sony along with companies
including Google Inc., Walt Disney Co. and Johnson & Johnson,
according to a confidential e-mail discussing the subsequent
investigation.  PlayStation Network was introduced in November 2006 when
Sony started selling PlayStation 3 game consoles, according to
Sosuke Kamei, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the company’s game
unit. The online services will remain core to Sony’s strategies
and the company won’t delay introduction of networked products
such as tablet computers and portable gaming devices, Hirai
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  