-- 
South Korean Banks’ Profit Climbs 1.2% on Fee Income, Derivatives Trading

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-05-02T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/south-korean-banks-profit-climbs-1-2-on-fee-income-derivatives-trading.html
South Korean banks’ combined profit
rose 1.2 percent last quarter as gains in fee income and trading
in derivatives helped offset an increase in funds set aside for
defaults and smaller loan margins.  Net income at the 18 lenders climbed to 4.4 trillion won
($4.1 billion) for the three months ended March 31 on a
preliminary basis, from a revised 4.3 trillion won a year
earlier, the  Financial Supervisory Service  said today.  Earnings growth at South Korean lenders may be curtailed in
2011 on costs tied to ailing construction companies and savings
banks. Woori Finance Holdings Co. and  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) 
reported lower first-quarter profit as provisions for loan
losses swelled after they helped restructure builders’ debt.  Non-interest income at the 18 banks rose 8 percent from a
year earlier to 2.2 trillion won, the FSS said in an e-mailed
statement. Income related to foreign-exchange derivative
transactions more than doubled to 0.7 trillion won from 0.3
trillion won.  Average net interest margin, a measure of loan
profitability, shrank to 2.35 percent from 2.38 percent a year
ago, the report showed.  Provisions against bad loans and other potential costs
increased to 1.8 trillion won from 1.7 trillion won a year
earlier, according to the statement.  South Korean banks adopted new accounting standards this
year. Lenders excluding Export-Import Bank of  Korea , National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation and National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives switched to using the Korean
International Financial Reporting Standards from the nation’s
system of generally accepted accounting principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 