-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise After Obama Announces Osama bin Laden’s Death

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-05-02T12:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/swiss-stocks-rise-after-obama-announces-osama-bin-laden-s-death.html
Swiss stocks rose to a two-month high
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin
Laden was killed in Pakistan in a U.S. raid.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, and  Holcim
Ltd (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, led gains in the
benchmark Swiss Market Index.  Clariant AG (CLN)  rallied after Bank
Vontobel recommended buying the stock.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  sank after
a U.S. court awarded Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. up to $547 million
in an ongoing litigation.  The Swiss Market Index of the biggest and most actively
traded companies added 0.3 percent to 6,556.21 at 1:20 p.m. in
Zurich. The gauge rose 2.9 percent in April as European and
Swiss companies from Ericsson AB to Volkswagen reported better-
than-estimated earnings and the  Federal Reserve  maintained its
pledge to keep  interest rates  low for an “extended period.”
The broader Swiss Performance Index also increased 0.2 percent
to 6,027.75.  Bin Laden was killed by a team of U.S. operatives early
yesterday morning after a firefight at a house where he had been
hiding, Obama said. The President delivered the news to the
nation almost 10 years after the Sept. 11 attacks that bin Laden
orchestrated.  Swiss Re climbed as much as 1.2 percent to 52.15 francs
while Holcim added 0.8 percent to 75.90 francs as of 1:43 p.m.
Shares of drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  gained 1.1 percent to
141.90 francs.  Clariant AG, a Swiss chemical maker, gained as much as 4.2
percent to 18.70 francs after Vontobel upgraded the company’s
shares to “buy” from “hold.”  Actelion slumped as much as 6.5 percent to 47.66 francs,
the biggest retreat in more than six months. “The company is
disappointed, but respectful of the jury‘s verdict in this
ongoing litigation,” Actelion said following the jury’s ruling.
One of its major shareholders also criticized the handling of
the company’s disclosure among other reporting requirements.  The positive market reaction to bin Laden’s death will be
“short-lived,” as there are still concerns weighing on the
global economy, Christian Gattiker, Zurich-based head of
research at Bank Julius Baer & Co., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Verschuur at   pverschuur@bloomberg.net  