-- 
Switzerland Freezes $416 Million of Qaddafi Assets Amid NATO Air Campaign

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-05-02T23:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/switzerland-freezes-415-million-of-qaddafi-s-assets-amid-libyan-conflict.html
Switzerland  has frozen 360 million
Swiss francs ($416 million) of assets connected to  Muammar Qaddafi , the Foreign Ministry said, as NATO forces intensify
their campaign against the Libyan leader.  Switzerland also froze the assets of Qaddafi’s family and
associates, Adrian Sollberger, spokesman of the Swiss Foreign
Ministry, said by telephone.  NATO has rejected a cease-fire offer from Qaddafi, saying
his forces must stop attacks on civilians before it considers
any truce, and on April 30 killed the Libyan leader’s youngest
son. The insurgency since mid-February in Libya, which has
Africa’s biggest proven crude reserves, has helped push  oil
prices  up about 30 percent.  Responding to the deaths of the son, Saif al-Arab, and
three grandchildren, crowds attacked the British and Italian
embassies in Tripoli. The two embassies were assaulted on May 1,
according to government officials in  London  and  Rome .  Much of the fighting in Libya is now centered on the rebel-
held western port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last
week pushed Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s
troops are shelling the city and have attempted to mine part of
the harbor, according to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Mubarak, Ben Ali  The Swiss government has also frozen 410 million Swiss
francs of assets connected to former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , his family and associates, as well as 60 million francs
linked to former Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, his
family and associates, the foreign ministry’s Sollberger said.  Switzerland in February announced it froze the funds of
Mubarak. In January it froze the funds of Ben Ali.  The Arab world and North Africa have been shaken by anti-
government demonstrations in which protesters railed against
economic hardship and corruption. Tunisia’s Ben Ali left office
Jan. 14, followed by Mubarak, who was forced out Feb. 11 after
being in command for three decades.  Egypt ’s public prosecutor has extended the detentions of
Alaa and  Gamal Mubarak , sons of the former leader, for 15 days,
the state-run Middle East News Agency said last week.  Preparations are also under way to transfer Mubarak, who is
hospitalized in the Red Sea resort of Sharm El Sheikh, to a
military hospital “as soon as his health condition
stabilizes,” Interior Minister Mansour El-Essawy said in a
letter to the public prosecutor.  Mubarak is suffering from a heart condition that can lead
to cardiac arrest and requires intensive care, according to a
statement by the prosecutor’s office sent to the press April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  