-- 
U.S. Firms Slow to Raise Women Directors, Study Finds

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-07-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-companies-fail-to-increase-women-directors-study-finds.html
Women and minorities remain
underrepresented in U.S. corporate boardrooms, crimping
companies’ potential to lead in the global economy, a report by
the  Alliance for Board Diversity  showed.  White men held about 70 percent of the 1,211 board seats at
Fortune 100 companies last year, little changed from 71 percent
in 2004, said the alliance, which advocates the inclusion of
women and minority directors. Women added 16 seats, a 1.1
percentage point gain the group called “not appreciable.” The
biggest minority groups were African-American men at 7.3
percent, Hispanic men at 3.1 percent, and African-American women
at 2.1 percent.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  were among about 26 Fortune 500 companies
whose boards last year had representation from each of the U.S.
Census Bureau’s major groups: men, women, whites, African
Americans, Asian Pacific Islanders and Hispanics, the alliance
said. Companies won’t reach their potential without leaders from
different backgrounds, ethnicities and genders, it said.  “Six years after the first ABD Census, not much has
changed,” said Ilene Lang, chief executive officer of research
firm Catalyst and chairman of the alliance. “White men continue
to dominate corporate boards and have, in fact, increased their
presence since 2004. More diverse boards, on average, are linked
with better financial performance.”  Directors’ Chairs  HCA Holdings Inc., a Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital
chain, and  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) , a New York-based
defense contractor, were two of 37 companies in the Fortune 500
that didn’t have women or minorities with director positions in
2010, according to the survey.  “We’re just recently a public company,” said Ed Fishbough, a spokesman for HCA. “We anticipate HCA will make
more diverse additions to its board in the future.”  L-3 inspects “individual qualifications while carefully
considering gender and racial diversity” when seeking potential
candidates to serve on its board, Jennifer Barton, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Laurie Friedman, a spokeswoman for IBM, declined to
comment.  “We recognize the value that our diverse workforce brings
to our clients,” Jon Diat, a spokesman for Citigroup, said in
an e-mail. P&G views diversity as a “business necessity,” Paul Fox, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Rajat Gupta  stepped
down from the board in March and the company no longer has an
Asian Pacific representative, Fox said.  Fortune 100 Boards  Among Fortune 100 companies, white men lost four board
seats from 2004 to 2010 and white women gained 11. Asian Pacific
Islander men gained 12 seats, African-American men lost five
seats, and Hispanic men lost three.  The report is based on data from all of the companies in
the 2010 Fortune 100 and from 491 companies in the Fortune 500
that had complete race, ethnicity and gender information, the
report said.  The Alliance for Board Diversity is made up of  Catalyst ,
which focuses on women in business; the  Executive Leadership
Council , an organization of leading African-American executives;
the  Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility , which
represents 16 Hispanic organizations in the U.S. and  Puerto
Rico ; and  Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics Inc. , which
provides leadership training to the Asian and Pacific Islander
communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 