-- 
U.S. Economy Gives Obama’s Potential Election Rivals Opening With Voters

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-02T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-economy-gives-obama-s-potential-republican-rivals-opening-with-voters.html
Helen Powers says she didn’t get what
she voted for when she backed President  Barack Obama  in 2008.
Now she wants to know what the Republicans looking to oust him
next year would do to get U.S. jobs back, gas prices down, and
federal retirement programs secured for the future.  “At the beginning, I had high hopes for Obama, but now I’m
not even sure -- there just hasn’t been much positive change and
things are so bad with the economy,” Powers, a 25-year-old
hotel manager, said last week in downtown Manchester, New
Hampshire, site of the nation’s first primary. “I’m really
open, and I’m interested to see what they can bring to the table
as far as jobs,” she said of Republicans.  Candidates weighing a run for the Republican presidential
nomination in 2012 see an opening because of people like Powers
-- voters who blame Obama for not doing more to reinvigorate the
economy following the recession. As the Republicans court a Tea
Party-tinged bloc of fiscal conservatives who scorn government,
they are also seeking to appeal to broader public concern over
the nation’s fiscal future.  The president “says he just inherited the downturn,”
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney told an audience April
29 at a banquet hall in Manchester during the first
multicandidate forum of the primary season. “Yeah, that’s
right, but he made it worse, and he made it deeper, and
longer.”  ‘Misery Index’  Republicans would “have to hang the Obama misery index
around his neck,” he said, referring to the measure of the
unemployment rate plus inflation that  Ronald Reagan  focused on
in his successful campaign against then-incumbent President
 Jimmy Carter  in 1980.  Republican officials and strategists say the shaky economy
and a national debt that’s approaching $14.3 trillion will be
among their most powerful arguments against the president in the
2012 campaign. Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus told reporters April 26 that the nation’s “dire”
fiscal picture would cost Obama a second term.  “I believe that there is a strong economic case to defeat
Barack Obama, and that it’s up to us to make that economic case
to the American people,” Priebus said at a breakfast sponsored
by the Christian Science Monitor in Washington.  Basic Message  Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who like Romney is
exploring a presidential run, previewed that basic anti-Obama
message at the Manchester forum, opening his remarks by playing
on discontent about high fuel prices and joblessness.  “You had enough of $4-a-gallon gas?” Pawlenty asked.
“You had enough of unbearable levels of unemployment? You had
enough of a federal government that’s out of control? You had
enough of Barack Obama?”  While those lines drew applause from a mostly friendly
audience, the task of drawing a sharp contrast with Obama on the
economy is not without challenges. Republican candidates will
have to pivot from a relatively dark and complex message of
austerity and spending cuts that has dominated the budget debate
in Washington to a more positive, campaign-oriented vision for
 job creation  and economic growth, or risk alienating voters,
said Scott Reed, a party strategist who managed Bob Dole’s 1996
losing presidential bid.  “The eventual Republican nominee will need to be upbeat
and optimistic and future-oriented, as opposed to part of the
green eyeshade club,” said Reed.  Lorraine Charron, an 80-year-old retired factory worker
from Manchester, said she’s had it with criticism of Obama and
doomsday predictions about programs she counts on, like Medicare
and Social Security.  ‘Sound the Same’  “I’d like to see the jobs come back,” said Charron, an
independent who voted for Obama in 2008 when he carried  New
Hampshire  and its four electoral votes. She said while she’s
considering backing a Republican in 2012, she hasn’t heard
enough about what they would do to improve the economy.
“Health-care costs are so high, and gas -- nobody has said what
they’re going to do about it, and they all just sound the
same,” she said.  The  U.S. economy  slowed more than forecast in the first
quarter of this year as  government spending  declined by the
greatest amount since 1983 and household purchases cooled. High
gasoline prices and persistently high rates of joblessness are
among the most keenly felt economic woes.  The average retail price for a gallon of gasoline rose to
$3.909 last week, compared with $1.848 the day after Obama was
sworn in as president on Jan. 20, 2009, according to surveys by
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring group. Joblessness has also
risen, with the  unemployment rate  at 8.8 percent as of the end
of March, up from 7.8 percent the month Obama took office.  Ryan Plan  Pawlenty endorsed parts of a plan by Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who heads the House Budget
Committee, that would  slash $4 trillion  from the debt over the
next decade without raising taxes or cutting defense spending,
in part by making substantial changes to Medicaid and Medicare
and deep cuts to other domestic government programs.  “We need to look the American people in the eye and tell
them the truth,” Pawlenty said at the Manchester forum. “Don’t
scare them and freak them out, but show them the solutions and
the way forward.”  Pawlenty also advocated gradually raising the age at which
future beneficiaries become eligible for Social Security
payments, and slowing the rate at which benefits for the
wealthiest retirees rise each year.  Republican candidates will need to show how the cuts they
advocate will improve the economy and voters’ lives, said
economist  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who advised  John McCain  during
the Arizona senator’s 2008 race against Obama and now heads the
Republican political advocacy group the American Action Forum.  ‘Addition by Subtraction’  “I firmly believe that they need to make the case that
it’s addition by subtraction -- it can’t just be about
subtraction,” Holtz-Eakin said.  Public opinion surveys indicate that voters are still
casting about for a Republican to inspire them.  An April 15-20  Gallup Poll  showed real estate magnate
Donald Trump, who suggested in a Bloomberg News interview
yesterday that he likely will run, tied for first place with
former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, with support from 16
percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents.
Romney drew 13 percent, while former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, McCain’s 2008 running mate-turned-reality show star, got
10 percent.  Other Prospects  Other frequently mentioned Republican prospects include
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who has formed a committee to
explore a run, and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
who participated in the April 29 forum. Also contemplating
candidacies are Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana , former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , former Senator Rick Santorum
of Pennsylvania and former Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman .  “People are looking to presidential candidates to try to
explain problems to us,” the way Reagan could distill
complicated topics into understandable terms, said Charles
Arlingaus, president of the fiscally conservative Josiah
Bartlett Center for Public Policy in Concord, N.H. So far, he
said, no prospective Republican candidate has displayed that
knack.  “Any message has to come back to how people live, and you
have to make sure you don’t sound like a spreadsheet,”
Arlinghaus said. “Why we’re doing this is jobs -- we want a
growing, thriving economy so that more people can have jobs, and
better jobs,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  