-- 
Manufacturing Leading U.S. Economy on Exports, Inventories

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-02T20:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-manufacturing-grows-at-slower-pace-as-ism-april-index-falls-to-60-4.html
Manufacturing expanded faster than
forecast in April, driven by gains in exports and inventories
that are keeping the industry at the forefront of the U.S.
economic expansion.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
60.4 last month from 61.2 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion and
the measure has exceeded 60 for four consecutive months, the
best performance since 2004.  Demand from emerging economies like China, the need to
replenish stockpiles and investment in new equipment may keep
benefitting manufacturers, including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 Cummins Inc. (CMI)  Federal Reserve policy makers last week said the
expansion was “proceeding at a moderate pace,” buoyed by
stronger business spending.  “The overall manufacturing sector remains healthy,” said
Robert Dye, a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in Pittsburgh. The industry “is helping to sustain an
ongoing economic expansion,” he said.  The median forecast of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a drop to 59.5. Estimates ranged from 57.5 to
62.  Construction Gain  Another report showed construction spending rose more than
forecast in March as companies put up factories and power
plants, while home improvement outlays also rebounded. The 1.4
percent gain was the biggest since April 2010 and followed a
revised 2.4 percent decrease in February that was larger than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed.  Also today, results from a Federal Reserve survey showed
banks made borrowing easier in the first quarter as they
forecast the economy will improve. Looser standards for business
loans reflected more competition among banks, while some
financial institutions “also pointed to a more favorable or
less uncertain economic outlook,” the Fed said in its quarterly
poll of senior loan officers.  The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
projected a 0.4 percent increase.  Stocks dropped, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down from its highest level since June 2008, as a slump in
commodity shares dimmed optimism spurred by the death of  Osama
bin Laden . The 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,361.22 at the 4
p.m. close in  New York . Treasuries were little changed.  Manufacturing Globally  European manufacturing growth accelerated more than
forecast in April, driven by higher production in Germany and
 France , a separate report showed. A gauge of manufacturing in
the 17-nation euro area rose to 58 from 57.5 in March, London-
based  Markit Economics  said in an e-mailed report today. That’s
above an initial estimate of 57.7 on April 19.  The ISM’s export index climbed 6 points in April to 62, and
its inventory gauge rose to 53.6 from 47.4 in March. Measures of
production, new orders and employment eased.  “A lot of this growth in manufacturing is driven by export
demand and the weaker dollar,”  Norbert Ore , chairman of the ISM
survey, said in a conference call from Atlanta. The ISM figures
are showing no effect from supply-chain constraints linked to
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami in March, even as some automakers
had “to make some changes” in production schedules due to the
disaster, he said.  The index of prices paid rose to 85.5 from 85. A measure of
supplier deliveries decreased to 60.2 from 63.1.  Backlogs Building  The measure of orders waiting to be filled jumped to 61,
matching an almost six-year high reached in February 2010.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, posted first-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast as sales
surged in  China , India and  Brazil  and other  developing
countries .  “We expect that the pace of world economic growth will
support continued recovery in the key industries we serve,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chief executive officer at Caterpillar, said in
a statement last week.  Demand from countries like China and Brazil is spurring
U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales overseas
reached the highest level on record in January before falling in
February for the first time in six months, according to Commerce
Department figures.  Emerging Economies  Columbus, Indiana-based Cummins, a maker of  diesel engines ,
more than doubled its first-quarter income from a year earlier
and boosted its forecasts for sales and profit this year.  “Our first-quarter results reflect continued strong growth
in key international markets, especially China,  India  and
Brazil,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso said in a conference
call last week. “We are seeing significant growth in demand for
our products and services in nearly every geographic market we
serve.”  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession is being helped this year in part by President Barack Obama’s compromise at the end of last year with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies can depreciate 100 percent of
investments in capital equipment in 2011.  “Household spending and business investment in equipment
and software continue to expand,” Fed policy makers said last
week after their policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  