-- 
U.S. Construction Spending Rises More Than Forecast as Manufacturing Gains

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-02T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-construction-spending-rises-more-than-forecast-as-manufacturing-gains.html
Construction spending in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in March as companies put up factories and
 power plants , and home improvement outlays rebounded.  The 1.4 percent gain was the biggest since April 2010 and
followed a revised 2.4 percent decrease in February that was
larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg survey projected a 0.4 percent increase.  Ongoing strength in manufacturing is helping spur
construction, which may give the economic expansion a boost.
While spending to update houses also climbed in March, home
building dropped, indicating the industry may take time to
recover as unemployment above 8 percent and persistent
foreclosures worsen the glut of unsold properties.  “We expect housing activity to continue to bump along at
the bottom,” Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in  New York , said before the report. “Any
meaningful recovery will have to await two or three years of
household formation to absorb the overhang of vacant properties
for sale and for rent.”  Economists forecast construction spending would rise after a
previously estimated decline of 1.4 percent in February,
according to the median of 50 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from an increase of 2 percent to a drop
of 0.8 percent.  Construction spending decreased 6.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in March.  Home Improvement  Private construction spending rose 2.2 percent in March from
the prior month. Homebuilding outlays increased 2.6 percent, led
by a 6.9 percent jump in home improvement that followed a 13
percent February drop. Construction of both single-family and
multifamily units dropped.  Private non-residential projects increased 1.8 percent, led
by a 5.5 percent advance in manufacturing and a 2.9 percent gain
in power plants.  Spending on public construction advanced 0.1 percent from
the prior month as state and local government projects climbed
for the first time since August. Federal construction spending
fell 2 percent.  Today’s report also contained annual revisions to the data.  Federal Reserve policy makers, at the end of their two-day
meeting in Washington on April 27, voted to complete $600 billion
in Treasury purchases by June to spur growth.  Market ‘Depressed’  “Investment in nonresidential structures is still weak, and
the housing sector continues to be depressed,” policy makers
said in last week’s statement. “The economic recovery is
proceeding at a moderate pace.”  Work began on 549,000 houses at an annual pace in March, up
7.2 percent from the prior month, figures from the Commerce
Department showed April 19. Starts fell 19 percent in February to
the lowest level in almost two years.  Potlatch Corp. (PCH) , a timber producer, projects home
construction will take longer to rebound. At the beginning of the
year, the Spokane, Washington-based company expected housing
starts would begin a recovery in the second half, reaching about
1 million starts on an annualized basis late in 2012, according
to Chief Executive Officer Michael Covey.  That forecast “will get pushed out six to 12 months as the
recovery in housing languishes due to high unemployment and an
oversupply of existing homes for sale,” Covey said on a
conference call with analysts on April 26.  Architect Billings  Commercial construction is firming. An index of billings at
architecture firms was little changed at 50.5 in March from 50.6
in February, the  American Institute of Architects  reported. A
score above 50 indicates an increase in billings. Commercial
building construction typically follows the billings gauge by
about six months.  Government agencies are under pressure to cut spending.  New
Jersey ’s bond rating was downgraded one step on April 27 by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “weakened financial
position” and an economic recovery lagging behind the nation.
New Jersey is among at least 44 states projecting total budget
deficits that may reach $112 billion in the next fiscal year,
according to the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  