-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Can Take ‘Extraordinary’ Steps to Borrow Until Aug. 2

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-02T21:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-to-hit-debt-limit-no-later-than-may-16-geithner-says.html
By taking “extraordinary measures,”
the U.S. can keep borrowing until Aug. 2 after reaching its
$14.29 trillion legal debt limit no later than May 16 unless
Congress acts, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  The  Treasury Department  will take steps starting this week
to provide additional borrowing room, Geithner said in a letter
today to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
and other congressional leaders. The Treasury pushed the August
deadline back from July 8 “as a result of stronger-than-
expected tax receipts,” Geithner said. The May 16 date is
unchanged from an estimate he made last month.  Geithner said the Treasury on May 6 will stop issuing State
and Local Government Series securities. The bonds, known as
SLGS, “fund a variety of expenditures, including infrastructure
improvements across the country,” he said.  “Protecting America’s creditworthiness and our economic
leadership position in the world is a duty to our country that
is shared by policy makers in both parties, in the legislative
branch as well as the executive branch,” Geithner said. “Any
attempt by either party to use the full faith and credit of the
 United States  as a bargaining chip to advance partisan policy
agendas would be irresponsible.”  Obama’s Outline  President  Barack Obama  has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the debt by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.  If Congress doesn’t raise the debt limit by May 16, the
Treasury will declare a “debt-issuance suspension period”
under the statute governing the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund, Geithner said. That will allow the U.S. “to
redeem existing  Treasury securities  held by that fund as
investments.”  Lawmakers “don’t get serious about raising the debt limit
until right before Treasury hits the wall,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Perhaps the extra few weeks will be helpful,
though I suspect that, as usual, negotiators will simply dither
until we get close to the drop-dead date, whatever that turns
out to be.”  ‘Next Steps’  Geithner’s letter shows that “the mechanics are now in
motion” for the government to take the “next steps” if the
debt limit isn’t raised, said  Drew Matus , a senior economist at
UBS Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  SLGS are Treasury securities issued to states and
municipalities “to help them conform to tax rules that restrict
the investment of proceeds from the issuance of tax-exempt
bonds,” Geithner wrote.  Though the updated August deadline “in theory gives
Congress additional time to complete work on increasing the debt
limit, I caution strongly against delaying action,” Geithner
said in the letter. “The economy is still in the early stages
of recovery, and financial markets here and around the world are
watching the United States closely.”  Matthew Zames, chairman of a Treasury advisory panel and a
managing director at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said last week that
failure to raise the debt limit could be “catastrophic.”  ‘Uncharted Territory’  “Any delay in making an interest or principal payment by
Treasury even for a very short period of time would put the U.S.
Treasury and overall financial markets in uncharted territory,
and could trigger another catastrophic financial crisis,”
Zames, chairman of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee,
wrote in a letter to Geithner.  Treasury also lowered its estimate today for  government
borrowing  from April through June because of higher revenue and
reduced government spending.  Borrowing will total a net $142 billion in the current
quarter, which is $156 billion less than estimated three months
ago, the department said in a statement today. The Treasury also
projected borrowing of $405 billion in the three months to Sept.
30. In the quarter that ended March 31, the Treasury borrowed
$265 billion, compared with a previous estimate of $237 billion.  The Treasury’s quarterly debt sales announcement is
scheduled for May 4.  The Treasury said its forecasts assume a cash balance of
$95 billion for June 30 and $115 billion for the end of
September.  The  U.S. economy  slowed more than forecast in the first
quarter as  government spending  declined by the most since 1983
and household purchases cooled. Gross domestic product rose at a
1.8 percent annual rate from January through March after a 3.1
percent pace in the final three months of 2010, the Commerce
Department said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  