-- 
U.S. April ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-05-02T14:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-april-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  PMI at 60.4%  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entire  United States ,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of April 2011.  New Orders, Production, Employment, and Inventories Growing
Supplier Deliveries Slower  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
April for the 21st consecutive month, and the overall economy
grew for the 23rd consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Norbert J. Ore, CPSM, C.P.M.,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The recent trend of rapid growth in
the manufacturing sector continued in April as the PMI
registered above 60 percent for the fourth consecutive month.
The New Orders and Production Indexes continue to drive the PMI,
as they have both exceeded 60 percent for five consecutive
months. Manufacturing employment appears to have developed
significant momentum, as the Employment Index readings for the
first four months of 2011 are the highest readings in the last
38 years. Inventory growth also took place in April after two
months of destocking; however, the inventory restocking would
appear to be necessitated by the strong performance in new
orders. While the manufacturing sector is definitely performing
above most expectations so far in 2011, manufacturers are
experiencing significant cost pressures from commodities and
other inputs.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 17 are reporting growth
in April, in the following order: Wood Products; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Transportation Equipment;
Fabricated Metal Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Machinery; Textile Mills;
Paper Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; and Petroleum & Coal Products.
Furniture & Related Products is the only industry reporting
contraction in April.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING ...  “Rapidly rising raw material costs putting extreme pressure
on profits.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products) “Plastic resin
product prices are climbing so fast that [suppliers] are
attempting to increase prices on orders already accepted but not
[yet] delivered.” (Chemical Products) “Customers are rebuilding
safety stock levels of inventory, and also trying to buy ahead
of material price increases.” (Plastics & Rubber Products)
“Market continues to get stronger month over month. Recovery is
faster than anticipated.” (Transportation Equipment) “Pressure
from offshore suppliers continues to mount with exchange rate
increases and seasonal demand for capacity.” (Miscellaneous
Manufacturing)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price Aluminum (8); Aluminum Products
(4); Brass (5); Caustic Soda (2); Chemicals (2); Cocoa/Cocoa
Powder (3); Copper (9); Copper Based Products (6); Copper Wire;
Corn (8); Diesel (5); Electric/Electronic Components (2); Fuel
Oils (4); Fuel Surcharges (2); High Density Polyethylene (2);
LDPE; Natural Gas; Oils and Lubrication; PET (2); Plastics (4);
Plastic Products (4); Plastic Resins (6); Poly Bags;
Polyethylene (3); Polyethylene Resin (4); Polypropylene (4);
Resins (2); Resin Based Products (2); Rubber (2); Rubber
Products (3); Silver (2); Solvents; Stainless Steel (6); Steel
(8); Steel -- Cold Rolled; Steel -- Galvanized; Steel Products
(5); Titanium Dioxide; and Transportation Rates (2).  Commodities Down in Price  No commodities are reported down in price.  Commodities in Short Supply  Capacitors; Electric/Electronic Components (4); Nuts --
Food; and Titanium Dioxide (2).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  ----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------  APRIL 2011 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  ----------------------------------------------------------------
----------------  PMI  Manufacturing continued its rapid growth in April as the
PMI registered 60.4 percent, a decrease of 0.8 percentage point
when compared to March’s reading of 61.2 percent. A reading
above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 23rd consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 21st consecutive month. Ore stated,
“The past relationship between the PMI and the overall economy
indicates that the average PMI for January through April (61
percent) corresponds to a 6.5 percent increase in real gross
domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for April (60.4
percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 6.3 percent increase
in real GDP annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 61.7 percent in April,
which is a decrease of 1.6 percentage points when compared to
the 63.3 percent reported in March. This is the 22nd consecutive
month of growth in the New Orders Index. A New Orders Index
above 52.1 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders
(in constant 2000 dollars).  The 15 industries reporting growth in new orders in April -
- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Primary Metals; Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Transportation Equipment; Wood Products; Paper Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Computer & Electronic Products; Machinery; Chemical Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.
The two industries reporting decreases in new orders in April
are: Furniture & Related Products; and Nonmetallic Mineral
Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 63.8 percent in April,
which is a decrease of 5.2 percentage points from the March
reading of 69 percent. An index above 51 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve
Board’s Industrial Production figures. This is the 23rd
consecutive month the Production Index has registered above 50
percent.  The 14 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of April -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal
Products; Primary Metals; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; Wood
Products; Paper Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Machinery;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Chemical Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. The three
industries reporting a decrease in production in April are:
Furniture & Related Products; Printing & Related Support
Activities; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 62.7 percent in April,
which is 0.3 percentage point lower than the 63 percent reported
in March. This is the 19th consecutive month of growth in
manufacturing employment. An Employment Index above 50.1 percent,
over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing
employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 15 reported growth in
employment in April in the following order: Wood Products;
Transportation Equipment; Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Fabricated Metal Products; Plastics
& Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Paper
Products; Chemical Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing.
Three industries reported no change, and no industries reported
a decrease in employment during April.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was slower in April as the Supplier Deliveries
Index registered 60.2 percent, which is 2.9 percentage points
lower than the 63.1 percent registered in March. This is the
23rd consecutive month the Supplier Deliveries Index has been
above 50 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.  The 10 industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
April -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Transportation Equipment; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Machinery; Computer & Electronic
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Chemical
Products. None of the manufacturing industries reported faster
deliveries in April.  Inventories  Manufacturers’ inventories increased in April following two
months of decline. The Inventories Index registered 53.6 percent,
6.2 percentage points higher than the 47.4 percent recorded for
March. An Inventories Index greater than 42.7 percent, over time,
is generally consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in
chained 2000 dollars).  The nine industries reporting higher inventories in April -
- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Machinery; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; and Transportation Equipment. The six industries
reporting decreases in inventories in April -- listed in order -
- are: Petroleum & Coal Products; Primary Metals; Paper
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and
Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Customers’ Inventories*  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 40.5
percent in April, 1 percentage point higher than in March when
the index registered 39.5 percent. This is the 25th consecutive
month the Customers’ Inventories Index has been below 50 percent,
indicating that respondents believe their customers’ inventories
are too low at this time.  The two manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during April are: Paper Products
and Fabricated Metal Products. The seven industries reporting
customers’ inventories as too low during April -- listed in
order -- are: Primary Metals; Computer & Electronic Products;
Transportation Equipment; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Plastics & Rubber Products; Machinery; and Chemical
Products. Nine industries reported no change in customers’
inventories for the month of April compared to March.  Prices*  The ISM Prices Index registered 85.5 percent in April, 0.5
percentage point higher than the 85 percent reported in March
and the highest reading since July 2008 when the index
registered 88.5 percent. This is the 22nd consecutive month the
Prices Index has registered above 50 percent. While 72 percent
of respondents reported paying higher prices and 1 percent
reported paying lower prices, 27 percent of supply executives
reported paying the same prices as in March. A Prices Index
above 49.4 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of
Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 17 report paying
increased prices during the month of April, in the following
order: Textile Mills; Printing & Related Support Activities;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Chemical Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Paper Products; Transportation Equipment; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Wood Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
and Furniture & Related Products. No manufacturing industry
reported paying lower prices on average in April.  Backlog of Orders*  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 61 percent in
April, which is 8.5 percentage points higher than the 52.5
percent reported in March. Of the 88 percent of respondents who
reported their backlog of orders, 34 percent reported greater
backlogs, 12 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 54 percent
reported no change from March.  The 12 industries reporting increased order backlogs in
April -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Paper Products;
Wood Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Computer & Electronic Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Machinery; Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment;
and Chemical Products. The three industries reporting decreases
in order backlogs during April are: Furniture & Related
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; and Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products.  New Export Orders*  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 62 percent in
April, which is 6 percentage points higher than the 56 percent
reported in March. This is the 22nd consecutive month of growth
in the New Export Orders Index.  The 13 industries reporting growth in new export orders in
April -- listed in order -- are: Paper Products; Primary Metals;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Computer & Electronic Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Chemical Products;
Machinery; Transportation Equipment; and Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components. Textile Mills is the only manufacturing
industry reporting a decrease in export orders during April.  Imports*  Imports of materials by manufacturers continued to expand
in April as the Imports Index registered 55.5 percent, 1
percentage point lower than the 56.5 percentage points reported
in March. This is the 20th consecutive month of growth in
imports.  The eight industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of April -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Machinery; Transportation
Equipment; Chemical Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and Fabricated
Metal Products. The four industries reporting a decrease in
imports during April are: Textile Mills; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products.  *The Backlog of Orders, Prices, Customers’ Inventories, Imports
and New Export Orders Indexes do not meet the accepted criteria
for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment lead time for Capital Expenditures
increased 1 day to 108 days. Average lead time for Production
Materials increased 6 days to 59 days. Average lead time for
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies is unchanged at
23 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment, Supplier Deliveries and Inventories) is then
seasonally adjusted to allow for the effects of repetitive
intra-year variations resulting primarily from normal
differences in weather conditions, various institutional
arrangements, and differences attributable to non-moveable
holidays. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the
U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The PMI
is a composite index based on the seasonally adjusted diffusion
indexes for five of the indicators with equal weights: New
Orders, Production, Employment, Supplier Deliveries and
Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.5 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.5
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management . The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring
the May 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Wednesday, June 1, 2011.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  