-- 
U.S. Top Court’s Alito Refuses to Block Mississippi River Levee Demolition

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-02T04:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-top-court-s-alito-refuses-to-block-mississippi-river-levee-demolition.html
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel A. Alito denied  Missouri ’s bid for an order blocking the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers from blasting a Mississippi River levee and
diverting water into state farmland to avert flooding upriver.  The high court’s associate justice last night declined to
issue the injunction requested by Missouri Attorney General
Chris Koster earlier yesterday, according to Patricia McCabe Estrada, a spokeswoman for the highest U.S. court.  Heavy rainfall has swelled river levels to their highest
since 1937, according to a statement issued by the Army Corps
yesterday. The corps proposes to breach the Birds Point levee
near Cape Girardeau in southeast Missouri, diverting river water
onto a  130,000-acre floodplain  with about 100 homes.  The floodway is “designed to minimize damage and save
lives from historic flood levels,”  Army Corps  Major General
Michael Walsh said in the statement. “Its purpose is to lower
flood stages and pressure on the entire system during major
flood events.”  The U.S. estimates that breaching the levee may cause $314
million in damage within the floodway, compared with more than
$1.7 billion in damage across swaths of Missouri,  Illinois  and
 Kentucky  that may result if levees elsewhere on the system are
overtopped or burst in uncontrolled flooding.  Previous Attempts  Koster sought and failed to win court orders blocking the
plan from U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh Jr. in Cape
Girardeau on April 29 and from a St. Louis-based  U.S. Court of
Appeals  on April 30 before asking the Supreme Court justice to
intervene yesterday.  “The water will rush over farmland, destroying homes and
outbuildings, taking agricultural chemicals, petroleum tanks,
 diesel fuel  and propane tanks stored and in use with it,”
Koster said in his submission to Alito.  At each stage he was opposed by the Army Corps and by
Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan.  Cairo, Illinois, a city of about 2,800 people near the
confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers and north of Birds
Point, Missouri has been ordered evacuated by Mayor Judson
Childs, according to media reports.  Pressure, Seepage  “Conditions are deteriorating rapidly in Cairo,” she told
Alito in a brief filed yesterday opposing Missouri’s bid for his
intervention. “As floodwaters rise, they create ‘hydrostatic
pressure’ on the levees, which can lead first to seepage, and
ultimately to the levee’s failure.”  Nanci Gonder, a spokeswoman for Koster, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mailed seeking comment yesterday on Alito’s ruling.
Robyn Ziegler, a spokeswoman for Madigan, and Xochitl Hinojosa,
a U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman, also didn’t immediately
reply to e-mailed requests for comment.  Alito is the Supreme Court justice designated to review
petitions from the U.S. Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, which
hears cases from Missouri,  Minnesota ,  Iowa  and four other states.  Walsh at about 3:45 p.m. local time yesterday ordered the
pumping of an explosive compound into levee pipes. He hasn’t
ordered the demolition, according to an Army Corps press
statement.  Reversible Process  The process of loading the pipes, setting charges, clearing
river traffic and ensuring evacuation of the target floodplain
could take as long as 24 hours, Army Corps civil engineer Jon
Korneliussen said in a telephone interview.  The pipe-loading process is reversible, he said.  “The Project Flood is upon us,” Walsh said yesterday in
an Army Corps-issued statement. “This is the flood that
engineers envisioned following the 1927 flood.”  That event led to legislation that gives the president of
the  Mississippi River Commission,  currently Walsh, authority to
operate the 35-mile long floodway when necessary to protect
public safety.  “It is testing the system like never before,” the general
said.  The appellate court case is State of Missouri v. U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, 11-01937, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit ( St. Louis ). The high court case is State of
Missouri v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 10A1059, U.S. Supreme
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 