-- 
DiMicco Says No Building Rebound Before Mid-Decade

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-05-02T22:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-steel-production-will-rise-14-this-year-dimicco-says.html
(Corrects name of Institute in second paragraph.)  U.S. demand for steel in construction
won’t recover to the level seen before the country slipped into
recession until about the middle of the decade,  Nucor Corp. (NUE) 
Chief Executive Officer Dan DiMicco said.  “There will be no major turnaround by the end of this year
in non-residential or residential construction,” DiMicco said
today in a conference call organized by the  American Iron and
Steel Institute , of which he is chairman. “It doesn’t appear
likely it will get back anywhere near the previous peaks until
somewhere around mid-decade.”  U.S. residential real-estate prices slid in the 12 months
through February by the most in more than a year, a report last
week showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities fell 3.3 percent from February 2010, the biggest year-
over-year decline since November 2009. Commercial property
prices fell about 45 percent from their 2007 peak through the
end of February, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Still, production of steel in the U.S. will increase 14
percent to 95 million tons this year, DiMicco also said. That
would match the gain seen last year, according to AISI data.  U.S. steelmakers used 75 percent of their production
capacity as of April 25, according to AISI data, up from 68
percent in the last week of 2010. Capacity utilization averaged
70 percent last year, 51 percent in 2009 and 81 percent in 2008.  Rising prices for steelmaking inputs iron ore and
metallurgical coal have overshadowed cost-cutting measures
undertaken during the recession, John Surma, CEO of Pittsburgh-
based U.S. Steel Corp., said on the call.  “Total cost for everybody who makes steel the way we do is
much, much higher,” he said. “The achievements we made during
that very, very difficult time during the recession may not be
all that evident and visible, but they’re there.”  Nucor, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , is the largest
U.S. producer of the metal by market value. U.S. Steel is the
biggest by volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  