-- 
U.S. Joins Whistleblower Suit Against Education Management

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-02T20:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/u-s-joins-whistleblower-suit-against-education-management.html
The U.S. Justice Department joined an
employee whistleblower suit against  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) ,
intervening for the first time in the student recruitment
practices at for-profit colleges.  The suit alleges that Pittsburgh-based Education
Management, 40 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  funds,
illegally paid recruiters based on the number of students they
enrolled, the company said in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing today. The government, in most cases, forbids
such incentive compensation for colleges accepting federal aid
because of concern the practice will encourage companies to
enroll unqualified students.  The Justice Department action in federal court in
Pittsburgh follows scrutiny by Congress and the U.S. Education
Department of sales practices, student-loan defaults and job
placement claims at for-profit colleges, which can receive as
much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal financial aid.
Several states intend to join the  Justice Department ’s civil
action in federal court, Education Management said.  “The design of the compensation plan was based on advice of
counsel that the plan complied with” exceptions to federal law
banning incentive compensation, the company said in its filing.
“The company intends to vigorously defend itself.”  Shares Fall  Education Management, the second-largest U.S. operator of
for-profit colleges, fell 97 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $17.58 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The company, which enrolls more than 148,000 students,
operates the Art Institute chain, Argosy University, Brown
Mackie College and South University. Analysts project the
company will report revenue of $2.89 billion in the year ending
in June, according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  In whistleblower, or qui tam, lawsuits, private citizens
file fraud complaints on behalf of the federal government. If
the government joins a case, the whistleblower may get 15
percent to 25 percent of any money recovered.  Lynntoya  Washington , a former EDMC employee, filed her
whistleblower complaint under seal in 2007, according to an
online docket entry in district court in Pittsburgh. By mid-
morning today, the case was still under seal.  Whistleblower Cases  At least 27 whistleblower cases have been filed against
for-profit colleges under the U.S. False Claims Act since the
1990s, primarily alleging violations of federal incentive-
compensation rules, according to a December 2009  article  by law
firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, which defends companies
against such complaints.  In all but one case, the Justice Department declined to
intervene, the article said. In that case, prosecutors joined
the suit to address a different issue.  In 2009,  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , operator of the University of
Phoenix, the nation’s largest chain of for-profit colleges,
agreed to pay $78.5 million to settle a whistleblower lawsuit
also alleging that the company tied enrollment to employee
compensation. In that case, the government didn’t join the case.
The Phoenix-based company admitted no wrongdoing.  Education Management faces another whistleblower complaint
alleging incentive-compensation violations filed by Brian
Buchanan, a former admissions representative. His suit, also
filed in Pittsburgh, was unsealed in May 2010. In securities
filings, Education Management calls the claims “without
merit.” The Justice Department declined to intervene in that
case.  Safe Harbors  The Education Department plans, in July, to make all
incentive compensation for college recruiters illegal, removing
12 types of exemptions, or “safe harbors” that were put into
place in 2002 under President  George W. Bush . The exceptions
allowed the practice when recruiters weren’t paid solely on the
basis of enrollments. EDMC’s pay plan for admissions
representatives in July of 2003 was designed to comply with
these “safe harbors,” the company said in its  SEC filing  today.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 