-- 
Turkish Inflation May Accelerate on Oil Prices, Consumer Demand

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-05-02T13:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/turkish-inflation-may-accelerate-on-oil-prices-consumer-demand.html
Turkey ’s inflation rate probably
climbed for the first month in seven in April after  oil prices 
increased and  consumer confidence  rose to the highest level this
year.  Inflation may accelerate to 4.4 percent from 4 percent in
March, a four-decade low, according to the median estimate of
seven economists in a Bloomberg survey. Predictions ranged from
4 percent to 4.7 percent. The statistics agency in Ankara will
announce the data at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Turkey’s central bank is seeking to control demand for
goods by increasing bank  reserve requirements  to deter lending
rather than raising  interest rates . It says the reserve
requirements, which it’s raised four times since December, will
start to curb loan growth in the second quarter. The bank cut
the benchmark one-week repo lending rate by a total of 75 basis
points in December and January to a record low of 6.25 percent
in an effort to weaken the lira and support exports.  “Creeping inflation, because of persistently high energy
prices, unfavorable base effect, demand-push factors and higher
administrated prices after the general elections might strain
the central bank’s existing policy mix,” Sinan Goksen, head of
equity research at broker Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said in an
e-mailed report to clients today.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking re-election
for a third term on June 12.  Prices on a monthly basis probably rose 0.99 percent in
April compared with 0.42 percent in March, the survey showed.  Highest Level  Consumer confidence climbed to 111.04 in April, the highest
level since December, from 104.53 in March, CNBC-e television
reported today in its monthly survey.  Central bank governor Erdem Basci said on April 28 that the
bank was revising its forecast for year-end inflation to 6.9
percent from 5.9 percent because of higher oil prices and taxes
on imported textiles. Inflation is expected to accelerate in the
second quarter before slowing in the third, he said.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds have risen more
than 1.3 percentage points since January on expectation the
inflation rate will rise and because banks sold bonds to pay for
the extra reserves they’re required to deposit with the central
bank.  Turkey’s monetary policy “is working, if only a little”
and the impact may take six months to be fully effective,
Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said in a televised interview
with Bloomberg HT news channel today. The government is ready to
cut spending should the impact fall short of expectations, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ; 