-- 
Mutual Fund Fees, Watchdog List, Helaba Stress Test, CDS Probe: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-02T11:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/mutual-fund-fees-helaba-stress-test-cds-probe-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will return to work on mutual-fund fees “with full
force” once it gets past the July deadline for many Dodd-Frank
Act rules, SEC Commissioner Elisse Walter said.  “Every dollar collected in 12b-1 fees is a dollar deducted
from a fund’s return,” Walter said April 29 in a  Washington 
speech, referring to fees mutual funds charge for marketing. The
agency will focus attention on the fees again when it clears the
bulk of its Dodd-Frank work, she said in the comments delivered
at a Mutual Fund Directors Forum conference.  On the day Dodd-Frank was enacted, SEC commissioners voted
unanimously on a proposal to increase disclosure and cap fees
investors pay over time. Under the measure, a company couldn’t
charge more in 12b-1 fees for a class of fund shares that
continue to solicit new investors than they charge for classes
that don’t.  The SEC is writing as many as 100 rules required by Dodd-
Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year. The deadline
for completion of many of the rules is July 21.  Compliance Policy  FSB to Publish List of ‘Non-Cooperative’ Financial Regulators  The  Financial Stability Board   said  it plans to publish a
list by November of regulators that aren’t meeting its standards
for cooperating with watchdogs from other nations.  “The public list will identify non-cooperative
jurisdictions,” the FSB said in an e-mailed statement April 29.  The FSB, based in  Basel , was founded in 2009. It replaced
the  Financial Stability Forum , a think tank with no formal role
that was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  ECB to Ask for Loan-by-Loan Information on Commercial ABS  The  European Central Bank  will ask banks to provide more
information about the collateral they give in return for loans.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will require sellers of
securitizations pooling small and medium-size company loans and
commercial mortgages to provide detailed information on the
underlying loans as part of rules to enable the use of the notes
as collateral, the ECB said in an e-mailed statement April 29.  The ECB is trying to better monitor the quality of the
assets it holds in return for funds it has pumped into the
European banking system during the financial crisis. The bank
said in December that it intends to introduce loan-by-loan
information requirements, starting with retail mortgage-backed
securities, with the intention to broaden the stipulation to
cover other classes.  Asset-backed securities overtook unsecured bonds as the
most common guarantee used by lenders to raise central-bank
cash. Banks posted 488 billion euros ($724 billion) of
securities backed by consumer and home loans as of Sep. 30,
compared with 433 billion euros of senior unsecured bonds,
according to the latest data from the ECB.  Compliance Action  Helaba to Pass  Stress Test  With Capital Changes, State Says  Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, Germany’s fifth-biggest
state-owned lender, can pass European stress tests after the
Hesse government agreed to convert investments into core
capital, the state finance ministry said.  State funds of 1.92 billion euros ($2.85 billion) at
Frankfurt-based Helaba will be contractually changed so that so-
called silent participations count as core capital, according to
an e-mailed statement from the ministry April 29. The ministry
sent a letter with the declaration to German regulator BaFin,
which will hand it over to the European Banking Authority, it
said.  Helaba’s owners join those of state lender Norddeutsche
Landesbank in pledging to strengthen the quality of reserves
after the EBA earlier this month said it will use a tougher
measure of capital in stress tests on 90 lenders. Both banks,
which didn’t need government aid during the financial crisis,
were at risk of failing the examinations to be published in June
because of their reliance on silent participations -- funds the
state-owned banks receive from regional governments and savings
banks.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Among 16 Banks Probed by EU Over CDS  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other
investment banks face European Union antitrust probes into
credit-default swaps for companies and sovereign debt.  The EU is investigating whether 16 banks, including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Deutsche Bank AG, colluded by giving market
information to Markit Group Ltd., a data provider majority-owned
by Wall Street’s largest banks. It will also examine if nine of
the firms struck unfair deals with Intercontinental Exchange
Inc.’s European derivatives clearinghouse, shutting out rivals.  Global regulators have sought to toughen regulation of the
$583 trillion credit-default swaps market, saying the trades
helped fuel the financial crisis. The EU’s probes add to
separate investigations in the U.K. and U.S. into whether banks
colluded to manipulate the London interbank offered rate.  The credit-default swap investigations are the first by
antitrust regulators in  Europe . The U.S. Justice Department last
year called for “more stringent” limits on the control banks
and swap dealers have over clearinghouses and trading platforms
for swaps.  Markit provides derivative and bond data to more than 1,500
customers. It owns the most actively traded credit swap indexes
and pricing services in the market.  For more, click here.  Ralcorp Is Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Trading in Ralcorp Holdings, Inc., the producer of store
brand foods sold under various labels, was halted April 29 by
circuit breakers.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5, 2011, would
shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents
shares from moving more than a certain amount.  For a list of securities that have been halted by U.S.
circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  Spain Increases Fines for Firms Using Irregular Workers  Spain will increase fines for companies hiring workers who
aren’t registered with tax authorities starting July 31, Labor
Minister Valeriano Gomez told reporters April 29 in Madrid.  Irish Nationwide to Close All 49 Offices in Ireland by May 17  Irish Nationwide Building Society, which is merging with
state-owned lender Anglo Irish Bank Corp., will close all of its
49 branches in Ireland by May 17, according to a spokeswoman for
the company.  The Dublin-based lender began closing branches on April 14,
the spokeswoman said in response to questions. Irish Nationwide
sold its 3.6 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of deposits to Irish
Life & Permanent Plc in February. More than 200 Irish Nationwide
employees that transferred to Irish Life under the accord have
applied for voluntary redundancy, a form of dismissal or
temporary lay-off with compensation, two people familiar with
the situation said on April 17.  Courts  Chamber’s Challenge to  California  Emission Rules Dismissed  A  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  challenge to California’s rules
limiting greenhouse gases was dismissed by a federal appeals
court in Washington that said it had no jurisdiction to decide
the case.  The chamber claimed in a lawsuit that the Obama
administration improperly created a patchwork of auto-emissions
standards by allowing California to impose its own rules
limiting the carbon-trapping gases. The chamber, joined by the
 National Automobile Dealers Association , challenged a federal
waiver granted to California.  “Because the chamber has not identified a single member
who was or would be injured by EPA’s waiver decision, it lacks
standing to raise this challenge,” the court found. As a
result, the court said it had no jurisdiction to rule.
Automakers, which were restricted by the rules, declined to sue,
the court said.  The waiver from federal Clean Air Act standards, issued in
2009, covers greenhouse-gas emissions for vehicles made from
2009 through 2016. Thirteen other states and the District of
Columbia have agreed to adopt the California standards,
according to court papers.  The case is Chamber of Commerce v. U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, 09-01237, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Bullard Says Better Data Needed on Communities  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the  Federal
Reserve  often needs better information to understand community
development and issues affecting low-and moderate-income
individuals and communities.  “The appropriate data for a completely convincing analysis
is often not available,” Bullard said April 29 to the Fed-
sponsored  Community Affairs Research Conference  in Arlington,
Virginia. Researchers need to “be innovative and imaginative in
devising methods of gaining knowledge in these areas despite the
difficulties involved.”  Each of the 12 regional Fed banks has a division focused on
issues faced by low-income and moderate-income areas. This
year’s conference is focused on innovative research to improve
the central bank’s understanding of these communities.  Buffett Faults Sokol, Takes Blame for Not Pressing on Trades  David Sokol  broke  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s ethics rules by
investing in a company as he pushed for its takeover, according
to Chairman  Warren Buffett , who said he regrets not pressing
Sokol earlier for details.  “He violated our insider-trading rules and he violated the
principles I lay out every two years to our managers,” the 80-
year-old chief executive officer said April 30 at Berkshire’s
annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska.  Buffett’s remarks April 30 contrast with his comments March
30 when he announced that Sokol, 54, was leaving and praised him
for “extraordinary” contributions to Berkshire. The company’s
audit committee said April 26 that Sokol misled Buffett and
violated the firm’s rules through his trades in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) ,
which Buffett agreed on March 14 to buy for about $9 billion.  Sokol bought about $10 million of Lubrizol Corp. shares in
January while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying
the lubricant maker. Buffett said previously that Sokol had made
a “passing remark” about a personal investment in the company,
and the committee said in a report that the billionaire chairman
was unaware of the timing of Sokol’s trades or that he was
working with Citigroup Inc. bankers to deal with Lubrizol.  “I made a big mistake by not saying, ‘well, when did you
buy it?’” Buffett told shareholders April 30.  For more, click here.  For an interview of Buffett by Bloomberg’s Betty Liu, click
here.  For comments by Buffett on possible CEO roster for
Berkshire, click here.  Comings and Goings  Schapiro Aide Said to Be Leaving SEC for PwC Accounting Firm  Kayla J. Gillan, a senior adviser to U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro, is resigning to take
a job at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Gillan will be a principal in a new group at the firm
focusing on regulations affecting auditing firms, according to
one of the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the move hasn’t been announced.  Gillan was hired to be Schapiro’s deputy chief of staff in
2009 as an advocate of the investor community. The SEC had noted
then that Gillan had experience regulating auditors as one of
the founding members of the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board , the industry’s U.S. watchdog.  She becomes the first former PCAOB member to later work for
one of the so-called Big Four accounting firms that she once
regulated. Congress established the PCAOB, a nonprofit
corporation funded by fees on public companies and reporting to
the SEC, to oversee auditing firms.  Gillan didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Steven
G. Silber, a PricewaterhouseCoopers spokesman, declined to
comment.  Credit Suisse Picks New Leaders for Washington Lobbying Office  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  has shuffled the ranks in its
Washington office, putting Joseph Seidel in charge of its
lobbying operations in the U.S. capital, according to an
internal memo.  Seidel takes sole responsibility for public policy in the
Americas region after serving as co-head since 2009 with
longtime chief lobbyist Mary Whalen. She has become a senior
adviser, according to the e-mailed memo. Seidel, a Republican,
joined the bank in 2001; previously he was general counsel of
what is now the  House Financial Services Committee .  Michael Williams, a former executive at the Bond Market
Association and special assistant to President Bill Clinton, was
promoted to deputy head of public policy, according to the memo.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second largest bank, has been
active in lobbying on derivatives, the Volcker rule ban on
proprietary trading and other issues arising from the Dodd-Frank
Act. The Zurich-based lender is also working to narrow
requirements firms face under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance
Act, a law designed to stop U.S. citizens from hiding money
overseas. The company spent $2.7 million on lobbying last year.  Draghi Wins Bild’s Backing, Clearing Hurdle to ECB Post  Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi’s campaign to become
European Central Bank head picked up speed with an endorsement
by a top-selling German tabloid that has close ties to
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government.  Bild-Zeitung published a photomontage of Draghi wearing a
 Prussian spiked helmet  April 29, saying the race for the ECB
presidency “is decided,” and Draghi is German-enough for
Merkel to support him.  Backing by Germany’s most-read newspaper, which last year
lampooned the idea of an Italian managing Europe’s money and
channeled public outrage over aiding debt-laden Greece, will
help prepare grass-roots opinion for a southern European atop
the 17-nation central bank, said Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of
the  Psephos  polling company.  Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said April 29 there’s
“no new development,” responding to a question about the Bild
report. The government will announce whom it supports “in a
timely fashion” before a European Union summit meeting in June,
he told reporters in Berlin.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  