-- 
TV on the Radio Sextet Tunes In, Warm-Up Caveman Catching Fire

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-05-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/tv-on-the-radio-sextet-tunes-in-warm-up-caveman-catches-fire-may-music.html
Lead singer Tunde Adebimpe whistled,
wind chimes tinkled, brass pipes rang out and guitars screeched
as TV on the Radio kicked off its April 13th show at  Radio City
Music Hall  with “Young Liars.”  It was a blistering start for this local band’s largest
headlining show to date.  On the heels of the six-piece band’s fourth album,
“Nine Types of Light,” the players were excited to show the
crowd what they’d been working on since taking a break in 2009.  A trombone solo brought on “The Wrong Way,” which came
with muscular drumming and audience clapping.  “Caffeinated Consciousness” was introduced with Adebimpe
saying, “This is a jumping song.” Bassist Jaleel Bunton set the
bottom before a thrashing guitar rift cut through. A screen
behind the band displayed lines of light as the track moved
between energy and calm.  The slowed-down “You” highlighted the album’s theme of
love, with a taste of heartbreak in this cut. Guitarist Kyp
Malone supplied a catchy scale as Dave Sitek’s slide guitar
drifted beneath easy-going vocals.  Any chance to mellow out quickly faded with “Staring at
the Sun” from the  debut album  “Desperate Youth, Blood Thirsty
Babes,” which began with a howling guitar and ululations from
Adebimpe before a drum machine kicked in.  “Wolf Like Me” had Malone’s hands moving like a saw
across his strings and fans shouting the lines.  Since the original bassist, Gerard Smith, died from cancer
last month, the band has rescheduled some postponed dates and
will be on tour in  Europe  this summer and headlining the final
night of the Pitchfork Music Festival in  Chicago ’s Union Park on
July 17th.  Caveman in Top Hat  At the sold-out  Bowery Ballroom  on April 14th, headliners
Wye Oak had a tough act to follow. Local rock outfit Caveman
opened and then some.  The quintet began with an untitled new jam that built to a
rollicking conclusion, nicely complemented by Guitarist Jimmy
Carbonetti’s formal attire, including tie bar, vest and top hat.  “My Time” featured shimmering keyboards and lush
harmonies -- the latter being one of the groups driving forces.
Lead singer Matthew Iwanusa traded his guitar for a tambourine
on “December 28th.” With the disco ball spinning overhead,
primal sounding beats and synths stretched out over spacey
guitar scales.  Fully Seasoned  Just over a year together and yet older than most up-and-
coming indie acts, this still-unsigned band comes across as
fully seasoned. Of course, each member has spent time in other
bands.  “Vampire/Old Friend” had a lengthy and heavy intro that
had sound washing over the audience in waves. Feedback then
carried the house into the night’s finale, “Decide,” an
impressively fluid tune with Iwanusa’s soft vocals laid atop
howling harmonies. A complete sound that’s ready to break out.  The guys will open for Yuck later this week at  Bowery
Ballroom . They’ll soon be releasing their debut album but until
then, they will be on tour for nine May dates from  Pennsylvania 
to  Texas  with Here You Go Magic.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in May. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 