-- 
Vietnam Currency Market Stabilizing, Central Bank Chief Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-02T13:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/vietnam-s-forex-market-stabilizing-central-bank-governor-says.html
Vietnamese central bank Governor
Nguyen Van Giau said the country’s foreign-exchange market is
stabilizing, less than three months after the national currency
was devalued.  The central bank’s actions to tighten monetary policy have
supported gold and foreign-exchange markets, he told reporters
in Hanoi today before a meeting tomorrow of the  Asian
Development Bank . The central bank has boosted  interest rates 
and introduced new limits on the use of gold in the country.  “ Vietnam ’s gold and foreign-exchange market has been
stable and within the government’s control, especially during
the past four weeks,” Giau said. “The government has used all
efforts to tame inflation, as the government’s top priorities
are to curb inflation and stabilize the macro-economy.”  The central bank this month raised its refinancing rate to
14 percent, up from 13 percent previously and from 9 percent in
February. The year-on-year inflation rate reached 17.51 percent
in April, the fastest pace since 2008, while the monthly rate
was 3.32 percent.  While the monthly inflation rate should start slowing in
May, the year-on-year figure may accelerate until the second
half of the year, said  Ayumi Konishi , the ADB’s Vietnam country
director.  “Economic policies always take time to get the actual
impact,” Konishi told journalists in Hanoi today.  February Devaluation  The 7 percent devaluation on Feb. 11 was the fourth such
move in the last year-and-a-half and was aimed in part at
narrowing the gap between official and unofficial exchange rates
for the currency. Measured by the official exchange rate, the
dong last week completed its best week since at least 1997.  “There is still a gap between the official exchange rate
and the market rate, but it’s not as wide as it was
previously,” said Alan Young, chief operating officer of
Australian-listed steelmaker  Vietnam Industrial Investments Ltd. (VII)   The failure to follow an August 2010 devaluation of the
dong with a tightening of monetary policy caused the gap between
the official and market exchange rates for the currency to widen
to 10 percent, before Vietnam’s central bank this year took “a
series of measures to rein in inflation and increase the supply
of foreign exchange to the financial system,” the  International
Monetary Fund  said last week.  Among the measures were a slower projected pace of credit
growth; higher interest rates; restrictions on the trading of
gold bars; plans to reduce foreign-exchange holdings by state
companies; and plans to contain public spending, according to
the IMF.  “The outlook for 2011 depends critically on whether the
new policy package will succeed in restoring policy credibility,
as well as domestic and foreign investor confidence,” the IMF
said in  a report  released on April 28. “The authorities should
stand ready to tighten policies further if necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  