-- 
Wall Street Bankers Share Blame for Europe Crisis, Berkshire’s Munger Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-05-02T11:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/wall-street-bankers-share-blame-for-europe-crisis-berkshire-s-munger-says.html
Charles Munger, whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  holds $5 billion of options on  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  stock, said the role of investment bankers in helping to
mask Greece’s financial troubles was “perfectly disgusting.”  “ Wall Street  to some extent is deliberately trying to
profit from sin, and I think it’s a mistake,” Munger told
reporters yesterday after Berkshire’s annual press conference in
Omaha, Nebraska. “Why should an investment banker go to Greece
to teach them how to pretend their finances are different from
what they really are? Why isn’t that a perfectly disgusting bit
of human behavior?”  Munger has criticized bankers for greed and said he opposes
handouts for distressed borrowers in the U.S. The 87-year-old
executive, who helped  Warren Buffett  build Berkshire, said that
the Greek work ethic shares blame with bankers for Europe’s debt
crisis. Goldman Sachs helped Greece raise $1 billion of off-
balance-sheet funding in 2002 through a  currency swap , allowing
the government to hide debt.  Greece “cheated on the accounting and the investment banks
helped them cheat,” Munger said at the conference. “I don’t
see why a bunch of Dutch and Germans should save them.”  Joanna Carss, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in  London ,
declined to comment.  Greece, recipient of a 110 billion-euro ($163 billion)
bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund ,
is seeking to avoid a debt restructuring after its 2010  budget
deficit  came in more than a percentage point wider than the
government estimated. Ireland followed  Greece  with a bailout of
its own, and last month, Portugal became the third euro-region
country to seek an international rescue.  ‘A Tough Problem’  Yields on two- and 10-year bonds from Greece, Ireland and
Portugal all rose to euro-era records last month. Buffett said
at the conference yesterday that the European Monetary Union is
under pressure.  “I just don’t know if it can withstand the strains,” said
Buffett. “It is really a tough problem when you tie yourself to
a monetary union and you can’t really enforce the fiscal
policies of the member nations.”  Buffett, 80, and Munger were asked in the conference about
European debt,  China ’s sovereign investments and the outlook for
acquisitions in countries from  Brazil  to Korea. They spoke for
more than four hours on April 30 at Berkshire’s annual meeting,
and took questions yesterday from journalists.  Relying on Support  Berkshire has warrants, expiring in  2013 , to buy $5 billion
in Goldman Sachs’s common stock at $115 a share as a result of a
2008 preferred investment in the company. The bank closed at
$151.01 on April 29 on the New York Stock Exchange. Berkshire
made more than $1 billion in dividends and charges on the $5
billion preferred stock holding before Goldman Sachs redeemed
the shares this year.  Munger told shareholders who gathered in Omaha’s Qwest
Arena on April 30 that Greeks “don’t want to pay taxes or do
much work.” Munger said  Europe  faces “a helluva problem” as
countries like Greece rely on support from nations with stronger
credit and smaller budget deficits.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou has cut wages and
pensions, overhauled the state-run pension system, and increased
sales taxes and levies on alcohol, fuel and cigarettes to curb a
deficit that soared to 15.4 percent of gross domestic product in
2009. The government on April 15 announced another 26 billion
euros of measures for the period to 2015, including cuts in
health, education and defense spending.  ‘Greek Bashing’  The economy shrank 4.5 percent last year, more than a
forecast 4.2 percent. It’s expected to contract another 3
percent this year.  Munger’s statements “underscore a lack of respect for a
population that is struggling to make ends meet amidst a deep
economic recession, painful austerity measures and continuous
Greek bashing from abroad,” said Jens Bastian, a visiting
fellow for Southeast Europe at the University of Oxford’s St.
Antony’s College. “Its citizens want change, have a stake in
moving Greece’s economy forward, but also need to perceive these
changes as fair and efficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Collins  in Omaha at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  