-- 
Obama Weighs Whether to Release Photographs Showing Bin Laden’s Dead

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T18:43:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/white-house-to-decide-whether-to-release-bin-laden-s-photo.html
Now that Osama bin Laden is dead, the
Obama administration may need to prove it by showing photos of
the world’s most infamous terrorist after he was shot in the
head.  “They need to release some verifiable information that it
was bin Laden,” said Brian Katulis, a Middle East and South
Asia scholar at the Center for American Progress in Washington
who visited  Pakistan  in February. “You won’t convince
everybody, but you need to marginalize the conspiracy
theorists.”  President  Barack Obama  is still weighing whether to release
a photo of bin Laden’s body, which U.S. forces identified
through photo comparisons, DNA, and other means, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said today. Bin Laden’s body,
weighted down, was released into the Arabian Sea following an
Islamic funeral ritual performed aboard a ship by U.S. military
officers, according to the administration.  “It’s fair to say it’s a gruesome photograph,” Carney
said at a briefing. “There are sensitivities here in terms of
appropriateness,” Carney said, saying an image taken after bin
Laden was killed by U.S. commandos may be “inflammatory.”  Photos or videos would help quell conspiracy theories
questioning whether the raid happened, Senate Intelligence
Committee Chairman  Dianne Feinstein  said.  ‘100 Percent Identification’  “I think that this is being very carefully considered,”
Feinstein, a California Democrat, told reporters in Washington
today. “For purposes of 100 percent identification, there’s
value in doing so, and that would be the only reason.”
Feinstein said she doesn’t think it’s necessary to release
visual evidence of bin Laden’s death because DNA testing has
proven the case.  Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate
Armed Services Committee, said photos of bin Laden “should be
released” at some point, though a release may be delayed to let
reaction to the killing “cool down.”  A release of photos may be needed “to quell any doubts
that this somehow is a ruse that the American government has
carried out,” said  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent
and chairman of the Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental
Affairs Committee.  Maine Senator  Susan Collins , the homeland security panel’s
senior Republican, said she agreed that the release of photos or
DNA evidence may be needed to counter “those who will try to
generate this myth that he’s alive and that we missed him
somehow.”  ‘He’s Dead’  Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said releasing
photos of bin Laden may do little to convince al-Qaeda
sympathizers that the U.S. is being truthful.  “Even if you show the picture, there’ll be skeptics,”
Powell said on CNN. Asked if he would recommend releasing
photos, Powell said, “I’ll leave that up to the administration
to decide. I don’t need to see it. He’s dead.”  “Let’s not pretend that releasing these pictures will
convince the conspiracy theorists,” said Matthew Levitt,
director of the counterterrorism and intelligence program at the
 Washington  Institute for Near East Policy.  Following the capture of  Saddam Hussein  in  Iraq  in late
2003, the  Bush administration  released photos of him in custody.  Brennan said at a White House briefing yesterday that the
administration must carefully review how any material is
released to ensure that it doesn’t compromise any future
intelligence-gathering operations.  “You want to make sure that you’re not doing anything to
expose something that will limit your ability to use those same
intelligence sources and capabilities in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  