-- 
Yahoo Gains After Greenlight Acquires Stake, Citing Alibaba

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-02T20:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/yahoo-gains-after-greenlight-capital-buys-stake-citing-alibaba.html
Yahoo! Inc. shares rose after
Greenlight Capital Inc. announced that it bought a stake in the
Web portal, attracted by Yahoo’s investment in China-based
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba ultimately may be worth as much as
the company’s entire current market value, Greenlight wrote in
an April 29 letter to clients. The move helped send the shares
up 44 cents to $18.14 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, reaching the highest level in more than a year.  The company “has taken some increasingly shareholder-
friendly steps,” Greenlight, which is run by  David Einhorn ,
wrote in the letter. “We believe that Yahoo’s most valuable
asset is its 40 percent stake in Alibaba Group’s still-private
holdings.”  Greenlight also cited Yahoo’s cost-cutting measures in its
decision to invest. Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , working
to turn around the company for more than two years, has shed
businesses and eliminated jobs. Yahoo backed away from competing
with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search business by forging a partnership with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , saving money and improving  cash flow .  While Yahoo had developed an “anti-shareholder
reputation,” beginning with its decision in 2008 to decline an
acquisition offer from Microsoft, that has changed under Bartz’s
management,  Greenlight  said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Greenlight, declined
to comment. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t
respond to a message seeking comment. The Yahoo stake was
reported earlier by website Market Folly.  Stock Rally  Yahoo has gained 9.1 percent this year. Greenlight bought
shares in the Sunnyvale, California-based company at an average
price of $16.93, according to the letter. Yahoo has a market
capitalization of about $23.6 billion.  First-quarter revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner
sites, was $1.06 billion. That topped the average analyst
estimate of $1.05 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding some items, Yahoo had earnings of 19 cents
a share, exceeding the average estimate of 16 cents.  The company also showed signs last quarter that its  users 
are more engaged with its sites. Page views on Yahoo’s media
properties, including the home page, rose 8 percent during the
quarter, after declining in previous months. Time spent on those
properties rose 17 percent. Still, page views on communications
and communities, including Yahoo e-mail and its Groups messaging
service, fell 6 percent, and time spent fell 10 percent.  Asian Assets  Yahoo is moving to “unlock value” from some of its Asian
assets, including its stake in Yahoo Japan Corp., Greenlight
said. Yahoo has held talks to dispose of its stake in Yahoo
Japan, an Internet portal company, two people familiar with the
matter said in March. Yahoo co-owns the Tokyo-based joint
venture with Softbank Corp.  Yahoo  Japan  and Alibaba.com, the publicly traded unit of
Alibaba Group, make up about $8 per share alone in Yahoo’s
value, Greenlight said.  Greenlight sees more value in the private assets of
Alibaba, including the e-commerce service Taobao.com. Daily
orders at Taobao are expected to double to 20 million next year,
up from 8 million, Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  