-- 
Yen and Franc Drop After Obama Says Osama Bin Laden Is Dead; Euro Advances

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-02T13:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/yen-weakens-dollar-gains-after-u-s-official-says-osama-bin-laden-is-dead.html
The yen and the Swiss franc weakened
as stocks climbed after President  Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. operatives, damping
demand for the safest assets.  The  U.S. Dollar  Index snapped a nine-day decline and
Canada’s dollar slid after Brent crude oil dropped the most in
almost seven weeks following reports of bin Laden’s death. The
euro strengthened versus the U.S. currency and the krona
appreciated after reports showed manufacturing in the euro
region and Sweden is picking up.  “We’ve seen two weeks in a row of dollar down and Swiss
up, so one day of turn-around is not necessarily a change in
trend, but a consolidation of Swiss gains,” said Jon Wetreich,
a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New
York . “We’ve got oil down, so to a certain degree that’ll have
an effect on a couple of commodity currencies.”  The yen depreciated 0.5 percent to 120.87 per euro at 8:59
a.m. in New York and slid 0.3 percent to 81.43 per U.S. dollar.
The euro advanced 0.2 percent to $1.4843 and climbed 0.4 percent
to 1.2865 against the Swiss franc.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.3 percent and futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.6 percent. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note increased for the first time in
three days.  Franc Falls  The franc weakened versus a majority of its most-traded
peers and the yen snapped two-day gains versus the euro and the
dollar after Obama said bin Laden was killed by a team of U.S.
operatives after a firefight at a house in  Pakistan .  Bin Laden was the architect of a radical Islamist movement
that killed almost 3,000 people in the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001,
and recast global security and politics.  Brent crude  for June settlement slid as much as 3.4 percent
to $121.67 a barrel, the biggest intraday drop since March 15,
on speculation that bin Laden’s death may ease the risk of
Middle East supply disruptions.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, rose as much as 0.5
percent before trading 0.1 percent higher at 72.991.  “There was some initial kneejerk dollar buying with the
euphoria of it all,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “The
basic story for the dollar is that it’s paralyzed by low
 interest rates  and bad fiscal health. Whether Osama Bin Laden is
dead or alive is not going to change that story at all.”  Lowest Level  The Dollar Index earlier reached its lowest level since
July 2008. It had its biggest monthly decrease since September
in April as a slowing U.S. economy encouraged the  Federal
Reserve  to maintain stimulus.  The Canadian dollar slipped 0.4 percent to 94.87 U.S.
cents. Crude oil is Canada’s biggest export.  Canadians vote in a federal election today. While Prime
Minister Stephen Harper’s governing Conservatives were leading
in recent polls, they probably lack enough support to convert
their minority government into a majority of parliamentary
seats. Conservative support has flattened in the past week,
while the left-wing  New Democrats  have pushed the  Liberal Party 
into third place in voter surveys.  Euro Area Manufacturing  The euro strengthened after a gauge of manufacturing in the
17-nation euro area rose to 58 from 57.5 in March, according to
London-based Markit Economics. That’s above an initial estimate
of 57.7 on April 19. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Europe’s emergency aid packages have put Greece and Ireland
on the right track and prevented the region’s debt crisis from
spreading to  Spain , European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said at a conference in Brussels today.  “The aim of our strategy has been first of all to prevent
a repeat cardiac arrest in the financial markets,” Rehn said.
“We have done that.”  Sweden ’s krona appreciated 0.2 percent to 8.9280 per euro
and strengthened 0.4 percent to 6.0165 against the dollar. An
index based on responses from around 200 manufacturers’
purchasing managers was 59.8 for April, according to Stockholm-
based Swedbank AB, up from 58.6 in March. A reading above 50
signals expansion.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management  will
probably say today its factory index slipped to 59.5 last month
from 61.2 in March, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Hedge-Fund Bets  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other speculators on a decline in the dollar against a range of
currencies compared with those on a gain rose to 357,410 on
April 26 from 339,796 a week earlier, approaching the record
398,594 set in March, figures released by the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission on April 29 showed.  A widening interest-rate gap between America and the rest
of the world may mean no rebound this year for the dollar, the
world’s worst-performing major currency in the past three
months. The Fed’s U.S. Trade-Weighted Major Currency Dollar
Index fell to a record low last month after policy makers in
 Australia ,  Canada  and the  European Central Bank  raised rates to
damp inflation. Even after the drop, strategists from Barclays
Plc and Morgan Stanley are cutting forecasts for the greenback.  While a weaker dollar may signal waning confidence in the
U.S., it may help President Obama reach his goal of doubling
exports by 2015 and reducing unemployment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  