-- 
LyondellBasell to Boost Ethylene Output, May Build Cracker

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-02T20:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/lyondellbasell-to-boost-ethylene-output-may-build-cracker-1-.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
chemical maker that emerged from bankruptcy a year ago, plans to
boost U.S. ethylene output and may build another plant as rising
shale-gas supplies increase the country’s competitiveness.  Expansions at existing plants, possibly in Channelview and
La Port,  Texas , over the next few years will increase ethylene
output by about 500 million pounds a year, Chief Executive
Officer Jim Gallogly said today in a telephone interview.
Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell also is considering the
construction of a cracker, as ethylene plants are known, in a
joint venture with other producers, he said.  Low natural-gas prices relative to oil are prompting
LyondellBasell and its competitors to invest in increased U.S.
output of ethylene, used to make plastics. Dow Chemical Co. said
last month it plans to build a cracker by 2017. Chevron Phillips
Chemical Co. said in March it may construct an ethane cracker at
one of its U.S. sites.  “It may make sense to participate in a new joint
cracker,” Gallogly said later on a conference call to discuss
the company’s first-quarter earnings.  Net income rose to $663 million from $10 million a year
earlier, the company said in a statement. Profit per share was
$1.15 and LyondellBasell didn’t give a year-earlier number.
Profit was $1.23 excluding rising values of warrants and other
costs, said  David Harpole , a company spokesman. That topped the
74-cent average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Cracker Maintenance  LyondellBasell rose $1.12, or 2.5 percent, to $45.62 as of
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have doubled in the past year.  The company, the biggest maker of polypropylene plastic,
had 9.6 billion pounds of annual ethylene capacity in the
Americas at the end of 2009, according to LyondellBasell data.  Maintenance at the Channelview cracker will last for half
of the current quarter, reducing earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization by about $75 million,
Gallogly said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  New York  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 