-- 
LyondellBasell First-Quarter Profit Beats Analyst Estimates

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-02T14:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/lyondellbasell-first-quarter-net-beats-analysts-estimates-1-.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
chemical maker that emerged from bankruptcy a year ago, posted a
first-quarter profit that was more than analysts estimated as
sales of plastics gained.  Net income rose to $663 million from $10 million a year
earlier, Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell said today in a
statement. Earnings per share were $1.15, or $1.23 excluding
rising values of warrants and other costs, said  David Harpole , a
spokesman. The company didn’t provide a year-earlier number.
Profit topped the 74-cent average estimate of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Conditions experienced in the first quarter were
maintained and, in some areas, improved during April,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Gallogly said in the statement. “The
second quarter is off to a good start.”  LyondellBasell, the world’s biggest maker of polypropylene
plastic, is benefiting from low prices for U.S. natural gas
relative to oil. Sales gained 26 percent to $12.3 billion from
$9.76 billion. Operating profit from olefins and related
plastics more than doubled during the quarter as sales rose 18
percent in the Americas and 28 percent elsewhere.  “Performance was strong across the board,”  Hassan Ahmed ,
a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who
recommends buying the shares, said today in a report. “If the
current disjointed crude oil-natural gas price regime continues,
U.S. ethylene chain margins could be substantially higher than
prior cycles.”  The oil-refining unit posted operating income of $164
million after a year-earlier loss of $128 million because of
wider margins at the Houston refinery, the company said.  LyondellBasell rose $1.50, or 3.4 percent, to $46 at 10:25
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 