-- 
YRC Falls as Restructuring Leaves Holders With 2.5% of Stock

-- B y   J a m e s   L a n g f o r d   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-05-02T20:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/yrc-tumbles-as-restructuring-leaves-holders-with-2-5-of-stock.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW)  plunged in Nasdaq
trading after the money-losing trucking company reached
agreements on a restructuring plan that would leave current
investors with about 2.5 percent of the outstanding shares.  The accord should close in July, replacing a portion of
existing loans and other obligations with new securities
including preferred shares and convertible notes, YRC said April
29. The preferred stock would be convertible into about 72.5
percent of the restructured company’s outstanding common shares,
 Overland Park , Kansas-based YRC said in a  regulatory filing .  YRC, built by $2.44 billion in acquisitions in 2003 and
2005, has posted four straight annual losses. The company said
its restructuring plan was backed by about 95 percent of senior
secured lenders, all of YRC’s multi-employer pension funds and
asset-backed financing providers, and the Teamsters union.  The company’s goal was “to put together financial
restructuring that will enable the company to be ultimately
successful and restored to its prominence in the marketplace,”
Chief Restructuring Officer John Lamar said in a telephone
interview last week. “We think this restructuring has done just
that.”  YRC fell 47 cents, or 24 percent, to $1.51 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 59 percent
this year.  The company anticipates $100 million in new capital from 10
percent convertible senior secured notes due in 2015. It also
expects increased liquidity from a new asset-backed lending
facility, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Langford in New York at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  