-- 
ZTE, Danisco, Apple, Toys R Us, SAP: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-02T11:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-02/zte-danisco-apple-toys-r-us-sap-intellectual-property.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of phone-network equipment, said it filed a patent
infringement lawsuit against Huawei Technologies Co. in a
domestic court, a day after the larger rival sued it in  Europe .  ZTE’s lawsuit relates to fourth-generation mobile network
technology, the Shenzhen-based company said in a statement on
its website April 29. Ross Gan, a spokesman for Huawei, couldn’t
be reached by telephone and didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Huawei, China’s largest phone-network equipment maker, said
April 28 it filed lawsuits in Germany, France and Hungary over a
series of patents related to data card and high-speed mobile
Internet technology. ZTE last week denied infringing Huawei’s
patents, saying it would take “vigorous” legal action in
response.  ZTE and Huawei have both expanded beyond China into Asia
and  Africa , and are now looking to boost sales in Europe and the
U.S. Huawei is the world’s second-largest maker of equipment for
mobile-phone networks behind Ericsson AB, according to estimates
from research firm Gartner Inc. on April 11.  Danisco-DuPont Merger May Be Chance to Settle Novozymes Disputes  A DuPont Co. takeover of Danisco A/S may be an opportunity
for the latter to settle its legal disputes with fellow Danish
enzyme maker Novozymes A/S, Novozymes Chief Executive Officer
Steen Riisgaard said.  Novozymes has sued Danisco for patent infringement in U.S.
court, while Danisco has filed a similar lawsuit in U.K. court.  A Danisco merger with DuPont may be “a potential
opportunity to negotiate rather than have these lawsuits, but
most of them are so far advanced that we might as well conclude
them,” Riisgaard said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Apple Seeks Patent on Mobile Device Application Pushing Fitness  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPod and iPhone, is seeking a
patent on an application for mobile devices that will allow
access to a personal fitness service.  Application  20110098156 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office April 28, covers an application
aimed at introducing customers to a new fitness center and
inducing them to join and return.  The application is intended to help eliminate common
obstacles to consistent participation in a fitness program such
as the inability to find a workout partner or to schedule
training sessions or access guides to gym equipment. This is
achieved through secure connections with servers associated with
the fitness center.  The technology could also be used to provide incentive to
induce potential customers to use a fitness center, such as
showcasing available classes and providing free passes or other
promotions.  Apple filed this patent application in October 2009. No
outside patent counsel is listed on the application.  Apple Wins Ruling in ITC Case Over Elan Touch-Screen Patent  Apple Inc. won an International Trade Commission ruling
that said the maker of iPhones and iPads didn’t infringe a
patent owned by  Taiwan ’s  Elan Microelectronics Corp. (2458)  for touch-
controlled screens.  ITC Judge Paul Luckern in  Washington  said Apple wasn’t
infringing the Elan patent, according to a posting April 29 on
the agency’s website. The judge’s findings are subject to review
by the six-member commission, which has the power to block
imports of products found to violate U.S. patent rights.  Elan, a Hsinchu, Taiwan-based designer of integrated
circuits, claimed Apple’s iPhone 3G and 3Gs, iPod touch, iPad,
Mac computers and Magic Mouse wireless mouse violate a U.S.
patent. The invention involves the use of two fingers to perform
operations on a computer screen, to replace the traditional
computer mouse or trackball.  “There is no violation,” Luckern said in the  notice . The
judge’s full opinion won’t be public until both sides have a
chance to remove confidential information.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, said the company had no comment. Lawyers for Elan
didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Multi-Touch Enabled Touchpads and Touchscreens, 337-714,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Toys R Us Sues Smokes R Us for Infringing Trademarks  Toys R Us Inc., the world’s biggest toy retailer, sued a
Pennsylvania-based tobacco retailer for trademark infringement.  Smokes R Us  of PA Corp., which does business as Smokes R
Us, is accused of infringing the “R Us” family of trademarks
owned by the Wayne, New Jersey-based toy company.  According to the complaint filed April 29 in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , 2010 sales for Toys R Us were more than $13.8
billion. The company says it’s pursued “an aggressive policy of
enforcement focused on maintaining the integrity of the brand.”  As a result of its enforcement activities, Toys R Us said
in its court papers there is no active registration as a U.S.
trademark “for any third party mark that incorporates the ‘R
Us’ designation.”  The toy company said it’s particularly objectionable that
Smokes R Us sells tobacco, given the fact that “children are
particularly susceptible to marketing messages.” It notes that
in 1998, as part of a settlement agreement entered into by U.S.
tobacco companies, “they were obligated not to target youth.”  According to the complaint, Smokes R Us has also reportedly
sold a product known as “herbal incense” or “synthetic
marijuana.” The complaint quotes a story that appeared in the
Republican Herald newspaper Aug. 7, identifying Smokes R Us as a
store that “sells the herbal incense in the open, alongside
tobacco products and pipes.”  One of the documents filed with the complaint is a Feb. 5
news story from the Wayne Independent identifying Smokes R Us as
a source of products labeled as “bath salts” that are smoked
or inhaled by those seeking a high comparable to that offered by
cocaine.  Toys R Us said that as a result of this press coverage,
Smokes R Us and its marks “have come to be associated in the
minds of consumers with the sale of designer drugs generally and
synthetic marijuana and ‘bath salts’ in particular.”  The toy store said its marks are tarnished by the actions
of Smokes R Us, diminishing the image of Toys R Us as “a
wholesome retailer of children’s toys and baby products.”  It asked the court to order the tobacco retailer to
surrender for destruction all materials incorporating the
“Smokes R Us” mark, and requests to be transferred the
smokesrus.com Internet domain name.  Additionally, it seeks money damages, including extra
damages to punish Smokes R Us for its actions, the tobacco
store’s profits derived from its alleged infringement, and
awards of litigation costs and money damages.  Smokes R Us didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Toys R Us is represented by  Thomas B. Schmidt III  and
 Natalie Grill Einsig  of Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton LLP
and  Michael Dockterman  and  Jami A. Gekas  of  Chicago ’s Wildman
Harrold Allen & Dixon LLP.  The case is Toys R Us Inc. v. Smokes R Us of PA Corp, 1:11-
cv-00820-JEJ, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  SAP Wins Delay in $1.3 Billion Judgment Awarded to Oracle  SAP AG (SAP) , the business software maker ordered by a jury to
pay $1.3 billion to rival Oracle Corp., won a delay of the award
while it seeks to reduce or appeal the judgment.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , granted SAP’s request to delay the award and ordered
the German company to obtain a $1.3 billion bond within 21 days,
according to a federal court filing. SAP has said it will ask
Hamilton to reduce the award or grant a new trial.  “Execution of final judgment is stayed pending disposition
of post-judgment motions and, if necessary, appeal,” the judge
said in her ruling.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, accused SAP’s
U.S.-based TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit of making
hundreds of thousands of illegal downloads and several thousand
copies of Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing fees and
to steal customers. The verdict was the largest U.S. jury award
of 2010.  The case is  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Knock-Offs of Kate’s Wedding Frock to Hit Stores in Eight Weeks  Copies of the dress worn by Catherine Middleton when she
married Prince William April 29 will be sold in about eight
weeks by  New York ’s  Faviana International Inc. , the New York
Post  reported.   Head Faviana designer Shala Moradi expected to have a
sample copy sewn and ready to send to China for production by
May 1, the newspaper reported.  The fashion house has previously sold look-alike dresses
similar to those  worn by such celebrities  as Angelina Jolie and
 Taylor Swift , according to the Post.  The knock-off gown should sell for about $2,000 and will be
available online and through department stores, according to the
newspaper.  Chinese Official Says IP Infringement Needs Harsher Penalties  China’s Vice Premier Wang Qishan has called for “harder
criminal and economic punishments” for those who violate
intellectual property rights, Ch8ina’s Xinhua news service
 reported .  He was speaking at a meeting in Shandong Province and was
addressing a recent IP enforcement crackdown, according to
Xinhua.  Wang said efforts should be concentrated on such important
areas as pharmaceuticals, food, agricultural products and online
commerce, Xinhua reported.  The Ministry of Public Security said two sites in  Shanghai 
that were distributing more than 1,500 types of pirated
operating systems software, including some  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
products, were destroyed in April, according to Xinhua.  Time Warner’s ‘Hangover 2’ Accused of Infringing Tyson Tattoo  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers Entertainment unit was
sued for copyright infringement by a Waynesville, Missouri,
tattoo artist.  In the complaint filed April 28 in  St. Louis , S. Victor
Whitmill says Warner’s is using a copy of the tattoo he placed
on  the face of boxer Mike Tyson . He tattooed Tyson in February
2010 in Las Vegas and on that day, Tyson signed a release
acknowledging that the design was the property of Whitmill’s
Paradox-Studio of Dermagraphics, he said in court papers.  The complaint contains a color photo of Tyson with the
tattoo and a second photo from the advertising poster for
Warner’s “ The Hangover 2 ,” which is to be released this year.  Whitmill said the tattoo shown on the face of the character
in the movie is “a virtually exact reproduction” of the tattoo
he placed on Tyson’s face. The complaint displays side-by-side
photos of the two tattoos.  Warner never asked nor received permission to reproduce the
tattoo, Whitmill said in his court papers. He claims he’s
suffered “irreparable injury” from the unauthorized use of his
design, and asked the court to bar the film company’s use of his
work.  Additionally, he seeks money damages, and awards of the
film company’s profits attributable to the alleged infringement,
together with attorney fees and litigation costs. Tyson isn’t a
party to the suit.  Whitmill is represented by  Geoff G. Gerber ,  Pete Salsich
III  and  Michael A Kahn  of the  BrickHouse Law Group PC  of St.
Louis.  The case is S. Victor Whitmill v. Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., 4:11-cv-00752, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Missouri (St. Louis).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  