-- Taiwan Stock Market Plan Doubted by FPP Asset as ADRs Advance
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/taiwan-stock-market-plan-doubted-by-fpp-asset-as-adrs-advance.html
Taiwan ’s plans to boost its stock
market drew skepticism from Citigroup Inc. to FPP Asset
Management LLP even as the island’s U.S.-traded shares jumped
the most since April.  “There’s no need for them to step in and bolster the stock
market, it’s totally unnecessary,” Jonathan Neill, who helps
oversee $250 million at FPP Asset Management in  London ,
including a fund that is 50 percent Taiwanese shares, said by
phone from London on Nov. 23. “It’s not like their market is
falling to pieces, it’s just lagging some other markets and
doing better than others.”  The  Taiex Index (TWSE)  has fallen 5 percent this quarter, making
it the third worst-performing Asian index after Mongolia and  Sri
Lanka , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Even after the declines,
shares in the Taiex trade at an average 17.6 times estimated
profit, a 28 percent premium over the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
and more than valuations for  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) , the
Shanghai Composite Index and the BSE India Sensitive Index.  The  Bank of New York Mellon Taiwan ADR Index  gained 3.7
percent to 234.03 in  New York  on Nov. 23, the largest one-day
advance in the gauge of Taiwanese American depositary receipts
since April 26, following a 3.1 percent jump in the Taiex.
Premier Sean Chen has asked Minister Without Portfolio Kuan Chung-ming to prepare a proposal to boost local stocks after the
Taiex sank to a four-month low on Nov. 21, Cheng Li-wun, a
Cabinet spokeswoman, said in an interview after domestic markets
closed last week.  Rising Volatility  Banks that are part-owned by the government and state-
controlled funds should buy stocks at lows, the  Central News
Agency  cited Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford as saying Nov. 22.
About 2.2 billion Taiex shares were traded the following day,
the most in four weeks, as the gauge’s  30-day volatility  rose to
14.7, the highest level since Aug. 22, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Overseas  investors  bought NT$12.4 billion ($426 million)
more Taiwanese shares than they sold on Nov. 23, the biggest net
purchases since Sept. 14, according to stock exchange data.  “The index was due for a bounce and this news definitely
provides the fodder for one,” Duke Shin, director of Asia sales
at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York, said in a phone interview
on Nov. 23. “But we’ve seen these sorts of artificial
supporting of the markets before in Taiwan,  Korea  and elsewhere
and they tend to be short-lived. For an export-driven economy
like Taiwan, we need fundamental improvement in global demand
for a sustained rally.”  The NT$500 billion National Stabilization Fund isn’t
intervening in the market at this stage, Deputy Finance Minister
Tseng Ming-chung said by phone in Taipei on Nov. 23. The fund
was created in March 2000 to help protect Taiwan’s markets from
“significant occurrences at home and abroad,” according to the
finance ministry’s website.  Lehman Bankruptcy  The government also controls four other funds through which
it can purchase equities. It instructed the funds to buy shares
in September 2008 as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy
filing caused the Taiex to plunge 17 percent in four weeks. The
government said it bought stocks in August 2011 to counter a
two-week slump that dragged the index down by 15 percent.  Stocks have slumped this quarter on concern the global
slowdown will crimp the island’s  exports  of mobile-phone
handsets and computers. Overseas shipments unexpectedly fell 1.9
percent in October from a year earlier, the eighth monthly drop
this year.  The island’s third-quarter gross domestic product expanded
0.98 percent from the previous year, the statistics bureau said
on Nov. 23 in Taipei. The median in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for 1 percent growth.  “One shouldn’t look at government intention, but rather
the policy action,”  Peter Kurz , an analyst at Citigroup, said
by phone on Nov. 23 from Taipei. “Just because the government
wants the market to go higher, doesn’t necessarily mean that it
will.” His team was ranked first for Taiwanese research by
Institutional Investor this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  