-- Auburn Fires Chizik Two Seasons After Delivering National Title
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-11-25T21:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/auburn-fires-coach-gene-chizik-after-3-9-college-football-season.html
Auburn University  fired Gene Chizik
two seasons after he coached the school to its first national
football championship since 1957.  Chizik’s stint with the Tigers ended a day after the team
lost 49-0 against the second-ranked University of  Alabama  to
finish the season winless in the  Southeastern Conference  and
with a 3-9 overall mark. Chizik, 50, went 33-19 in four seasons
at Auburn and had a 15-17 record in conference play.  “After careful consideration and a thorough evaluation of
our football program, I have recommended that coach Chizik not
be retained,” Auburn Athletic Director Jay Jacobs said in a
statement on the school’s website. “Earlier this morning, I
informed coach Chizik that he will not return as head coach.”  Auburn, led by quarterback Cam Newton, defeated Oregon
22-19 in the Bowl Championship Series title game in Glendale,
 Arizona , on Jan. 10, 2011. Newton was subsequently selected by
the Carolina Panthers with the first overall pick in the 2011
National Football League draft.  “We will long cherish the memories of our first national
championship in 53 years,” Jacobs said.  Auburn will pay $11.09 million to buy out the remainder of
the contracts for Chizik and his nine fulltime assistants, the
school’s statement said. Chizik will be paid monthly through the
2015-16 fiscal year, it said. Chizik will receive $7.5 million,
AP said, while payments may drop depending on future employment.  Slumping Form  After going undefeated in the 2010 season, Auburn dropped
to an 8-5 record last year and this year had their worst season
since 1950, when they began 0-10. The slump is the worst in the
two years after winning a national title since the Associated
Press poll began in 1936, the news agency said.  “I’m extremely disappointed with the way this season
turned out,” Chizik said in a statement. “When expectations
are not met, I understand changes must be made.”  The search for a successor will be led by three former
Tigers -- 1971 and 1985 Heisman Trophy winners Pat Sullivan and
Bo Jackson, and Mac Crawford, former Chairman of  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of prescription drugs in the U.S.  “The search committee will work hard and work smart,”
Jacobs said. “We will be thorough and thoughtful as we look for
someone with a track record as a proven winner, a commitment to
playing within the rules and a focus on student-athlete academic
success.”  Also today,  North Carolina State University  fired football
coach Tom O’Brien following a 7-5 season.  O’Brien compiled a 40-35 record in six years at the school,
going 22-26 in the Atlantic Coast Conference.  “Coach O’Brien’s service to N.C. State over the last six
years has been sincerely appreciated,” Director of Athletics
Deborah A. Yow said in a  statement  on the school’s website
today.  Interim Coach  Offensive coordinator Dan Bible will serve as interim coach
while a search for a replacement is conducted. All assistants
have been retained and will have the opportunity to pursue
positions with the new head coach, the school said.  Under O’Brien, the Wolfpack won the 2011 Belk Bowl and 2010
Champs Sports Bowl, and lost the 2008 PapaJohns.com Bowl.  “I’m proud of the young men that I have coached here, for
their accomplishments on the field and in the classroom,”
O’Brien said in the school’s statement. “I appreciate all of my
coaches and wish them the best and I look forward to life after
football.”  North Carolina State completed its regular season with a
27-10 win yesterday over Boston College, where O’Brien was head
coach from 1997-2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  