-- Australia Awash With Flights, Hurting Airlines, Qantas Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-11-25T01:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/australia-awash-with-flights-hurting-airlines-qantas-says.html
Australia ’s domestic aviation market
is awash with flights, benefiting passengers rather than
airlines, said the head of  Qantas Airways Ltd.’s (QAN)  local business.  “There’s a lot of capacity sloshing round the Australian
marketplace overall,” Lyell Strambi, chief executive officer of
Qantas Domestic, said at a media briefing at Sydney airport
today. “Ultimately the winners are the customers.”  Flight capacity in the domestic market in the December half
is running about 12 percent more than its level last year,
whittling profitability for carriers aiming to match the supply
of seats to demand,  Russell Shaw , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., said by phone Nov. 7. A measure of business-class  ticket
prices  has fallen 40 percent in the past year to two-decade lows
as  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  stepped up competition with
Sydney-based Qantas, Australia’s largest carrier.  There had been “some adjustments in capacity” in the last
few months without any significant reduction in growth, John Borghetti, Virgin’s chief executive officer, said on a media
call Nov. 20. “Competition is certainly very aggressive now and
competition will always be aggressive,” he said.  A move announced today by Qantas to switch all services
that fly between the Western Australian capital, Perth, and
Sydney and  Melbourne , to Airbus SAS A330s from May won’t
significantly affect domestic capacity, Strambi said.  The bulk of additional seats that Virgin is adding come
from switching to wide-body jets like the A330 on routes between
Australia’s east and west coasts, Borghetti said last week.
Qantas’s A330s will replace Boeing Co. 767s on east-west routes,
which will be moved to the busier east-coast network, Strambi
said today.  Virgin plans to buy a controlling stake in  Tiger Airways
Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s local unit and to take over Skywest Airlines
Ltd., the company announced Oct. 30, in a deal that would raise
its share of the Australian domestic market to about 35 percent
from 30 percent at the moment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  