-- BlackRock-Backed Mytrah Trips on Policy Vacuum: Corporate India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-11-26T11:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/blackrock-backed-mytrah-trips-on-policy-vacuum-corporate-india.html
Wind-turbine installations in India
will plummet this year as lenders shun projects amid a policy
vacuum in the third-biggest market for the machines, according
to BlackRock Inc.-backed  Mytrah Energy Ltd. (MYT)   The country may install as little as 1,500 megawatts of
capacity by the year ending March 31, about half what it did the
previous year, said Ravi Kailas, chief executive officer of
India’s third-largest wind farm developer, whose biggest
investors include BlackRock and Henderson Global Investors Ltd.  Plunging demand in the world’s three biggest markets will
compound the troubles for turbine makers such as  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , which are facing a global
supply glut and declining orders. Sales in  China , the world’s
largest buyer of the equipment, may slump for the first time in
2012, while additions in the U.S. may drop 88 percent by 2013,
if the federal government fails to extend a wind tax break,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It looks like it’s falling off a cliff,” in  India ,
Kailas said in an interview in Mumbai. “Investors and lenders
don’t believe in the viability of the industry” without
additional government support through a subsidy or higher rates
paid for power, he said.  Wind financings in India declined 39 percent to $2.6
billion in the first three quarters compared to the same period
last year, BNEF said in a Nov. 6 report. The country installed
851 megawatts of capacity in the six months ended Sept. 30 from
1,403 megawatts in the previous period, according to data from
the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers’ Association in Chennai.  Competing With Coal  Indian installations topped a record 3,000 megawatts last
year, a more than twofold increase from 2009 to 2011, helped in
part by a subsidy known as a generation-based incentive, which
expired on March 31. It’s not clear when the cabinet will
approve its reinstatement, according to Tarun Kapoor, joint-
secretary at the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.  Wind farms need either the subsidy or an increase in tariff
to compete against coal-based plants, most of which benefit from
cheap fuel supplies, Kailas said. State-owned  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ,
the main supplier of the fuel, sells to utilities at about half
the price of the global benchmark.  Suzlon, India’s biggest maker of the machines, this month
reported its fourth straight quarterly loss amid falling prices
of turbines and debt-servicing costs. The company defaulted on
$209 million of foreign-currency  convertible notes  on Oct. 11,
India’s biggest delinquency of such bonds.  The company controlled by Chairman Tulsi Tanti reported a
 loss  of 8.08 billion rupees ($146 million) in the three months
ended Sept. 30, compared with a 480 million rupee-profit the
year earlier.  Suzlon’s Shares  The company’s  shares , which have dropped 14 percent this
year, rose 1.3 percent to 15.45 rupees at the close in Mumbai.
The benchmark Sensex has gained 20 percent in the period.
Hyderabad-based Mytrah fell 3.4 percent to 70.5 pence as of
11:47 a.m. in London trading.  Vestas Chief Financial Officer Dag Andresen said this month
that the company was scaling down operations in India after
forecasting 500 million euros ($648 million) of cash losses this
year. Suzlon on Nov. 9 said that a lack of working capital was
constraining its ability to complete orders.  The best wind projects in the country can now produce power
at the same cost as coal-fired plants that pay market prices for
the fuel, Kailas said.  Developers’ bids in auctions for coal-fired power stations
have ranged from $50 to $80 a megawatt hour, compared with $63
to $102 for wind farms, according to Ashish Sethia, India
country manager for BNEF.  ‘Open Floodgates’  “A few small changes could help the wind industry grow,
rather than move backward,” Kailas said, estimating India could
easily grow to a 5,000-megawatt market a year. “With the right
incentives, policy makers could open the floodgates.”  State electricity regulators have also been slow to adjust
tariffs to reflect rising energy costs for fear of a public
backlash with India’s inflation rate at  7.45 percent , the
highest among the biggest  emerging markets .  Unless those rates are adjusted or the generation subsidy
is revived, India will leave much of its wind potential untapped
at a time when Asia’s third-largest economy is battling chronic
power shortages, said Kailas.  Mytrah fell short of its goal to install 500 megawatts by
June. “We could’ve done a lot more, if we’d had the
incentive,” Kailas said.  The company is on track to meet a revised target of 600
megawatts of operating capacity by the first half of next year
from 316 megawatts at present, Kailas said. It is close to
securing 14 billion rupees of loans to fund its plans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  