-- Cameron Keeping Open Mind on Leveson Press Standards Probe
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-26T09:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/cameron-keeping-an-open-mind-on-leveson-press-standards-probe.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
keeping an open mind on the recommendations of a media-ethics
inquiry due this week, his office said after The Mail on Sunday
newspaper reported he will reject state regulation of the media.  “The PM is open-minded about Lord Leveson’s report and
will read it in full before he makes any decisions about what to
do,” Cameron’s office said yesterday in a statement via the
Twitter Inc. social-networking site.  The Mail on Sunday said Cameron will resist any call for
laws to police British newspapers and will instead propose
strengthening the existing system of self-regulation. Cameron
last year asked judge Brian Leveson to lead the inquiry
following the  News Corp. (NWSA)  phone-hacking and bribery scandals.  Leveson’s report will suggest changes in the way the media
is regulated that the government isn’t required to enact.
Cameron established the probe in July 2011 after revelations
about the extent of voice-mail interception at News Corp.’s News
of the World tabloid and allegations of widespread bribery at
its Sun title.  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition  Labour Party ,
said Leveson’s proposals should be adopted as long as they are
reasonable.  “The prime minister was absolutely right when he said that
if Leveson’s recommendations were “bonkers,” we could not be
expected to go along with them,” Miliband wrote in the  Guardian 
newspaper today. “But it is equally right to state that if they
are reasonable and proportionate, we should seek to implement
them. I know that rejection of the report will be seen as a
clear breach of the promise we made to them.”  New Watchdog  Cameron will call for the creation of a new watchdog and
threaten legal action if newspapers fail to abide by his
demands, the Mail said yesterday, citing “sources.” He will
reject full state regulation, the newspaper added without saying
how it had obtained the information.  Cameron will be among a limited number of politicians who
will see the Leveson report a day early and he will comment on
the day of publication, his spokeswoman Vickie Sheriff told
reporters last week. The government will schedule a
parliamentary debate for Dec. 3, she said.  The inquiry examined the relationship between the press,
police, politicians and the public. Victims and tabloid critics
testified the media were too cozy with  law enforcement  and
lawmakers, creating a potential conflict of interest when it
faced investigations or government scrutiny.  News Corp. Ties  Cameron testified at  the inquiry  in June about his ties to
News Corp., including a friendship with Rebekah Brooks, the
former chief executive officer of the company’s U.K. unit who
has been charged with phone hacking, bribery and conspiring to
cover up the scandal. The prime minister’s former press chief,
 Andy Coulson , also worked for the News Corp. unit and has been
charged with phone hacking and bribery.  News Corp., based in  New York , has spent more than $315
million on civil settlements, legal fees and costs of closing
the News of the World. More than 80 people have been arrested
and more than a dozen have been charged.  The chairman of the Press Complaints Commission,  David
Hunt , who sits as a Tory lawmaker in the upper House of Lords,
called for the creation of a new system of press self-regulation
and said he had held meetings with publishers and editors about
signing up to a legally binding scheme.  “I think, when  Franklin D. Roosevelt  said, in 1941, ‘we
look forward to a world founded on the central human freedoms,
the first is freedom of speech and expression,’ he did not have
in mind a state-regulated press,” Hunt told the BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program.  “It’s got to have teeth, and that’s probably why nobody
has every set it up until now, because there hasn’t been a
willingness,” he said. “There is now a willingness, and I pay
tribute to Lord Justice Leveson. He has seen for himself some
instances of unacceptable behavior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  