-- McCain Says Decree by Egypt’s Mursi Is ‘Unacceptable’
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-11-25T18:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/mccain-says-decree-by-egypt-s-mursi-is-unacceptable-.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
decree granting himself power over his country’s judiciary last
week is “unacceptable,” said Senator  John McCain .  “If the judiciary is flawed in some way, then that’s an
illness that can be cured over time,”  Arizona ’s McCain, ranking
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said today on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “We thank Mr. Mursi for his
efforts in brokering a cease-fire, which by the way is
incredibly fragile, but this is not acceptable,” he said,
adding the U.S. should demand that Mursi “renounce the
statement” and “allow the judiciary to function.”  Mursi on Nov. 22 issued a decree that prevents his
decisions from being challenged by the judiciary. Protests
against that announcement entered a fourth day today and follow
yesterday’s decision by  Egypt ’s judiciary to suspend work until
Mursi rescinds his statement.  “We have to be very cautious,”  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “We don’t
obviously want to see a democratically elected autocrat take the
place of a undemocratically-elected dictator, which was the case
before that,” he said, referring to former Egyptian president
 Hosni Mubarak .  Prosecutor Fired  Mursi last week also fired the country’s top prosecutor and
ordered a retrial for officials who served under Mubarak and who
are accused of causing the deaths of protesters last year. The
step came a day after Mursi, an Islamist drawn from the ranks of
the Muslim Brotherhood, earned international plaudits by
brokering a cease-fire between  Israel  and Hamas, the group that
controls the Gaza Strip and is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel.  Trading on Egypt’s stock exchange was temporarily halted
today after the benchmark EGX 30 Index plunged and police fired
tear gas at dozens of protesters in the capital’s  Tahrir Square 
following mass demonstrations there and elsewhere in the country
overnight. The EGX 30 Index tumbled 9.6 percent, the most since
Jan. 27, 2011, to 4,917.73 at the close in Cairo, trimming this
year’s gain to 36 percent.  International Concern  Mursi’s decisions “raise concerns for many Egyptians and
for the international community,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Nov. 23. “One of the
aspirations of the revolution was to ensure that power would not
be overly concentrated in the hands of any one person or
institution.”  The decrees, which Mursi has said are temporary and
necessary to safeguard the goals of last year’s uprising, place
his decisions above the review of any court or authority in the
nation. A “large number” of the country’s judges and
prosecutors halted work in protest, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported.  Secular groups and opposition parties have called for new
mass rallies on Nov. 27 while the Muslim Brotherhood announced
demonstrations in support of Mursi on the same day, raising the
prospect of renewed violence if the two sides clash.  Both Levin and McCain blamed  Iran  for instability in the
region, specifically the trafficking of weaponry through Egypt
to Hamas in the  Gaza Strip . Eight days of air strikes and
missile fire this month led to the deaths of 167 Palestinians
and six Israelis.  “Let’s trace some of this back to Iran,” McCain said.
“Where did the missiles come from that were being fired? Iran.
Where are the Iranian Revolutionary Guard on the ground? In
 Syria .”  Levin said that while Iran is “the source of the problem”
because of its support for Hamas, Egypt is in a position to
provide a long-term solution beyond the current cease fire.  “If Egypt will take a strong role here to stop the tunnels
from being used for weaponry getting into Gaza, this could lead
to a real plus,” Levin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  