-- Chelsea Ties 0-0 Against Man. City as Fans Jeer Benitez Arrival
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/chelsea-ties-0-0-against-man-city-in-benitez-s-opening-match.html
Chelsea’s fans gave a hostile
reception to new manager Rafael Benitez yesterday as the
Spaniard started his tenure with a 0-0 tie against Manchester
City, the defending Premier League soccer champion.  The home supporters at  Stamford  Bridge greeted the 52-year-
old’s introduction by the stadium announcer with whistles and
jeers and showed support to Roberto Di Matteo, who was fired on
Nov. 21.  “I was focused on the game, I didn’t concentrate on the
crowd,” former Liverpool coach Benitez told Sky Sports after
Chelsea extended its winless run in the league to five matches.  In yesterday’s other games, Tottenham defeated West Ham 3-
1, Southampton beat Newcastle 2-0 to climb out of the relegation
positions, while Swansea City and Liverpool drew 0-0 as Brendan Rodgers returned to his former club.  Manchester United, which rallied to defeat last-place
Queens Park Rangers 3-1 two days ago, remains atop the standings
on 30 points, defending champion City has 29, with West Bromwich
Albion on 26. Chelsea has 25 points.  Some Chelsea fans held banners in support of Di Matteo, who
led the Blues to the Champions League and F.A. Cup titles last
season. They also broke into applause on 16 minutes, to mark his
squad number while a player for the Blues.  There was further applause at the stadium in memory of Dave
Sexton, a former manager of the Blues who has died at age 82.  Few Chances  There were few chances in a tight first half, with City’s
David Silva heading over the bar with one of the first efforts
after 21 minutes.  Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech saved with his legs from a
powerful Pablo Zabaleta shot on 37 minutes, while he easily held
a header from Sergio Aguero just before halftime.  The home team started more positively in the second half,
Vincent Kompany forced to cut out a dangerous cross by England
fullback Ashley Cole.  Ramires then fired over the bar for Chelsea and Fernando Torres, who played under Benitez at Liverpool, blasted over from
15 yards.  Cech was unable to hold a low shot from Yaya Toure at the
first attempt, but gathered before Edin Dzeko could collect the
loose ball.  The goalkeeper was again involved to stop a cross from
James Milner, and in injury time he held a header from City
center-back Matija Nastasic.  “I’m very pleased with the players,” Benitez said. “You
could see the team spirit and attitude was there.”  City missed a chance to return atop the standings but
retains the only unbeaten record in the Premier League.  Spurs Win  Jermain Defoe scored twice against former team West Ham as
Tottenham ended a three-match losing run in the league.  The England striker got the opening goal just before
halftime and Gareth Bale increased the home team’s advantage
after 58 minutes at White Hart Lane. Defoe then got his second
goal six minutes later.  West Ham, without a victory at Spurs since April 1999, did
get a goal back with eight minutes remaining. Andy Carroll
headed in from a cross by Joey O’Brien to end his wait for a
goal since joining on loan from Liverpool in August.  Southampton climbs to 17th in the 20-team standings after
recording a second straight league win. Adam Lallana and Gaston
Ramirez scored for the Saints, who have 11 points. Aston Villa
have 10 points, Reading nine, and QPR four.  Liverpool manager Rodgers watched his team extend its
unbeaten league run to eight matches as he took the Reds to
Swansea, his former club.  He told reporters that an effort ruled out for offside on
34 minutes, when Jose Enrique put the ball into the net from
close range, should have been allowed.  ‘Unfortunate’  “We were unfortunate with the offside goal we had ruled
out, that was a goal -- I have seen it on the replay,” Rodgers
said. “But we are now eight games unbeaten and we are chipping
away and our method was good.”  Two days ago, West Brom won 4-2 at Sunderland, Aston Villa
tied 0-0 against Arsenal, and Wigan beat Reading 3-2. Stoke beat
Fulham 1-0, while Everton and Norwich tied 1-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 