-- China Steelmakers Poised for Rebound, Xinhua Says, Citing CISA
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-25T06:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/china-steelmakers-poised-for-rebound-xinhua-says-citing-cisa.html
China ’s steel industry, the world’s
largest, will face better operating conditions this quarter and
next year after posting nine months of losses, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing a trade association.  Most large- and medium-sized mills reversed losses last
month, Xinhua said, citing Liu Zhenjiang, vice president of the
China Iron & Steel Association, at an industry forum yesterday.
Mills lost 5.5 billion  yuan  ($883 million) between January and
September, compared with profit of 38.7 billion yuan in the same
period of 2011, Xinhua reported, citing association data.  Liu’s comments add to signs that  China’s economy , the
world’s second largest, may be stabilizing after a seven-quarter
slowdown that curbed growth to 7.4 percent in the three months
ended September. Steel producers’ earnings may improve in the
last three months of 2012 on rising prices of the alloy and
better raw-material costs,  Mirae Securities (037620)  Co. said on Oct. 25.  China needs to maintain strict controls over steel-
production capacity, Liu was cited as saying. This year had been
the hardest for the country’s mills since the turn of the
century, the report said, citing Liu.  Economic growth may rebound to 7.7 percent in the final
three months of this year, according to the median of analysts’
estimates surveyed by Bloomberg. A further acceleration is
predicted in the first two quarters of next year, the data show.  Total  crude-steel output  in China rose 2 percent to 59.1
million metric tons in October from September, the National
Bureau of Statistics said Nov. 13. Compared with a year earlier,
output rose 6 percent, it said, without giving a figure.  Higher Prices  Baoshan Iron (600019)  & Steel Co., the nation’s biggest publicly
traded mill, said on Nov. 12 that it would raise prices for most
cold-rolled products for December delivery in the first increase
in three months. Baoshan Iron shares have declined 7.6 percent
over the past year.  China’s government approved a $158 billion subways-to-roads
construction plan in September. While the infrastructure program
will boost steel demand in the final quarter, mill overcapacity
may limit gains in steel prices, the association said on Nov.
14.  Industrial production in China rose 9.6 percent in October
from a year earlier, the government reported on Nov. 9. A
preliminary manufacturing index reading for November signaled
the first expansion in 13 months, according to data from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  