-- Congress Damns Corzine but Lets Him Off the Hook
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-11-25T21:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/congress-damns-corzine-but-lets-him-off-the-hook.html
Perhaps we should no longer be
surprised by the arrogance of Wall Street executives. Still, the
level of hubris and bullying displayed by  Jon Corzine  during his
19-month tenure as chairman and chief executive officer of  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  -- as described in a recent congressional
report about the company’s 2011 collapse -- stands out for sheer
offensiveness.  The  97-page report  prepared by the staff for Republicans on
the House Financial Services Committee panel on oversight and
investigation pulls no punches when it comes to blaming Corzine
for the MF Global disaster, which wiped out thousands of jobs
and billions of dollars of customers’ and creditors’ money. “Jon
Corzine caused MF Global’s bankruptcy and put customer funds at
risk,” the report concludes flatly.  And the gory details strewn throughout the elegantly
written report -- some revealed for the first time -- show the
full extent to which Corzine was out of control. In May 2010,
two months after he was hired, Corzine, the former senior
partner of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and former governor and U.S.
senator from  New Jersey , began his pattern of deception.  “The goal here is not to be a prop trader,” the report
claims Corzine said. “I don’t think that we will be in a risk
taking position, substantial enough to have it be the kind of
thing that the rating agencies would say ‘holy cow, these guys
got a different business strategy’ than what we told them we
had.”  New Division  A month later, though, Corzine had set up a new division at
MF Global, the Principal Strategies Group, to make big wagers
with the firm’s capital, the very thing he said MF Global would
not do. He fired a bunch of the firm’s traders who he thought
were not capable of swinging for the fences and brought in a
slew of new hires, many from Goldman Sachs, to get the job done.
He also had his very own proprietary-trading account at MF
Global, even though company policy required that a more senior
executive always sign off on personal trading -- an
impossibility in his case because he was the most senior
executive. (Corzine got around that requirement by creating a
subcommittee of the board of directors to oversee his personal
trades.)  By late summer, the proprietary traders and Corzine had
identified a potentially lucrative trade in the sovereign debt
of European nations -- among them, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and
 Spain  -- that was trading at a discount and that Corzine thought
would eventually trade at par once it matured in a year or two.
He was betting that the European Financial Stability Facility,
created by the euro area following decisions taken by the
European Union in May 2010, would make sure the sovereign debt
didn’t default.  As the size of Corzine’s bet reached about $2 billion in
September 2010, Michael Roseman, the company’s chief risk
officer, began to raise questions. (At the time, Roseman
reported to the board of directors, not to the CEO.) Roseman
told Corzine of his growing concern, and Corzine suggested they
bring up the matter at the next board meeting. But Corzine soon
stuffed Roseman, and at that meeting he persuaded the board to
let him increase the bet to $4 billion. “The same month, Corzine
retained a search firm to find a new chief risk officer for the
company,” according to the House report.  By October, as the size of the trade reached the new $4
billion limit, Roseman repeated his concern to Corzine. Again,
Corzine appealed to the board -- at its November meeting -- to
allow him to increase the bet. The board complied, boosting the
limit to $4.75 billion. That same month, Corzine told Roseman he
would no longer report to the board, but to Brad Abelow, MF
Global’s chief operating officer and a longtime Corzine crony.
In January 2011, Corzine fired Roseman.  Corzine’s Bet  Corzine made sure the new chief risk officer, Michael
Stockman, would also report to Abelow, not the board. At the end
of February 2011, Stockman met with board member Martin Glynn, a
former executive at HSBC Holdings Plc, who warned Stockman he
would face “tremendous pressure” to approve higher risk limits
“in non core areas to support earnings weaknesses elsewhere.” By
March, with Stockman’s support, the board increased Corzine’s
bet limit to $5.8 billion.  Yet Corzine was still not content. In early June, he asked
the board to increase the transaction limit to $8.4 billion.
When the board asked him to leave the room, the offended Corzine
told Stockman that if the board didn’t think he was “the right
guy,” it should find someone else to be CEO. The board raised
Corzine’s limit to $8.5 billion. But Stockman was now getting
increasingly concerned about the size of the position.  By August 2011, Corzine had bet $7.4 billion on European
sovereign debt. At an Aug. 11 board meeting, Stockman told the
board the company “could need” an additional $246 million to
$930 million to meet margin calls if the value of the underlying
European sovereign debt continued to fall. At the meeting,
Corzine and the board rejected as “too costly” the idea of
hedging MF Global’s exposure to Corzine’s bet. The board also
asked Stockman to create a “break the glass” contingency plan in
case the ratings companies downgraded MF Global as the size of
the bet became known.  In the survival plan, Stockman predicted MF Global would
have sufficient liquidity to survive “one month under a severe
stress event.” On Oct. 24, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
MF Global and cited -- for the first time -- the company’s
outsized “exposure to European sovereign debt.” But Stockman was
wrong: Despite some last-minute juggling with $1 billion of
supposedly segregated customer money to pay off creditors, MF
Global filed for bankruptcy a week later and was liquidated.  Tepid Law  The report makes a number of tepid recommendations about
how to prevent a recurrence of what Corzine wrought at MF
Global. Among them is encouraging Congress to enact a law “to
restore investor confidence in the  futures markets ” that imposes
civil liability on the officers and directors who sign a
company’s financial statements or “authorize specific transfers
from customer segregated accounts for regulatory shortfalls of
segregated customer funds.”  Unfortunately, civil penalties have done little to deter
bad behavior on  Wall Street . The report lamely sidesteps the
issue of criminal liability in the MF Global debacle, and the
 New York  Times reported that “federal investigators do not
expect to file criminal charges against top executives.”  To anyone who has read the House report, this is a head-
scratcher. It states that Corzine made several “fateful”
decisions that led to MF Global’s bankruptcy and liquidation,
causing billions of dollars in losses for customers, creditors
and shareholders. In those “hectic final days,” the report
notes, “the company repeatedly transferred funds into and out of
segregated accounts, amplifying the risk that it would
miscalculate account balances for regulatory purposes.” What’s
more, “these risks were compounded by the atmosphere that
Corzine created at MF Global, in which no one could challenge
his decisions.”  A chronology of MF Global’s death throes prepared by CME
Group Inc., the parent company of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, states that at least one MF Global employee believed
“Corzine knew about loans made from customer segregated
accounts.”  I’m no prosecutor, but this reluctance to hold Corzine
criminally responsible for what happened at MF Global seems like
a crime in itself.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  saving Spain’s banking system 
and on  why the U.S. should allow natural gas exports ;  Simon
Johnson  on whether the New York Fed president will  try to stop
sensible bank reform ; David Kornblau on  regulating markets like
the nuclear power industry .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  