-- Dubai, Home to World’s Largest Mall, Plans Bigger One
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-11-25T12:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/dubai-to-build-world-s-largest-mall-to-revive-property-industry.html
Dubai’s ruler announced plans for a
development boasting the world’s biggest shopping mall and
gardens larger than  London ’s Hyde Park, as the emirate revives
property projects on hold since the global financial crisis.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ largest
developer by market value, and Dubai Holding LLC will together
build a district called “Mohammed Bin Rashid City,” named
after the Persian Gulf emirate’s ruler. The project near central
Dubai is to include 100 hotels, residential areas and green
spaces 30 percent bigger than Hyde Park, according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Dubai already has bragging rights to the biggest emporium
by total area, Dubai Mall, which sprawls opposite the planet’s
tallest skyscraper, Burj Khalifa. Between these two Emaar
structures is a man-made lake where the world’s largest dancing
fountain shoots water 50 stories high.  Dubai, seeking to stimulate its economy, wants to resume
several projects that halted after the global credit crunch
drove down property values by 65 percent and caused companies to
suspend construction of hundreds of developments. Builders in
the U.A.E. have aborted about $757 billion of projects since the
crisis, Citigroup said in a report on Oct. 16. Dubai is the
country’s second-largest emirate, after  Abu Dhabi .  Desert Venice  Meydan City Corp., which built a 60,000-seat horse-racing
stadium and hotel complex in Dubai, said in October it would
revive plans for two developments, one with low-rise buildings
and lagoons and the other for a tower with “sky gardens” and
nine swimming pools. At about the same time, the emirate’s
government re-approved construction of a mile-long (1.6
kilometer-long) canal from the Business Bay commercial area to
the ocean.  New projects announced in the past two months include a
replica of  India ’s Taj Mahal that would be four times the size
of the original.  Emaar’s shares climbed 2.2 percent today to 3.73 dirhams,
the highest close since Oct. 23. The company’s shares have
jumped 45 percent this year.  “The current facilities available in Dubai need to be
scaled up in line with the future ambitions for the city,”
Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum said, according to the
official statement. “We have to start work immediately” on the
project and boost the economy, he said.  Sheikh’s Vision  Under the ruler’s plan, Mohammed Bin Rashid City would span
5.1 square kilometres (2 square miles) and contain the biggest
cluster of art galleries in the  Middle East  and North Africa.
It’s so-called “Mall of the World” would cater to 80 million
shoppers a year.  The announcement didn’t specify the development’s expected
cost or a construction schedule.  Dubai racked up $113 billion of debt transforming itself
into a tourism and commercial hub. The emirate has $7 billion of
debt maturating next year and $32 billion in 2014, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch report Oct. 20.  A construction boom in the emirate, where developers began
selling property to foreigners in 2002, led to several large
projects including the world’s tallest tower and man-made
islands off the coast. Work on two of three palm-shaped
residential islands was interrupted as the bonanza turned to a
bust in the third quarter of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  