-- Egyptian Shares Drop by Most in 22 Months as Saudi Stocks Tumble
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a ,   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2012-11-25T16:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/dubai-shares-surge-on-world-s-largest-mall-plan-egypt-tumbles.html
Egyptian stocks retreated the most
since the start of last year’s uprising and the government’s
borrowing costs rose as clashes broke out in protest against
President Mohamed Mursi’s consolidation of power.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, dropped 9.8 percent to 33.79
Egyptian pounds.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded company, tumbled 9.9 percent to 227.37
pounds. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 9.6 percent, the most since
Jan. 27, 2011, to 4,917.73 at the close in Cairo, trimming this
year’s gain to 36 percent. Saudi’s benchmark index fell to the
lowest in 10 months amid speculation about the king’s health.  Egypt’s judiciary prepared to suspend work and new clashes
erupted in Cairo as critics likened Mursi’s decrees, which
shield his decisions from judicial oversight, to the policies of
the regime hundreds died to topple last year. Hours after mass
protests last night, police fired tear gas at demonstrators in
the capital’s iconic Tahrir Square.  “The decree pits the executive and the judiciary branches
against each other and splits the population in two,” said
Teymour El-Derini, Cairo-based director of  Middle East  and North
Africa sales trading at Naeem Brokerage. “Buying in this market
doesn’t make any sense considering the risk.”  Egypt sold  nine-month treasury bills  today at the highest
cost in six weeks as the average yield climbed 30 basis points,
or 0.3 of a percentage point, to 13.19 percent, according to
central bank data on Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All-
Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 2.1 percent to 6,524.15, the lowest since
January.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
publicly traded petrochemical maker, lost 2.3 percent to 87
riyals.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the largest listed Saudi lender, fell 1.1
percent to 66.5 riyals, the lowest since March 2011.  King’s Health  “The Ministry of Labour’s decision to enforce new fees on
foreign workers has played an important part in the decline
today,” said Mohammed Al-Omran, financial analyst and president
of the Gulf Center for Financial Consultancy in  Riyadh . “A more
important factor that is hard to put into context is King
Abdullah’s health. The fear surrounding his condition is the
biggest influence on Saudi stocks today.”  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz underwent a back
surgery on Nov. 17 to tighten a laxity at the conjoining cord of
his upper back, which the government said was successful. The
king was born in Riyadh in 1924, according to the website of the
Saudi Embassy in  Washington . Saudi authorities usually don’t
comment on speculation about the royal family.  Foreign Workers  The Arab world’s largest economy will proceed with a 200
riyal-a-month ($53) fee on foreign workers when their numbers
exceed Saudi employees at a company as a push to encourage
hiring nationals. The percentage of Saudi workers in the private
sector is between 2 percent to 10 percent, Arab News reported,
citing Labor Minister Adel Fakeih.  The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index, which tracks the biggest 200
companies in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, fell 0.9
percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index, Kuwait’s and Oman’s
MSM30 Index each lost 0.2 percent. Qatar’s QE Index gained 0.5
percent and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  added 0.3 percent.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index climbed 1.3 percent. The
yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent bonds due January 2022 fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.93 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  