-- Egyptian Stocks Lose World’s Best Performer Spot Amid Unrest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-26T14:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/egyptian-stocks-lose-world-s-best-performer-spot-amid-clashes.html
Egypt ’s  benchmark stock index  gave
up its spot as the world’s best performer this year after unrest
spurred the worst drop since the 2011 revolt. Shares rose today
as political leaders sought to resolve the crisis.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , which yesterday tumbled the most since
the January 2011 start of the uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , advanced 2.6 percent to 5,047.17 at the close in Cairo.
That brought this year’s increase to 39 percent, the third-
biggest advance, after Pakistan and  Turkey  among 93 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg. The Egyptian pound, subject to managed
float, weakened 0.2 percent, the most since September 2011, to
6.1036 a dollar.  Clashes broke out between supporters and opponents of
President Mohamed Mursi after he issued a decree granting
himself sweeping powers, which his critics likened to policies
of the regime hundreds died last year to topple. Opposition
groups called for more mass protests in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
tomorrow, fueling concern the crisis may escalate.  “This week will be key in Egypt’s future,” Teymour El- Derini, Cairo-based director of  Middle East  and North Africa
sales trading at Naeem Brokerage, said in a report yesterday.
“Everyone will be watching and everyone will be down in Tahrir
on Tuesday. It’s definitely far from over.”  Molotov Cocktails  Mursi is due to meet with judiciary leaders today, amid
judges threats to stop work nationwide, to discuss a resolution
to the worst political crisis since he took office in June.
Mursi, an Islamist politician elected to succeed Mubarak, issued
a decree last week shielding all his decisions from judicial
oversight. The decree fired the public prosecutor and protected
an Islamist-dominated constitution-drafting panel from court
challenges.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, gained 3.1 percent to 34.82
pounds after losing 9.8 percent yesterday.  Orascom Construction
Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company, recovered
from yesterday’s 9.9 percent plunge, to add 2.8 percent to
233.83 pounds. Companies listed on the index lost a combined 22
billion pounds ($3.6 billion), or almost 10 percent of their
market capitalization, yesterday.  Mursi’s opponents and supporters of the  Muslim Brotherhood ,
the group from which he hails, hurled rocks and Molotov
cocktails at each other in Cairo and other cities over the
weekend. Both sides are planning mass rallies tomorrow in cities
around the country, raising concerns of more clashes.  The decrees were “a big blow to the revolution, the
transitional period and the democracy Egyptians were hoping to
establish that could have dire consequences on the political
scene,” Khalil el-Anani, a political analyst at the U.K’s
Durham University, said by phone.  IMF Support  Bets that Egypt will move forward in its transition to
democracy and secure foreign aid have helped shares rally this
year. The government reached preliminary agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  Nov. 20 for a loan of as much as
$4.8 billion. Authorities say the loan will help restore
investor confidence and lower the  budget deficit , which widened
to 11 percent of economic output last year, the highest in at
least five years.  Investors should buy shares of  Orascom Construction  and
real estate developer  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH)  as the
political instability that caused yesterday’s losses will
probably be resolved soon, Religare Capital Markets Ltd., an
 emerging markets  investment adviser, said in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  ‘Inclusive’ Dialogue  The 30-stock  benchmark measure  trades at 1.25 times book
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The compares
with an average of 2.43 times book value for Morocco’s  Madex
Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  and 1.72 times for  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All
Share Index. (SASEIDX)   Mursi met yesterday with his top advisers for the second
time in two days amid efforts to defuse the crisis. The
president’s office, in an e-mailed statement, said the decrees
were temporary and that the president will “engage all
political forces in the inclusive democratic dialogue to reach a
common ground” and bridge differences over the new
constitution.  Representatives of Egyptian churches have already walked
out of the committee drafting the charter, which they say is
dominated by Islamists.  Investor Concern  “The lack of stability is creating an overhang on the risk
premium of the country and will not attract foreign investors
regardless of the underlying prices of the stocks,”   Yazan Abdeen , who helps oversee about $300 million as ING Investment
Management’s Middle East and North Africa fund manager in Dubai,
said by phone yesterday.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in April 2020 gained 11 basis points today, the biggest
advance on a closing basis since Sept. 24, to 5.24 percent. The
average yield on nine-month treasury bills jumped 30 basis
points at an auction yesterday to 13.19 percent.  “Banks are becoming more conservative in anticipation of
political developments,” Sherif Othman, head of treasury at
Arab Bank Corp., said by phone yesterday. “Investors will be
concerned any time there’s blood on the streets, so the
government has to start a dialogue to resolve the current
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  