-- Egypt Borrowing Costs Rise as Mursi Power Grab Sparks Violence
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-25T12:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/egypt-offers-5-billion-pounds-of-t-bills-after-mursi-power-grab.html
Egypt ’s  nine-month borrowing costs 
climbed to the highest level in six weeks after President
Mohamed Mursi issued a decree to prevent judicial oversight of
his decisions, sparking violent protests.  The Arab country raised its target 5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($821 million) at an auction of treasury bills today,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg. The average yield
on 3.5 billion pounds of nine-month notes gained 30 basis
points, or 0.3 of a percentage point, to 13.19 percent, the
highest level since an Oct. 14 sale. The yield on 1.5 billion
pounds of  three-month bills  increased 20 basis points to 12.5
percent.  Dozens of people were injured over the weekend in clashes
between supporters and opponents of Mursi’s moves on Nov. 22 to
fire the country’s prosecutor general, protect a disputed
constitution-drafting committee from court challenges and order
re-trials of officials from former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
regime. Mursi said all his decisions, dating back to his
assumption of office in June, cannot be challenged in court.  “Banks are becoming more conservative in anticipation of
political developments,” Sherif Othman, head of treasury at
 Arab Bank Corp. (ABC) , said by phone. “Investors will be concerned
anytime there’s blood on the streets so the government has to
start a dialogue to resolve the current situation.”  The U.S. and European Union criticized Mursi’s decree.
Egypt reached preliminary agreement with the IMF on Nov. 20 for
a loan of as much as $4.8 billion.  The yield on the nation’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated
bonds due in April 2020 advanced one basis point to 5.13 percent
on Nov. 23, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
pound, subject to a managed float, was little changed at 6.0897
a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  