-- EIB Set to Back 50 Million-Euro Loan for Liberian Hydropower
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-11-26T05:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/eib-set-to-approve-50-million-euro-loan-for-liberian-hydropower.html
The  European Investment Bank  is
close to approving a 50 million-euro ($64 million) loan for
Liberia’s Mount Coffee hydropower project and may provide 100
million euros for a similar power plant in East  Africa .  The financing would be part of as much as 1 billion euros
worth of loans the Luxembourg-based bank is considering in sub-
Saharan Africa, Vice President Pim van Ballekom said in a Nov.
21 interview in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. The deal for
the 64-megawatt Liberian project, which will cost 180 million
euros, may be approved this year, he said.  “The project is identified as being a very important
element in regional integration, and supporting a post-conflict
country,” van Ballekom said.  The West African nation is seeking to rebuild
infrastructure destroyed in civil wars between 1989 and 2003.
The country produces 23 megawatts of electricity for a
population of 4.1 million people, one of the lowest per capita
rates in the world, according to Liberia’s finance ministry.  The European Union’s lending unit, which loans as much as
70 billion euros a year, is planning to give 100 million euros
for generation and transmission infrastructure to the 147-
megawatt Ruzizi III hydropower dam. The project, expected to
cost 300 million euros, will be situated on the Ruzizi River at
the intersection of the borders of  Rwanda , Burundi and the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo.  30 Billion  “If we can stimulate regional cooperation, it’s an extra,
certainly when it’s in the Great Lakes district,” van Ballekom
said. Sithe Global Power LLP unit, which is owned by private-
equity company  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , will work on the project, he
said.  Africa has 15 percent of the world’s population and
accounts for 3 percent of energy consumption, according to a
2011 report by the  African Union  and other continental
organizations that studied electricity demand for the next three
decades. It is projected to grow at a rate of 5.7 percent
annually from the present 2.4 percent, it said.  The bank made “a convincing argument” why it’s important
for African nations to invest in renewable energy in discussions
with ministers at an energy conference in  Addis Ababa  last week,
van Ballekom said.  “It’s always good to have a broad energy base so you’re
not dependent on certain countries or regimes you don’t like to
be over-dependent on,” he said.  Private Investors  African nations also need to attract more private investors
by improving legal systems to attract the estimated 30 billion
euros a year the continent needs for energy investment, van
Ballekom said. “You can’t realize that with donors and grants
and public institutions,” he said. “Without the private
sector, it remains a challenge for decades to come.”  The EIB this month signed a deal to loan 50 million euros
to the Khi Solar One project in  South Africa . The project is co-
owned by companies including  Abengoa SA (ABG) , a Spanish renewable-
energy and engineering company, and South Africa’s state-owned
Industrial Development Corp., according to the EIB’s website.  European Union countries are expected to give the EIB about
10 billion euros by March 31, providing it with about 190
billion euros to lend over the next three years, according to
van Ballekom. About 10 percent of that will be invested outside
 Europe  and a quarter of it in the future may be reserved for
climate-related projects, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  