-- Pemex Finds Oil in Region That Could Hold 1 Bln Barrels
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-11-26T16:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/mexico-announces-oil-discovery-in-tabasco-state-notimex-reports.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, discovered a crude deposit in
Tabasco state, estimating it may find as much as 1 billion
barrels of reserves in the area as it expands drilling.  The light-crude deposit announced yesterday in the on-shore
Navegante 1 well, with a depth of 6 kilometers (3.7 miles), may
have as much as 500 million barrels, said a press official who
asked not to be named because of company policy. Pemex, based in
 Mexico  City, will expand exploration to the south of Navegante
aiming to double the potential reserves of the province, the
official said yesterday in a phone interview.  The state-run company has invested almost $10 billion in
exploration since 2009. Navegante is Mexico’s most important
solid-ground discovery in the past decade, President  Felipe Calderon  said yesterday in a speech in Veracruz state. It’s the
company’s third major find in past months, following two 
deep-water deposits in the  Gulf of Mexico , where it estimates 
26.5 billion barrels of untapped crude.  “Pemex has steered itself toward investments in
exploration, and it’s showing results,” Calderon said,
according to a transcript distributed by the president’s office.  Before Navegante, Pemex found 200 million barrels of light
oil at its ultra-deep Trion-1 well in the Gulf of Mexico in
August and about 125 million barrels at the nearby Supremus-1
well in October. Pemex hadn’t found any commercially viable
deep-water oil in its previous 22 attempts.  Shale Gas  Adding to the crude discoveries, the state oil producer
said last month that it found shale gas in wells in the Mexican
side of the Eagle Ford region. Pemex plans to offer a round of
contracts next year to start developing its shale gas reserves.  Pemex would need to invest as much as $35 billion a year to
develop all of the nation’s production opportunities, including
those in so-called deep waters and shale gas fields, Chief
Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said in a Sept. 17
interview. That’s 54 percent more than the $22.7 billion granted
by Congress this year for Pemex’s investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  