-- Fox to Sign $6 Billion to $7 Billion Dodgers Deal, Deadline Says
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-11-26T05:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/fox-closes-on-6-billion-7-billion-dodgers-deal-deadline-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports unit will
sign a television deal with the Los Angeles Dodgers that’s worth
$6 billion to $7 billion over 25 years,  Deadline Hollywood  said,
without disclosing where it got the information.  The richest broadcast contract in sports history will pay
the Dodgers an average $280 million a year, the report said. The
Major League Baseball team currently gets about $40 million
annually under the deal with Fox that expires after the 2013
season.  The Dodgers on May 1 completed their sale for $2.15
billion, a record for a sports franchise, to a group including
Guggenheim Partners and its top executive Mark Walter, and ex-
basketball player Magic Johnson, allowing the team to exit
bankruptcy.  Stan Kasten, president of the Dodgers, declined to comment
on yesterday’s Deadline Hollywood report.  “The Dodgers and Fox have been long-time partners and
we’re in discussions now to extend that relationship well into
the future,” Fox said in a statement. “We’re working hard to
reach an agreement that achieves the goals of Dodgers ownership
and also makes sense for our business. The discussions are
private and ongoing so, out of respect for the process, we’re
not going to comment further.”  News Corp., the media company led by Rupert Murdoch, was
vying with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for the right to televise
Dodgers games in Southern California. Fox will also show the
games on its national network, Deadline Hollywood said.  Settlement  A settlement ending the Dodgers’ 2011 battle in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court gives the team’s new owners a chance to cap
income subject to revenue-sharing from a proposed regional
sports network at about $84 million a year, Bloomberg News
reported in September. If the team gets as much as $280
million a year from Fox’s rights fees, the Dodgers may enjoy an
annual unshared windfall approaching $200 million.  The Los Angeles Angels, the market’s number two baseball
team, signed a 17-year $2.5 billion regional network contract in
December with Fox Sports, according to Forbes. The number one
Dodgers’ leverage on TV rights has been increased by intense
competition for local sports programming in Southern California.  News Corp. earlier this month also agreed to buy 49 percent
of the YES Network, the cable channel that carries  New York 
Yankees baseball games, in a deal that values the pay-TV outlet
at about $3 billion. Murdoch can raise the stake, which he’s
acquiring from the Yankees,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other
investors, to 80 percent after three years.  YES also negotiated a five-year extension to its agreement
to carry Yankees games through 2042. Fox will pay about 5
percent more each year from the current $85 million annually to
show Yankees games, reaching about $350 million by the
contract’s end, people with knowledge of the situation said at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 