-- France Lags Euro-Area Economy Overhaul Effort, Study Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-11-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/france-lags-euro-area-economy-overhaul-effort-study-says.html
France  is lagging efforts by other
euro-area countries to overhaul their economies, work that may
check the region’s debt crisis, according to a study.  “France remains the only major European economy which is
beset by serious health problems and has yet to do anything
about it,” say the Hamburg-based Berenberg Bank and the Lisbon
Council, a research institute in Brussels.  Greece  and Ireland made the greatest progress in the past
12 months to trim deficits and improve competitiveness,
according to the report that was released today. Estonia,
Luxembourg and Germany are the three healthiest economies, the
same ranking as in last year’s report.  Italy  moved up one place
to 13th, swapping places with France. In terms of its adjustment
efforts, Italy is in 7th place and France 12th.  “In the absence of additional policy mistakes, the euro
crisis could fade somewhat in 2013,” according to the report’s
conclusions. “The  euro zone  as a whole is turning into a much
more balanced and potentially more dynamic economy.”  In France, President  Francois Hollande ’s recently announced
plans to cut labor costs don’t go far enough and are partly
undone by new taxes, the report’s authors say.  The report ranks the 17 members of the euro on their
“fundamental health” and on their “adjustment progress.”
Greece is in last place for the health of its economy, and in
first place for its efforts to overcome those problems.  While Spain has improved its trade position and cut labor
costs, preventing excessive austerity from leading to a Greek-
style downward spiral is one of the “key tasks” for 2013,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  