-- Gillard’s Labor Trails Coalition as Parliament Enters Last Week
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-25T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/gillard-s-labor-trails-coalition-as-parliament-enters-last-week.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  enters this year’s final sitting week of parliament with
her  Labor party  still trailing the coalition, which remains
favored to win elections that must be held in 2013.  The ruling Labor party’s primary vote remained on 36
percent with Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition staying on
43 percent, according to a  Newspoll survey  published in the
Australian newspaper today. Taking preference votes into
account, Labor was on 49 percent and the opposition on 51
percent on a two-party preferred basis, unchanged from a poll
two weeks earlier.  While the coalition has led in almost every poll for more
than 18 months, Gillard’s minority government has closed the gap
as voter concern waned about the impact of a new tax on  carbon
emissions .  Australia ’s first female leader is staking her
economic credentials on returning the national budget to surplus
next year.  The telephone survey of 1,156 people, conducted Nov. 23-25,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Abbott rose 3 points on the question on whether voters were
satisfied with his performance, after falling to the lowest
level in his three years in charge of the coalition in the
previous poll, while Gillard remained at 37 percent.  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Abbott rose 1 point to 33 percent against Gillard’s
unchanged 46 percent.  Toughen Standards  Abbott, 55, is indicating he’ll try to maintain pressure on
Gillard, a former union lawyer, during the final sitting week
until February by introducing a private member’s bill that would
toughen standards for union leaders.  “This government has hurt you, it’s wasted your money,
it’s betrayed your trust, it’s compromised your future,” Abbott
told reporters in Canberra today. “The only way to restore
hope, reward and opportunity is to change this government.”  Gillard, 51, should answer questions about her conduct as a
union lawyer in the 1990s, Abbott said today. The prime minister
has denied any wrongdoing.  “ Tony Abbott  has spent the year being ‘‘Captain Negative’’
in Australian politics,” Education Minister Peter Garrett said
in an Australian Broadcasting Corp. television interview today.
“It will be a test of his leadership as to whether the
opposition will continue with the smear campaign that they are
they are now waging on the prime minister.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  