-- Golf’s No. 1 McIlroy Caps Year With Season-Ending Win in Dubai
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-25T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/golf-s-no-1-mcilroy-caps-year-with-season-ending-win-in-dubai.html
Rory McIlroy birdied the final five
holes at the season-ending DP World Tour Championship as the
top-ranked golfer held off a late challenge from  Justin Rose  to
win in Dubai.  Northern Ireland’s McIlroy, who finished atop the European
and U.S. money lists this year, had a 6-under-par 66 in
yesterday’s final round at the Jumeirah Golf Estates for a  23-
under total . England’s Rose was two shots back after a course-
record 62.  “I couldn’t have wished for the season to end any
better,” McIlroy, 23, told reporters. “Coming here with the
Race to Dubai wrapped up, I wanted to win the tournament trophy
too and that’s what I’ve done.”  England’s  Luke Donald , No. 2 in the World Golf Ranking,
tied for third with Charl Schwartzel of  South Africa  on 18-
under. Donald, 34, had been tied for the lead with McIlroy after
the third round.  The 32-year-old Rose became the biggest threat to McIlroy
with a round that included eight birdies and an eagle. He fell
just short, although his second-place finish lifts the
Englishman to a career-high fourth in the rankings.  McIlroy ends the year with five wins, including two on the
European Tour. His other victories were at the Honda Classic,
U.S.  PGA Championship , Deutsche Bank Championship and BMW
Championship.  He tops the Race to Dubai, the European Tour’s money list,
with a record  5.52 million euros  ($7.16 million). Yesterday’s
victory was worth 1.04 million euros.  The European Tour yesterday  announced its 2013 schedule ,
which will feature a minimum of 45 events. It will end in Dubai
with the DP World Tour Championship on Nov. 14-17, part of a new
four-event “The Final Series,” with combined prize money of
$30.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 