-- Milan Beats Juventus 1-0; Marseille Moves Into Tie Atop Ligue 1
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-25T23:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/milan-beats-juventus-1-0-marseille-moves-into-tie-atop-ligue-1.html
Juventus missed a chance to stretch
its lead atop Italy’s Serie A with a 1-0 defeat at AC Milan
yesterday, while Barcelona won 4-0 on the road in Spanish
soccer’s La Liga.  Brazilian striker Robinho scored from the penalty spot in
the 31st minute for the home team at the San Siro Stadium in
Milan last night.  “From the touchline I thought it was the right
decision ,” Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri said. “After
seeing the pictures I don’t think it was a penalty.”  Defending champion Juventus has 32 points, four more than
 Inter Milan  and Fiorentina, with Napoli another point back.
Inter is at Parma today, while Cagliari hosts Napoli. Fifth-
place Lazio faces Udinese on Nov. 27. AC Milan has 18 points.  Among yesterday’s other games, Fiorentina tied 2-2 at
Torino, Roma beat Pescara 1-0 and Sampdoria defeated Bologna 1-0.  Barcelona kept a three-point lead over second-place
 Atletico Madrid , which won 4-0 against the visiting Sevilla.  Defending champion Real Madrid is a further eight points
back in third place after suffering a 1-0 loss at Real Betis two
days ago. Benat Etxebarria got the only goal.  Lionel Messi  got two goals for Barcelona against Levante to
take his tally in 2012 to 82, six short of the single-year
record set by German Gerd Mueller in 1972.  Andres Iniesta  and
Cesc Fabregas also scored for the visitor.  Also yesterday, Getafe won 2-0 at Espanyol and  Athletic
Bilbao  drew 1-1 with Deportivo La Coruna.  Dortmund Climbs  Borussia Dortmund  moved into second spot in Germany’s
Bundesliga after the weekend’s matches, rallying to defeat Mainz
2-1 yesterday. It trails  Bayern Munich , a 5-0 winner against
Hanover two days ago, by nine points.  Bayer Leverkusen  defeated Hoffenheim 2-1 yesterday and is a
point further back, along with Schalke and Eintracht Frankfurt.
On Nov. 24, Schalke and Eintracht tied 1-1.  In  France , Jordan Ayew scored a minute after halftime last
night as Marseille beat Lille 1-0 to move level with Paris
Saint-Germain atop Ligue 1.  Marseille and PSG have 26 points, one more than Saint-
Etienne and Lyon, which lost 3-0 to Toulouse yesterday.  Saint-Etienne defeated Valenciennes 1-0 three days ago,
while PSG beat Troyes 4-0 two days ago. Yesterday, Bordeaux also
lost 1-0 at Montpellier.  Eredivisie leader PSV Eindhoven was upset 2-1 at home
yesterday by  Vitesse Arnhem , which is now two points back along
with  FC Twente  -- which tied 2-2 against FC Zwolle. Fourth-place
Ajax beat Roda JC 2-1.  In Russia, Spartak Moscow fired coach Unai Emery following
a 5-1 home defeat to Dynamo Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 