-- Investors Grab Sinking Returns Amid Scandinavia Recession
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-26T14:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/investors-grab-sinking-returns-amid-scandinavia-recession.html
The onset of recessions in
Scandinavia is proving no deterrent for bond and currency
investors reduced to sifting between  Europe ’s least ugly
markets.  Even negative returns, driven by record capital inflows,
haven’t put off buyers eager to protect their principal rather
than risk losses on euro-denominated securities.  “From a credit perspective, the current set-back in
economic indicators in the Nordics doesn’t change the fact that
the region is looking very good relative to the rest of
Europe,” Thomas Clausen, chief investment officer at Alfred Berg Asset Management in Copenhagen, said in an interview.  The economies of Denmark and  Finland  have both suffered
contractions this year, while Swedish growth is stalling as
exporters such as  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Ericsson AB fire thousands of
workers. Norway and Sweden may be in the grip of housing
bubbles, according to government agencies in the two countries.
Denmark has yet to recover from a burst real estate bubble
that’s triggered more than a dozen bank failures since 2008. Yet
investors continue to pour in.  Record Premium  Foreign holdings of Swedish bonds and money market
instruments rose to 3.23 trillion kronor ($483 billion) as of
June, from 2.09 trillion at the end of 2007, central bank data
show. Foreign investors bought 163 billion kroner of Norwegian
securities in the first half, double the total amount purchased
through all of 2011, the Oslo-based statistics office estimates.
Purchases of Danish krone denominated bonds jumped almost five-
fold in September to 21.4 billion kroner, from a year earlier,
according to central bank data.  Denmark plans to exceed its 100 billion-krone ($17 billion)
guidance for borrowing this year, holding an auction next month
on a date that had been set as tentative for an extra bond sale.
The yield on the country’s 10-year note slid to 1.105 percent
today, 31 basis points below similar German yields, a record
premium on the bond.  “Scandinavia as a whole is still a good place to be,”
Magnus Nilsson, who helps manage $2.3 billion at  Catella
Avkastningsfond (CASTAVK)  in  Stockholm , said by phone. “If you look at
the major markets, the U.S.,  Japan  and some specific European
countries, it’s quite an ugly scene.”  ‘Best in Class’  As money has flowed into Scandinavia, economic output has
sagged. Denmark’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.4 percent in
the second quarter and  Finland’s economy  contracted 1.1 percent
in the same period, according to their statistics offices.  Norway’s  economy , excluding income from oil and gas, slowed
to 0.7 percent from 0.8 percent in the period, while the
nation’s total economic output fell 0.8 percent.  The economy of
Sweden  -- where exports make up half total output -- grew 0.7
percent in the second quarter, yet its manufacturing industry
has contracted every month since August.  “I think they are heading towards contraction, but not
that this means they are losing their appeal,” Par Magnusson,
chief Scandinavian rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Stockholm, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“They are still the best in class.”  Olav Chen, a senior portfolio manager at Storebrand Asset
Management in Oslo, who oversees about $7 billion, is betting
“Sweden’s safe haven status would survive a slowdown,” he said
in an e-mailed reply to questions.  AAA Rated  The four Nordic countries, all rated AAA, boast public debt
loads that are less than half the euro-zone average.  Norway ,
which is backed by a $660 billion sovereign wealth fund, has no
net debt. Credit default swaps on bonds sold by the four nations
trade on par with or below similar swaps protecting against a
default on German debt. Default swaps on Norway suggest the oil-
rich nation is the world’s safest credit.  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, has fielded calls from
international investors looking for somewhere to protect their
holdings, Chief Financial Officer Bjoern Erik Naess said. That’s
helping boost deposits and reducing the lender’s reliance on
wholesale funding, he said.  The influx of international deposits “is at a
significantly higher level than a year ago,” Naess said in a
telephone interview out of Oslo. “We have seen growth in
deposits from international clients, both on personal deposits
from households as well as from corporates. The third source of
increased deposits, in particular short-term deposits, has been
from institutional investors, such as hedge funds and money
market funds.”  Returns Evaporate  Demand for Scandinavia’s bonds and currencies has persisted
even as returns evaporate. Denmark pays less than  Germany  to
borrow over 10 years, while  Sweden ’s 10-year note yielded 1.51
percent today, less relative to bunds than any euro member.
Norway’s similar-maturity debt yielded 2.17 percent. Denmark
charges investors to hold its two-year debt, which yielded minus
0.156 percent as of 3:21 p.m. local time.  Investors in the Nordics have tolerated record-low yields
as prospects of a euro-zone recovery darken. Services and
manufacturing confidence in the 17-member currency bloc, which
slid into a recession in the second quarter, shrank for a 10th
consecutive month in November, a composite index based on a
survey of purchasing managers showed on Nov. 22.  One-Eyed King  A solution to the euro zone’s debt crisis looks remote as
political wrangling continues to stall progress. Europe’s
leaders have so far failed to reach agreement on continuing
Greek aid while talks on setting a budget for the 27-member
European Union are showing signs of faltering.  France  lost its
top credit grade at Moody’s Investors Service this month as the
rating company warned fading growth prospects will hurt the
fiscal outlook of Europe’s second-largest economy.  “In the land of the blind, a one-eyed man is king,”
 Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , said
in a phone interview. “Maybe this is how the markets should
view Sweden.”  In the Nordics, only Finland is in the euro. Sweden is an
EU member with its own free-floating currency and Denmark pegs
the krone to the euro. Norway, like Switzerland, has opted to
stay outside the EU altogether. Exchange rate flows have
prompted speculation that Norway’s krone and Sweden’s krona
might even replace the Swiss franc as haven currencies.  Relative Concept  The Swedish krona has appreciated 8 percent against the
euro in the past 12 months and Norway’s krone is up 7 percent in
the period. The appeal of the two currencies grew after the
Swiss National Bank in September last year capped the franc’s
exchange rate versus the euro to fight a capital influx. Denmark
has resorted to negative policy rates to protect its peg.  “Currencies are a relative concept,” David Bloom, global
head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London , said
in a telephone interview. “Foreign exchange is: what are you
like compared to someone else? That’s all that matters.”  According to Bloom, “Norway is the best currency in the
whole wide world. My love grows deeper” when contrasting the
situation in Norway with the political brinkmanship over fiscal
policy in the U.S., European bailout talks and even the U.K.’s
“fiscal predicament,” he said.  Investors entering Nordic markets at the height of Europe’s
debt crisis “were attracted by the strength of the fundamentals
and lack of alternatives in the first place, and that has not
really changed,”  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based foreign-
exchange strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader, said in an interview.  HSBC’s Bloom argues that even signs of economic weakness in
Scandinavia shouldn’t keep investors away. “Whatever it is, you
cannot frighten me,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  