-- Iran Air Lifts Foreign Fares 90% as Sanctions Push Up Fuel Costs
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-11-25T13:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/iran-air-lifts-foreign-fares-90-as-sanctions-push-up-fuel-costs.html
Iran Air  increased the expense of
tickets for travel outside the country by as much as 90 percent
after a government decision to stop subsidizing jet-fuel prices
sent costs at the state-owned carrier soaring.  Prices rose on Nov. 22, the state run  Iranian Students News
Agency  said, citing guidelines issued to local travel agents. An
economy seat from Tehran to  London  now costs 17.6 million rials
($1,430), versus 9 million previously, with a ticket to Dubai
priced at 6.1 million rials, up from 3.8 million rials, it said.  Iran Air is lifting fares after the rial slumped 40 percent
versus the dollar since August, with the cost of kerosene
jumping 83 percent to 22,000 rials a liter, ISNA said. While the
government shields importers of some goods from exchange rates
by granting access to dollars at a central bank level of 12,260
rials, the Association of Iranian Airlines said in September
that members would no longer benefit.  The price increases come as Iran’s economy is pressured by
financial, trade and energy sanctions imposed by the U.S. and
European Union to curb the country’s nuclear program.  Faced with soaring costs that include the expense of buying
jetliner parts as the sanctions prevent purchases from  Boeing
Co. (BA) , Airbus SAS and their suppliers, Iranian airlines had to be
allowed to increase fares, Mehrdad Lahouti, a spokesman for the
parliament’s development commission, said on Sept. 12.  Domestic Increase  Iran Air serves 17 European cities, including London,
Paris, Amsterdam and three locations in  Germany , and has a fleet
of 51 aircraft, according to its website.  Iran increased jet-fuel prices for domestic services from
2,000 rials to 7,000 rials. While the country produces kerosene
at the Bandar Abbas refinery, airlines worldwide usually refuel
abroad following the outbound legs of international services to
minimize the weight carried, exposing them to market rates.  “Given that the cost of jet fuel in various countries is
high, it has been decided that its price will also increase,”
Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi was cited as saying by the
state-run Fars news agency in a report published Oct. 14.  Outside carriers including Qatar Airways Ltd. have
increased services to  Iran  to fill gaps where the Islamic
republic’s own operators are struggling to operate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  