-- Italy’s Bersani Wins Primary Round in Bid to Succeed Monti
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i ,   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-11-25T21:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/italy-s-bersani-faces-off-against-renzi-in-bid-to-replace-monti.html
Democratic Party  head Pier Luigi Bersani, whose party leads in opinion polls, won the first round
of a primary in his bid to succeed Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in elections next year.  Bersani won 44.6 percent, compared to 36.6 percent for
Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, the closest of the four candidates
who were vying to lead a coalition of center-left parties in
elections due by May, with about 40 percent of votes counted. As
Bersani, 61, failed to win more than half of the vote, he will
face Renzi in a second round on Dec. 2.  Bersani, a career politician who has led the party since
2009, is trying to head off an insurgency by Renzi, 37, who has
blamed party leaders for contributing to  Italy ’s dysfunctional
political system and economic stagnation. He’s campaigned for a
new generation to take over.  Monti, who was appointed prime minister a year ago, has
said he won’t seek another term. Bersani’s party, which supports
the government, led former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
People of Liberty by more than 10 percentage points in recent
polls. Bersani is looking to eliminate Renzi decisively in the
second round so he can concentrate on the general election,
where his biggest challenge comes from the anti-austerity Five
Star Movement, which has surged in polling.  “With the PD likely to be the most voted party next year,
those voting today are likely choosing Italy’s next prime
minister,” said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor of politics at
Luiss University, said before the vote.  Support Rising  Support for the Democratic Party has risen from 23.2
percent in June to 26.7 percent this month, according to polls
by the SWG Institute published Nov. 23. That compares with the
21.1 percent for the Five-Star Movement, led by comedian-turned-
politician Beppe Grillo. Berlusconi, whose party had 15.3
percent, said yesterday he’s mulling a comeback. Last month, he
announced he would step back from the limelight and not run for
prime minister in elections next year.  “The People of Liberty party has suffered a decline in its
image and in polls for the simple reason that I was absent,”
Berlusconi told reporters yesterday. The party’s secretary
 Angelino Alfano  said the party primaries scheduled for Dec. 16
to replace Berlusconi as leader “don’t make much sense” with
his return. Both comments were broadcast on SkyTG24 news channel.
Berlusconi may announce a new political party by Nov. 29, Il
Giornale, owned by the Berlusconi family, reported today.  Boy Scout  Renzi, a former boy scout known as the “scrapper” because
he wants to kick out the party’s old guard, has toured Italy in
a camper van, playing the youth card against Bersani, a former
communist who won his first election almost 20 years ago.  “While the others were already in parliament, we were
still in nursery school,” he said in launching his  campaign  on
Sept. 13. “We need to change the next 25 years, the future of
our children. Our challenge today is to restore hope in the
future.”  Also in the primary race were Nichi Vendola, head of the
Left, Ecology and Freedom party, which would get 5.3 percent
support in the national elections, according to SWG. The
remaining candidates were Bruno Tabacci, a  Christian Democrat 
and former deputy head of the Parliament’s budget committee, and
 Laura Puppato , a regional politician from the Veneto region.  Vendola got 14.7 percent, while Puppato got 2.95 percent
and Tabacci 1.2 percent, according to preliminary figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  