-- Knight CEO Said to See Business as Usual Amid Unit Sale Report
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/knight-ceo-said-to-see-business-as-usual-amid-unit-sale-report.html
Thomas Joyce, moving to reassure
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  employees after a report that it might
get offers for its biggest unit, told them capital levels are
strong and no deal will be done unless it makes sense for the
company, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Joyce, Knight’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mail
to workers that included talking points for clients that he
expects business as usual with no need for additional  cash  and
that the company is operating at full capacity, according to the
person, who requested anonymity because the communication was
private. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Getco LLC
and Virtu Financial LLC may bid for Knight’s market-making unit.
It cited unidentified people familiar with the matter.  “Getco and Virtu would definitely be interested in the
market-making business and the retail order flow,”  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, said in a phone interview. “If they sold the market-making
business, it would make sense to sell simultaneously the other
assets to them or somebody else. They don’t have a company once
they sell that business. It’s the mainstay.”  Joyce, 57, declined to comment on the memo in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News . Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for Getco, and Chris Concannon, executive vice president at Virtu, also declined to
comment.  Market Making  Knight’s market-making unit executes about 10 percent of
U.S. share volume. The company has grown over the last decade
from mainly handling orders from individuals sent by brokers to
a financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading services and businesses in fixed income and
currencies.  It owns the Hotspot FX and BondPoint platforms, provides
research and asset management and got into the reverse mortgage
business in 2010. Knight had more than 1,400 employees at the
end of last year, it said in a filing.  Knight, in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , dodged bankruptcy in
August when six financial firms, including Getco, provided cash
to restore the company’s capital after it lost $457 million in a
trading malfunction. The investors, which received three board
seats as part of the transaction, control Knight through
preferred stock convertible into more than 70 percent of the
common shares.  Getco said in a  filing  this month that it will consider
transactions including buying or selling Knight shares. Knight
doesn’t need a deal and would only entertain transactions that
made sense for the company and its business units, according to
Joyce’s e-mail. His contract expires at the end of the year.  Cash Holdings  Knight said it had $420.8 million in cash and equivalents
as of Sept. 30, according to its earnings report released last
month. The company posted a third-quarter  net loss  of $6.30 a
share, the widest since at least 2001.  Virtu, Getco and Knight are automated market makers. While
Getco and Virtu operate across asset classes mainly on exchanges
and similar platforms around the world, Knight is also a
wholesale market maker that services retail brokers including
 Fidelity Investments  and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. by
executing buy and sell orders for individuals.  Getco, the automated trading firm founded in 1999, was one
of six investors that acquired stakes when investors bought $400
million of convertible stock to rescue Knight from bankruptcy.
Others included Blackstone Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. and Ameritrade and investment banks Stephens Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. Virtu, based in  New York , does not have an
existing stake in the company.  Knight’s capital was depleted after it bombarded U.S.
equity exchanges with erroneous orders on Aug. 1 in the wake of
improperly installed software that malfunctioned. The trading
caused  volume  to surge and prices to swing in dozens of
securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.  Knight shares, which closed at $10.33 the day before the
trading error, ended trading last week at $2.49.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  