-- Park Leads Moon in Poll as S. Korea Presidential Campaign Begins
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-11-26T05:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/korea-s-park-moon-register-for-election-after-ahn-quits-race.html
Park Geun Hye, the South Korean
ruling party’s presidential nominee, held a lead in polls over
opposition challenger Moon Jae In as they prepared to launch a
barrage of television ads ahead of next month’s election.  Park, of the New Frontier Party, has 43.5 percent support,
compared with 39.9 percent for Moon, according to a poll
published today in the Chosun Ilbo newspaper. The survey was
taken after independent candidate Ahn Cheol Soo withdrew from
the race Nov. 23 and endorsed Moon.  At stake in the Dec. 19 contest is stewardship of  Asia ’s
fourth-biggest economy, with the winner having to tackle rising
household debt and slowing growth after replacing  Lee Myung Bak 
for a five-year term. Park, seeking to become the nation’s first
female leader, said she’ll quit politics unless she wins.  “If I fail to win the people’s trust in this presidential
election, I’ll wrap up my journey as a politician,” Park, 60,
said in a televised speech yesterday. “Please allow me the last
opportunity to serve the public.”  Both candidates registered with the  National Election
Commission  ahead of the start of the official campaigning period
tomorrow.  Moon, 59, of the main opposition Democratic United Party,
vowed to defeat Park while expressing gratitude to Ahn.  “I’ll take the grave responsibility to reform  South
Korea ’s politics,” said Moon, a former human-rights lawyer and
chief of staff to late President Roh Moo Hyun.  Opposition Bolstered  Ahn’s decision to drop out will pose a threat to Park in
the vote, said Sonn Ho Chul, a professor of political science at
Seoul-based Sogang University. The move will bolster the
opposition’s chances by ending weeks of bickering over who would
be the unified candidate against Park, Sonn said.  Shares of  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , the antivirus software maker founded
by Ahn, fell as much as the daily limit of 15 percent on the
Korea Exchange today. The stock had surged to a record on Jan. 4
on speculation Ahn would run for president.  “Those who made bets that the company would benefit from
ties to Ahn if he got elected have been disappointed and
sentiment is unlikely to improve anytime soon,” Min Kim, an
analyst at Hyundai Securities Co., said by telephone today.  Sunny Electronics Corp. (004770) , whose vice president previously
worked for Ahnlab, also slumped by the daily limit 15 percent.
Share of Shinwoo Co., where Park’s sister-in-law once served as
a non-executive director, rallied 15 percent.  The official campaign period for the election runs from
tomorrow through Dec. 18, during which candidates and designated
supporters can advertise on television, radio and in newspapers,
according to the election commission.  Candidates and party workers can also make telephone calls
to voters between 6 a.m. to 11 p.m. and nationally televised
debates between the candidates will take place on Dec. 4, 10 and
16, according to the commission.  The Chosun Ilbo survey of 1,000 voters had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points and was conducted
Nov. 24-25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  