-- Natural-Gas Exports Could Lift U.S. Trade and Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-25T23:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/natural-gas-exports-could-lift-u-s-trade-and-economy.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  has a
rising opportunity to make good on two of his central campaign
promises:  harnessing  domestic energy and boosting U.S. exports.  By greenlighting exports of liquefied natural gas, Obama
can hasten production of an abundant U.S. resource and open a
new avenue of international trade. The president can also give
growth a much needed jolt: Liquid natural gas exports could add
billions to the U.S. economy, create tens of thousands of long-
term jobs and help narrow the  trade gap .  Demand for liquefied natural gas is high in Europe and
 Asia , where the fuel costs $10 to $16 per million British
thermal units -- far more than the $3.70 it fetches in the U.S.
Yet the U.S. doesn’t yet have facilities to liquefy gas for
export.  Exporting LNG to countries that aren’t free-trade partners
with the U.S. requires a  permit . This year, the administration
approved such a permit for  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , allowing the
company to build an LNG export facility in  Louisiana . However,
this triggered complaints from congressional Democrats and U.S.
manufacturers, who argued that foreign sales would drive up the
price of natural gas in the U.S.  In response, the administration suspended issuing new
permits to companies applying to build U.S. export facilities
(18 such applications are pending), saying it needed to study
the impact of LNG exports on domestic prices. It has twice
delayed finishing its analysis, and a final report is now
expected by year-end.  Allowing exports would almost undoubtedly lead to a slight
increase in U.S. gas prices, but that’s not necessarily a bad
thing and shouldn’t be used as justification for preventing LNG
exports.  The U.S. is awash in natural gas, so much so that prices
have fallen to historic lows and inventories are well above
their five-year  average . In fact, the price is so low that many
energy companies no longer consider it profitable to drill: The
number of rigs drilling for gas has fallen this year by almost
half, according to data by Baker Hughes.  It’s true that this lull in the supply is expected to push
prices up slightly. It’s true, too, that increasing LNG exports
would push them even higher. The U.S. Energy Information
Administration  estimates  that, depending on how much and how
quickly gas is exported, U.S. consumers could see a 1 percent to
3 percent increase in electricity prices and a 3 percent to 9
percent increase in natural-gas bills.  That jump, while painful in the near-term, would probably
come down over time and would ultimately benefit consumers by
bolstering the  U.S. economy . Various  studies  suggest that
between 60 percent to 80 percent of foreign demand for gas could
be met by new drilling. Michael Levi, a senior fellow at the
 Council on Foreign Relations ,  estimates  LNG exports could add
$3.7 billion to the U.S. economy annually, along with 60,000
lasting jobs. An additional 8,000 temporary positions could be
expected from the construction of new LNG facilities.  Possible downsides do exist. Environmentalists rightly
worry about the risk posed by more hydraulic fracturing, which
has the potential to pollute air and water if not done properly.
This is all the more reason why state and federal regulators
should move swiftly to adopt more aggressive rules governing
well construction, wastewater treatment and chemical disclosure,
among other things.  Another concern is methane leakage from the process of
liquefying natural gas for export and then re-gasifying it at
its final destination. As we’ve noted previously, there needs to
be a full accounting of all methane escaping from the natural-
gas supply chain -- and care taken to keep those leaks to a
minimum.  In our mind, these concerns pale when compared with an even
more pressing environmental problem: global  climate change .
Exporting natural gas could help reduce climate change because
the gas is expected to go to coal-heavy markets such as China
and  India , displacing a large chunk of their carbon use.  The U.S., which still has a $117 billion trade deficit with
the rest of the world, should seek every opportunity to boost
exports. Obama has rightly  called  for doubling exports by the
end of 2014, and his recent swing through Asia focused in large
part on opening new markets for U.S. businesses.  It would be strange, therefore, not to take advantage of
the pent-up global demand for cheap American natural gas.
Obama’s commitment to turning the U.S. into an export nation
would be made real by moving ahead with permits.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  saving Spain’s banking
system ; William D. Cohan on  Jon Corzine’s tenure at MF Global ;
 Simon Johnson  on whether the  New York  Fed president will  try to
stop sensible bank reform ; David Kornblau on  regulating markets
like the nuclear power industry .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 