-- Nigeria Suicide Bombings Leave 11 Dead, 30 Injured
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2012-11-25T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/nigeria-suicide-bombings-leave-11-dead-30-injured.html
At least 11 people were killed and
about 30 injured in a suicide-bomb attack on a military church
in northern  Nigeria , the West African nation’s army said.  The attack occurred at about midday at the St. Andrew’s
Military Protestant Church inside the Jaji Military Cantonment,
about 30 kilometers (19 miles) north of the city of Kaduna,
Brigadier-General Bola Koleoso, director of army public
relations, said in an e-mailed statement.  “A bus first ran into the church and exploded about five
minutes after service, while a  Toyota Camry  parked outside the
church detonated 10 minutes later,” Koleoso said. “Figures of
casualties are not yet clear, but the injured are receiving
treatment in military hospitals both in Jaji and Kaduna.”  The Boko Haram group, which wants to impose Islamic rule in
 Africa ’s largest oil producer, has claimed responsibility for
bomb and gun attacks in the mainly Muslim north and the capital,
Abuja, in which hundreds of people have died this year. The
group has targeted churches, government buildings, security
forces and other Muslims, killing more than 1,500 people since
2009, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said on Oct. 11.  “Investigations into the bombings have commenced and the
affected area is already cordoned off,” Koleoso said.  The latest attacks come two days after Nigeria’s military
offered rewards totaling 290 million naira ($1.8 million) for
the arrest of Boko Haram commanders.  The bounties include 50 million naira for the capture of
the group’s leader, Abubakar Shekau, and offers ranging from 10
million naira to 25 million for 18 other leaders of the group,
Sagir Musa, a spokesman for the military in the northeastern
Borno state, said in an e-mailed statement.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country of more than 160
million people, is almost evenly split between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 