-- Norway Premier Fights for Survival in Terror Probe
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-26T10:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/norway-premier-fights-for-survival-in-terror-probe.html
Norway’s Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has gone from being called the “father of the
nation” to become a political punching bag as he fights to
retain power in next year’s general election.  The 53-year-old premier will appear in parliament today to
defend his government’s failure to prevent last year’s July 22
terror attack, in which Anders Behring Breivik bombed
Stoltenberg’s Oslo office, killing eight, and massacred 69
people at a summer camp of the Labor Party’s youth wing.  While Stoltenberg was initially praised for his measured
and compassionate response, his administration was slammed in
August following a formal probe into the attacks. The July 22
Commission criticized a failure in leadership and
“unacceptable” response delays. Opinion polls show Stoltenberg
may be ousted in next year’s September election after eight
years governing  Europe ’s second-biggest oil exporter.  “The hill is very steep for the government parties up
until the next elections,” said Bernt Aardal, a professor at
the University of Oslo. “As we see from the opinion polls, if
nothing dramatic changes that situation, it seems quite likely
that we’ll have a change of government.”  Poll Slump  According to a poll published in newspaper Dagbladet on
Nov. 24, Stoltenberg’s Labor Party and his coalition partners,
the Socialist Left and Center Party, would win 64 seats in
parliament, compared with 85 for the two largest opposition
parties, the Conservatives and the Progress Party. The
Conservatives, which have vowed to cut taxes and increase oil
exploration, had 31.6 percent backing, compared with 28.8
percent for the Labor party.  A Gallup poll in September showed record low support for
the government after the commission released its findings. The
conclusions in the report prompted the country’s largest
tabloid, VG, to call for the premier’s resignation.  Stoltenberg is having a hard time meeting voters’ rising
expectations as the nation’s oil wealth swells, said Anders Todal Jenssen, a political science professor at the Norwegian
University of Science and Technology in Trondheim.  Political Incompetence  Besides the terror response, the premier has also struggled
amid controversy over an overhaul of some of the nation’s
biggest hospitals. Higher import tariffs on cheese and meat and
slow progress in building infrastructure such as roads and
railways have also eroded the government’s popularity.
Stoltenberg’s coalition partners are in danger of falling short
of the 4 percent needed to make it into parliament, polls show.  “All this adds up to an impression of political
incompetence that creates a problem for the Labor Party in the
long run,” said Todal Jenssen. “There’s a diffuse feeling that
something is wrong.”  Stoltenberg clung to power in the 2009 elections becoming
the first leader in 16 years to win re-election after steering
the Nordic economy out of a recession by tapping a record amount
of the nation’s oil wealth.  Stoltenberg’s testimony today marks the end of five days of
parliamentary hearings that were spread over three weeks and saw
police chiefs, ministers and bureaucrats testify on actions
taken during and prior to the July 22 attacks.  Police Chief  The report by the July 22 Commission also prompted national
Police Chief Oeystein Maeland, who’s a close friend of
Stoltenberg and was best man at his wedding, to step down.
Justice Minister, Knut Storberget, also resigned in November
last year.  “I take responsibility,” Storberget told the hearing
today. The police “failed on significant points,” he said.  The government still isn’t moving fast enough to fix the
deficiencies uncovered, Alexandra Bech Gjoerv, head of the
commission, said at the opening of the hearings on Nov. 6. “I’m
impatient to see a clear willingness for change,” she said.  Stoltenberg has said the best way for him to take
responsibility for the shortcomings is to remain in office. He
vowed to boost safeguards against terrorist attacks by
presenting a series of measures, including a new police
emergency center in Oslo and more frequent drills at all levels
of his administration.  Breivik, who in August was sentenced to 21 years in prison
with an option to extend his term, has since complained over his
treatment behind bars arguing it restricts his freedom of
expression, VG reported.  “It’s quite important that the prime minister, as well as
other government members involved in this hearing, succeed in
improving the image of the government,” said Aardal. “They
don’t want the image of the Labor Party as a government failure
to stick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  