-- Notre Dame Poised for Probable Championship Berth With Victory
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-25T06:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/notre-dame-poised-for-probable-championship-berth-with-victory.html
The  University of Notre Dame 
defeated the  University of Southern California  22-13, all but
ensuring the “No. 1” sign above Grace Hall will stay lit for
six more weeks and the Fighting Irish will play for college
football’s national championship on Jan. 7.  Notre Dame’s Kyle Brindza kicked five field goals and Theo
Riddick rushed nine yards for a touchdown as the team finished
12-0 for its first undefeated season since 1988.  “The way we’ve had to fight against USC on the road and
 Oklahoma  on the road -- we’ve got great players, great
coaches,” said Notre Dame coach  Brian Kelly . “I’m so proud of
the players and coaches.”  The program that produced legendary football figures such
as Knute Rockne and George Gipp has 865 victories and eight
Associated Press national championships, tied with the
 University of Alabama  for the most titles since the poll began
in 1936.  Illuminated whenever one of the school’s teams is ranked No.
1, the eight-foot sign on Notre Dame’s  South Bend ,  Indiana ,
campus was turned on last week after the football squad was
awarded the top spot in the  Bowl Championship Series  rankings.  The previous time the  No. 1  sign was lit was in 2010, when
the women’s soccer team won the national championship.  Top of BCS  The only undefeated team at college football’s highest
level, Notre Dame will probably remain at the top when the BCS
releases its weekly rankings today and its final list on Dec. 2.  Notre Dame’s possible opponents in the national title game
include defending champion  Alabama  (11-1), which held the AP
poll’s top spot for 10 weeks this season. Alabama, which
defeated Auburn 49-0 yesterday, will play  Georgia  for the
Southeastern Conference championship next week.  Heading into last night’s games, Notre Dame had surrendered
nine offensive touchdowns this year, five fewer than any other 
team, and had allowed 10.9 points per game, tied with Alabama 
for fewest in the country. The Fighting Irish’s 287.8 yards 
allowed per game ranked sixth best in the country, while the 
offense was 50th in total yards and 73rd in points scored.  Everett Golson completed 15 of 26 passing attempts for 217
yards for the Fighting Irish. Riddick carried 20 times for 146
yards.  Tough Defense  “The unity of this team has been tremendous,” said Golson.
“We have to keep going.”  The Trojans threatened to score in the fourth quarter,
getting as close as the one-yard line before the Fighting Irish
defense stopped them.  “No matter where the ball is, we’re going to protect the
end zone,” said linebacker Manti Te’O. “That’s our defense.”  USC, which had won nine of its previous 10 meetings with
 Notre Dame , played without starting quarterback Matt Barkley
because of a shoulder injury.  Max Wittek connected with Robert Woods on an 11-yard
scoring pass in the second quarter and Andre Heidari kicked two
field goals for USC. Wittek completed 14 of 23 passing attempts
for 186 yards and two interceptions.  Notre Dame is a Catholic institution with about 8,000
undergraduate students and a $6.3 billion endowment in fiscal
2011, according to the  National Association of College and
University Business Officers .  Its football team, one of four independents at the sport’s
top level, generated $68.8 million of the athletic department’s
$94.5 million in revenue, according to  reports  filed with the
Department of Education.  Iconic Helmets  The team’s golden helmets have become iconic in college
football, along with a tradition that includes the Four Horsemen,
the nickname of the backfield from championship teams in the
1920s; Rockne, their coach in 1918-30 who led Notre Dame to
three national championships, and Daniel Ruettiger, whose story
was told in the movie “Rudy.”  The Fighting Irish have produced seven Heisman Trophy
winners, the most of any school, and have their own national
television contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC that reaches the
university’s national alumni network.  “Notre Dame is the only team in the country that never
plays a road game,” the late college football historian Beano Cook once said of the Fighting Irish, who have had 13 losing
seasons in their 123-year history.  Five of Notre Dame’s opponents this season were ranked in
the AP’s Preseason Top 25, including No. 8  Michigan , No. 13
Michigan State, No. 4 Oklahoma and USC, picked No. 1 in August.
It won those five games by a combined 105-48.  Close Games  The Fighting Irish also had some close calls this season.
They beat Purdue on Sept. 8 on a field goal with 15 seconds
remaining; topped Stanford in overtime on Oct. 13; overcame a
seven-point halftime deficit against  Brigham Young University  a
week later, and had to rally from 14 points down in the fourth
quarter to beat Pittsburgh in triple overtime on Nov. 3.  The BCS National Championship Game, the last of the BCS
bowls, will be played Jan. 7 at Sun Life Stadium in Miami. Notre
Dame had never before been No. 1 in the BCS rankings, which
began in 1998, and last sat atop a national poll in 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  