-- How Anti-Gambling Mania Foreshadowed the Panic of 1837
-- B y   J o s h u a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-11-25T19:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/how-anti-gambling-mania-foreshadowed-the-panic-of-1837.html
The  financial meltdown of 2008  has
been attributed to a pre-crash economy whose incentives and
rewards resembled a freewheeling casino rather than a rational
marketplace.  Sometimes knowingly, sometimes unwittingly, and almost
always shortsightedly, banks, government entities and consumers
joined forces to create an environment in which untrammeled
speculation, unwarranted credit, and pyramids of foolishly
assumed debt yielded the appearance of boundless prosperity
while masking the inevitability of epic disaster.  The U.S. has been here before. The middle of the 1830s was
one of those times, when land speculation and easy credit
blurred the lines between legitimate and illegitimate pursuits
of wealth.  No part of the U.S. was more steeped in this culture of
speculation than the Deep South, because the forced removal of
Native Americans had opened vast swaths of valuable cotton land
there for development. Cotton cultivated by slaves was the raw
material driving the early Industrial Revolution. The crop’s
market prices kept rising seemingly regardless of supply, and it
became America’s most significant export and arguably the most
important commodity in the world.  Credit Flood  Where it grew, people and money followed, and as banks and
investors flooded what was then America’s southwest with
millions of dollars, credit was available for almost anyone. In
short order, places such as  Alabama  and Mississippi became the
most exciting economic environments in the nation, the spots
where dreams of easy money came true.  Yet even those who thrilled at the sense that they sat on
the dynamic edge of U.S. capitalism had doubts about the
substance and moral quality of what was happening. Rumors of
financial malfeasance and corruption swirled around southwestern
banks, and swindlers and fast-talking lawyers exploited the
unwary. The pursuit of self-interest shaded into rapacious
greed, and using borrowed money to leverage oneself to the top
looked less like productive labor than it did like gambling.  In a typical lament, the political economist Thomas Dew
bewailed the “reckless profligate gambling spirit” that had
“spread through the country.”  In the summer of 1835, ambivalence about the righteousness
of avarice and anxiety about the sturdiness of the economy
exploded into violence. In the boomtown of Vicksburg,
 Mississippi , a confrontation at a Fourth of July barbecue ended
with a mob attempting to purge the city of professional gamblers
and ultimately to the public lynching of five men, four of whom
were dragged to a public scaffold by ropes around their necks
and hanged, their pleas for a  jury trial  ignored. The fifth man,
badly injured by the mob, was executed before he even regained
consciousness. Covered in blood, he was driven to the gallows in
a wagon, carried up the stairs, noosed, and simply tossed off
the platform.  Over the course of the ensuing weeks and months, men
suspected of being professional gamblers were threatened with
violence, beaten and chased from almost every sizeable town and
city in the state of Mississippi and all along the Mississippi
and Ohio Rivers. In  New Orleans  and Mobile, Alabama, in  Little
Rock ,  Arkansas , and  St. Louis ,  Missouri , in Memphis and
Nashville,  Tennessee , in Lexington and Louisville, in Cincinnati
and Wheeling,  West Virginia , residents warned gamblers out,
assaulted them, destroyed their equipment, arrested and jailed
them, and convened public meetings where antigambling societies
formed.  Gamblers Ousted  By the fall, the panic had even spread to the Eastern
Seaboard, as authorities from  New York  to Norfolk,  Virginia ,
raided gambling houses, attacked supposed gamblers and worried
that mobs were gathering, intent on enforcing their own methods
of justice.  Explaining what had happened in Vicksburg, the editor of
the local newspaper argued that professional gamblers were
drunken and criminal wretches who defrauded the young and
foolish and then moved on once they had fleeced everyone they
could. Destroying them was the only way to preserve decency and
to give respectable people space to make an honest living.  Even as editors of other newspapers condemned the violence
that had begun in Vicksburg, many agreed with such an assessment
of gamblers, commonly referring to them as “vampires,” “blood-
suckers,” and “vultures.”  But gamblers prospered only where they had customers, and
the hostility toward them and their profession in the 1830s
reflected less the sense that there was a clear moral line
between legitimate and illegitimate kinds of economic striving
than it betrayed an awareness of how blurry that line was.  At a moment when the potential rewards of a speculative
economy drove many Americans to distraction, those who made
their way in the world solely by figuring the odds and betting
that the future would turn in their favor brought home the
nation’s profligacy in an especially discomfiting way.  Ultimately, getting rid of every professional gambler in
the U.S. still wouldn’t have staved off the collapse. Between
the summer of 1836 and the spring of 1837, the doubts of foreign
investors and creditors about the underlying strength of the
 U.S. economy  dovetailed with falling cotton prices.  In May 1837 the suspension of specie payments by two
leading banks in Natchez, Mississippi, touched off a cascade of
suspensions by almost every bank in the country within a matter
of weeks. The ensuing depression would last six years,
bankrupting countless thousands and offering the lesson, still
unlearned, that in a casino, the house always wins.  ( Joshua Rothman  is a professor of history, director of the
Summersell Center for the Study of the South at the  University
of Alabama , and author of “Flush Times and Fever Dreams: A Story
of Capitalism and Slavery in the Age of Jackson.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from  Echoes online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Joshua Rothman at  jrothman@bama.ua.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  