-- Palestinian President Abbas Expects Wide Support for UN Bid
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-11-25T13:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/palestinian-president-abbas-expects-un-bid-to-get-wide-support.html
Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas said a bid for United Nations observer status is
the first step toward achieving his people’s rights and has wide
support among General Assembly members.  “We are going to the United Nations with confidence,
supported by all peace lovers,” Abbas said in the West Bank
city of Ramallah today. “Be assured, there are many countries”
supporting the bid, he said.  Abbas, who controls only the West Bank, is pressing ahead
with the initiative after  Egypt  brokered a cease-fire to end
eight days of fighting between  Israel  and Hamas, the rival
Islamist group running the Gaza Strip. That conflict left six
Israelis and more than 160 Palestinians dead.  Hamas, which in 2007 fought Abbas’s Fatah for control of
Gaza a year after winning parliamentary elections, gave the
Palestinian Authority its backing for the UN bid on Nov. 22.
Abbas said he hoped a successful vote would be followed by a
reconciliation between the factions. The U.S., European Union
and Israel consider Hamas a terrorist organization.  “The president believes that this move can be seen as the
last chance to achieve peace and stability in the area,” Saeb
Erekat, chief Palestinian negotiator, said by phone. “We don’t
want this viewed as a frightening move. It isn’t about
threats.”  UN Vote  The Palestinian Authority circulated its resolution to put
the Palestine Liberation Organization on a par with the Holy See
on Nov. 8, according to a draft. That will be put to a vote in
the 193-member General Assembly, where the initiative has
sufficient support to pass and where the U.S. lacks veto power.  The U.S. doesn’t support the move, saying that Palestinians
should achieve statehood only through direct peace talks with
Israel. A year ago, the Palestinians abandoned an attempt to be
recognized as a full member state through the 15-member Security
Council, after U.S. President  Barack Obama  indicated the U.S.
would use its veto.  Israeli Foreign Minister spokesman Yigal Palmor said that
the right way to address the conflict between Israel and the
Palestinians was to first start talking, then agree and,
finally, seek UN recognition.  “The Palestinians are trying to turn the whole thing
upside down and it will make the possibility of returning to
negotiations much more difficult,” Palmor said by phone.  Direct talks between Palestinians and Israel collapsed in
September 2010 when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu refused to
extend a 10-month building freeze in the West Bank and Abbas
said he wouldn’t negotiate unless all construction halted.  “Pray for God to make us successful and pray so that
others will vote with us,” Abbas said today. “Pray that those
who oppose us would stand by us and vote for the truth.”  Erekat said that the UN bid will also strengthen the
chances for a Fatah reconciliation with Hamas. “This will make
the Palestinians stronger,” Erekat said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  