-- Partner, Scailex Surge on Report of Saban Deal: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-25T14:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/partner-scailex-surge-on-report-of-saban-deal-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) ,
 Israel ’s second-largest mobile phone company, and  Scailex Corp. (SCIX) ,
its largest holder, rose today on a report that Saban Capital
Group Inc. is close to buying a stake in Partner from Scailex.  Partner’s  shares  were little changed at 23.77 shekels at
the close in  Tel Aviv . They earlier surged as much as 6 percent.
Scailex, which  holds 44.54 percent of Partner , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, surged 44 percent to 8.15 shekels on 15.4
times the three-month daily average trading volume. The shares
have gained 128 percent in the  past week. The yield on
Scailex’s 5.1 percent bonds maturing in October 2015 dropped 153
basis points, or 1.53 percentage points, the most since Nov. 11,
to 6.78 percent. The benchmark TA-25 equities index  advanced  1.3
percent.  Scailex and Saban may agree this week on the sale of a
stake in Partner, Calcalist reported today. Saban would acquire
a 35 percent stake in Partner which the deal values at $1.2
billion, it said. Saban would assume debt of $300 million that
Scailex owes  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and pay Ilan Ben Dov, who
controls Scailex via Suny Electronics Ltd., another $130
million, the business daily said.  “The positive for Partner comes from Saban being an
experienced, respected and involved owner who has proven his
capability in the Israeli telecom sector,” Zach Herzog, head of
international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv,
said today by phone. “Scailex benefits from Saban assuming its
Hutchison debt and a cash injection that will help it service
its remaining debt to bondholders and potentially rejuvenate the
company operations.”  Shared Control  Saban previously held a stake in Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp. Herzliya Pituach, Israel-based Scailex
said in a filing last week that it’s in “advanced talks” with
Saban. Under the deal, Saban would pay cash and assume Scailex’s
debt in exchange for Partner shares, while Saban and Scailex
would share control of the company, it said.  Moshe Debby, a spokesman for Saban in Israel, and a
spokeswoman for Scailex, who asked not to be named because of
company rules, declined to comment.  Suny Electronics Ltd. (SUNY) , which
 holds a 78.71 percent stake in Scailex , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, advanced 12 percent, with investors
trading 10.9 times the three-month daily average.  Standard & Poor’s Maalot said in October “there’s a risk”
that Scailex won’t meet its near-term debt commitments,
reiterating its ilCC rating on the company, the second-worst
junk rating.  August Talks Failure  The talks with Saban followed the failure in August of an
agreement with a group including Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. to buy
the company. Scailex said Hutchison cited a decline in
 operations of Partner  as a reason for pulling out of the
acquisition deal. Scailex has $760 million of outstanding debt,
including $300 million to Hutchison, the Hong Kong-based company
said in June.  Partner shares have been the  second-worst performing  on the
TA-25 index this year, after  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (TA-25) , the country’s
largest mobile-phone provider, as competition in the wireless
industry intensified.  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  and
Golan Telecom Ltd. entered the wireless market in May, leading
to greater price competition. Partner reported a 36 percent drop
in net income in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  