-- Pictet Targeted in Widening U.S. Probe of Swiss Wealth Managers
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-11-26T10:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/pictet-says-u-s-has-made-inquiry-into-wealth-management-unit.html
Pictet & Cie., Switzerland’s biggest
closely held bank, said its wealth-management business with
American clients is the subject of a “general inquiry” by the
 U.S. Department of Justice .  Pictet plans to cooperate “as fully as possible” with the
U.S. authorities, the Geneva-based private bank said in a
statement yesterday. “Pictet has made it a priority to ensure
that its business with U.S. clients complies with all the
relevant laws and regulations governing its conduct.”  Pictet reported the DoJ inquiry after Der Sonntag newspaper
yesterday said the wealth manager and Bank Frey have been added
to a probe of 11 other Swiss financial firms. The stakes for the
Swiss banks under investigation, including  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , were raised after the DoJ
indicted Wegelin & Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly helping American
customers hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Pictet, which manages 281 billion Swiss francs ($302
billion) for clients worldwide, said in May it wasn’t under
investigation by the DoJ after an indictment of three Americans
in Phoenix last year showed the bank was used to set up secret
accounts not reported to the IRS. The Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, has communicated with
Pictet and Bank Frey regarding data delivery to the U.S.,
according to Der Sonntag.  Pictet declined to comment further today. Regulator Finma
and Zurich-based Bank Frey weren’t immediately available for
comment when called by  Bloomberg News .  Resolving Probe  Switzerland began talks with the U.S. in mid-2011 to
resolve the DoJ probe.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, set aside 295
million francs for U.S. tax matters in the third quarter of last
year.  Julius Baer  spent 20 million francs in the first eight
months of this year on U.S. legal matters and has said the total
cost of the investigation isn’t “reliably assessable.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss unit may pay “significant”
fines and penalties related to the probe, the Geneva-based bank
said in its 2011 annual report published in May. Credit Suisse,
Baer and HSBC have handed over employee details to the U.S.
authorities after the Swiss federal government suggested it
might help resolve the dispute.  U.S. legal pressure on the Swiss financial center is
“intolerable” as it transgresses the Alpine nation’s
sovereignty, Nicolas Pictet, a managing partner at the Geneva
wealth manager, said in January in his capacity as president of
the Swiss Private Bankers Association.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution in
February 2009 by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax
evasion  and turning over data on secret accounts to the IRS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  