-- Qantas Minds Bonds as Dreamliner Order Pulled: Australia Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-11-25T23:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/qantas-minds-bonds-as-dreamliner-order-pulled-australia-credit.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s plans to cut
debt for the first time in five years with funds from a canceled
$8.5 billion  Boeing Co. (BA)  order have been welcomed by bondholders
as its  default risk  fell the most in  Australia .  Contracts insuring against non-payment on the debt of
Australia’s biggest carrier tumbled 87 basis points over the
past three months, the biggest drop in the nation’s benchmark
bond-risk index, to 300 on Nov. 23, CMA data show. The contracts
cost 204 basis points less than the average for global peers,
about five basis points from the biggest discount since June.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce this year grappled with
a loss-making international division and  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ’s efforts to steal local business travelers,
sending bond risk to a record 445 in June and the stock to an
all-time low. He responded by forging a partnership with
Emirates Airline and canceling the purchase of 35 Boeing 787
Dreamliners ordered before the 2008 global financial crisis,
helping raise enough cash to repay A$650 million of debt early.  “Its balance sheet and capital management is quite
impressive versus its global peers,” George Boubouras, chief
investment officer at UBS AG in Melbourne, said by phone.
“Credit conditions have vastly improved.”  Default-swap investors have enjoyed a better performance
than shareholders since Qantas’s perceived risk peaked earlier
this year, Boubouras said. The 33 percent fall in the bond-
insurance contracts from June 28 to Nov. 23 outstrips a 20
percent gain in the shares.  Qantas shares  rose 2 percent to A$1.30 as of 10:34 a.m. in
Sydney  their highest level in nearly three weeks, while the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index gained 0.2 percent.  Debt Reduction  Qantas will reduce debt by A$1 billion in the year through
June 2013, the company said Nov. 15. The airline has increased
net debt every year since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It plans to repay its 5.125 percent dollar-denominated bonds in
January, five months early, and is also using A$100 million to
repurchase its own shares, the company said.  Canceling the Boeing order and selling its stake in a road
freight business gave Qantas A$750 million to spend without
threatening its  credit rating , according to the airline.  The company, the only carrier other than  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV)  to be rated investment-grade by more than one major ratings
company, will also gain from a partnership deal with Emirates,
helping it to turn around the A$450 million of losses it made on
international routes last year.  Qantas reported its first annual loss in at least 17 years
in the 12 months through June as a  16 percent rise  in fuel
prices and the highest labor costs among carriers worth more
than $1 billion eroded profit margins for its core business.  Spending Cuts  The carrier has cut back spending plans, canceled its loss-
making Frankfurt route, and raised cash from penalty payments
related to Boeing’s delays of the 787 Dreamliner.  “We’re now in the second year of our five-year turnaround
plan and we’re making clear progress,” Andrew McGinnes, a
Sydney-based spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. The early debt repayment and an associated A$100
million share buyback “reflect the underlying strength of the
Qantas Group,” he said.  Under the Emirates plan, the Australian carrier will make
Dubai its main hub for European routes instead of  Singapore ,
with passengers traveling on the Gulf airline under codesharing
for one of the two legs.  Dubai Hub  That will open up 64 one-stop destinations in  Europe , the
 Middle East  and North Africa, compared to 5 at present, and help
return the international division to profit, Joyce said Sept. 6.  Qantas credit-default swaps have fallen 144 basis points
this half, according to CMA. That’s outpaced the benchmark
Markit iTraxx Australia gauge, which fell 51 basis points to 135
on Nov. 23 in Sydney, the data show.  Benchmark 10-year sovereign bond yields jumped 27 basis
points last week to 3.30 percent, the steepest climb since the
period ended Feb. 10, as signs of a strengthening global economy
reduced demand for the safest assets.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, bought $1.0460 as of 10:46 a.m. in Sydney today,
taking its advance this month to 0.8 percent.  The cancellation of the Dreamliner order will result in
Qantas getting $433 million from Chicago-based Boeing, including
more than $300 million in compensation payments,  Gareth Evans ,
the airline’s chief financial officer, said at the time of the
Aug. 23 announcement.  A deal announced Oct. 2 -- under which Qantas and
government-owned Australia Post swapped stakes in joint-venture
freight assets -- will also give the airline net proceeds of
more than A$408 million, the company said at the time.  High Volatility  Much of the improvement in Qantas’s CDS has resulted from
their high volatility, which has allowed the contracts to
benefit disproportionately from a broader rally in credit
markets, said  Michael Bush , head of credit research at National
Australia Bank Ltd.  “It’s been driven by these one-off events, raising capital
through, effectively, asset sales and compensation payments,”
he said by phone from  Melbourne . “It’s hardly as if it’s
reflective of improving operating performance: when you look at
their guidance it’s clear that’s miserable and staying that
way.”  ‘Miserable’ Guidance  It’s still too early to tell whether the deal with Emirates
will be a long-term positive for the carrier, Bush said.
Standard & Poor’s cut Qantas’s debt one level to its lowest
investment grade of BBB- on Sept. 7, the day after the
announcement of the Emirates agreement.  “Material benefits from the partnership may take some time
to eventuate due to the magnitude of Qantas’s losses over the
past few years,” Melbourne-based analyst May Zhong wrote in the
rating opinion. The carrier holds a Baa3 rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, also the lowest investment grade ranking.  The company must take care not to deviate from its current
path if it wants to keep debt holders happy, UBS’s Boubouras
said.  “They’ve got the benefits from freight, Jetstar, and the
strong domestic market,” said Boubouras, referring to Qantas’s
budget carrier. “They must maintain the same approach to cost
controls and prepare this company for the next 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  