-- Romanee-Conti, Hirst’s Guitar Lead Hong Kong Auctions
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-11-27T03:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/record-chinese-oils-sapphire-hirst-lead-hong-kong-sales.html
A Damien Hirst Fender Stratocaster,
bottles of Romanee-Conti Domaine de la Romanee-Conti 2005 and a
vintage Leica camera are leading lots in an eight-day marathon
in  Hong Kong  by six auction houses.  International auction houses Christie’s International and
 Bonhams  are joined by  Beijing Poly International Auction Co. ,
 Ravenel International Art Group , Seoul Auction, Tiancheng
Auction and  United Asian Auctioneers  in a series of sales
through Nov. 28.  “It’s nice to be in a market with lots of crossover,”
said James Hennessey, a Hong Kong-based dealer who spent HK$1.4
million ($180,000) at Christie's buying a Wang Keping sculpture a
Cai Guo-Qiang oil-and-gunpowder landscape on paper and a stone-
pigment-on-paper work by Japanese artist Ryozo Kato.  Even given the number of competing sales, strong bidding
pushed some prices to record levels. On Nov. 23, Bonhams set a
per-carat record for a Sri Lankan sapphire with the sale of a 43
carat sapphire and diamond ring for HK$12 million ($1.55
million).  On the same day, it also set a record with the HK$7.5
million ($970,000) sale of a Leica Lexus I camera circa 1930
with faux lizard skin body, more than four times its high
estimate.  Abstract Oil  On Nov. 24, an abstract oil painting by 20th-century
Chinese-French master Chu Teh-Chun sold for HK$60 million ($7.7
million) at Christie’s.  The work, entitled “La foret blanche II,” is a 1987 oil-
on-canvas diptych measuring 1.3 meters by 3.9 meters. It was
sold to a telephone buyer after five minutes of fierce bidding
against an Asian woman in the sale room.  The artist’s previous top price was $5.9 million at a
 Sotheby’s (BID)  Hong Kong auction in 2009, according to the  Artnet 
database.  “The market is stronger and more and more money is coming
because of the economic strength of Asian countries especially
 China ,” said dealer  Pascal de Sarthe .  Later in the same sale, an abstract oil on canvas triptych
by Cheong Soo Pieng sold for HK$4.2 million ($540,000), also a
record. Both works were purchased by Asians.  The top lot at Christie’s three-day wine sale ending
Sunday that raised HK$108 million was a case of Romanee-Conti
Domaine de la Romanee-Conti 2005 that sold for HK$1.7 million,
according to the London-based auction house’s website.  White Stratocaster  At Ravenel’s evening sale Sunday, dealer  Katherine Kwai 
picked up the white Stratocaster covered in Hirst dots for
HK$480,000.  “Real buyers went to the previous auctions today so people
spent most of their money,” she said. “The prices are very
good.”  A set of matching drums sold for HK$504,000. Hirst created
both, along with a  Fender Telecaster  guitar for a charity
benefit concert performed by  Squeeze  at  London ’s Royal Albert
Hall in March 2011 and were later auctioned by Christie’s to
raise money for Teenage Cancer Trust.  Poly auction house made a solid debut in Hong Kong, raising
HK$520 million over two days of sales including jewelry, Chinese
ink paintings, and Chinese modern and contemporary art.  That exceeded proceeds from Beijing rival China Guardian,
which raised HK$455 million on Oct. 7 at its inaugural Hong Kong
auction.  The arrival of China’s two biggest auction houses confirms
Hong Kong’s status as  Asia ’s commercial arts hub.  Auction Overload  “Hong Kong is the best place to hold an auction,” said
UAA’s chief executive officer Yoichiro Kurata, chief executive
officer of Shinwa Art Auction Co., a member of UAA,” but it’s
really tough when everything is happening at the same time.”  As today, the various sales by auction houses in Hong Kong
had raised more than HK$2.0 billion ($258 million), according to
figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Seoul auction held its sale yesterday at the Grand Hyatt Hotel
while Christie’s will auction Chinese Classical and Modern
Paintings and jewelry at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition
Centre today.  On Wednesday, it holds sales of Chinese furniture, ceramics
and works of art and watches.  The star lot of the Nov. 28 watches sale is a rare Patek
Philippe platinum repeating tourbillion wristwatch estimated to
sell for as much as $550,000.  The furniture sale includes a pair of 18th-century lantern
stands which once graced the Imperial palace in Beijing and also
belonged to Bela Lugosi. The stands are carved from zitan, a
rare wood reserved for use by Chinese emperors. They could sell
for as much as HK$4 million ($516,000).  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music, Jorg von Uthmann
on Paris Art and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 