-- Regulate U.S. Markets Like the Nuclear Industry
-- B y   D a v i d   L .   K o r n b l a u
-- 2012-11-25T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/regulate-u-s-markets-like-the-nuclear-industry.html
With the uncertainty of the  U.S.
presidential election  behind us, it’s time for regulators of
financial markets to get serious about preventing  market
malfunctions  -- from out-of-control algorithms to initial public
offerings marred by technology breakdowns.  To some wary investors, these incidents show that the
markets are unstable, unreliable and tilted against them. Given
the extraordinary complexity of today’s lightning-fast equities
markets and the speed of technological change, there is no
single solution. Yet a logical place to start is a fresh
approach to the  regulation  of U.S. stock exchanges.  For the past two decades, the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  has overseen exchanges by inspecting them
occasionally and urging them, voluntarily, to examine
themselves, file annual reports, and notify the agency of
planned technology changes and significant system outages. In
the past year, the SEC has also charged two exchanges,  Direct
Edge  and the  New York  Stock Exchange, with unintentional rule
violations, and may be investigating cases against others. (I
represented the NYSE in the SEC action against it, but this
article reflects solely my personal views and not those of my
 law firm  or its clients.)  The SEC has highlighted these enforcement actions as proof
that it’s getting tough on exchanges. In fact, the actions
reveal regulatory failures. If Direct Edge had weak internal
controls that caused a significant glitch in November 2010, as
the  SEC alleged , why did the commission grant it a license to
operate as an exchange just four months earlier?  Detection Problem  If the NYSE allegedly failed to comply with an SEC market-
data rule beginning in 2008, wouldn’t it have been better for
commission examiners to detect the problem then and direct the
exchange to fix it immediately, rather than for SEC enforcement
lawyers to bring a  case  four years later?  Instead of signaling a need for more enforcement actions,
which by definition look backward, recent market failures show
that the SEC needs to do much more to prevent problems before
they occur.  The agency should take a cue from another federal regulator
that places the highest priority on prevention: the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission . The NRC has achieved impressive results
through a regulatory regime that includes continuous inspection
of all 104 operating U.S. nuclear plants.  It has established objective indicators of acceptable
performance and has given plant operators big incentives to
correct problems before they are found. It posts plant
performance ratings and inspection findings on its public
website.  The NRC has the authority to temporarily or permanently
shut down plants with serious operational or compliance
deficiencies, or to impose fines and seek criminal prosecutions
for willful violations that create a substantial risk of harm.
There has been no meltdown at a nuclear power plant in the U.S.
since the  Three Mile Island  accident in 1979.  Adapting this framework to the SEC’s regulation of  stock
exchanges  would be feasible and much more effective than its
current hindsight-oriented approach. Here’s why:  -- Resources would be used more efficiently. Continuous
oversight may require more resources than selective
examinations, but not much. There are only  16 registered
national securities exchanges , many of which are relatively
small. Beefing up exchange inspections would allow the SEC to
devote more of its enforcement resources to catching and
prosecuting securities fraudsters.  -- SEC technical expertise would improve. Cumbersome
enforcement techniques, such as document subpoenas and sworn
testimony, are a poor way for the agency to monitor exchanges’
compliance with regulatory requirements and to keep abreast of
constantly evolving technology. Continuing informal
communications between exchange personnel and tech-savvy SEC
examiners would allow the agency to gain expertise, to provide
up-to-the-minute guidance on ambiguous rules and best industry
practices, and to make sure exchanges address problems right
away.  -- Exchanges would have better incentives. In a less
enforcement-focused regulatory climate, exchanges would be more
open to sharing new ideas with and reporting problems to SEC
staff. And if the commission could shut them down immediately
for serious failings, exchanges would protect against such a
disaster by investing more in compliance, system upgrades and
capacity increases.  -- Investors would be better protected. Selective
enforcement action can leave the public unprotected and place
some exchanges at an unfair competitive disadvantage, if others
have similar problems unaddressed by the SEC. By contrast,
public disclosure of industrywide inspection results based on
objective performance criteria would stimulate competition that
would improve the performance of all exchanges.  Granted, nuclear accidents are potentially far more
catastrophic than even the most serious stock-exchange
malfunctions. But the NRC’s regulatory philosophy is just what
the SEC needs to prevent the next stock-market meltdown.  (David L. Kornblau, a partner in the New York office of
Covington & Burling LLP, was the chief litigation counsel for
the SEC’s enforcement division from 2000 to 2005. Although
Covington represents the NYSE in various matters, the opinions
expressed are the author’s own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  saving Spain’s banking system 
and on  why the U.S. should allow natural gas exports ; William D.
Cohan on  Jon Corzine’s tenure at MF Global ;  Simon Johnson  on
whether the New York Fed president will  try to stop sensible
bank reform .  To contact the writer of this article:
David L. Kornblau at  dkornblau@cov.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 