-- Santos Seeks Collaboration With Rivals Amid Rising Cost Threat
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-11-25T13:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/santos-seeks-collaboration-with-rivals-amid-rising-cost-threat.html
Santos Ltd. (STO) , building a liquefied
natural gas project in Queensland state, plans to collaborate
with rivals to cut costs as rising expenses threaten $156
billion of developments proposed by the industry in  Australia .  “We’re all working together to see how we can drive costs
out collectively and lots of things are being considered,”
Chief Executive Officer David Knox said on yesterday’s  Inside
Business  program on the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “Costs in
Australia are extremely high and it is a concern.”  Santos, Australia’s third-biggest oil and gas producer,
wants to “join forces” with competitors at a range of levels,
Knox told the program, without being more specific. Some
government regulations serve little purpose other than to drive
up the Adelaide-based company’s costs, he said.  Santos is constructing the $18.5 billion Gladstone project
in Queensland, one of seven liquefied natural gas projects being
developed in Australia to meet rising Asian demand. Knox’s
concern that rising costs put future investment at risk, a
notion also raised by Australia’s resources minister last week,
follows delays to projects and expansion by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)   Santos has fallen 11 percent in Sydney trading this year,
trailing the 8.8 percent gain by Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index in the same period.  Wider Cooperation  Knox told the ABC that the natural gas industry is already
sharing some resources, such as safety statistics and medical
evacuation helicopters, to cut costs on the east coast of
Australia, home to the Gladstone project. That kind of
cooperation might spread to projects on the west coast, he said.  “Each one of us, in some respects, are seeking to join
forces in both the upstream and the downstream where it makes
sense,” Knox told the program. “We’re seeking opportunities to
work together and you’re going to see that continue. There are
opportunities to do exactly the same in  Western Australia .”  Santos’s operations include the A$490 million ($509 million)
Fletcher-Finucane oil project in the Carnarvon Basin off Western
Australia, the Chim Sao oil field in  Vietnam  and assets in
central Australia’s  Cooper Basin .  Santos said last week it expects output to rise in 2013
after Fletcher-Finucane starts in the second half of the year.
Santos forecast production of 53 million to 57 million barrels
of oil equivalent next year, the company said in a Nov. 22
presentation. That compares with the company’s 2012 target of 51
million to 55 million barrels.  The company said it expects capital spending of A$4 billion
next year, the peak for spending on the Gladstone project. That
includes outlays on the Exxon Mobil Corp.-led LNG venture in
 Papua New Guinea . Exxon said earlier this month that the cost of
that venture jumped 21 percent to $19 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  