-- Sebastian Vettel Wins Third Straight Formula One Drivers’ Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-11-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/sebastian-vettel-wins-third-consecutive-formula-one-title-1-.html
Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull
clinched a third straight Formula One drivers’ title with a
sixth-place finish at yesterday’s rain-swept Brazilian Grand
Prix.  The 25-year-old German, who took the crown by a three-point
margin, is the youngest-ever three-time winner. His nearest
rival, Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso , came second behind McLaren’s
Jenson Button in the 71-lap final race of the season at the
Interlagos circuit in  Sao Paulo . Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  was
third.  Vettel, fourth on the grid, had a disastrous start as rain
left the track surface treacherous with drivers struggling to
maintain control. He was left facing the wrong way after a
collision with  Bruno Senna ’s Williams in an incident that
damaged his car and dropped him to 22nd.  He quickly fought his way up the field as rain continued to
make conditions difficult and his sixth place meant Alonso would
have had to win the race to take the title. The race finished
under the safety car after Paul Di Resta’s Force  India  crashed
into a wall.  “I was so very happy to climb back after being hit like
that at the start. Not a very comfortable feeling,” Vettel told
reporters. “This is really special. Right to the end I didn’t
know if I’d done enough. Trundling along behind the safety car
and then dragging over the line was just torture.”  Podium Target  Vettel had a 13-point lead on Alonso going into yesterday’s
race, the last event of 20, and needed a fourth-place finish to
guarantee winning the drivers’ title whatever the Spaniard did
yesterday. Alonso had to get a podium position to have any
chance.  McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , in pole position, led from the
start with front-row teammate Button second. Meanwhile Alonso
surged up to third place. Vettel went on a charge that took him
back up to sixth before he and Alonso both switched on to
intermediate tires.  Meanwhile, Button overtook Hamilton to head the field,
only for Force India’s  Nico Hulkenberg  to surge past both into
the race lead soon after. Hulkenberg and Button’s lead was
narrowed as the field closed up when the safety car came out as
debris was removed from the track.  Hulkenberg and Hamilton then dueled for the lead. The two
tangled as Hulkenberg tried to overtake and slid into the
Briton, leaving Button ahead, Hamilton out of his last race for
McLaren and Hulkenberg given a drive-through penalty.  On Course  Massa allowed teammate Alonso through to take second behind
Button. Vettel, in seventh, was on course for the title and he
moved up to sixth as he eased past Mercedes’s  Michael Schumacher . Button held on for his third win this season and his
15th career win.  Vettel finished on 281 points, followed by Alonso (278),
Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen  (207), Hamilton (190), Button (188) and
Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  (179).  Vettel is the third man to win three titles in a row after
Schumacher and Juan Manuel Fangio and surpasses Ayrton Senna’s
mark as the youngest three-time champion. The Brazilian, aged 31
when he achieved the feat in 1991, was killed in a race accident
in 1994.  “We’re here in Sao Paulo, the place where Senna was born,
came from and was buried,” said Vettel. “It’s difficult to
find the right words. It’s unbelievable, I’m still full of
adrenaline. It was an incredible race.”  Vettel won four consecutive races in the last seven this
year and wrested the standings lead from Alonso by winning the
Oct. 14 Korean Grand Prix. The 31-year-old Spaniard was also
vying to become a three-time champion, having won with Renault
in 2005 and 2006.  ‘Very Proud’  “First of all I’m very proud of the team. We lost the
championship before today, not in  Brazil , this is a sport after
all,” Alonso said. “When you do something with your heart and
do it 100 percent you have to be proud of yourself and your team
and we’ll try again next year.”  Red Bull  last week clinched its third constructors’
championship in a row with Vettel’s second place in the U.S.
Grand Prix in Austin. The  Milton Keynes , England-based team is
bankrolled by Austrian energy drink maker Red Bull GmbH.  Red Bull finished on 460 points, with Ferrari second on 400
and McLaren third on 378.  Webber came fourth yesterday, Hulkenberg fifth and
Schumacher seventh in the last race of his career. The seven-
time world champion came back from retirement in 2010 to join
Mercedes. While he won 91 races in his career, he failed to win
any since coming back. It was also Hamilton’s last race for
McLaren, which he’s leaving to join Mercedes.  Vettel, who’d won only one of the first 13 races, received
a tribute from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  “As he has so often this season, he was able to show
legendary nerves and driving ability in Sao Paulo,” she said in
a statement. “I was just as excited as millions of fans to see
how he fought back in this world championship after a difficult
start to the season. With this third title, he’s secured his
place in the history of the sport.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at  at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  