-- South Africa Opposition Leader Wins Second Term to Challenge ANC
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-25T14:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/south-africa-opposition-leader-wins-second-term-to-challenge-anc.html
Helen Zille  won a second term as
head of  South Africa ’s main opposition party, the  Democratic
Alliance , with the challenge of drawing in more black supporters
to test the ruling party’s dominance.  Zille was reappointed for a five-year term at the party’s
national conference in Johannesburg today, Jamie Turkington, a
spokesman for the party, said by telephone from the city.  In her first term, Zille, 61, boosted the DA’s share of the
vote to 16.7 percent in 2009 from 12.4 percent five years
earlier. The party won a majority in Cape Town’s Western Cape
province, making her the premier there, and took 23.9 percent of
the vote in municipal elections last year.  Zille has promoted young black  South Africans  within the
party, backing Lindiwe Mazibuko as parliamentary chief and Mmusi
Maimane as spokesman of the party in which five of the DA’s nine
leaders are white. That racial group makes up 9 percent of the
population and earns on average six times more than blacks,
according to a census released by Statistics South  Africa  last
month.  The ruling  African National Congress , which led the fight
against white minority rule, draws most of its support from
blacks and controls almost two-thirds of the seats in
Parliament. The ANC will next month hold its electoral
conference, with President  Jacob Zuma  seeking a second term as
party leader.  Zille is pushing to unite opposition parties to challenge
the ANC’s dominance. In September, she called for a
“realignment” of South African politics, urging those who
believed in “values of non-racialism, constitutionalism and a
market-driven economy” to unite against the ANC’s “populism.”
The ruling party’s policies will push the country into the
“abyss of absolute poverty,” she said.  Africa’s biggest economy has been hit by three months of
mining strikes and downgrades by credit-rating companies.
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  last month cut the forecast for
economic growth this year to 2.5 percent, the slowest pace since
a recession in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  