-- Stay Thirsty, Owned by New Yorker Repole, Ends Career on Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-11-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/stay-thirsty-owned-by-new-yorker-repole-ends-career-on-win.html
Stay Thirsty, owned by  New York ’s
 Mike Repole , ended his racing career winning by a nose in the
$350,000 Cigar Mile Handicap at Aqueduct Racetrack.  Stay Thirsty’s victory gave Repole and trainer  Todd Pletcher  their third graded stakes win on yesterday’s card at
the track in Ozone Park, New York. The duo had winners with
Unlimited Budget in the Demoiselle and Overanalyze in the Remsen.  “I grew up 10 minutes from here,” said Repole, who lived
in Queens, New York. “I said, ‘This is my Breeders’ Cup
weekend.’ I don’t care how long I’m in racing, you’re not going
to win three graded stakes in a row, two with 2-year-olds and
one with Stay Thirsty, who means so much to me.”  Winless in four other starts this year, Stay Thirsty was in
last place before jockey Ramon Dominguez urged the 4-year-old
midway on the far turn to circle the field and overtake Groupie
Doll in the final furlong.  “This is a special, special bittersweet moment, to go out
a winner, beating Groupie Doll, who’s going to win the Eclipse
Award,” Repole said. “He had the lead one time, and it
happened to be when the wire came up. What a great feeling to
win three stakes in a row, just amazing.”  Stay Thirsty, whose previous Grade 1 win came in the 2011
Travers at 1 ¼ miles, completed the distance in one minute,
35.47 seconds and returned $7.50 for a $2 win wager as the 5-2
second choice.  $1.9 Million Winnings  “We wanted to be aggressive with him early and put him
into the race, and he didn’t break real well,” Pletcher said.
“With the way it unfolded, we were just sitting behind the
other three. It seemed to work out in the end, but I was a
little concerned at the break because he didn’t jump away real
well from the one hole.”  Overall, Stay Thirsty finished his career 5-5-1 in 17
starts and earned $1.9 million, including $210,000 for his Cigar
Mile triumph. Repole, 43, chairman of BodyArmor Nutrition LLC,
bought the colt as a 2-year-old for $500,000 at auction.  A dark bay son of 2006 Champion Three-Year-Old Male
Bernardini, Stay Thirsty will stand at Coolmore America Ashford
Stud in Versailles,  Kentucky .  “Stay Thirsty was successful at 2 and won races like the
Jim Dandy and Travers at 3, and the breeders love milers,”
Pletcher said. “He proved today he can be versatile enough to
do all of those things. It was a huge win for him.”  The Cigar Mile was the fifth stakes win this week for
Pletcher and Repole, who also won the Fall Highweight with Caixa
Eletronica and the Super Mario overnight stakes with
Notacatbutallama.  Groupie Doll had a five-race winning streak snapped.  “She ran a hell of a race,” said trainer William “Buff”
Bradley of Groupie Doll, who was making her first graded stakes
start against males. “I’m glad we came. I knew Stay Thirsty was
coming at us; he ran a great race, too. I thought she ran her
race and ran very well. I’m very proud of her. I knew she’d
gotten nosed out. Tough field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  