-- Yandex Ad Focus Beats Mail.ru as Premium Grows: Russia Overnight
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-11-26T13:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-25/yandex-ad-focus-beats-mail-ru-as-premium-grows-russia-overnight.html
Stock investors expecting  Yandex
NV (YNDX) ’s focus on advertising to drive sales growth next year are
paying the highest premium in six weeks for  Russia ’s most-used
search engine over Internet company Mail.ru Group Ltd.  Yandex, whose search site outrates Google Inc.’s in Russia,
jumped 4.2 percent in New York last week and traded for 27.6
times estimated earnings on Nov. 20, 8.2 percent above the
valuation for Mail.ru, a London-listed Russian language company
that owns social network  VKontakte  and sells online games. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies in the U.S. gained 2.9 percent last week, and  futures 
on the RTS Index rose 0.6 percent to 144,060 on Nov. 23.  The Hague, Netherlands-based Yandex traded at a discount to
 Mail.ru (MAIL)  for most of 2012 until the third quarter, when the
company saw a 34 percent jump in net income and raised its
annual sales forecast, according to results issued Oct. 30.
Yandex, which got 98 percent of revenue from advertising last
year, has climbed 18 percent in the second half, while Moscow-
based Mail.ru, whose co-founder Gregory Finger sold his stake in
September, has lost 9.1 percent.  “Over the long term I would prefer Yandex on the back of
stronger market fundamentals for next year and a simpler
business case,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie
Financial Corp. who has buy ratings on both stocks, said by
phone from Moscow Nov. 21. “Yandex is purely related to the
advertising market, while Mail’s gaming business and social
networks is a more difficult business case.”  Surpassing Google  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 1.5 percent
to $28.04 on Nov. 23, pushing its weekly gain to 4 percent. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures swings in the index
futures, dropped 1.6 percent to 22.39.  Yandex was little changed at $22.44 on Nov. 23 as Mail.ru
declined 0.5 percent to $30.79. Mail.ru global depositary
receipts slipped 0.6 percent to $30.60 by 1 p.m. in  London 
today.  The 14 percent  jump  in Yandex shares this year is more than
four times the advance in the Russia-US gauge. Mail.ru, which
also runs an e-mail platform, dropped 3.6 percent last week,
trimming the yearly advance to 18 percent.  Profit for Yandex rose 34 percent in the third quarter to
2.3 billion rubles ($74 million) from the same period a year
earlier, the firm said on Oct. 30. The company’s share of
Russia’s Internet searches in the week ended Nov. 18 was 60.3
percent, compared with 26.6 percent for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and 8.6
percent for Mail.ru, according to data from Liveinternet.ru.  Mail.ru raised its 2012 forecast for sales growth to
between 42 percent and 45 percent, up from a previous estimate
of between 40 percent and 45 percent. The Internet company’s
sales advanced 37 percent in the third quarter, Mail.ru said on
Oct. 25.  ‘More Optimistic’  “I’m more optimistic on Yandex than on Mail,” Konstantin Belov, an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. who rates Yandex a
buy and Mail.ru hold, said by phone from Moscow on Nov. 21.  “The investment case in Yandex is clear, exposure to the
growth of Russian Internet advertising market, which is a very
clear story, the advertising budgets are shifting online and
Yandex is a very strong player in this market,” he said. “Mail
has two major sources of income, advertising and paid services
including games. The company has been doing fine in growth and
profitability, but it’s a big question how fast the market would
grow.”  Russia’s advertising market grew 21 percent in 2011, driven
by a 56 percent jump in Internet ad spending, according to
Association of Communication Agencies of Russia data released
earlier this year.  VimpelCom’s Dividends  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone
company by subscribers, gained 0.7 percent to $10.76 in New York
after Russia’s antitrust regulator agreed to withdraw legal
claims against shareholder  Telenor ASA (TEL)  increasing its stake,
freeing the company to distribute dividends.  The claims were scrapped after Russian billionaire Mikhail
Fridman’s Altimo investment company increased its stake in
VimpelCom, making it the telecommunications company’s largest
shareholder.  “It’s not surprising because the cause of the injunction
was removed,” Mattias Westman, who oversees about $4 billion in
Russian assets as chief executive officer of Prosperity Capital,
said by phone from London on Nov. 23. “But people have a
tendency to not believe things until they see them, and they’re
happy to get their dividends.”  Prosperity holds 0.89 percent of VimpelCom stock, the third
biggest shareholder after Altimo and Telenor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. VimpelCom has a 12-month  dividend yield 
of 4.2 percent, compared with 4 percent for OAO Rostelecom,
Russia’s state-run phone operator.  RusHydro, Sberbank  American depositary receipts of  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  soared 6.7
percent to $2.39 on Nov. 23, the biggest gain in six months in
trading volumes 21 percent of the three-month average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Russia’s largest
renewable energy producer jumped 6 percent to 77 kopeks last
week, or 25 U.S. cents. One ADR represents 100 ordinary shares.
The stock slid 1.4 percent to 76 kopeks today.  Russian President Vladimir Putin approved a proposal to
provide Moscow-based RusHydro with as much as 50 billion rubles
from the budget this year and allow the company to issue
additional shares to increase its capital, according to an e-
mailed copy of a document setting out the agreement released
Nov. 22.  ADRs of  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , Russia’s largest lender, gained 4.1
percent to $11.68 in New York on Nov. 23, widening the premium
over the bank’s Moscow shares to 1.5 percent, the most in two
months. Sberbank was little changed at 89.24 rubles, or $2.88 in
Moscow today. One ADR is equivalent to four shares.  Ruble futures strengthened 0.3 percent to 31.131 per dollar
in Moscow trading today. The currency posted the biggest advance
in two months last week at 2.1 percent, as companies converted
dollar-denominated revenue into rubles to pay government taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  