-- ‘Zero Dark Thirty’ Leads Box Office Sales After Oscar Nods
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-14T23:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/-zero-dark-thirty-leads-box-office-sales-following-oscar-nods.html
“Zero Dark Thirty,” the Oscar-
nominated film about the hunt for  Osama bin Laden , was the top
weekend film at U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in $24.4
million for distributor  Sony Corp. (6758)   “A Haunted House” placed second, collecting $18.1
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. The crime drama “Gangster Squad” opened
in third place with sales of $17.1 million for  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “Zero Dark Thirty” and other Oscar contenders, including
“Lincoln,” benefited from Academy Award nominations, which
were announced on Jan. 10. They may get additional momentum this
week from the Golden Globe awards, bestowed by the Hollywood
Foreign Press Association, which were handed out last night in
 Beverly Hills ,  California , in a telecast on NBC.  “Awards chatter before the wide release of ‘Zero Dark
Thirty’ helped it top the charts,” said  Jeff Bock , senior box
office analyst for Exhibitor Relations.  The weekend marked the first for wide release of “Zero
Dark Thirty.” The film stars Jessica Chastain as a dogged CIA
operative who uncovers key information that led U.S. Navy
commandos to bin Laden’s hideout in 2011.  Chastain won a Golden Globe last night for her portrayal of
the CIA agent named Maya. The film was nominated for five
Academy Awards, including best picture and best original
screenplay. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences holds
its Oscars ceremony on Feb. 24.  Solid Start  “For an R-rated film about war, with a difficult subject
matter that includes torture, $24 million is a solid start,”
Bock said. He predicted the film would make more than $100
million in the U.S. “and even better abroad where audiences
will want to see how a U.S.-made film tells this story.”  The film has drawn criticism from senators including  Dianne Feinstein , chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who
said the movie wrongly suggests harsh interrogation methods
yielded key information in the search for bin Laden. Director
Kathryn Bigelow and writer Mark Boal have denied the assertion.
The movie opened in limited release on Dec. 19.  The biggest surprise of the weekend, Bock said, was “A
Haunted House,” which beat “Gangster Squad,” and “shows the
appeal of a spoof dealing with horror movies and paranormal
activity.”  “A Haunted House,” from Open Road Films, stars Marlon Wayans and Essence Atkins as a couple who discover they are
sharing their new house with demons. Priests, a psychic and a
team of ghostbusters all are summoned to make the home safe.  ‘Django Unchained’  “Gangster Squad” stars  Josh Brolin  as the leader of a
special team of Los Angeles Police Department detectives
assigned to take on mobster Mickey Cohen. The movie, set in
1949, features  Sean Penn  as Cohen and  Ryan Gosling  as one of the
detectives.  Placing fourth with $11 million in sales, “Django
Unchained,” a Weinstein Co. film directed by  Quentin Tarantino 
and featuring Jamie Foxx, Christoph Waltz and  Leonardo DiCaprio ,
tells the story of a white bounty hunter who helps a freed slave
search for his wife in the pre-Civil War south.  The film picked up Golden Globes last night for best
screenplay and best supporting actor for Waltz.  “ Les Miserables ,” the adaptation of the Broadway musical
taken from the Victor Hugo classic, with  Hugh Jackman ,  Anne Hathaway  and  Russell Crowe , was fifth with a gross of $9.6
million. The film won Golden Globes for best musical or comedy,
best actor for Jackman and best supporting for Hathaway.  “Lincoln,” which earned a leading 12 Academy Award
nominations, rose to seventh with $6.3 million in sales, after
finishing eighth the weekend earlier. It’s distributed by  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and Twentieth Century Fox, and directed by  Steven Spielberg . Daniel Day-Lewis won the Golden Globe for his
portrayal of the 16th U.S. president.  “It’s been playing for some time, and for a historical
drama to have already topped $152 million at the box office is
pretty phenomenal,” Bock said.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 5.4 percent to
$121.4 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first two weeks of the year are $441 million, up 22
percent from a year ago. Attendance is also up 22 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan.
11 to Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  