-- A Financial-Reform Agenda for Obama’s Second Term
-- B y   H a l   S .   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/a-financial-reform-agenda-for-obama-s-second-term.html
Despite the exhausting pace of
financial regulatory reform in President  Barack Obama ’s first
term, further changes are needed to improve the stability of the
financial system and to make the U.S. capital markets more
efficient and competitive internationally.  First, we must return to our regulators the tools -- taken
away by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act -- that enabled the U.S. to
survive the most pernicious aspect of the 2008 crisis: the
contagion following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. Had Dodd-Frank been enacted in 2008, the financial meltdown
would have been even more devastating.  The Federal Reserve can no longer provide liquidity to
nonbanks without the consent of the Treasury secretary. The
Treasury can no longer guarantee money-market-fund investors
against runs, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. can no
longer insure senior debt or increase insurance on deposit
accounts without congressional approval.  These backstops are politically unpopular, and should only
be deployed in extreme circumstances, but they should be
available if needed.  We need to further safeguard the financial system from
contagion by limiting the dependence of banks on short-term
funding. We should also extend insurance coverage, with
appropriate fees, for the short-term funding that remains within
banks and in shadow banks, such as prime money-market funds. The
cost of the insurance should be risk-based and paid by the
insured institutions, just like deposit insurance.  At the same time, we should revise our approach to the too-
big-to-fail problem, starting with a re-examination of whether
the failure of a large bank poses a real systemic problem. The
Lehman meltdown did not set off a chain reaction of bankruptcies
caused by financial firms’ direct exposure to one another. True,
the Reserve Primary Fund lost two basis points (0.02 percent) of
value due to its investment in Lehman paper. Yet the run on
money-market funds generally, and the credit crunch more
broadly, resulted from the fear that short-term creditors of all
financial institutions, with or without significant Lehman
exposure, were at risk.  Derivative Counterparties  There is also substantial  evidence  that the failure of
American International Group Inc. would not have bankrupted its
derivative counterparties that were hedged or had collateral.
And central clearing requirements for derivatives have further
reduced this concern.  What we do need to worry about is the possibility that a
particular financial institution’s failure could put at risk the
performance of a crucial financial-system function, like the
payment system or clearing. This can be addressed through Dodd-
Frank’s living-will requirement, which permits regulators to
promptly transfer crucial functions of insolvent institutions to
solvent ones.  Seen through this lens, we can let large banks fail and
stop imposing such high costs on their current operations. The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has implemented two
potentially high-cost policies premised on the idea that we
cannot let large banks fail.  First, required equity capital for large banks has been
effectively increased to 9.5 percent from 2 percent. If we are
prepared to let large banks fail, such high costs are
unnecessary. And they are certainly an imperfect antidote to
contagion where even higher levels of capital would be quickly
depleted through fire sales of assets, compounding the
contagion.  In addition, new untested Basel liquidity requirements
would force banks to hold enough high-quality liquid assets
(which may not even be available) to withstand withdrawals of as
much as 3 percent of insured deposits over 30 days, even though
runs may last much longer. While the initial proposals have
recently been relaxed in terms of the time frame for
implementation and what qualifies as a high-quality liquid
asset, these requirements are still very costly. Traditional
central-bank last-resort lending to solvent institutions is
cheaper than requiring banks to add to liquid assets. More
important, it is the only effective way to deal with runs.  What’s more, we must restore the competitiveness of the
U.S. capital markets, a priority for some U.S. officials before
the crisis. From 1996 to 2006, the U.S. share of global initial
public offerings by foreign companies was almost 29 percent and
the percentage of U.S. companies choosing to go public overseas
was a mere 1.3 percent. In 2011, these figures were 8.6 percent
and 6.9 percent, respectively. The source of competition, as
with all matters economic, is increasingly  China .  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups  Act  of 2012, passed
with bipartisan support, addressed U.S. competitiveness by
lowering the cost of going public for small companies, the
engines of economic growth. These reforms could be extended by
making it more profitable for securities firms to make markets
in these stocks, for example by relaxing the requirement that
they be traded in penny increments, which would improve their
liquidity and increase their attractiveness to investors. At the
same time, we need to better understand the impact of high-
frequency and off-exchange trading in all stocks.  Cost-Benefit  Finally, we need to ensure that all financial regulation is
justified by cost-benefit analysis. While Obama has called on
the independent agencies to do cost-benefit analysis, it has
generally not been forthcoming, although recently the Securities
and Exchange Commission has done a better job. The  Committee on
Capital Markets Regulation , the independent and nonpartisan
research group that I direct, found that many of the rules
issued under Dodd-Frank include no cost-benefit analysis. Very
few considered meaningful economic effects, as opposed to
paperwork costs and the like.  This failure exposes the rules to invalidation by courts,
creating further uncertainty that negatively affects the
economy. The president should require independent agencies to
conduct cost-benefit analysis with the option of submitting
their rules for review to the Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs within the U.S. Office of Management and
Budget. This step, after all, is mandatory for government
departments.  (Hal S. Scott is a professor of international financial
systems at Harvard Law School and the director of the Committee
on Capital Markets Regulation. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Hal S. Scott at  hscott@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  