-- Abe Aids Bernanke as Japan Seen Buying Foreign Debt
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-01-14T18:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/abe-aids-bernanke-as-japan-seen-buying-558-billion-foreign-debt.html
Shinzo Abe is set to become the best
friend of investors in Treasuries as  Japan ’s prime minister buys
U.S.  government bonds  to weaken the yen and boost his nation’s
slowing economy.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  pledged to consider a fund
to buy foreign securities that may amount to 50 trillion yen
($558 billion) according to Nomura Securities Co. and Kazumasa Iwata, a former Bank of Japan deputy governor. JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. says the total may be double that. The
purchases would further weaken a currency that has depreciated
12 percent in four months as the nation suffers through its
third  recession  since 2008.  The support would help Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke damp yields after the worst start to a year since 2009,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury
Index. Government bonds lost 0.5 percent as improving economic
growth in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China  curbed demand for the
relative safety of government debt even with the Fed buying $45
billion in bonds a month.  “I can’t imagine the U.S. would be disappointed in Japan
buying Treasuries,”  Jack McIntyre , a  fund manager  who oversees
$34 billion in global debt at Brandywine Global Investment
Management in Philadelphia, said in a Jan. 8 telephone
interview. “The Fed’s been doing all the  heavy lifting .”  Bond Yields  Ten-year note  yields  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.86 percent at 1:34 p.m.  New York  time.
The yield touched 1.97 percent on Jan. 4, the highest level
since April. This year, U.S. debt maturing in 10 years or longer
ranked 125 out of 144 indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The average Treasury 10-year note yield in 2012 was the
lowest since at least World War II at 1.79 percent, compared
with the  20-year mean  of 4.73 percent. The average 10-year yield
for Japan’s debt in 2012 was 0.85 percent, and was  1.85 percent 
during the past 20 years.  Strategists are already paring back bearish forecasts for
 U.S. debt . The 10-year Treasury yield will rise to 2.27 percent
by year end, according to the median prediction of economists in
a Bloomberg survey. In July, the estimate was 2.7 percent.  Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor for Tokyo-based Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $38
billion, is more bullish. Ten-year Treasury yields will fall to
a record low of 1 percent by year-end as Japan ramps up
purchases, while the yen falls to 90 per dollar, he said in an
interview on Jan. 11. Japan’s buying “will be one of the
positive factors in the market.”  Fund Details  Abe said yesterday he wants someone “who can push through
bold monetary policy” as the next governor of the  Bank of Japan 
when Masaaki Shirakawa steps down in April. He has demanded the
central bank double its inflation target to 2 percent and engage
in unlimited easing till the goal is met.  Abe’s LDP, which swept to power in elections last month,
has proposed establishing a fund run by the Bank of Japan, the
Ministry of Finance and private investors to buy foreign bonds.
He announced Jan. 11 a 10.3 trillion yen stimulus plan including
about 3.8 trillion yen for disaster prevention and
reconstruction, aimed at boosting gross domestic product by
about 2 percentage points and creating about 600,000 jobs.  ‘Bazooka Strategy’  The election handed the LDP a political mandate to follow
through on its bond-purchase plan,  George Goncalves , the head of
interest-rate strategy at Nomura Securities International, one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed, said in a Jan. 8
telephone interview from New York. “It’s a quantum leap from
doing central bank easing in local markets to foreign markets.”  Details of the bond  fund  weren’t announced. It might be
targeted at a variety of assets including Treasuries, though the
whole amount may not even be deployed, according to Yunosuke Ikeda, the head of foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura in  Tokyo .  “It’s the bazooka strategy,” Tokyo-based Ikeda said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 10. “In order to have an impact on
the dollar-yen market, the size needs to be very big.”  The yen may weaken to about 95 per dollar, Iwata, the
president of the Japan Center for  Economic Research , said at a
forum in Tokyo on Jan. 11. The currency traded at 89.23 against
its U.S. counterpart, having earlier fallen to 89.67, a level
not seen since June 2010.  Buying Treasuries  In an October  report , Iwata said that a 50 trillion yen
fund would enable the BOJ to purchase foreign bonds to rein in
the yen.  The fund could be twice that size or more as “there’s no
upper limit,” said Masaaki Kanno, the chief Japan economist for
JPMorgan and a former BOJ official. Abe can hold off on
unveiling a large plan now until the next time the currency
starts to appreciate, Kanno said by telephone Jan. 11.  Whatever the foreign bond fund’s amount, more than half
will probably be funneled into Treasuries because they are the
most easily-traded securities, Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of
fixed-income in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which
has about $64.8 billion in assets, said on Jan. 8.  Tradable Treasury debt amounted to  $11 trillion  at the end
of 2012, with weekly  trading volume  in the securities among 21
primary dealers averaging $521.4 billion, Fed data show.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said last week that his
nation will buy bonds issued by the European Stability Mechanism
to weaken the yen. The nation hasn’t decided on the amount, he
said.  Yen ‘Myth’  Support for a new foreign-bond fund isn’t universal.  “I personally think it won’t happen,” said Naruki Nakamura, head of fixed income at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners Japan in Tokyo, which has the equivalent of $8.7
billion in assets. “There’s no need to boost yen weakness. It’s
a myth. I’m not sure the new administration wants unlimited
inflation,” he said in a telephone interview Jan. 4.  Working against Abe’s plan is the decade-long pattern of
the yen strengthening alongside U.S. debt. Moves in the 10-year
Treasury note and the yen were correlated 60 percent of the time
in 2012 on a weekly basis, reflecting their roles as havens from
risk. Since the start of the financial crisis in August 2007,
the yen appreciated 33 percent against the dollar, while yields
on 10-year  U.S. government debt  fell to 1.87 percent from 4.74
percent.  Good Investments  Japan bought $76.9 billion of Treasuries in September 2011
and $59.9 billion in November 2011, its two largest monthly
purchases. The 10-year U.S. note yield plunged 0.31 percentage
point to 1.92 percent in September 2011 as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis worsened, and in November 2011 dropped 0.05
percentage point to 2.07 percent.  These turned out to be good investments. Treasuries
returned 2.1 percent in 2012, or 15 percent after accounting for
the dollar’s gain against yen, according to EFFAS index data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japanese government bonds gained 1.8
percent, with only Swedish  government securities  returning less
among 26 sovereign debt markets tracked by the gauges.  Treasury yields and the value of the yen last  fell in
tandem  between January 2000 and October 2001, as U.S. stock
prices declined 21 percent from then-record highs and as the Fed
lowered borrowing costs to address a recession. The currency
depreciated to 122 per dollar from 103 as 10-year yields slid to
4.23 percent from 6.44 percent.  Timing Right  For Bernanke, the timing couldn’t be better. Yields have
risen 49 basis points from the record low of 1.379 percent July
25 with a pickup in economic growth curtailing demand. U.S. GDP
grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter, up from
2.7 percent in the previous three months, the Commerce
Department reported Dec. 20.  With the  economy  improving “Treasuries are susceptible to
higher yields” over the next 6 to 12 months, Gary Pollack, who
oversees $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche
Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York, said in a
Jan. 10 telephone interview. “The market will start pricing in
that the Fed stops buying Treasuries as part of quantitative
easing. Without the Fed you’d see higher yields.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
the  euro-area economy  will slowly return to health in 2013 as
the region’s bond markets stabilize after three years of
turmoil. Chinese government data showed  exports  increased 14.1
percent in December from a year earlier, the most since May.  Europe, China  Japan raised its holdings of U.S. debt in 2012 by 7.2
percent to $1.13 trillion as of October and is on pace to again
become the largest U.S. creditor since slipping to second place
in September 2008. China owns $1.16 trillion. The Treasury
Department’s next report on foreign ownership of U.S.
securities, covering November, is due Jan. 16.  Overseas investors help reduce U.S. borrowing costs by
absorbing  about half  of the $11 trillion of publicly traded
debt. Foreign buyers benefit as the purchases help to weaken
their currencies, making their exports cheaper than American
goods.  The yen slid 11 percent in 2012, the most in seven years.
It is still about 13 percent stronger than its 10-year average
of 101.15. Domestic manufacturers want the currency to trade
between 90 and 100, Hiroshi Tomono, president of Nippon Steel &
Sumitomo Metal Corp. said Jan. 7 in Tokyo.  Japan has been battling deflation for more than a decade,
with  consumer prices  falling 0.1 percent each month on average
over the past 10 years, causing shoppers to delay purchases. The
nation’s economy contracted in the second and third quarters of
2012.  Purchasing Treasuries would “have the double benefit of
allowing them to drive down the value of the yen and also better
control any possible increase in yields of Japanese government
bonds,” Brian Jacobsen, the chief portfolio strategist at Wells
Fargo Funds Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said Jan.
9 at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  