-- Colin Powell Says Hagel Is ‘Superbly Qualified’
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-15T20:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/hagel-superbly-qualified-to-head-defense-colin-powell-says.html
(Corrects year Hagel was McCain’s campaign co-chairman in
10th paragraph of story published Jan. 13.)  Former U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel, a
twice-wounded Vietnam War veteran, is “superbly qualified” to
run the Pentagon, former Secretary of State  Colin Powell  said
today in a television interview.  Powell, a Republican like Hagel, appeared on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program, rejecting criticism from other party
members over a comment the former Nebraska lawmaker made about
the “Jewish lobby” and a 2007 vote opposing designation of
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a terrorist group.  “He is a very strong supporter of the state of  Israel ,”
Powell said. “It doesn’t mean you have to agree with every
single position the Israeli government takes.”  Hagel, 66, has come under attack from Republicans including
Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and  John Cornyn  of
Texas, members of Senate Armed Services Committee that will
handle the nomination. Cornyn has said he opposes the
nomination.  While Powell was leading the State Department under
Republican President  George W. Bush , Hagel criticized the U.S.
invasion and occupation of  Iraq  that the retired general
supported. Today on NBC, Powell said Hagel “is a solid guy who
speaks his mind.”  “He’s ultimately superbly qualified based on his overall
record, his service to the country, how he feels about the
troops and their families,” Powell said.  Hagel’s Temperament  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, the ranking Republican on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on ABC’s “This
Week” that Hagel’s “overall temperament” will be discussed in
committee hearings, as well as his stance on Iran and Israel.  Hagel’s close relationship with Democratic President  Barack Obama  will be an asset, Senator  Jack Reed , a Democrat from Rhode
Island who sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said on
ABC’s “This Week.” Reed predicted Hagel will have “strong
support” following the hearings.  “Chuck has the wherewithal and the ability to speak truth
to power,” Reed said. “He’s demonstrated that throughout his
entire career. That is a value that is extraordinarily important
to the president, and I think he recognizes that, and I think
that will be one of his virtues as secretary of defense.”  McCain Noncommittal  Senator  John McCain , a Republican on the same committee and
also a Vietnam Veteran, declined to say whether he would vote
for or against Hagel, whom he described as a friend. Hagel was
co-chairman of McCain’s unsuccessful 2000 campaign for
president.  McCain said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that he
has “legitimate questions that need to be asked.”  Hagel in a Financial Times interview last year said, “I
think the Pentagon needs to be pared down. I don’t think that
our military has really looked at themselves strategically,
critically, in a long, long time.”  At least one prominent Democratic lawmaker and supporter of
Israel has been lukewarm toward the nomination.  New York  Senator
 Charles Schumer  said he wants to review Hagel’s positions before
making a decision.  Tara Andringa, a Senate Armed Services panel spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail statement yesterday that Hagel’s nomination
hearing “will likely” be in late January or early February.  “The White House can’t nominate him until the Senate comes
back into session,” she said. That won’t occur until after the
Inauguration next week.  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads the
panel, plans to set the hearing “quickly” after receiving the
nomination, Andringa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net 
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  