-- Taiwan Opposition Draws Thousands to Protest Ma’s Administration
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-01-13T09:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/taiwan-opposition-draws-thousands-to-protest-ma-s-administration.html
Taiwan ’s opposition rallied tens of
thousands of people today to protest the administration of
President Ma Ying-jeou, whose popularity has plummeted to the
lowest since he won office.  “We demand that Premier Sean Chen be held accountable for
the island’s weak economy,” Jason Lin, spokesman of the
 Democratic Progressive Party , said by phone.  More than 54,000 protesters joined the rally, according to
Liao Heng-yu, public order division chief at  Taipei City Police
Department , Lin said 150,000 demonstrators took part. Organizers 
had targeted participation by 100,000.  Ma’s approval rating has fallen to 13 percent since his re-
election last January with 52 percent of the popular vote,
according to a December poll by Taipei-based television network,
TVBS. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Taiwan’s economy
grew at a rate of 1.3 percent in 2012, the slowest pace since
the 2009 global recession.  Protesters also called for regulators, including the  Fair
Trade Commission  and the  National Communications Commission , to
block the sale of Hong Kong-listed  Next Media Ltd. (282) ’s Taiwan
assets to prevent a monopoly, Lin said. A group of companies
plans to buy Next Media Taiwan print and television units for a
total NT$17.5 billion ($604 million).  Tsai Shao-Chung, president of Want Want Chinatimes Group,
which publishes the China Times and the Commercial Times, is
among the buyers.  Fiscal changes and reforms to the island’s social welfare
system are also among the opposition’s concerns. The island’s
aging population is straining its welfare and pension system, Ma
said on Nov. 21, adding that the government will review reform
proposals by this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  