-- Senate’s Manchin Seeks Commission to Probe U.S. Gun Violence
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-13T20:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/manchin-says-plans-bill-on-commission-on-mass-violence-in-u-s-.html
U.S. Senator Joe Manchin, a West
Virginia Democrat, said he would join  Arizona  Republican Senator
John McCain in seeking a bipartisan commission that would look
for ways to address the nation’s “culture of violence.”  “It takes an all-in approach,” Manchin said today on
ABC’s “This Week” in response to a question about what should
be done to address gun violence in the wake of the Dec. 14
massacre in Newtown, Connecticut. “You bring experts from all
different fields. You bring people such as myself that are NRA
members that have been sportsmen all of our lives, and look for
a commonsense approach.”  White House officials have said the Obama administration,
under the leadership of Vice President Joe Biden, will pursue a
ban on military-style weapons that is opposed by the National
Rifle Association and their lawmaker allies. Manchin said he and
McCain will sponsor a bill taking up retired  Connecticut  Senator
Joe Lieberman’s push for a commission because looking more
narrowly at guns, mental-health coverage or violent video games
won’t “change the culture.”  Manchin, who opposes steps he views as curbing Americans’
constitutional right to bear arms, said requirements such as
universal background checks for gun buyers have to be looked at
within the all-inclusive approach he is advocating.  “If it’s all in one piece of legislation and one piece of
legislation only, then you get something that’s much broader,”
he said. Otherwise, it “is going to have a harder time getting
through the political process we have right today.”  McCain Support  McCain, in an interview on the CBS program “Face the
Nation,” backed Manchin’s view, saying an assault weapons ban
can’t pass Congress and wouldn’t stop gun violence if it did.  “In  Norway , a country with the most stringent gun laws, a
guy was able to slaughter a huge number of people,” McCain
said, referring to twin attacks in that country that left 77
people dead in 2011. “So I think we need to look at it in its
entirety. I think all of us should have this conversation.”  President  Barack Obama  has said he will address firearms
violence in his  State of the Union  address, set for Feb. 12.
Biden plans to deliver by Jan. 15 his recommendations for
legislative and executive actions to stem gun violence.  NRA President David Keene appeared today on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program, reiterating his group’s view that the
White House push for an assault weapons ban won’t succeed.  “The likelihood is that they are not going to be able to
get an assault weapons ban through this Congress,” Keene said,
adding that lawmakers also won’t be able to pass restrictions on
high-capacity ammunition magazines.  After a Jan. 10 meeting with Biden, the NRA released a
statement accusing the White House of pushing “an agenda to
attack the Second Amendment” rather than focusing on policies
to improve safety for children.  “We suspected all he wanted to be able to do was to say he
had talked to us,” Keene said of Biden on the CNN program.
“And now they were going to go forward to do what they wanted
to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  