-- Arab Spring Needs a Mini-Marshall Plan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/arab-spring-needs-a-mini-marshall-plan.html
Two years to the day since
protesters toppled Tunisian dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali,
triggering revolts across the Arab world, euphoria has clearly
turned to disappointment. Building Arab democracies with open
economies is proving much harder than was, perhaps naively,
anticipated.  Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya have become trapped in a vicious
circle in which instability hampers economic recovery, while
lack of growth and jobs in turn fuels instability. In all three
countries, failure to break the circle this year could mean
ceding the field to radical Islamists who reject modernity, or
lapsing back into the corrupt crony-state systems that so many
people risked their lives to escape.  Yet the Arab Spring has not failed. Democracy in the Middle
East need not lead to the spread of failed states and radical
Islam, and it is not too late to respond. What’s needed is a
bigger and more focused effort, along with a healthy serving of
patience.  History offers a telling comparison. It was also two years
after the end of World War II when George C. Marshall said in a
 speech  at  Harvard University  that “the rehabilitation of the
economic structure of  Europe  quite evidently will require a much
longer time and greater effort than had been foreseen.” He
proposed what became known as the  Marshall Plan , arguing that
the alternative would be “hunger, poverty, desperation, and
chaos.”  Stability Needed  Marshall understood the need to buttress Western Europe in
the face of the threat posed by the  Soviet Union . Events today
in  Syria  and  Mali  -- as well as the standoff between the U.S.
and  Iran , and the one between  Israel  and the Palestinians --
demonstrate a similar imperative to stabilize North Africa. For
starters, ordinary Tunisians, Libyans and Egyptians need to
believe that the economic development promised by more moderate
political parties, whether Islamic or secular, will materialize
if their policies are given a chance.  The job of making that happen inevitably falls to the
countries themselves. We will look at each in subsequent
editorials. Yet the outside world also needs to strengthen its
commitment.  Start with the money. The Arab Spring countries have
received help, but a small fraction of the amounts pledged by
the Group of Eight and the Gulf nations at Deauville,  France , in
May 2011. In a shameful act of grandstanding, the meeting’s
French hosts  produced  a headline number of $70 billion, with $38
billion to come from international institutions and $32 billion
from donor states. Even those sums pale in comparison with those
of the  Marshall Plan , which totaled $740 billion in today’s
money, according to  calculations  by economic historian  Niall Ferguson .  North Africa does not need, and cannot have, Marshall Plan-
scale financial aid: Libya is awash with oil and gas revenue;
Egypt is ambivalent about outside help; and the poor state of
the global economy constrains the ability of donor countries to
throw money at foreign problems.  The real sin of Deauville was to raise unrealistic
expectations, already stratospheric in the Arab Spring
countries, and then to disappoint them. When pressed over the
failure to deliver new money, the Deauville donor states
responded in October by setting up a $165 million  transition
fund  (which rose later to $250 million). This fund is to be
shared among five nations (including  Morocco  and Jordan), whose
populations total almost 140 million. That effort, again,
inspired more disappointment than hope.  Better Investment  The  World Bank  and other international organizations are
doing their part, but a better Deauville is needed, one that
offers a stronger and more coordinated Marshall Plan-like
vision, as well as some (nonfictitious) money, investment
insurance, trade guarantees and other instruments to encourage
investment and major infrastructure projects.  Such a framework should be shaped to boost regional trade.
Low levels of cross-border commerce within North Africa
(accounting for just 4 percent of total trade, according to the
 African Development Bank ) costs these economies an estimated 2
percent to 3 percent of gross domestic product -- a legacy of
their myopic and paranoid dictators, most of whom have now
departed. Now is not the time to forge a new pan-North African
organization, but integration should be tackled aggressively in
achievable pieces.  Top of the list is border security. Weapons and radical
militants are flowing across frontiers, smuggling is rampant,
and the governments are scared. Last month,  Libya  closed its
southern borders and declared the region a restricted military
zone. Libya alone is two and a half times the size of  Texas ; it
lacks the tools and expertise to police its desert frontiers. As
a result, Libyan arms have made their way to Mali, Syria and
Gaza. The U.S. and the European Union can provide the training
and sell the technology required to stanch the flow. They can
also help create a regional framework to coordinate border-
control efforts.  A Deauville-plus framework should also be used to encourage
and coordinate cross-border investment laws and bilateral trade
deals -- an area where the EU has considerable expertise. That’s
a lot to ask, given that the governments in Tunis, Cairo and
Tripoli all have yet to adopt their own investment codes. Yet
common targets for a shared trade framework might help speed the
process.  Projects already under way to improve road links and to
integrate energy grids have big potential benefits -- creating
the ability to export power not just to one another but also to
Europe, for example -- and deserve a high-level push. Similarly,
the EU should accelerate its  Mediterranean Solar Plan , which
aims to build 20,000 megawatts of solar-power capacity in North
Africa by 2020, creating an estimated 235,000 man-years’ worth
of jobs in the region.  Regional Vision  A lot of focus to date has rightly been on supporting civil
society and nonprofit organizations. These, too, should be
tackled in a more regional context. In December, the  German
Marshall Fund  started a  new project  to do just that, showing the
way.  North Africa can’t have a full-blown Marshall Plan. It
can’t wish away issues of religious identity, and joining the EU
-- which guided and funded the post-1989 transition in central
and eastern Europe -- is not under discussion. Still, one look
at a future  Middle East  represented by Mali and Syria should be
enough to demonstrate that a distracted Europe and U.S. are
failing to rise to a historic challenge, at huge potential
costs.  What’s required in North Africa is a tiny fraction of the
commitments, in both resources and energy, that were made
through the Marshall Plan after 1947 and, after 1989, to
integrate the ex-communist bloc. Of course, North Africa is not
Europe, and big risks and hurdles are involved -- just as they
were in negotiating  Russia ’s acquiescence to the breakup of the
Soviet empire. Yet creating successful, stable democracies in
North Africa anchored firmly in the modern global economy is
surely worth a bigger effort than we have made collectively
until now.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  