-- Australian Dollar Rises on Asian Stock Gains; Kiwi Climbs
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-14T05:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/aussie-dollar-holds-2-week-gain-before-home-loans-report.html
The Australian dollar advanced
versus most of its 16 major counterparts as a gain in Asian
stocks boosted demand for higher yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie rose versus the dollar and yen after
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said the
U.S. central bank should keep policy accommodative to support
the world’s biggest economy. New Zealand’s dollar, known as the
kiwi, climbed against all of its major peers after a report
today showed an advance in retail card spending.  “I think this week you might get a break upwards in the
Aussie,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender.
“Sentiment is certainly improving.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0557 as of
4:45 p.m. in Sydney. It gained 0.6 percent to 94.55 yen. New
Zealand’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 84.02 U.S. cents and
climbed 0.9 percent to 75.25 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  increased 0.3
percent, while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added
0.1 percent.  Japan ’s financial markets are shut today for a
holiday.  The U.S. government should put in place “policies that
slowly but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into
balance with future spending,” Chicago Fed President Evans said
in remarks in Hong Kong today. “Under this scenario, monetary
policy has an important contribution to make.”  Fed officials said last month they would expand the bank’s
bond-purchasing program, a move that tends to debase the
greenback, and link policy to economic indicators for the first
time.  ‘Patchy’ Recovery  Australia ’s dollar slid versus its New Zealand counterpart
after reports today in the larger nationshowed an unexpected
decline in home-loan approvals and a decrease in job
advertisements.  “Today’s data is further confirmation that the recovery in
the Australian housing market is still patchy at best,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a foreign-exchange strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in Singapore. “That means further rate cuts, in
our view. That could certainly weaken the Aussie dollar on a
cross basis.”  Statistics New Zealand said today the value of retail
 transactions  on electronic cards increased 0.3 percent in
December, the third-straight monthly advance.  The Aussie dollar fell 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2567.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 78 percent chance Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens will decrease his country’s key rate to a record 2.75
percent or lower after the policy meeting on June 4. There’s an
80 percent probability New Zealand’s benchmark borrowing cost
will be unchanged at 2.5 percent after the central bank meeting
later that month.  Australia’s 10-year bond rose, pushing the yield down one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.46 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate expectations,
was little changed at 2.80 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  