-- Australia TD Inflation Gauge Advanced 0.4% in December on Fuel
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/australia-td-inflation-gauge-advanced-0-4-in-december-on-fuel.html
A private gauge of Australian
inflation advanced in December on costlier gasoline, travel and
rent, adding to the case for the central bank to hold rather
than cut  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from November, when they
declined 0.1 percent, an index compiled by TD Securities Inc.
and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today showed.
They climbed 2.4 percent in December from a year earlier, near
the middle of the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target.  Investors are pricing in a 33 percent chance Reserve Bank
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board will ease
monetary policy an additional quarter percentage point at a Feb.
5 meeting. Stevens has cut the overnight cash rate target by
1.75 percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3 percent to
stimulate areas of the economy outside mining, where investment
is predicted to peak this year.  “The accommodative monetary policy stance, combined with
the less-restrictive fiscal stance, are already providing a
significant boost for the Australian economy,”  Annette Beacher ,
head of Asia-Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in
Singapore, said in a statement.  Today’s inflation gauge showed fuel rose 1.5 percent and
rents climbed 0.6 percent in December. The costs of clothing and
footwear, alcohol and tobacco and meat declined, it showed.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  