-- BiondVax Jumps to 2-Month High in Active Tel-Aviv Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-13T14:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/biondvax-jumps-to-2-month-high-in-active-tel-aviv-trading.html
BiondVax Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (BNDX)  a
company developing an experimental vaccine against all strains
of influenza, advanced to the highest level in more than two
months in trading almost six times the average daily volume of
the past three months.  The Nes Ziona, Israel-company added 10 percent to 1.052
shekels, the highest level since Nov. 1, at the close in Tel
Aviv. The gains added to a three-day rally of 25 percent. The
benchmark  TA-25 equities  index slipped 0.5 percent to 1,217.76.  Flu is widespread in the U.S. and deaths from the virus and
pneumonia are slightly above the epidemic level, though some
regions may begin to see fewer cases, according to the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention . The Atlanta-based agency
doesn’t tally adult deaths until after the end of the season.
Two children in New York have died from the flu, and more than
19,100 cases in the state prompted a public health emergency,
according to the agency.  BiondVax says its lead product, Multimeric-001, which is
designed to provide multi-season and multi-strain protection
against most human influenza virus strains, was shown to be safe
in two Phase II and two Phase I/II clinical trials. The company
plans to start a Phase III trial this year, according to its
website. The company has never recorded a profit and its product
is not approved for use anywhere in the world.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo declared a public health
emergency in response to the outbreak with cases being reported
in all 57 counties in the state and all five boroughs of New
York City. Almost 3,000 people have been hospitalized with the
flu, the governor’s office said in a statement.  The company will present details of clinical trials of its
M-001 vaccine to a World Health Organization meeting on
influenza vaccines on Jan. 24 in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  