-- BlueScope Will Cut Production, Jobs in Australia to Lower Costs
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-01-13T22:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/bluescope-will-cut-production-jobs-in-australia-to-lower-costs.html
BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,  Australia ’s
largest steelmaker, will cut production and jobs at its Western
Port facility to lower costs amid weaker demand for steel.  BlueScope will cut jobs at the steel plant by almost a
fifth, or about 110 employees and 60 contractors, Michael Reay,
a spokesman for the Melbourne-based company, said by telephone
today. The Western Port plant, located near Hastings about 80
kilometers (50 miles) southeast of Melbourne, produces cold
rolling, metal coated and painted steel products used in
construction, he said.  BlueScope has stopped most exports from Australia, shut a
mill and a furnace and shed about 1,000 jobs in the past two
years as domestic steelmaking companies battle a stronger
Australian dollar, higher costs and lower steel prices. The
company sold half of its coated-steel operations in Southeast
Asia and  North America  to  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  in August.  “This change will reduce production levels and provide
significant cost savings,” BlueScope said in today’s statement,
without specifying the size of the output cut. “We will keep
all currently operating lines and assets open at Western Port,
to provide flexibility and allow for additional throughput when
demand improves.”  BlueScope expects the changes will cost the company about
A$17 million ($17.9 million), which it will be able to recover
within a year through improvements in operating costs, it said
in the statement. BlueScope will continue to produce the same
portfolio of products and retain the capability to meet current
and future demand, it said.  The stock fell 0.3 percent to A$3.70 when it last traded in
Sydney on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  