-- Brazilian Bikini Waxes Make Crab Lice Endangered Species
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-13T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/brazilian-bikini-waxes-make-crab-lice-endangered-species-health.html
Pubic lice , the  crab-shaped  insects
that have dwelled in human groins since the beginning of history,
are disappearing. Doctors say bikini waxing may be the reason.  Waning infestations of the bloodsuckers have been linked by
doctors to pubic depilation, especially a technique popularized
in the 1990s by a Manhattan salon run by seven Brazilian sisters.
More than  80 percent  of college students in the U.S. remove all
or some of their pubic hair -- part of a trend that’s increasing
in western countries. In  Australia , Sydney’s main sexual health
clinic hasn’t seen a woman with pubic lice since 2008 and male
cases have fallen 80 percent from about 100 a decade ago.  “It used to be extremely common; it’s now rarely seen,”
said Basil Donovan, head of sexual health at the University of
New South Wales’s  Kirby Institute  and a physician at the Sydney
Sexual Health Centre. “Without doubt, it’s better grooming.”  The trend suggests an alternative way of stemming one of
the globe’s most contagious sexually transmitted infections.
Pubic lice are usually treated with topical insecticides, which
once included toxic ones developed before and during World War 2.
While they aren’t known to spread disease, itchy skin reactions
and subsequent infections make pubic lice a hazardous pest.  Clipping, waxing and shaving the groin destroy the optimal
habitat of pubic lice. The practice has helped spur sales of
depilatory products for companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)   P&G, Reckitt Benckiser  The global market for depilatories was worth $4.69 billion
last year, according to London-based  Euromonitor International
Ltd. , which estimates sales increased at a 7.6 percent average
annual clip the past decade. Cincinnati-based P&G, Slough,
England-based Reckitt Benckiser and  Energizer Holdings Inc. (ENR) ,
based in  St. Louis , dominate the market, which Euromonitor
predicts will reach $5.6 billion by 2016.  A majority of college men and women in the U.S. and
Australia remove all or part of their pubic hair, researchers at
Kenyon College in Gambier,  Ohio , reported in a  2011 paper ,
citing surveys and research by other scholars. In the U.K., 99
percent of women older than 16 years remove some hair, most
commonly from the under arms, legs and pubic area, a 2005 study
found.  Brazilian waxing took off internationally in the early
2000s, possibly spurred by the attention it was given on
television shows such as  Sex and the City , said Spring Cooper
Robbins, a senior lecturer and sexual health researcher at the
University of Sydney.  J Sisters Salon  About a block from  New York ’s famous Fifth Avenue shopping
strip, women in fur coats and Louis Vuitton handbags are filing
in and out of a beauty salon on a recent Friday afternoon. They
perch on metallic silver and red floral sofas in the reception
located in a Midtown Manhattan office building, waiting for a
woman dressed in white to escort them to a waxing room.  The shop run by Jonice Padilha and her sisters Jocely,
Janea, Joyce, Juracy, Jussara and Judeseia may be ground zero in
the war on pubic lice. Growing up in the Brazilian coastal city
of Vitoria, the sisters, like other women there, routinely waxed
their pubic hair off to accommodate the ever shrinking bikinis
worn on the beach.  In 1994, they introduced the waxing technique at the  J
Sisters  nail salon they opened in 1986. Things exploded from
there, Padilha said.  About 200 clients a day, including celebrities such as
Sarah Jessica Parker, come for treatments ranging from complete
hair removal to custom designs. Regulars returning every four
weeks pay $75 for a Brazilian. Men of all ages and sexual
orientation are going for the “Sunga” wax, a $90 treatment in
which all pubic hair, including on the testicles, is removed.  Hygiene and comfort are key reasons customers keep coming
back, she said.  ‘Environmental Disaster’  “It’s like a freedom,” said Padilha of the salon’s
signature bikini wax treatment. “When we started the salon 26
years ago, we never thought it would be a success.”  Nor was it expected to aid in the fight against pubic lice,
she said.  “Pubic grooming has led to a severe depletion of crab
louse populations,” said Ian F. Burgess, a medical entomologist
with Insect Research & Development Ltd. in Cambridge, England.
“Add to that other aspects of body hair depilation, and you can
see an environmental disaster in the making for this species.”  Pubic lice, known scientifically as Phthirus pubis, infest
about 2 percent to 10 percent of the human population,
researchers at East Carolina University said in a  2009 study .  Incidence data  aren’t kept by the  World Health Organization 
in Geneva because the gray, six-legged, millimeter-long louse
doesn’t  transmit disease , and national authorities such as the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and U.K.’s
Health Protection Agency don’t collect the information.  Lousy Data  Researchers instead track pubic-lice infestations from
surveys and records kept by clinics such as Donovan’s, which
receives about 35,000 annual patient-visits annually.  “Historically, it’s been very difficult to get incidence
data on pubic lice simply because people don’t like to report
it,” said Richard Russell, director of medical entomology at
Sydney’s Westmead Hospital. “In over 40 years, I could count on
two hands the number of people who had brought pubic lice in for
identification and admitted to knowing what they were.”  A  2003 study  of sexually transmitted infections in
Australia found pubic lice was the most common symptom-causing
ailment, with at least a third of people experiencing an
infestation at some point in their life. Most people self-treat
the problem with a topical lousacide bought from pharmacies,
Donovan said.  Ten years ago, U.K. doctors noticed a dwindling in cases of
pubic lice even as patient numbers and prevalence rates of other
sexually transmitted infections increased.  Going Hairless  Janet Wilson, a consultant in sexual health and HIV, linked
the trend with the growing popularity of pubic hair removal she
and colleagues observed among patients attending the
genitourinary medicine department at the General Infirmary in
Leeds, northern  England .  In a  letter  to a medical journal in 2006, they noted
patients began getting a procedure known as the “Brazilian,”
in which all but a small strip of hair is removed. Women and men
who have sex with men took up the practice initially. Now,
heterosexual men are doing so also, Wilson said.  She and colleagues are analyzing patient records to see if
it’s lowered rates of pubic lice further, and will present their
latest findings at a medical meeting in May, she said.  “We put the flag out, so to speak, if we see a case of
pubic lice nowadays,” Wilson said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The ‘habitat destruction’ of the pubic lice is
increasing and they are becoming an endangered species.”  Skin Trauma  One in seven American men ages 25 to 34 years have had
their body hair waxed, according to a Mintel Group Ltd. report
published in October 2011.  “Now there are tutorials about the proper -- and safe --
way to shave the chest, arms, or groin depending on how hirsute
the individual may be,” the report said.  Waxing, shaving and plucking hair can cause  skin trauma ,
breaching its protective barrier and potentially aiding the
spread of other sexually transmitted infections, said Cooper
Robbins at the  University of Sydney . Non-sterile depilation
products and procedures increase the infection risk.  A 20-year-old Australian woman with poorly controlled
diabetes was hospitalized with a life-threatening bacterial
infection of her genitalia following a routine Brazilian wax,
 doctors reported  in 2007, noting a lack of published data on
infectious risks.  Ingrown Hairs  “No matter what type of hair removal is used, there is the
risk of ingrown hairs,” Cooper Robbins said. “That also
creates the opportunity for infection.”  The  female louse  needs to mate only once to remain fertile
throughout her lifetime and can lay eggs every day. Once hatched,
the young lice begin feeding straight away, gorging themselves
with blood until discovered, according to Cambridge entomologist
Burgess.  Lice species that inhabit the human body generally stick to
certain domains, with head lice staying near the scalp, body
lice preferring to hide in clothing between blood-meals on the
body, and pubic lice lingering predominantly in the coarse hair
of the pubic and perianal areas, said Russell at Sydney’s
Westmead Hospital.  Chest Hair  “In the case of fairly hirsute men, they will move up the
hair of the stomach which connects to the pubes and sometimes
get into chest hair,” he said. “In both men and women, they
occasionally get into the axillary hair under the arms.”  The pubic louse is closely related to the gorilla-
afflicting louse,  Pthirus gorillae , from which it probably
diverged 3.3 million years ago, researchers said. The life cycle
of the female pubic louse ends if it’s unable to find a suitable
place to lay eggs, Russell said, making it plausible that pubic
hair removal is reducing populations of the insect.  “It makes sense from the point of the view of the biology
of the beast, but how you’d ever find out, I don’t know,”
Russell said in a telephone interview. In the case of pubic lice,
“habitat destruction is a good thing,” he said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  