-- Casual Clients Lift Sales as Melco Rises: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/casual-clients-lift-sales-as-melco-rises-china-overnight.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , the
second-most expensive Chinese casino stock after last year’s 75
percent surge, will extend gains as recreational gamblers in
Macau drive revenue growth, according to Union Gaming Group.  American depositary receipts of Melco climbed 2.7 percent
 last week  to $18.69, and traded at 24.2 times estimated fiscal-
year earnings, the highest level among 10 casino operators
domiciled in China behind Sands China Ltd., data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-
traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. lost 0.4 percent in the first
weekly slump since the end of November as quickening inflation
damped prospects of more economic stimulus.  Melco, a joint venture between Australian billionaire  James Packer  and Lawrence Ho, son of gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , has
doubled its ADR price since reaching a seven-month low in July.
Through September, the Hong Kong-based company had  three casinos 
in Macau, including City of Dreams on the territory’s Cotai
Strip. Sales from the casual gambling market will rise as much
as 30 percent this year, according to Union Gaming.  “Melco is inexpensive relative to its growth profile and
it’s disproportionately exposed to our favorite part of the
Macau story, which is mass-market customers,” Bill Lerner, an
analyst at Union Gaming in  Las Vegas  who recommends buying Melco
stock, said by phone Jan. 11. “They have brands that are
relevant and a balance sheet that’s strong. They have the
wherewithal to compete with the other big guys for sure.”  Melco’s ADRs lost 1.9 percent Jan. 11, falling with other
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S., after government data showed
consumer prices rose more than economists expected last month.  Index Declines  ADRs of Sands China, which is 70.3 percent owned by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas Sands Corp., slipped 1.7
percent to $47.74. Sands, whose operations include the Venetian
Macau, trades at 30.7 times estimated fiscal-year earnings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The China-US gauge followed the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
lower for the first decline since November last week.  Rising food prices stoked inflation last month to 2.5
percent from a year earlier, a government report showed Jan. 11,
compared with the 2.3 percent median of economists’ estimates.
The climb in consumer prices comes after December data from
retail sales to exports showed signs of improvement and damps
prospects of further monetary policy easing.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981)  led
declines on the China-U.S. index Jan. 11, sliding 5.3 percent,
while Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd. dropped the most since
October.  China ETF Falls  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 1 percent to $41.09
Jan. 11, extending its weekly loss to 1.3 percent. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4 percent in the week.  Macau casino revenue rose 20 percent to a record 28.2
billion patacas ($3.5 billion) in December, beating analysts’
estimates, Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau
said Jan. 2. Full-year casino revenue grew 14 percent from 2011
to 304 billion patacas, also a record. Macau is the only city in
China where casinos are legal.  Middle-class Chinese tourists have helped fuel sales
growth, even as high rollers cut spending, Union Gaming’s Lerner
said.  Investors should buy Melco shares on potential declines
spurred by reports of an investigation by Taiwanese authorities,
Cameron McKnight, a senior gaming analyst at Wells Fargo
Advisors LLC, wrote in a Jan. 11 note. Taiwanese prosecutors are
probing a  Hong Kong  firm on allegations it made money transfers
for use in Macau casinos, circumventing currency exchange rules,
Macaubusiness.com  reported  Jan. 11.  ‘Growth Drivers’  “We see several strong near- and medium-term potential
catalysts and growth drivers, with a strong fourth quarter
report being the most immediate one,” McKnight wrote.  None of Melco’s units have been charged in the
investigation and the company will cooperate with authorities
where necessary, Maggie Ma, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
Melco, wrote in an e-mail Jan. 11.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch named Melco its top Macau
gambling stock Jan. 7 as it raised a 2013 gross gambling revenue
growth estimate to 10.4 percent from 8.2 percent. The same day,
Nomura International Plc said Melco shares should be bought on
weakness ahead of fourth-quarter earnings. The company is set to
release its results for the last three months of 2012 Feb. 8.  Melco’s shares traded in Hong Kong rallied 7.4 percent last
week to HK$51, even after falling 1 percent Jan. 11.  ‘Bit Skeptical’  Semiconductor Manufacturing, the Shanghai-based technology
manufacturer known as  SMIC (SMI) , fell to $3.06 Jan. 11. The company’s
ADRs had surged 117 percent from a July 20 low to Jan. 10, and
still gained 13 percent last week.  “I wouldn’t chase after SMIC at the moment given its nice
run-up recently, but rather wait for pull back and buy on any
technical correction,” Rick Hsu, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. who rates SMIC the equivalent of buy, said by e-mail Jan.
10. “I feel sentiment remains a bit skeptical on how it
competes against Taiwanese peers, as well as how sustainable and
significant it could turn around into profitability.”  ADRs of Aluminum Corp., known as Chalco, dropped 3.5
percent to $12.82, the biggest decline since Oct. 26. Shares of
the nation’s biggest aluminum producer had previously gained 43
percent from a two-year low reached Sept. 5.  Chalco rose 3.4 percent last week in Hong Kong to HK$3.95,
while SMIC jumped 13 percent to 49 cents.  The Shanghai Composite gauge of domestic Chinese shares
fell 1.8 percent to 2,242.997 Jan. 11, capping a 1.5 percent
weekly decline, the first since the end of November. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 0.7 percent to 11,842.59,
adding to a weekly loss of 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  