-- Palm Oil Imports by China to Drop, Boosting World Stockpiles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T09:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/china-s-palm-oil-imports-to-drop-adding-to-global-stockpiles.html
Palm oil  imports  by  China , the
world’s biggest cooking oil consumer, are set to plunge this
month after the government imposed more stringent inspections on
shipments, potentially increasing global inventories.  Imports may be 300,000 metric tons in January, less than
half of those in December, according to the median of estimates
from six traders and researchers compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockpiles in  Malaysia , the second-largest producer,
advanced to a record in December, while exports fell 25 percent
in the first 10 days of January, according to Intertek data.
China’s quality watchdog, the General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, toughened inspections on
imports of cooking oils from Jan. 1 to improve food safety.  “The government has told companies and other countries
that it will strictly enforce quality standards, and that’s
causing shipments to plunge to half the usual level,” Leon Xia,
an analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said Jan. 10.  Futures slumped 23 percent last year as stockpiles expanded
in Malaysia and in  Indonesia , the biggest producer, and economic
slowdowns in Europe and China curbed demand. Rabobank
International said on Jan. 10 that uncertainty about Chinese
demand may weigh on prices on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange.  Price Gain  Prices rose as much as 1.4 percent to 2,402 ringgit ($796)
on the bourse in  Kuala Lumpur  today and traded at 2,371 ringgit
by 5:34 p.m. after Plantation Industries and Commodities
Minister Bernard Dompok said the country set its export tax at
zero for a second month in February to help spur shipments.  Traders in China rushed to get orders shipped before the
changes, said Xia. Shipments were 654,232 tons in November, the
highest since December 2011, customs data show. Imports may have
been 703,600 tons in December and could be 221,800 tons in
January, the Ministry of Commerce forecast on Dec. 24.  Inventory at major ports in China climbed to a record 1.1
million tons as of Jan. 7, according to the China National Grain
& Oils Information Center. Li Yuanping, a spokesman at quality
watchdog, declined to comment.  Under China’s national standards in effect since 2009,
refined  palm oil  can’t have acidity of more than 0.2 percent,
said Xia. Most shipments have to be processed before being sold
commercially, he said. In practice, imported cargoes were bought
and sold with little restriction, he said.  Buyers now have to declare if their cargoes are for further
processing or direct consumption, in which case they must meet
the standards or be rejected, said Xia.  ‘No Clarity’  “Importers without refining capacity will face increased
costs as they deal with potentially problematic shipments,” Bu
Yiwen, general manager of research at Julong Group Co., the
biggest privately owned domestic palm oil importer, said by
phone from Tianjin on Jan. 9. “It may take a few months for
trade to resume normalcy,” he said.  The Malaysian Palm Oil Board has engaged with the Chinese
authorities on the regulations, Dompok said in Kuala Lumpur.  “They are trying to improve  food safety  generally in
China, not just focused on the palm oil industry,” he said at a
conference. “There’s no clarity yet.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: William Bi in
Beijing at   wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  