-- Citic Telecom Surges After Buying Macau Monopoly Carrier
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-01-14T10:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/citic-telecom-buys-79-of-macau-phone-operator-to-expand.html
Citic Telecom International Holdings
Ltd. (1883)  surged the most in more than two years in  Hong Kong  trading
after agreeing to buy 79 percent of Macau’s monopoly landline
operator for $1.16 billion.  The company, a unit of China’s largest state-owned
investment firm, rose 13 percent at the close, the most since
September 2010. It will buy the additional stakes in  Companhia
de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, S.A.R.L.  from  Cable & Wireless
Communications Plc (CWC)  and Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, according to a
statement yesterday.  Citic Telecom will boost its ownership of CTM to 99 percent
as Macau’s growing gambling industry spurs demand for Internet
and wireless services. The city, whose casino revenue is more
than five times that of the  Las Vegas Strip , has 1.5 million
mobile-phone users, about triple the size of its population,
according to government data.  “As long as the gambling business continues to grow, the
telecommunication business will also prosper,” said Bill Fan,
an analyst at Guosen Securities HK Financial Holdings. “The
deal will enhance the profitability of Citic Telecom.”  Citic Telecom will buy 51 percent of CTM from Cable &
Wireless for $749.7 million, according to the statement. The
Hong Kong-based company also will buy a 28 percent stake from
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  for $411.6 million. Government-
controlled Macau Post will retain a 1 percent stake.  End-User Calls  The acquisition will give Citic Telecom its first unit
providing services to end users. The company has traditionally
focused on offering international roaming and data services to
operators, such as China Mobile Ltd.  Citic Telecom will benefit from the rising number of
Chinese visitors using roaming services to call home while in
Macau, Chief Financial Officer David Chan said in a phone
interview. The city has a separate phone regime to the mainland.  “Macau has kept very good growth, mainly benefiting from
inbound roamers,” he said. “We will have good, enjoyable
growth.”  The company was the biggest gainer among the 355 stocks
tracked by the  Hang Seng Composite Index. (HSCI)  It rose as much as 22
percent earlier in the day.  Macau Services  CTM has the right to operate local and international
switched fixed voice and data services in Macau until Dec. 31,
2016, according to the release. That’s automatically renewable
until 2021, barring a “serious breach,” it said. CTM also
offers mobile-phone services in competition with other operators
in the territory.  Macau’s casino revenue increased 14 percent last year to a
record 304 billion patacas ($38 billion), according to the
city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Sands China
Ltd. (1928) , Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. and Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. are among casino operators in the former
Portuguese enclave, which is the only city in  China  where such
businesses are legal.  The two CTM deals together form the largest acquisition in
Macau outside the gambling industry, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The phone operator had an unaudited net asset
value of about 1.7 billion patacas on Nov. 30, according to the
statement. It made a profit of 463.3 million patacas in the
first half of last year, said the release, which didn’t give a
year-earlier figure.  “This is a landmark deal for the company,” Chan said.
“It will significantly increase our company size.”  Citic Telecom probably made a  profit  of HK$484.3 million
last year, based on the average of four analyst estimates
compiled by  Bloomberg News . Sales likely totaled HK$3.6 billion,
according to the data.  C&W Sale  Cable & Wireless  is selling its CTM stake to reduce its
borrowings as it focuses operations on Central America and the
Caribbean. The company has also agreed to sell its Monaco and
islands businesses to Bahrain Telecommunications Co.  “Following completion of these transactions, we will be a
focused pan-America regional operator, with a strong balance
sheet, and we intend to pursue new growth opportunities, both
organic and inorganic, in this region,” Tony Rice, chief
executive officer of Cable & Wireless, said in a separate
statement.  Citic Telecom will fund the purchases with existing cash
resources and new bank loans, according to its statement. The
deal requires approval from the governments of China and Macau,
and from company shareholders.  Barclays Plc was the lead financial adviser to Citic
Telecom, and  CITIC Securities Corporate Finance (HK) Ltd. (6030)  was
also an adviser, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  