-- Czech Cabinet Foe Faces Minister in Presidential Runoff
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-14T09:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/czech-cabinet-critic-faces-pro-eu-minister-in-presidential-vote.html
Czechs will chose between the
country’s foreign minister and a former premier opposing the
government’s economic plans in a Jan. 25-26 runoff in the
nation’s first direct presidential election.  Milos Zeman, the former Social Democrat leader who ran as
an independent, took 24 percent in the past weekend’s first
round, according the Electoral Committee said on the Czech
Statistics Office’s  website  on Jan. 12. Karel Schwarzenberg was
the surprise runner-up with 23 percent. The committee meets
today to review the results.  As the eastern EU member of 10.5 million is mired in its
second  recession  since 2009, government policies aimed at
cutting the  budget deficit  are the focus of the campaign. Zeman
criticized Schwarzenberg for backing government bills including
increases in the sales taxes, an overhaul of the pension system
and the return of church property confiscated by the communists.  “A right-wing politician is the one who votes for church
restitution, votes for a higher value-added tax on basic food
and drugs, is the one who votes for a pension reform favoring
the richer over the poorer,” Zeman said in a debate on public
television yesterday.  The government credits policies designed to curb the budget
deficit with helping to reduce borrowing costs. The yield on the
5-year koruna note fell 178 basis points, or 1.78 percentage
points, in the past year to 0.826 percent today, according to
generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  Replacing Klaus  The winner of the second round will replace Vaclav Klaus,
who was the  Czech Republic ’s most high-profile critic of the EU
and its common currency.  Term limits  prevented him from seeking
the post for a third time after his current mandate ends on
March 7. Klaus in 2009 delayed signing the EU’s Lisbon Treaty.  The president, who was until now elected by lawmakers,
selects the political leader who attempts to form a government
after general elections and influences  monetary policy  by
holding the sole right to name central bank board members. The
position’s powers haven’t changed under the new voting system.  The first round of the vote was “the worst debacle for the
right in the post-communist era,” Klaus said yesterday. Premysl
Sobotka of Prime Minister Petr Necas’s Civic Democrats, a party
founded by Klaus, received 2.5 percent support.  Social Democrats , the largest opposition party that leads
in opinion polls, recommended their supporters vote for Zeman in
the second round, as did the Communist Party.  ‘Vocal Critic’  “Necas’s government is not planning further reforms in
this parliamentary term; yet, should the necessity arise due to
unforeseen circumstances, Zeman would be unlikely to take a back
seat and would be a vocal critic of measures that would clash
with his center-left leanings,” Otilia Simkova, an analyst at
Eurasia Group in  London , said in an e-mail.  Zeman, 68, and Klaus were rivals in the 1990s when they
headed the two largest political parties in the country. Zeman,
an economist who worked as a forecaster in the academy of
science shortly after the fall of communism in 1989, eventually
won the premier’s office in 1998 when his Social Democrats
formed a minority government that ruled thanks to an agreement
with the opposition Civic Democrats, then led by Klaus.  His economic program for the presidential race included
calls for more state investment and the restoration of
progressive taxation for higher earners. He has opposed Necas’s
pension overhaul, a plan designed to boost private retirement
savings that was among reasons cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when
it raised the rating on the country’s debt two steps to AA-, its
fourth-highest grade, in 2011.  Stark Contrast  Zeman, who was prime minister from 1998 to 2002, said he
would name central bankers who support economic growth and not
strive only to meet the inflation and currency-stability goals
mandated by the law.  Schwarzenberg, 75, is an advocate for deeper integration
with the EU. Born into an aristocratic family, he was forced to
leave the then  Czechoslovakia  for  Austria  after the communists
took power in 1948. He was a close friend of the country’s first
post-communist president,  Vaclav Havel , serving as his
chancellor, and became foreign minister in 2007.  In 2009, Schwarzenberg was a member of the Cabinet that
collapsed while the Czechs held the EU’s rotating presidency,
prompting him to start his own party, TOP09, which promotes EU
ties and fiscal responsibility. In 2010, it joined a coalition
to form a three-party government with Necas as premier. TOP09’s
deputy chairman, Miroslav Kalousek, is the finance minister
pushing for deficit cuts.  “Although a leftist candidate won, I don’t see this as
such a big win for the left,” Schwarzenberg said on his
Facebook page after the results showed his second-place finish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  