-- Deutsche Bank Libor Probe Should Be Public: Lawmakers
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-01-14T16:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/deutsche-bank-libor-probe-should-be-public-lawmakers.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Germany ’s
finance regulator are under pressure to publish findings of a
probe into whether the lender rigged  interest rates , with
lawmakers saying a rule meant to protect banks is crippling
efforts to explore what’s wrong with financial markets.  “German secrecy rules for banking supervisors are way too
broad, barring us from understanding what contributed to the
financial crisis,”  Gerhard Schick , a member of the Bundestag
finance committee, said in an interview.  Unless a bank allows publication, German law bans the
regulator, known as Bafin, from disclosing facts from reviews if
it would be contrary to the lender’s interest. Lawmakers claim
the practice, aimed at protecting business secrets, hinders
effective controls.  “Deutsche Bank should allow Bafin to publish the report in
any case,” said Schick, an opposition  Green Party  politician on
the committee, which previously requested Anshu Jain, the bank’s
co-chief executive officer, testify about Libor. “The public
has a right to know what was going on.”  Regulators from  Canada  to  Switzerland  are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks including Deutsche Bank,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  colluded to rig the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, was
fined $1.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating
interest rates including Euribor. Barclays was fined 290 million
pounds ($467 million) in June of last year for manipulating
Libor and Euribor.  Criminal, Civil  The U.S.  Justice Department  is conducting a criminal probe
in parallel with civil investigations by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  Deutsche Bank denies any wrongdoing by its executives.
Christian Streckert, a company spokesman, declined to comment on
whether the bank will allow the  Libor probe  results to be
disclosed.  Shares of Deutsche Bank fell 0.7 percent closing at 36.985
euros in Frankfurt trading.  Lawmakers investigating the 2008 collapse of Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG only received files from Bafin which were
partly redacted, said Axel Troost, a member of the opposition
Left Party. This information was restricted to lawmakers, the
wider public had no access, Troost said.  ‘Killer Argument’  “Bafin always takes the easy way out, simply citing these
rules,” said Troost. “They use it as a killer argument and
broad brush to fend off any request for information,”  Bafin, like its counterparts in other countries, is bound
by the law not to disclose business matters of lenders it
supervises, said  Ben Fischer , the regulator’s spokesman.  Under current law, Bafin couldn’t disclose a report in such
a probe, Germany’s  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement. The law shouldn’t be changed because it, “adequately
limits the public need to be informed” in order to protect
business secrets, the ministry said.  Attorneys and journalists have sued Bafin several times in
recent years under the German Freedom of Information Act to have
it disclose documents. In some cases, these suits successfully
overturned Bafin’s reading of disclosure rules.  Schick said he has filed a complaint at the Federal
Constitutional Court after the government only partly replied to
a series of questions about Bafin’s practice in supervising
banks that had been bailed out. He was given some sealed
information, which he isn’t allowed to discuss in public.  ‘Public Debate’  “Democracy requires a public debate of such issues,” he
said.  In 2011, U.K. lawmakers criticized the U.K.’s FSA for
resisting publishing results of its probe into the collapse of
RBS citing confidentiality rules. Pressure came from lawmakers
to publish the report after the regulator cleared former CEO
 Fred Goodwin  and other executives of wrongdoing. The FSA
eventually agreed to publish a version that lawyers for all
parties were allowed to edit before its release.  Bafin started its special probe of Deutsche Bank in June,
Raimund Roeseler, the regulator’s director of banking
supervision, told lawmakers at a hearing in November.  An internal investigation cleared current and former
management board members of any wrongdoing related to Libor,
Deutsche Bank said in July. Some employees had “engaged in
conduct that falls short of the bank’s standards,” it said.  Christian Democrats  Klaus-Peter Flosbach, a lawmaker in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s governing Christian Democratic bloc parliamentary
group, said it’s in banks’ own interest to inform the public
about misconduct and how it can be avoided in the future.  Social Democrat lawmaker Lothar Binding said the Finance
Committee should ask the Finance Ministry to make Bafin’s
findings available to the panel once the probe is concluded.  Indian property developer  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  which is suing
Deutsche Bank over an interest-rate swap agreement told a U.K.
judge today it wants to add Libor-manipulation accusations to
the case. A $150 million loan and related swap contract are
invalid because they were linked to the rate, which had been
improperly fixed by lenders including Deutsche Bank, according
to the company’s filings for a London court hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 