-- Hedge Funds Cut Bets to Six-Month Low Before Rally: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-01-14T21:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/hedge-funds-cut-bets-to-six-month-low-before-rally-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish commodity
wagers to the lowest since June before prices rallied to a two-
month high on signs of a rebound in Chinese economic growth.  Speculators trimmed net-long  positions  across 18 futures
and options by 5.4 percent to 654,443 contracts in the week
ended Jan. 8, the lowest since June 19, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Wagers on a corn rally dropped for
a fifth week before a reduction in U.S. stockpile data sparked
the biggest jump in prices in five months. Gold holdings fell to
the lowest since August as the metal snapped a six-week slump.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials has
climbed for five consecutive weeks, the longest stretch of gains
since September. China’s exports rose more than forecast in
December and a broad measure of credit surged 28 percent,
separate reports showed Jan. 10. American retailers stocked up
on foreign-made mobile phones and computers in November,
widening the  trade deficit  amid signs that consumers remain
resilient, Commerce Department data showed the next day.  “Economic data out of China and the U.S. is telling us
that we are coming out of the soft patch,” said  Quincy Krosby ,
a market strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion of assets.
“As long as the data continues to strengthen, we will see
traders return to commodities.”  Commodity Rally  The S&P GSCI climbed 0.4 percent last week and reached
657.22 on Jan. 10, the highest level since Oct. 22. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities rose 0.7 percent, and the
dollar fell 1.2 percent against a basket of six major trading
partners. A Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries
returned 0.3 percent. The S&P GSCI gauge rose 0.9 percent to
close at 655.19 today.  Overseas shipments from China increased 14 percent last
month from a year earlier, the most since May, customs data
showed. The country probably expanded 7.8 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31, snapping a seven-quarter slowdown,
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast before a report
scheduled for Jan. 18. Growth will accelerate to 8 percent this
quarter, the survey shows.  Japan  unveiled plans Jan. 11 to spend 10.3 trillion yen
($115 billion) on stimulating its economy out of a recession.
The program is expected to increase gross domestic product by
about 2 percentage points and create about 600,000 jobs, the
government said. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said a day earlier that the region should gradually recover from
contraction this year. Economic confidence in the euro area
increased more than forecast in December, data showed Jan. 8.  Debt Limit  Investors’ concern that Republicans and Democrats will be
unable resolve their differences over the U.S. budget may limit
gains for commodities, said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee
$3 billion of assets as co-chief investment officer at Lisle,
Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments.  The U.S. reached its $16.4 trillion borrowing limit on Dec.
31, and the Treasury Department is using what it terms
“extraordinary” measures to finance the government. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , has said that any
increase in the  limit  should be accompanied by a dollar-for-
dollar cut in new  government spending . President  Barack Obama 
said it’s the responsibility of Congress to raise the debt
ceiling and he won’t negotiate with Republicans, as he did in
2011.  China Inflation  China’s inflation accelerated more than forecast to 2.5
percent in December, the highest in seven months, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on Jan. 11. The jump in consumer costs
increased concern that officials may curb programs aimed at
spurring growth.  “There is a big question on the horizon about what sort of
cuts may be put in place by the U.S. government,” Jankovskis
said. “China’s inflation will always be a factor the leaders
will consider when they determine the stimulus measures.”  China, the largest oil-consuming country after the U.S.,
accounted for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The Asian nation,
with a population of 1.34 billion, uses about 40 percent of the
world’s copper, Barclays Plc estimates.  Money managers pulled a net $263 million from commodity
funds in the week ended Jan. 9, according to  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows. Outflows from gold and
precious-metals funds totaled $1.07 billion, he said.  Deutsche Outlook  Energy and industrial metals are “undervalued” and an
acceleration in global growth is creating a “more constructive
outlook for commodity returns heading into 2013,” analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG led by  Michael Lewis , the London-based head of
commodities research, said in a report Jan. 8.  Funds boosted bets on a crude-oil rally by 12 percent to
168,066 contracts, the highest since Sept. 25, CFTC data show.
Futures have climbed for five consecutive weeks in  New York , the
longest rally since August.  Gold net-long positions tumbled 13 percent to 92,115
contracts, the lowest since Aug. 14. Those for silver slumped
7.7 percent to 21,002  contracts , a sixth straight drop that’s
the longest run of declines since May. Silver prices climbed 1.5
percent last week, the first gain since Nov. 23.  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods dropped 16
percent to 328,443 contracts, the biggest loss in eight weeks,
the CFTC data show. The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities jumped 2.1 percent last week, the most since July.  Corn Wagers  Corn holdings fell 15 percent to 115,113 contracts, the
lowest since June 26. Futures rose 4.2 percent in  Chicago  last
week, the most since July.  Stockpiles in the U.S., the top grower and exporter, shrank
more than analysts expected because of a drought-reduced harvest
and rising demand for livestock feed, a government report showed
Jan. 11. Global inventories will decline 12 percent from a year
earlier as Chinese consumption jumps 11 percent.  “ China  is in the middle of a bottoming process and a
possible uptick,” said John Toohey, a vice president of
equities investments with USAA Investments who helps manage
about $54 billion of assets in  San Antonio . “The recessionary
worries in  Europe  are not as bad, and overall the global
environment is more favorable than it was a few months back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  