-- Egyptian Court Overturns Mubarak Sentence, Orders Retrial
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-13T14:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/egypt-appeals-court-overturns-mubarak-sentence-orders-retrial.html
An Egyptian appeals court today
overturned life sentences handed down against ousted President
 Hosni Mubarak  and his security chief, ordering them retried in
connection with the deaths of 850 protesters in 2011.  Judge Ahmed Abdel-Rahman also ordered six security
officials retried on the same grounds after they had been
acquitted by the court that sentenced Mubarak and former
Interior Minister Habib El-Adly in June. The decision comes two
weeks before the second anniversary of the start of the 2011
revolution.  The verdict will put pressure on President Mohamed Mursi to
show he’s following through on promises to hold the former
regime accountable, said Mohamed Adel, co-founder of the April 6
group, which helped to spearhead the protests that marked the
revolt. Egypt has been struggling to revive its economy and
secure a measure of political stability amid tensions between
secularists and Mursi’s Islamist government.  “The ruling will spark popular anger and help mobilize
people for mass protests” on the anniversary of the uprising,
Adel said today by phone. “When Mursi promised retrials of
former regime figures, we thought he meant putting more figures
on trial and achieving justice.”  Mubarak Supporters  Supporters of Mubarak broke out into loud cheers after the
verdict was read, chanting “down with the Murshid’s rule,” in
reference to the Muslim Brotherhood’s supreme guide. Some of
Mubarak’s backers headed to the military hospital where he is
currently being held to offer their congratulations, Ahram Gate
news website reported.  Mursi, who was elected at the end of June, was fielded for
the presidency by the Brotherhood and narrowly defeated
Mubarak’s last premier, Ahmed Shafik, in a runoff race. In the
past few weeks, several of Mubarak’s top advisers and ministers
have been acquitted or ordered retried over various cases.  His two sons, Alaa and Gamal, were also ordered retried on
corruption charges after being acquitted earlier. Because he
filed the appeal, Mubarak cannot receive a harsher sentence than
life if he is convicted in the new trial, human rights attorney
Negad El-Boraie said.  Mursi has come under mounting criticism by an opposition of
secularists, minority Christians and youth activists who claim
he is more intent on advancing the Brotherhood’s goals and
securing its power than addressing  Egypt ’s challenges. They’ve
vowed to hold protests on the second anniversary of the uprising
to overturn a constitution approved last month in a referendum.  Date to Be Set  No date has yet been set for the new hearing.  The ruling today was handed down several weeks after a
committee investigating the deaths issued a report maintaining
Mubarak watched the protests via a closed circuit television
feed, disputing arguments by his attorneys he did not know of
the killings.  Egypt’s foreign reserves have plunged to almost 60 percent
below their pre-uprising levels and the central bank has turned
to auctioning dollars in a move that has pushed the Egyptian
pound to record lows against the  U.S. dollar . Officials have
resumed a bid to secure a $4.8 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund , and are meeting immediate
obligations with donations and deposits by Qatar and  Turkey .  The court also ordered Mubarak, his sons and a businessman
retried in connection with a case dealing with the export of
natural gas to  Israel . All three had been acquitted in the case
and the prosecution had appealed the verdict.  Muslim Brotherhood     A Muslim Brotherhood spokesman said the group would wait
and see the results of the trial before making specific comments
on the case.  “What really matters is whether the result satisfies the
demands of the revolution and ensures justice is met,” Ahmed
Aref, a spokesman for the organization, said by phone.  During the new trial, the defense will be allowed to
present new evidence in support of Mubarak while the prosecution
must rely on evidence already submitted, Faisal el-Antieby, head
of one of Mubarak’s defense teams, said by phone.  Analysts and activists such as Heba Morayef, the Egypt
director of the New York-based Human Rights Watch’s  Middle East 
and North Africa division, said the verdict was not surprising
given the speed of the last trial and complaints the judges were
not weighing all the evidence.  ‘Procedural Violations’  “There were procedural violations in the first trial,”
Morayef said by phone. The judge’s decision to move to pleadings
“without hearing all the defense’s requests was enough of a
procedural violation to many legal analysts” to ensure a
retrial.  The new trial may come at a delicate time for the
president, with preparations for parliamentary elections likely
to be announced next month. The Brotherhood’s political arm, the
Freedom and Justice Party, is seeking to repeat their dominance
in the earlier elections after Mubarak’s ouster.  Mursi has tried to reassure Egyptians repeatedly that he
was a president for “all” and has appointed a new prosecutor
general in place of the one under Mubarak. Also, under the new
constitution that was passed last month almost half the justices
on the country’s Supreme Constitutional Court were sidelined.
The judges had been Mubarak appointees as well.  “There’s a political will to achieve justice, and Mursi
has succeeded in building the right environment for the
judiciary to ensure justice is fully served,” said Aref. “We
don’t want a president who directly interferes in the judiciary.
All he can do is build a healthy and stable environment that
allows judges to do their duty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  