-- Egypt Reduces Dollar Sales to Stem Pound Decline Before IMF
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-13T15:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/egypt-reduces-dollar-auctions-to-stem-pound-weakening-before-imf.html
Egypt ’s central bank will reduce the
number of dollar auctions this week to three as it seeks to slow
the pace of the pound’s depreciation before loan talks with the
International Monetary Fund resume later this month.  The regulator sold $74.8 million of the U.S. currency at
today’s sale at a cut-off price of 6.5299, according to an
announcement on Bloomberg. Banks placing bids at that price
received 20.2 percent of their demands, the data show. The pound
weakened to 6.5626 a dollar as of 5:15 p.m. in Cairo, extending
to 5.7 percent its slide since the central bank started the
auctions Dec. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under the new system, the central bank limits the amount of
dollars that each lender can purchase to conserve foreign
reserves. The government is seeking a $4.8 billion loan from the
IMF to stem the drop in net international reserves after they
plunged almost 60 percent in the past two years.  Reducing the number of sales “aims to slow the speed of
depreciation,” Sherif Othman, Cairo-based head of treasury at
Arab Banking Corp., said by phone. “We are waiting for an IMF
deal at the end of the month, and we don’t want to see the pound
weakening to below 7” pounds a dollar, he said.  Egypt’s net international reserves were little changed in
December at $15 billion even after Qatar doubled a deposit at
the central bank to $4 billion. That transfer took place last
month, Nidal Assr, central bank’s sub-governor, said Jan. 10.  New Governor  The government asked the IMF to delay the agreement last
month after President Mohamed Mursi suspended tax increases
linked to an IMF-backed economic plan amid escalating political
tensions. A team from the Washington-based fund is due to arrive
in Egypt in two to three weeks, presidential spokesman Yasser
Ali said on Jan. 8.  “We are going to be back on track very soon,” Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil said today at a conference in Cairo.
Egypt invited the IMF mission “to again realign the program so
we can move forward with our national reform program.”  Protecting what’s left of foreign reserves will be one of
the challenges facing Hisham Ramez, who will take over as
central bank governor from Farouk El-Okdah on Feb. 3. Ramez had
resigned as deputy governor after the 2011 revolt that toppled
 Hosni Mubarak  to become managing director of Commercial
International Bank SAE Egypt, the country’s biggest publicly
traded lender.  The government has said the IMF agreement is crucial to
restore foreign investments, which will help boost reserves and
lower borrowing costs.  The  Finance Ministry  raised 1 billion Egyptian pounds ($153
million) in three-month treasury bills at an average yield of
13.44 percent, 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, lower
than the previous sale of similar-maturity notes, according to
central bank data on Bloomberg. The yield on nine-month
securities fell three basis points to 14.40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  