-- Patriots, Falcons Advance to NFL’s Conference Championship Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/falcons-beat-seahawks-30-28-will-face-49ers-for-super-bowl-spot.html
Tom Brady  passed  Joe Montana  for the
most National Football League playoff wins by a quarterback as
the New England Patriots  defeated the Houston Texans 41-28.  Matt Ryan  finally got his first postseason victory and the
 Atlanta Falcons  slipped past the Seattle Seahawks 30-28 as
yesterday’s home wins by the Patriots and Falcons completed the
matchups for the NFL’s conference championship games.  The Patriots (13-4) advanced to a Jan. 20 rematch with
Baltimore for the American Football Conference championship. The
Ravens (12-6) two days ago knocked off the top-seeded Denver
Broncos 38-35 in double overtime. New England beat Baltimore
23-20 in last year’s AFC title game and is favored by 9 1/2
points this week as Brady plays for the AFC championship for the
seventh time in 12 years.  “I think the two best teams are in the finals,” Brady
said at a news conference. “Baltimore certainly deserves to be
here and so do we, so it’s very fitting.”  The Falcons (14-3) will host the  San Francisco 49ers  in the
National Football Conference championship game on Jan. 20 after
beating the Seahawks on a 49-yard field goal by Matt Bryant with
eight seconds remaining. Bryant’s winning kick came after
Atlanta had blown a 27-7 fourth-quarter lead.  The 49ers (12-4-1), who reached the NFC title game two days
ago with a 45-31 win against the  Green Bay Packers , are favored
by 3 1/2 points in Atlanta, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book.  “We’ve got to figure out how we’re going to play better
than we did in the second half,” Falcons coach  Mike Smith  said
at a news conference .“That’s where my mindset is. It’s already
flipped the switch. We have a good team coming in.”  The conference champions advance to the Super Bowl, which
is scheduled for Feb. 3 in  New Orleans .  Record Scoring  The combined 276 points scored in the four divisional games
were the most in any round in NFL history, surpassing the
previous record of 266 in the 1995 wild-card round.  Brady capped the high-scoring weekend by throwing for 344
yards and three touchdowns in Foxboro,  Massachusetts . It was his
17th career playoff victory, moving him past  Montana  and within
a win of a sixth trip to the  Super Bowl .  Brady and the Patriots got the best of the Texans for the
second time in just over a month, as New England also beat
Houston 42-14 on Dec. 10. It was the first of three losses in a
four-game span to end the regular season for the Texans, who had
started with an 11-1 record. Houston finished the season with a
13-5 mark.  Patriots’ Surge  The Texans took a 3-0 lead one minute into the game before
the Patriots ran off 17 straight points as Shane Vereen scored
two of his three touchdowns. Vereen scored on a 1-yard run and
hauled in an 8-yard touchdown pass from Brady.  After Houston scored 10 points in the final 1:20 of the
first half to pull within 17-13, the Patriots opened the third
quarter with a 69-yard drive capped by an eight-yard touchdown
run by Stevan Ridley. Brady then threw scoring passes to Brandon Lloyd and Vereen to push New England’s advantage to 38-13 with
13:07 left.  Matt Schaub  had 343 yards passing and threw fourth-quarter
touchdown passes to DeVier Posey and  Arian Foster  for the
Texans. It wasn’t enough against the Patriots, who lost  Pro Bowl 
tight end  Rob Gronkowski  after he re-injured his left forearm
during the first quarter.  “We’ll enjoy this one for a little while and then get on
to the Ravens,” said Patriots coach  Bill Belichick , whose team
lost in Baltimore 31-30 on Sept. 23.  Lead Changes  In Atlanta, the Falcons won the second postseason game in
NFL history to have two lead changes in the final 31 seconds of
regulation. The other was the Tennessee Titans’ 22-16 win
against the  Buffalo Bills  in a first-round playoff game on Jan.
8, 2000, a victory known as the “Music City Miracle.”  The Seahawks, who were down 20-0 at halftime, rallied to a
28-27 lead with 31 seconds remaining as Marshawn Lynch scored on
a 2-yard run. The Falcons avoided a fifth straight postseason
loss as Ryan completed two passes for 41 yards to set up
Bryant’s winning kick.  “The peaks and valleys in that game were as significant as
I’ve ever been a part of,” said Ryan, who passed for 250 yards
and three touchdowns.  Atlanta is headed back to the NFC championship game for the
first time since 2005 after withstanding a comeback attempt
orchestrated by Seahawks rookie quarterback Russell Wilson, who
passed for 385 yards and two touchdowns. Wilson also rushed for
60 yards and a score for the Seahawks (12-6).  Ryan’s Touchdowns  Ryan threw touchdown passes to Tony Gonzalez, Roddy White
and Jason Snelling in guiding the Falcons to a 27-7 third-
quarter lead. His six career touchdown passes are now the most
in franchise history, one better than Steve Bartkowski.  The Seahawks missed two first-half scoring chances, the
first when they were stopped on a fourth-and-1 play from the
Atlanta 11-yard line. In the closing seconds, Wilson was sacked
at the Falcons’ 11-yard line on a third-down play and the
Seahawks, with no timeouts left, were unable to snap the ball
again before time expired in the first half.  Wilson threw a 29-yard touchdown pass to Golden Tate midway
through the third quarter before spearheading the Seahawks’
comeback in the fourth. After rushing for a 1-yard score -- his
fifth of the season -- Wilson threw a 3-yard touchdown pass to
Zach Miller to pull  Seattle  within 27-21. Miller finished with
eight catches for 142 yards.  After stopping the Falcons’ offense twice more, Seattle got
the ball back with three minutes remaining. Lynch caught a 24-
yard pass out of the backfield to give Seattle a first down at
Atlanta’s 2-yard line before giving Seattle its only lead of the
game with his scoring run.  Trailing 28-27, Ryan then completed passes of 22 yards and
19 yards to set up Bryant’s game-winning field goal. Seattle’s
chances ended when Julio Jones intercepted a last-second
desperation pass in the end zone.  “We knew coming into it this week that it was going to
take 60 minutes of our best football to come out with a win, and
that’s kind of the way the game shook out,” Ryan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  