-- Fischer Channels Fed in Changing Bank of Israel Focus to Growth
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-01-13T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/fischer-channels-fed-in-changing-bank-of-israel-focus-to-growth.html
During his two decades at MIT,
 Stanley Fischer  helped educate both the future heads of the
 Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank . As  Israel ’s
central bank chief, he’s steering toward the  U.S. (TA-25)  model.  Fischer’s dual focus on employment and  growth  alongside
 price stability  resembles the Fed’s and has marked a shift at
the Bank of Israel, where previous governors placed an ECB-style
emphasis on inflation. It’s among a raft of changes that the 69-
year-old, Zambian-born economist has introduced during almost
eight years in charge, after earlier jobs as No. 2 at the
 International Monetary Fund  and vice-chairman at Citigroup Inc.  Investors have struggled to adapt to the new priorities.
The Fischer-led Bank of Israel has surprised economists in about
a quarter of its rate decisions, more often than any other
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development country
for which comparable data is tracked by Bloomberg. Three of four
rate cuts last year, the most recent on Dec. 24, weren’t
anticipated by the median forecast in Bloomberg  surveys .  “The bottom line is, no one realized how dovish he is,”
said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC
Holdings Plc.  The shift has helped Israel’s economy rebound from the
global crisis faster than most peers. Since 2009, output has
expanded by 14.7 percent, compared with 10.7 percent in
Australia, 3.2 percent in the U.S. and a contraction of 1.5
percent in the Eurozone, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report.
Israel’s  main stock index  has outperformed U.S. and European
benchmarks in that period, adding more than 80 percent.  Energy Boost  Still, last year’s economic growth rate of 3.3 percent was
the slowest since 2009. Any acceleration in 2013 will probably
come from energy finds, as companies including  Delek Drilling-LP (DEDRL) 
and  Avner Oil Exploration LLP (AVNRL)  start producing natural gas from
the Tamar offshore field. The  Bank of Israel  forecasts a 3.8
percent expansion this year and says that excluding the gas
flow, the rate would drop to 2.8 percent.  “We were growing 5 percent up to 2010, and we’re not
now,” Fischer said in a November interview at his Jerusalem
office. “I’m not sure we can go back to 5 percent, but I don’t
think we are at our maximum growth rate for this stage of our
development.”  Slowing growth has eased demand and helped to keep
 inflation  within the government target of 1 percent to 3 percent
since September 2011, the longest such period since 2007,
leaving room for Fischer and the monetary policy panel to lower
rates. Since October 2011, under a law championed by Fischer,
 interest rates  are set by a vote on the panel. They were
previously decided by the governor alone.  Communication Problem  Against that backdrop of slowing inflation and growth, the
failure of most economists in Bloomberg surveys to predict
Fischer’s last two cuts suggests that “communication is not
that great at the moment,” said Rafi Gozlan, chief economist at
I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd.  When Fischer cut the benchmark by a quarter-point to 2
percent in October, none of the 24 economists that Bloomberg
surveyed had predicted the move. In December, less than half
expected the cut. Of the six rate cuts Fischer and his panel
have made since September 2011, only two were forecast by the
median estimate in Bloomberg surveys.  Some of Fischer’s innovations have been aimed at making the
bank more transparent, such as publishing minutes of rates
meetings and holding quarterly sessions with economic
forecasters.  One reason transparency has proved a hard target is
Israel’s exposure, as a small and open economy, to global
volatility as well as the fact that statistics are often revised
substantially from quarter to quarter, “so you have to be a bit
more careful with what you tell the market,” Gozlan said.  Inflation Trauma  Personal history may help explain some of the differences
of outlook between Fischer and predecessors. Israel’s struggle
in the 1980s with inflation that peaked above 400 percent was
formative for previous central bankers. Fischer spent most of
that decade teaching economics at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , and didn’t become an Israeli citizen or live there
full-time until he took the bank job in 2005.  “Previous governors were influenced by that trauma,” said
Ofer Klein, head of research at Harel Insurance & Financial
Services Ltd. in  Ramat Gan . “Fischer hadn’t had that.”  One of those predecessors,  Jacob Frenkel , says Fischer is
doing a “fabulous job” in circumstances very different from
his own time in office, from 1991 to 2000, when “the main
challenge was to reduce inflation.”  Growth Engines  “We had significant engines of economic growth,” Frenkel,
now chairman of JP Morgan Chase International, said in a phone
interview from New York. He cited the “very large influx of
immigrants, primarily from the former Soviet Union,” and “an
extraordinary boom from the high technology revolution.”  Israeli growth averaged more than 5.5 percent in the 1990s,
according to  IMF data . Inflation, which exceeded 20 percent in
1991, had slowed to about 1 percent by the time Frenkel left.
“Today, inflation has been arrested and the global economy is
very sluggish,” the former governor said. “The main challenge
is to secure sustainable economic growth.”  Some economists who didn’t expect Fischer’s recent cuts had
cited Israel’s rising house prices as an argument against lower
rates. Alex Zabezhinsky at DS Securities & Investments Ltd. said
in an October report that reducing the benchmark “is liable to
raise the risk that lies in the ballooning real-estate market,”
as well as eroding incentives to invest in bank deposits or
bonds.  Housing Debt  Home prices  increased 3.7 percent in the 12 months through
October, and they are up about 20 percent since 2010 and 50
percent in the past decade, according to the  Central Bureau of
Statistics . Housing debt rose 7.5 percent to 275 billion shekels
($73.5 billion) at the end of October. The Bank of Israel capped
the loan-to-value ratio in new housing credits in an effort to
keep mortgages in check.  Overall inflation poses less of a threat, slowing to 1.4
percent in November. The  expected rate  in 12 months’ time
dropped to 1.8 percent in December, the lowest since 2009,
according to a Bank of Israel report. Inflation expectations
derived from bond prices were at 2.2 percent, the bank said.  Inflation at those levels supports the argument that
Fischer has achieved the price stability that is the bank’s
“central goal” after its mandate was changed in a 2010 law
backed by Fisher, who made its passage a condition for serving a
second term. The law also took away his right to set interest
rates alone, making it a committee decision.  “We didn’t have that clear of a mandate in the previous
law,” Fischer said in the November interview. Asked how he
would feel if he found himself in the minority over rates,
Fischer referred to his  Bank of England  counterpart.  “ Mervyn King  wanted to be outvoted, and he has been,
because he wanted the precedent to be set,” Fischer said. “My
guess is that as long as it doesn’t happen too often, it would
be OK. But I haven’t had to cross that bridge yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  