-- France Sends More Warplanes to Mali in Vow to Beat Rebels
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-13T13:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/france-sends-more-warplanes-to-mali-in-vow-to-beat-rebels.html
France  said it’s sending more jet
fighters to target Islamists in northern Mali as part of a push
that began two days ago and will continue until the rebel forces
are “eradicated.”  “Raids are continuing right now,” French Defense Minister
Jean-Yves Le Drian said today on  Europe 1 radio . “There were
raids last night; there will be more this afternoon and
tomorrow.”  France and west African states are seeking to stop Mali
from being overrun by the militants, a development they say
would give terrorists a base for destabilizing the region and
 Europe . Rapid progress by the rebels last week prompted France
to start military action, almost nine months earlier than most
analysts had predicted.  The intervention so far has been handled by the 550 French
troops in the country, though Le Drian pledged to send
reinforcements as necessary. West African nations have pledged
to send about 2,000 soldiers to oust the militants, while the
U.S. has offered to provide intelligence, logistical support and
in-flight refueling for French aircraft. The U.K. is assisting
with two Boeing C-17 military cargo aircraft to help transport
troops.  “We’re reinforcing and will continue to do so as
necessary,” Le Drian said. “The objective, as set out by the
 United Nations  and the  African Union , is for Mali to be a
sovereign state and for the terrorist groups to be eradicated.”  Offensive Halts  One French soldier, a helicopter pilot, has been killed
since operations began, while the rebels have lost “a
significant number of partisans,” Le Drian said. The French
effort has destroyed pick-up trucks, arms depots and other
sensitive sites, thus far pushing back a rebel offensive in the
east of the country while fighting continues in the west.  More than 100 people, including rebels and Malian
government soldiers, were killed in yesterday’s fighting, Xinhua
said, citing an unidentified Malian military official.  The Islamists, who already control the north of the
country, last week began an offensive that captured the town of
Kona, 30 kilometers (19 miles) north of Mopti, the last Malian
military outpost before insurgent-held territory.  Kona was quiet early today after a firefight yesterday that
killed 11 people and injured 60, according to the Malian
government.  “This morning it’s calm, we no longer hear gunfire,” Kona
resident Aguibou Cisse said by telephone. Colonel Diarran Kone,
a spokesman for  Mali ’s military, said the army “controls the
situation” there.  ‘Unilateral Action’  While the French action in its former colony will
temporarily halt the Islamists’ advance, a larger ground force
will have to be sent in to destroy them, said Sebastian Spio- Garbrah, managing director of New York-based risk consultancy
DaMina Advisors LLP.  “France’s unilateral military action weakens that Africa-
led UN mandate for forces and introduces an anti-colonial
element to the Islamist fight,” he said yesterday by e-mail.
“Ecowas is totally not ready, and France is not willing to keep
the commandos on the ground for too long either,” he said,
referring to the 15-nation west African economic bloc.  Germany , the Netherlands and  Spain  have offered diplomatic
backing and an European Union training mission is planned for
Mali’s military.  ‘Terrorist State’  “The threat is that a terrorist state will be created near
Europe and France,” Le Drian said yesterday. “We had to react
before it was too late. They won’t succeed. We are determined to
prevent this.”  Mali vies with Tanzania to be Africa’s third-biggest gold
producer. The landlocked nation is about twice the size of  Texas 
and has a population of about 15.5 million, according to the  CIA
World Factbook .  Life expectancy  is about 53 years.  The UN Security Council on Jan. 10 expressed “grave
concern” about attacks by “terrorist and extremist groups” in
Mali. French President  Francois Hollande  said France’s military
actions are covered by a Dec. 21 Security Council resolution
that approved a west African military operation to retake the
north.  Nigeria has already sent Major General U. Abdulkadri, who
will lead the Ecowas force, and an  air force  technical team to
Mali, Reuben Abati, a spokesman for President Goodluck Jonathan,
said by telephone yesterday. The country plans to deploy about
600 soldiers in Mali.  Ecowas Soldiers  Burkina Faso  plans to contribute 500 soldiers, Foreign
Minister Djibril Bassole said in a statement handed to reporters
today in the capital, Ouagadougou.  Malian Interim President Dioncounda Traore, backed by
governments in neighboring countries, asked for the French
intervention. Other European countries support France’s military
action, named Operation Serval after an African wild cat, though
they aren’t participating, Le Drian said.  Islamist groups including the Movement for Unity and Jihad
in West  Africa , Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north African unit,
along with Touareg separatists, took control of an area of
northern Mali the size of France after a military coup led by
Captain Amadou Sanogo in March.  The French presence improves the viability of the civilian
transitional government, said Samir Gadio, a London-based
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “It effectively undermines the power base of Captain
Sanogo and his associates in the Malian army now that foreign
troops are on the ground,” Gadio said in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday.  Hollande’s go-alone decision to intervene in Mali without
European countries or the U.S. is a sign that there was urgency
or the capital of “Bamako would have fallen,” Jean-Pierre Maulny, a deputy director at the Institute For International and
Strategic Relations in Paris, said on BFM TV. “France may put a
very small number of special forces on the ground to fight but
this isn’t a major intervention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  