-- French Anti-Gay Marriage Protests Draw Hundreds of Thousands
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-13T19:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/french-anti-gay-marriage-protests-draw-hundreds-of-thousands.html
Protests against French President
Francois Hollande’s proposal to allow same-sex marriage drew
hundreds of thousands of people into the streets in Paris.  “There are many people who are worried about this law,”
Laurent Wauquiez, a minister under former President Nicolas
Sarkozy, said today on Europe 1 radio. “Do we have to destroy
the family and the place of children in it? We must pay
attention to the place of children.” Wauquiez joined the
demonstration.  About 340,000 people joined today’s marches, according to
police estimates, while  organizers indicated  a turnout of more
than 800,000. Protesters dancing to hip-hop music carried pink
flags with white images of the traditional family: man, woman
and two children.  “I don’t think this will alter the determination of the
president to present this law,” Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius
said on RTL radio. “It’s normal, given the evolution of the
family, that we can now recognize this type of marriage.”  Polls show that a majority of French voters favor giving
same-sex couples the right to marry, though they oppose giving
such couples rights to adoption or medically-assisted
procreation. Pollster BVA found that 58 percent of voters favor
gay marriage, while 53 percent oppose adoption for gay couples,
according to a survey published Jan. 10. CSA, another polling
company, found Jan. 11  that 52 percent favor gay marriage and
the same proportion oppose adoption by same-sex couples.  Former PresidentSarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement 
party is shifting its stance to calling for a referendum on the
matter.  “This doesn’t just concern same-sex couples, it’s a
fundamental question for society,” former Interior Minister
Claude Gueant said. “Instead of presenting this law to
parliament, the president should allow the people to decide. No
one can argue with that.”  The bill is scheduled to go to the National Assembly at
the end of January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  