-- Goldman’s ‘Secret’ Team Shows Volcker’s Folly
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/goldman-s-secret-team-shows-volcker-s-folly.html
An enterprising piece of
investigative reporting by  Bloomberg News ’s Max Abelson, about a
 “secret” team  inside  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  charged with
investing $1 billion of the firm’s money, raised eyebrows on
 Wall Street .  More important, the story raises major questions about
whether the so-called Volcker rule -- still being written in
 Washington ’s halls of power -- will put too fine a point on the
kinds of risks Wall Street banks are permitted to take.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker has been
trying to solve a real problem: reducing the “heads I win, tails
you lose” kind of risk-taking that Wall Street bankers and
traders relish and that almost brought down the house in 2007.
But that will not be accomplished by his eponymous rule. Not
even close.  The only way to properly regulate the collective behavior
of bankers, traders and executives is age-old: through their
pocketbooks. Unless, and until, they are again held financially
accountable for their bad behavior -- as they were during the
long era of private partnerships on Wall Street -- there is no
hope for meaningful change. The Volcker rule won’t change it.
The entire Dodd-Frank financial overhaul won’t change it.  Smart Strategy  With that in mind, what to make of Goldman’s in-house
investment team? Despite the public pronouncements of  Lloyd Blankfein , the chairman and chief executive officer, that
Goldman has “shut off” the firm’s proprietary trading business
in anticipation of the Volcker rule, Goldman still has a group
run by a bunch of Princeton graduates known as Multi-Strategy
Investing. According to Abelson, it “wagers about $1 billion” of
shareholders’ money “on the stocks and bonds of companies.”  The unit evolved from another secretive, hedge-fund-like
unit inside Goldman known as the Special Situations Group, which
was a way for partners to invest their considerable fortunes in
all sorts of money-making strategies. For instance, the group
 invested  in  Hite Jinro Co. (000080) , a Korean liquor manufacturer that
had been in receivership, and made at least $800 million in
profit. Understandably, the firm kept the success of the deal
quiet.  But so what if Goldman wants to invest its partners’ or its
shareholders’ money in an organized, systematic and clever way?
How are the rest of us hurt by that? And why should regulators
try to stop Goldman from continuing to do it?  Nobody is forcing a partner at the bank to put money into
such investments and, for that matter, nobody is forced to be an
investor in Goldman. If you don’t like the kind of business the
firm does, then don’t buy Goldman’s stock or bonds.  But, you might think, we need protection from risky
behavior and bets by Goldman that can bring down our financial
system. That’s the gist of what the Volcker rule was originally
drafted to accomplish.  For the record, though, the proprietary bets of a small
group of traders inside Goldman, led by Josh Birnbaum, that the
mortgage market would run into serious trouble in 2007 earned
Goldman about $4 billion in extra profit that year. Rather than
putting Goldman at risk during the financial crisis, proprietary
trading allowed it to weather the storm far better than any of
its competitors.  While the rest of Wall Street was melting down in 2007,
Goldman was thriving with a then-record $17 billion in pretax
profits. Why, exactly, does  Paul Volcker  want to stop that sort
of investing?  Personal Stake  Shouldn’t Volcker prefer that every firm on Wall Street
have the sound risk-taking culture found at Goldman? Rather than
spending countless hours and millions of dollars in legal and
lobbying fees to try to craft a Volcker rule that the regulators
and the regulated can live with, we would be better off junking
it altogether.  In its place, though, we should craft an incentive system
on Wall Street that rewards people for taking prudent risks and
penalizes them directly -- in their own pockets -- when the
risk-taking goes wrong.  Wall Street became the envy of the world because once upon
a time it struck the right balance between risk and reward. That
tradition has been all but lost in the years since 1970, when
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette broke the ice and went public. One
partnership after another followed suit.  What was lost in the stampede to the public offering was
more than just a corporate structure. We squandered a way of
doing business that rewarded smart risk-taking -- with big
paychecks -- and made sure there was accountability.  After more than a decade of internal debate, Goldman Sachs
went public in May 1999, the last large, full-service Wall
Street firm to do so. It alone retains vestiges of that old-
fashioned partnership culture. Goldman has plenty of flaws --
hubris, arrogance and greed among them -- but failing to
understand risk is not one of them.  What should be gleaned from the behavior of Goldman Sachs
in the last decade is that a combination of prudent risk-taking
and serious accountability is the path forward on Wall Street,
not putting our collective faith in some bloated legal document
crafted by a roomful of lawyers and lobbyists in the middle of
the night.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  