-- Lincoln Rolls Out Range Rover-Like SUV to Lure Younger Buyers
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/lincoln-rolls-out-range-rover-like-suv-to-lure-younger-buyers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln line, whose
buyers average 65 years old, plans to try to entice younger
drivers with a small sport-utility vehicle that evokes a British
luxury brand the automaker unloaded five years ago.  Lincoln will unveil its concept, the MKC, tomorrow at a
 Detroit auto show  press preview. The MKC shares the compact-car
undercarriage of Ford’s Escape SUV. Yet its curves are similar
to those of  Land Rover ’s Range Rover Evoque, which Ford helped
design before selling that brand to Tata Motors Ltd. in 2008.  The MKC, set to arrive in showrooms next year, is part of
Ford’s $1 billion bet that it can reverse a 65 percent slide in
Lincoln sales since their peak in 1990. Small SUVs, such as the
Evoque, are the fastest-growing models in the luxury market. And
Lincoln is seeking first-time luxury buyers who are at least a
decade younger than its current owners.  “While this is probably the right segment to get a younger
family demographic into the lineup, it just won’t happen
overnight,” said  Brian Johnson , a Barclays analyst who rates
shares of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford overweight. “Lincoln
has a long ways to go to get on buyer’s consideration lists.”  Kate Pearce, Lincoln’s consumer marketing manager, told
reporters at Jan. 9 briefing that “being able to introduce a
new group of luxury buyers to our product is a great place for
us to be.”  It also would be a more competitive place for Lincoln,
still known primarily for its Town Car, the business traveler’s
airport shuttle, which Ford stopped making last year.  Revamped Brand  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is trying to
reposition Lincoln as a brand that might appeal to Gen Xers not
beholden to German luxury-auto makers. Lincoln this month is
introducing a starkly redesigned MKZ sedan, one of seven new
models it’s rolling out by 2015. Comedian  Jimmy Fallon  is
helping Lincoln produce its first Super Bowl ad Feb. 3 from
suggestions he solicited on Twitter.  Lincoln had U.S. sales of 82,150 vehicles in 2012, down
from a high of 231,660 reached 22 years earlier. Its deliveries
fell 12 percent in December, when  luxury vehicles  typically sell
well.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW was the top-selling
luxury-auto brand in the U.S. last year, with 281,460.  The MKC shares the MKZ’s split-wing grille, Lincoln’s new
signature created by the brand’s lead designer, Max Wolff, and
inspired by an eagle’s wings in flight. Creases flowing from the
hood and body sides, along with a raked, downward sloping
roofline, suggest motion, similar to the Evoque.  Styling Cues  The MKC is the latest model from Ford that takes styling
cues from the European luxury lines that Mulally sold while the
automaker was struggling to survive after he arrived from Boeing
Co. in 2006. The grille of Ford’s new Fusion and Mondeo sedans
has been compared to  Aston Martin , which Ford sold in 2007.  “Because they kept members of the design team from Aston
Martin, Jaguar and Land Rover, it has actually resulted in some
striking Ford corporate vehicles,” Johnson said. “You have the
Aston Martin-inspired Ford Fusion and Mondeo and now the Land
Rover Evoque-inspired MKC.”  Lincoln’s small SUV will join a segment that grew 60
percent and accounts for a quarter of U.S. luxury-auto sales,
Pearce said.  New-model offerings among premium small SUVs will grow to
19 in 2014, from eight in 2009,  LMC Automotive  said. The
segment’s sales totaled 229,813 vehicles last year and will grow
to 256,772 by 2014, according to the industry forecaster.  ‘Uphill Battle’  The top-selling models last year were  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Cadillac SRX, with 57,485, and the BMW X3, with 35,173,
according to LMC. Other competitors include  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz GLK and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi Q5.  “They’re taking on strong European brands, so it’s
definitely an uphill battle for them,” said  Jeff Schuster ,
senior vice president of forecasting at LMC in Troy,  Michigan .
“But Lincoln is really focusing on where buyers are looking and
that segment is really hot.”  Young, upwardly mobile buyers are boosting sales of small
luxury SUVs because they’re good family haulers and have more
cachet than a compact car, said Jake Fisher, director of auto
testing at Consumer Reports magazine. Cadillac famously failed
to sell the Cimarron small car, which buyers rejected three
decades ago as a fancier version of the Chevrolet Cavalier.  “When you have a small car in a luxury brand you run the
risk of reminding people of Cimarrons,” Fisher said. “But Ford
has a great platform with the Escape, which is a very luxurious,
refined small SUV. It’s very easy to make that a Lincoln.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  