-- India’s Empty Democracy Can’t Protect Its People
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/india-s-empty-democracy-can-t-protect-its-people.html
Elections make for responsive and
accountable governments, or so goes the truism. But can they
also achieve the opposite -- that is, encourage complacency,
even callousness, among elected representatives?  Last month’s headlines from  India  and China present a
disquieting contrast between elected and unelected governments
for anyone committed to democratic politics.  In Beijing, China’s new Communist Party general secretary,
 Xi Jinping , has begun a huge crackdown on corruption, official
pomp and ceremony, and “empty talk” -- substanceless speeches.  According  to the estimable China-watcher Melinda Liu, “If
the changes take hold, they could have far-reaching implications
both at home and abroad. Many Chinese seem heartened, even
inspired, by Xi’s down-to-earth style.”  Many Indians, on the other hand, are incensed with their
sequestered governing class. Confronted last month with public
outrage over the horrific assault on a young woman in New Delhi,
it alternated abysmally between paralysis and insensitivity.  Having initially failed to respond, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  muttered some perfunctory expressions of governmental
resolve in his characteristically faint tone; then, turning to
his handlers while the television cameras were still rolling, he
asked, “Theek hai?” Hindi for “Is that all right?”  India’s Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said he was not
obliged to meet student protesters braving the police’s water
cannons and truncheons near the Indian parliament in  New Delhi .
After all, as he  put it , “Tomorrow Maoists will come here to
demonstrate with weapons.”  Force Demonstrated  In fact, the government responded to the spontaneous
protesters as though they were militant insurgents from central
India: It flooded Delhi’s streets with armed police and shut
down roads and railways, revealing a formidable security
apparatus that, many argued, could be put to better use ensuring
the safety of ordinary citizens.  It wasn’t just the government that acted ham-handedly.
Figures from all political parties seemed to vie with one
another in their crass responses to an atrocious crime, and to
the cultures of violence and cruelty it issued from.  Not surprisingly, India these days brims with a free-
floating rage against an obscenely venal and cossetted political
class that zealously guards its privileges and perks.  Middle-class anger has periodically erupted in recent
months, and it even appeared to solidify briefly into mass
political movements. First, Baba Ramdev, a yoga practitioner,
enlisted tens of thousands to his anti-corruption crusade. He
was followed by  Anna Hazare , a quasi-Gandhian activist, who
managed to attract a motley crowd of industrialists, film stars,
students on  Facebook  and urban professionals.  More recently, one of Hazare’s former lieutenants, an ex-
civil servant named Arvind Kejriwal, has run a name-and-shame
campaign against some of India’s most powerful politicians and
businessmen.  Each of these events, including last month’s protests over
the gang rape, has been widely greeted as the harbinger of a
politically awakened and empowered middle class. The government,
however, has calculated otherwise.  It unleashed the police on Ramdev, evicting him and his
followers from their rally grounds in New Delhi. It was
similarly ruthless with Hazare, counting successfully on the
inability of the educated and the salaried to sustain mass
protests or follow them up with a political program.  The government will probably have little to fear from
Kejriwal, whose new political party will struggle to get many
votes outside pockets of the urban middle class. And, though
startled by public anger over the gang rape, the government will
no doubt try to defuse it with some hasty legislation and
emollient words.  Securing Support  With elections due in 2014, the government is trying to
secure its two main sources of support: big-business men and the
vast majority of poor Indians who vote.  Recent economic policies, which allow greater foreign
investment in multibrand retail, have somewhat mollified the
corporate class, inspiring its representatives in the news media
to again hail the lame-duck prime minister as a reformer. An
ambitious plan of cash transfers to the poorest Indians -- a
definite vote-getter -- was also recently inaugurated.  The government’s election strategy seems clear: It
desperately wants to be seen as redistributing the spoils of
economic growth through greater subsidies, even as it
facilitates greater access for India’s networks of crony
capitalism.  In some respects, the gambit resembles that of  Thailand ’s
populist authoritarian Thaksin Shinawatra, who cannily used his
support among the rural poor to cement his status as chief crony
capitalist.  As events in Thailand showed, the intolerably squeezed
urban middle class, the supposed avant-garde of democracy, can
do little except turn, unhelpfully, to even more authoritarian
figures in the military and the old conservative elite.  In India, too, many among the relatively privileged --
those, for instance, demanding public hangings and castrations
of rapists -- are contemptuous of democratic and legal processes
and generally indifferent to the routine killings and rapes in
Kashmir and the Northeastern states by security forces. With
their narrow conception of civil rights, they are always
vulnerable to self-proclaimed vendors of instant justice and
efficiency.  In fact, middle-class support has helped the rise of
authoritarian figures such as  Narendra Modi , the chief minister
of Gujarat, who was re-elected last month despite accusations he
was complicit in hundreds of deaths and rapes during an anti-
Muslim pogrom in his state in 2002. Modi now hopes that the
growing appeal among middle-class Indians of his apparently
successful technocracy will help him unseat Singh’s government
in Delhi.  Modi may not succeed. Still, his ascension through a
devastated moral landscape points to the radical shrinking of
political choices in India.  Self-Interested  This lamentable situation, where elected representatives
act as yet another aggressively self-interested elite, is at
least partly to be blamed on the fact that the formal and
proceduralist features of democracy -- elections -- have
superseded their substantive aspects: strong, accountable and
fair-minded institutions and officials.  Certainly, the importance of the latter is not lost on
 China ’s unelected rulers. Buffeted by a series of scandals, they
know that strong measures against corruption are essential to
maintaining the communist regime’s legitimacy and ensuring its
survival against a rising tide of discontent. Recent protests,
such as the one at Southern Weekend newspaper in Guangdong, test
the credibility of Xi and his commitment to reform.  India’s own entrenched political class derives its
legitimacy from routine elections and well-timed sops to the
poor majority. These chosen people don’t have much incentive to
engage with middle-class protesters on the streets of Indian
cities and don’t have to think hard before dispelling them with
brute force.  Indeed, it is now the turn of metropolitan Indians, after
political dissenters in Kashmir, the northeast, and central
India, to feel the heavy hand of the state. The discontented
urban middle class is a growing demographic. But it is
deceptively overrepresented for now by India’s many, perennially
hysterical television anchors.  Politically fragmented and unorganized, the urban middle
class has little to look forward to in the short term, apart
from the periodic rise and fall of ineffectual demagogues such
as Hazare and Ramdev.  Its electoral insignificance in the world’s largest
democracy has been carefully quantified by the people to be
chosen in 2014. As the prime minister might put it, “Theek to
hai na -- that’s all right, then!”  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 