-- Is the World Prepared for Driverless Cars? Are You?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-13T23:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/is-the-world-prepared-for-driverless-cars-are-you-.html
Picture it. You slip into your car,
recline and start reading the day’s news on your smartphone. The
vehicle accelerates, smoothly navigates traffic and seamlessly
merges onto the freeway, without your lifting a finger.  All around you, other autonomous cars zoom by. Each
operates safely at high speeds, halving your commute time. Each
drives with precision, eliminating congestion and conserving
fuel. Each respects pedestrians, avoids collisions and always
takes the most efficient route. Your car drops you at the
office, then parks itself in a lot on the outskirts of town,
where it awaits your summons at quitting time.  Such a glorious commute may be decades away. But the era of
autonomous cars is fast approaching. Last week,  Audi AG  and
 Toyota Motor Corp . both made headlines with advances in
automated driving. Google Inc. has been a much-publicized
pioneer in the field. Automakers  General Motors Co .,  Daimler AG 
and  Nissan Motor Co ., among many others, have plans to automate
their products to varying degrees.  And no wonder. Autonomous cars could create lucrative new
businesses, spur welcome advances in public planning, vastly
improve our quality of life, mitigate human error on the roads,
and, not least, reduce the more than 30,000 annual  driving
fatalities  in the U.S. alone. There will also be drawbacks and
unintended consequences. That’s why policy makers need to start
planning for a future that seems to be arriving faster than we
ever expected.  Road Rules  Three issues in particular require scrutiny.  First, we’ll need a new legal and regulatory framework.
State and federal driving laws obviously weren’t written with
this technology in mind, but as Bryant Walker Smith of Stanford
University’s Center for Internet and Society  has persuasively
argued , automated vehicles are almost certainly already legal
throughout the U.S.  California, Florida and  Nevada  have already begun
regulating them. Such laws will start important conversations:
They’ll acclimate regulators, transportation authorities and  law
enforcement  to the new technology, and offer manufacturers some
degree of predictability. State lawmakers should also develop
common legal and technical definitions; words such as
“driverless” and “automated” are often used blithely yet can
mean very different things. And states should consider how
they’ll need to update their licensing and registration rules
and revise traffic laws -- for instance, by reducing following-
distance requirements when appropriate -- to better accommodate
autonomous technology.  Federal legal clarity is also essential. The  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration , which is  planning  to
study the issue, should be transparent with the public and the
 auto industry  about any plans to update its rulebook, and when
it intends to act.  In doing so, it should remember that there is a wide
spectrum of automated technology that runs from anti-lock brakes
to Google’s driverless car and beyond, so regulation must be
flexible. And it should take special care not to inhibit
innovation in a quickly evolving field. This is easier said than
done, but one approach would be to focus more on conceptual
standards -- such as requiring that autonomous cars not exceed a
certain number of accidents per million miles -- rather than
mandating specific safety features.  Liability Rules  Next, policy makers will have to devise clear rules for
determining liability. Should the driver be held responsible for
his vehicle? The manufacturer? Perhaps a third party that
designed an app for a car that malfunctioned? Resolving such
questions will be incredibly messy. A smart first step would be
to require  event data recorders  -- “black boxes” that contain
information about a car’s operation before a crash -- in all
autonomous cars, with adequate privacy safeguards.  Congress should also consider the model offered by the
 National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program . Autonomous
vehicles may in the future be judged an essential social good.
But, as with vaccines, the potential for rare but extremely
costly lawsuits could inhibit manufacturers from meeting demand.
To ease such concerns, Congress could direct claims against
autonomous-car manufacturers to a special federal court outside
the normal tort system, and establish a fund to compensate
accident victims.  Finally, officials at all levels must manage expectations,
and plan realistically. Autonomous cars won’t be perfect, and
they will surely cause havoc in many cases. Their benefits may
also be exaggerated in the public mind. In the best long-term
case, a commute like the one described above -- faster, safer,
more productive -- could become a reality. But not soon. In
fact, as  Smith argues , high demand for autonomous cars could in
the medium term prevent heralded reductions in congestion,
emissions and sprawl.  Because one near-certainty of the driverless era is that
more people will want to drive. That will have wide-ranging
policy implications, including the need to modernize the way we
finance transportation infrastructure. That, in turn, means more
user charges, such as congestion pricing and variable tolls, and
especially a vehicle-miles-traveled tax to ensure that drivers
bear the cost of road upkeep.  Ceding our roads to computers will be a complicated and
chaotic process. It will involve all kinds of strange  moral
considerations  and trade-offs. It could transform our physical
environment, our economy and quite possibly our entire way of
life. The technology is unquestionably revolutionary. Just don’t
expect it to be a joyride.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 