-- Japan Air Probes Dreamliner Fuel Leak as FAA Holds Review
-- B y   E d   D u f n e r   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-01-14T07:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/japan-airlines-probes-dreamliner-fuel-leak-as-faa-holds-review.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  is investigating
a fuel leak on a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner, the model that
experienced an onboard fire last week in  Boston  and is now the
subject of a U.S. safety review.  The leak occurred Jan. 13 during maintenance at  Tokyo ’s
Narita airport, Japan Airlines said yesterday in a statement.
The jet was the same one that had a leak at Boston’s Logan
International Airport on Jan. 8, the carrier said.  “Fuel from a nozzle on the left wing used for discharging
fuel leaked out,” Japan Airlines said in the statement. “This
aircraft was not scheduled to be in service today and no
passengers or working staff on the ground were injured.
Appropriate inspections will be carried out.”  The latest incident extended a week of operational setbacks
for Boeing’s newest and most technologically complex jet. Japan
Airlines’ first leak came Jan. 8, the day after the fire,
followed by a cockpit window cracking on one 787 flown by  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  and an oil leak on another ANA Dreamliner.  U.S. officials pronounced the 787 safe last week even as
the  Federal Aviation Administration  disclosed the special review
of the plane, citing concern stirred by the fire and other
incidents. Electrical faults forced United Continental Holdings
Inc. and Qatar Airways Ltd. to ground 787s in December.  Window Repaired  All Nippon repaired the cockpit window that cracked during
a flight on Jan. 11, and the plane came back to Tokyo from
Matsuyama in western Japan the next day, airline spokeswoman
Megumi Tezuka said by telephone today. In the jet that leaked
oil, a heat exchanger has been replaced, she said, adding that
all 17 Dreamliners of the carrier are now in service.  Japan  Air spokeswoman Sze Hunn Yap today said investigation
for the Jan. 13 fuel leak is continuing. Five of the carrier’s
seven Dreamliners are in service, she said by phone.  “We are aware of the incident and are working with our
customer,” Paul Lewis, a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing,
said by e-mail.  The two Japanese carriers are among the biggest operators
of the Dreamliner, the first jet with a fuselage made chiefly of
composite materials. The 787 entered commercial service more
than three years late in 2011.  Boeing has marketed the twin-engine jet as a way to open
new routes between far-flung cities that don’t need the capacity
of larger wide-bodies such as the 777 and the 747 jumbo jet. The
787 has become the planemaker’s fastest-selling model ever, with
848 orders through the end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  