-- Juventus Fails to Win Again; Barcelona Stays Perfect on the Road
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2013-01-13T23:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/juventus-fails-to-win-again-barcelona-stays-perfect-on-the-road.html
Juventus was held to a 1-1 tie by
Parma as the defending champion failed to win for a second
straight match since Italian soccer’s Serie A resumed this month.
Barcelona preserved its perfect away record in Spain with a 3-1
victory at Malaga.  Juventus’ lead was cut to three points after second-place
Lazio beat Atalanta 2-0. Napoli defeated Palermo 3-0 and is two
points further back, with Inter Milan maintaining its challenge
following a 2-0 win against Pescara two days ago.  Juventus took the lead yesterday when Andrea Pirlo’s 52nd-
minute free-kick deflected in off Jonathan Biabiany, with Nicola
Sansone tying the match 25 minutes later. Sergio Floccari’s
second-half strike and an own goal from Davide Brivio secured
Lazio’s home victory.  AC Milan played out a scoreless draw with Sampdoria, while
Cagliari boosted its fight against relegation with a 2-1 win
over Genoa.  La Liga leader Barcelona got goals from Lionel Messi, Cesc Fabregas and Thiago Alcantara yesterday in winning on the road
for the 10th straight time this season. Barca has an 11-point
lead atop the standings over Atletico  Madrid , which beat Real
Zaragoza 2-0.  Third-place Real Madrid, without suspended forward
Cristiano Ronaldo, tied 0-0 at bottom club Osasuna two days ago.
The defending champion played the final 15 minutes with 10 men
after substitute Kaka received a second yellow card.  In  France , Lyon took a two-point lead atop Ligue 1 by
winning its first match after the mid-season break as Paris
Saint-Germain and Marseille both failed to do so.  Lyon defeated Troyes 2-1 two days ago, PSG was held to a
scoreless tie by AC Ajaccio on Jan. 11, while Marseille lost 3-1
at 10-man Sochaux yesterday. Lyon has 41 points, with PSG on 39
and Marseille on 38.  The German and Dutch leagues are yet to return from their
winter breaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 