-- Kayan Drops Most Since July as Loss Disappoints: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-01-13T13:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/kayan-drops-most-since-july-as-loss-disappoints-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  fell
the most in six months after quarterly results for the affiliate
of  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  missed estimates for the eighth
consecutive time.  The shares decreased 4.6 percent, the steepest drop since
July 15, to 12.45 riyals at the close in Riyadh. The stock was
the  second-biggest decliner  and the fourth  most-traded by volume 
on the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) , which fell 0.7
percent. About  12 million  of the company’s shares were traded
today, more than three times the three-month daily average.  Saudi Kayan said today its  fourth-quarter loss  widened to
195 million riyals ($52 million) from 191 million riyals in the
year-earlier period as costs rose. That missed estimates for
losses of 50.3 million riyals at NCB Capital and 28 million
riyals at Securities & Investment Co. The Jubail, Saudi Arabia-
based company has posted quarterly losses since the fourth-
quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
 missed estimates  the past eight quarters, the data show.  The selling pressure was driven by the “frustrating
results,” Mohammed Al-Omran, financial analyst and president of
the Gulf Center for Financial Consultancy in  Riyadh , said by e-
mail. “Given the fact that the company is enjoying subsidized
feedstock” it should be generating quarterly profits of at
least $2 million, he said.  ‘Sluggish’ Prices  Saudi Kayan shares tumbled 30 percent last year as slower
global economic growth reduced demand for products from Saudi
Basic, the world’s largest petrochemicals maker, which owns 35
percent of Kayan. That compares with a gain of 6 percent for the
Tadawul and a decline of 6.8 percent for Sabic.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , in which Sabic holds a 43
percent stake, said yesterday its fourth-quarter profit dropped
10 percent due to lower urea prices. Sabic unit  Yanbu National
Petrochemical Co. (YANSAB)  said net income for the three months ended
Dec. 31 declined 4 percent.  Petrochemical companies will “suffer from sluggish product
prices and weakening demand from the  emerging markets  in Asia,”
Al Rajhi Capital said in a report Sept. 29. Still, Saudi
petrochemical companies should outperform global peers helped by
a “feedstock cost advantage,” the report said. Saudi Kayan
trades at a 2013 estimated price-to-earnings ratio of 13 times,
compared with 14 times for the  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest
U.S. chemical company.  One analyst  recommends investors buy the shares of Saudi
Kayan while seven have a hold rating on the stock and five say
to sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  