-- Kelly Stays as Notre Dame Football Coach After NFL Interview
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/kelly-stays-as-notre-dame-football-coach-after-nfl-interview.html
Brian Kelly  decided to stay head
football coach of the University of  Notre Dame  after his
interview with the Philadelphia Eagles of the  National Football
League .  “Like every kid who has ever put on a pair of football
cleats, I have had thoughts about being a part of the NFL,”
Kelly said in a statement on the team’s website. “We still have
a lot of work to do and my staff and I are excited about the
challenges ahead.”  In his third season in 2012, Kelly led the Fighting Irish
to a 12-1 record that placed them No. 1 in the Bowl Championship
Series standings. Notre Dame lost 42-14 to Alabama in the title
game on Jan. 7.  “I was always confident that Brian would continue to lead
our football program,” said Jack Swarbrick, vice president and
athletics director.  Kelly was interviewed after the Eagles fired  Andy Reid  on
Dec. 31 following a 4-12 finish. Reid was hired as head coach of
the Kansas City Chiefs.  The Eagles have interviewed at least eight candidates for
the head coaching position, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing two people familiar with the interview process.  “There is no question we spent a considerable amount of
time and effort looking at who we thought were the best
collegiate candidates for our head coaching job,” the Eagles
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We did so knowing
that there was a remote chance that these coaches would leave
their current posts. We understood that going into the process,
but we wanted to leave no stone unturned while trying to find
the best head coach for the  Philadelphia Eagles .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  