-- NHL Teams Prepare Quickly for Start of 48-Game Season on Jan. 19
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/nhl-48-game-season-starts-jan-19-after-players-accept-contract.html
National Hockey League teams are
racing to prepare for the start of a lockout-shortened season
that begins in five days.  NHL teams began training camps over the weekend after the
league’s 700-player union ratified a new 10-year collective
bargaining agreement, ending a 117-day lockout. After one week
of training, NHL teams will play 48 games each -- an average of
3 1/2 games per week -- leading up to the start of the Stanley
Cup playoffs on April 30.  “It’s going to be a sprint,” New York Rangers goaltender
 Henrik Lundqvist  told reporters yesterday. “It’s going to be a
lot of games coming up fast and you just have to be mentally and
physically prepared for it.”  A total of 13 games will be played on Jan. 19, including
the Rangers, with newly acquired right wing Rick Nash, against
the  Boston Bruins . The Stanley Cup-champion Los Angeles Kings
face the Chicago Blackhawks, while the  New Jersey Devils  face
the  New York Islanders , and  Sidney Crosby  and the  Pittsburgh
Penguins  meet the  Philadelphia Flyers .  The Rangers and Penguins enter the season as co-favorites
to win the Stanley Cup at 8-1 odds, according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book. They’re followed by the Kings at 9-1 odds,
the  Vancouver Canucks  and  Chicago Blackhawks  at 10-1, and the
Bruins and  Detroit Red Wings  at 12-1.  “There’s a sense of urgency out there,” the Rangers’ Nash
said. “In a shortened season, it’s the team that comes out the
quickest, gels the quickest and gains chemistry. We’re trying to
work on that. We understand that we play in five or six days and
we have to be ready.”  Player Approval  The players approved the new agreement three days after the
NHL’s Board of Governors voted in favor of the pact during a
Jan. 9 meeting in New York.  The agreement calls for the owners and players to split
hockey-related revenues equally. It also includes terms that
limit the length of individual player contracts to seven years,
or eight when a team is re-signing its own player, and regulates
the compensation structure, year-to-year variability and
defining minimum value.  The CBA also features a new defined benefit pension plan
for the players and enhanced revenue-sharing among the clubs.  The world’s top professional hockey league and its players’
union agreed on the contract’s framework Jan. 6, ending the
shutdown that began Sept. 16 and forced the cancellation of 625
games, or 51 percent of the original schedule with each team
playing 82 games.  More Cancellations  The lockout also forced the cancellation of this year’s
outdoor Winter Classic game on New Year’s Day and the All-Star
Game in Columbus,  Ohio .  The NHL, which had $3.3 billion in revenue last season,
gave up about $1 billion to get the 10-year deal that reduced
the players’ share of the earnings to 50 percent, the New York
Times reported without saying where it got the information.  The work stoppage was the second time in recent years  that
owners shut the league down following the expiration of a
collective bargaining agreement.  The previous lockout resulted in the loss of the 2004-05
season, the only time a complete schedule of one of  North
America ’s four major pro sports leagues was wiped out in a labor
dispute. It also was the first year since 1919 that the  Stanley
Cup  wasn’t awarded.  In the 1994-95 season, a lockout ended Jan. 11 and a 48-
game schedule began on Jan. 20.  Splitting Revenue  The newest dispute was focused on how players and owners
would split revenue that grew 50 percent by last season from
$2.2 billion in 2003-04. Under the previous agreement, players
received 57 percent, or $1.9 billion, of league revenue.  The collective bargaining agreement runs through the
2021-22 season, with both sides having the right to opt out
after eight years, according to the provisions.  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million at
the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, National Basketball Association players made
an average of $5.15 million, the highest among North America’s
four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average salary for a
National Football League player was $1.9 million, the lowest of
the four leagues, with  Major League Baseball ’s $3.3 million
average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  Lundqvist said he’s excited to be back with teammates and
focused on preparing for the season instead of a labor dispute.  “We’re going to put a lot of pressure on ourselves to do
well, but we have to realize it’s a tough league and there’s a
lot of teams that can win this year,” Lundqvist said. “You
have to perform at top level, but you need a lot of things to go
your way. The things you can control are how hard you work and
the attitude you have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  