-- Niners, Ravens Win to Advance to NFL Conference Championships
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-13T05:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/niners-ravens-win-to-advance-to-nfl-conference-championships.html
The  San Francisco 49ers  and the
Baltimore Ravens, coached by brothers Jim and John Harbaugh,
advanced to their National Football League conference
championship games.  Baltimore beat the Denver Broncos 38-35 in double overtime
to advance to the American Football Conference championship game
against the winner of today’s matchup between the Houston Texans
and New England Patriots. The 49ers defeated the  Green Bay
Packers  45-31 to reach the National Football Conference title
game against the  Seattle Seahawks  or  Atlanta Falcons , who play
today.  Justin Tucker kicked a 47-yard field goal to give the
Ravens their win over the 3-1 Super Bowl-favorite Broncos at
Sports Authority Stadium at Mile High. The victory extended the
17-year career of linebacker  Ray Lewis  who told his teammates
that he would retire when the playoffs ended.  “This was probably one of the greatest victories in
Ravens’ history,” Lewis said during a news conference. “What
if we do the impossible -- coming here as nine or 10-point
underdogs. Today in Baltimore, I can promise you somebody’s life
changed today because they believed that much in what
happened.”  Five Ties  The Ravens and Broncos shared the lead for the fifth time
when Jacoby Jones scored on a 70-yard pass from  Joe Flacco  with
31 seconds left in regulation that forced the overtime.  “I’m just proud and grateful to be associated with this
game, humbled to stand on the sideline with a game like that,”
Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  said.  Flacco, who passed for 331 yards, connected twice with
Torrey Smith on passes of 59 and 32 yards, and Corey Graham ran
for a touchdown on a 39-yard interception, the first of two
turnovers by  Peyton Manning  that were converted into scores by
the Ravens. The game was tied 21-21 at halftime.  “We fought hard to get back to this point and we’re
definitely proud of being here,” Flacco said. “We feel like
it’s going to take a lot for somebody to come and kick us off
that field come the AFC championship game.”  Manning was intercepted again during overtime, a turnover
that set up the winning field goal for the Ravens.  ‘Bad Throw’  “Yeah, bad throw,” he said. “Probably the decision
(wasn’t) great either. I thought I had an opening, and I didn’t
get enough on it, and I was trying to make a play and certainly
a throw I’d like to have back.”  Trindon Holliday scored on a 90-yard punt return three
minutes into the game and ran back a kickoff 104 yards in the
third quarter.  Manning threw for 290 yards and three touchdowns, two in
the first half to Brandon Stokley and Knowshon Moreno. His third
was a 17-yard scoring pass to Demaryius Thomas for a 35-28 lead
with seven minutes, 11 seconds left in the game.  At Candlestick Park, the 49ers’ 25-year-old quarterback
Colin Kaepernick threw for 263 yards and two touchdowns to
 Michael Crabtree  and ran for two scores.  Kaepernick, in his second year in the NFL, set a record for
quarterbacks by rushing 183 yards. The previous record was held
by  Michael Vick  who rushed for 119 yards against St. Louis in
2005.  “It feels good,” Kaepernick said. “We’re one step closer
to where we want to be. I feel like I had a lot to prove. A lot
of people doubted my ability to lead this team.”  Aaron Rodgers  passed for 257 yards and two touchdowns,
including a three-yard throw to  Greg Jennings  in the final
minute of the game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  