-- New York City School Bus Drivers Set Strike for Tomorrow
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/nyc-s-walcott-says-schools-preparing-for-bus-driver-strike.html
The union representing New York City
school bus drivers said a strike will begin tomorrow, forcing
parents to find alternative ways for about 152,000 of the city’s
1.1 million public-school students to get to class.  The drivers, who work for private companies, plan the
walkout to protest the city’s refusal to guarantee their jobs as
it searches for new contracts on 1,100 routes serving 22,500
special-needs children. New York has 7,700 bus routes.  Job security “is directly linked to the safety and
security of our children by ensuring the city’s most qualified,
skilled and experienced school bus crews remain on the job,”
Michael Cordiello, president of Local 1181 of the  Amalgamated
Transit Union , said at a Manhattan news briefing. Job protection
has been part of contracts for more than 30 years, he said.  Additional transit police, school-safety officers and
crossing guards will be deployed to help students reach
classrooms, Schools Chancellor Dennis Walcott said.  The largest U.S. public-school system has already told
parents it would offer free MetroCards to pay subway and bus
fares for students as well as for parents of preschoolers and
those with special needs. Parents also will be reimbursed if
they need to drive or hire a car to bring children to school.  Court Barrier  A decision by the Court of Appeals, the state’s highest
tribunal, prohibits the city from offering job security and
seniority to bus drivers who aren’t  New York  employees, Mayor
Michael Bloomberg has said.  “We have told the unions in unequivocal terms: Do not walk
out on our students,” Bloomberg said yesterday at City Hall.
“A strike would be not only unfair to children and families, it
would be totally misguided because the city cannot legally offer
what the unions are demanding.”  Richard Gilberg, a union lawyer, said the court limited its
ruling to circumstances where one could show no benefit in
hiring experienced drivers.  Bus service costs have skyrocketed to $1.1 billion a year
from $100 million in 1979, with the city spending an average of
$6,900 per bused student, more than any district in the country,
Bloomberg said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  