-- Obama White House to Push for Comprehensive Immigration Plan
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-13T21:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/obama-white-house-to-push-for-comprehensive-immigration-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to push
for a comprehensive immigration plan that includes a legislative
solution to issues such as undocumented immigrants, according to
administration officials.  “It’s an economic imperative,” Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.
“If we bring these people, 11 million people, from out of the
dark and into the light, it’s about a $1.5 trillion impact to
the  U.S. economy .”  While no final decision has been made about when the
Democratic White House’s proposal will be formally introduced,
administration officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss internal deliberations, said they will oppose efforts by
Republicans to break immigration legislation into smaller bills.  In his first news conference after winning re-election,
Obama promised to begin working on a major immigration bill soon
after the formal start of his second term.  “I am very confident that we can get immigration reform
done,” the president told reporters on Nov. 14. “My
expectation is that we get a bill introduced and we begin the
process in Congress very soon after my inauguration.”  Citizenship Path  Even as much of  Washington  has focused on fiscal issues and
curbing  gun control , the administration has been working on a
plan for several months. Their proposal will include a path to
citizenship for the country’s 11 million undocumented
immigrants, according to officials -- an idea opposed as amnesty
by Republican critics.  Separately from the White House, a bipartisan group of
senators, headed by Democrat Chuck Schumer of  New York  and
Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina have been working on
a parallel bill.  Obama won 71 percent of Latino voters in the 2012 election,
a victory that left Republicans willing to take up the
immigration issue as a way to change their image with the fast-
growing demographic group. National exit polls showed that 10
percent of the electorate was Latino, compared with 9 percent
four years ago and 8 percent in 2004.  Former Secretary of State  Colin Powell , speaking on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” today, said the  Republican Party  needs to
“take a very hard look at itself and understand that the
country has changed” demographically.  “If the Republican Party does not change along with that
demographic, they are going to be in trouble,” the retired
general, himself a Republican, said on CBS.  ‘Comprehensive Approach’  House Speaker  John Boehner  said in a Nov. 8 interview with
ABC News that “a comprehensive approach is long overdue, and
I’m confident that the president, myself, others, can find the
common ground to take care of this issue once and for all.”  Immigrant-owned businesses employ one in 10 U.S. workers in
private companies and contribute more than $775 billion of
revenue to the nation’s economy, according to the Partnership
for a New American Economy. The businesses generate about $125
billion in payroll, the nonpartisan advocacy group of 450 mayors
and business leaders said in a report last August.  The report, written by Robert Fairlie, an economics
professor at the  University of California ,  Santa Cruz , analyzed
U.S. Census data, including national population and business-
owner surveys, to conclude that immigrants, who account for 12.9
percent of the population, started 28 percent of all new U.S.
businesses in 2011. In 1996, immigrants founded 15 percent of
all new businesses, the report said.  Formation Rate  Immigrants are more than twice as likely to start a
business as the native-born, according to the report. In 2011,
the immigrant business-formation rate was 550 new businesses per
month for every 100,000 immigrants, while the native-born rate
was 270 for every 100,000, according to the report.  The group’s founders are  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch  and New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The mayor
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  The U.S. spent $18 billion on immigration enforcement last
year, more than all other major federal criminal law enforcement
agencies combined, according to a Jan. 7 report by the
nonpartisan Washington-based Migration Policy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  