-- Mom & Pop Bond-Buying Aided as Stocks Beaten: Australia Credit
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-14T02:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/mom-pop-bond-buying-eased-as-stocks-beaten-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s government is easing
rules to encourage pension savers to boost corporate bond
holdings, after the securities returned three times as much as
stocks in the past decade when adjusted for price swings.  Borrowers selling notes to individual investors will be
able to use a shorter prospectus while company directors won’t
face civil liabilities for mis-statements, according to  draft
legislation  Treasury released Jan. 11. The changes are designed
to help the nation’s A$1.4 trillion ($1.5 trillion) retirement
savings industry buy more bonds and cut Australian companies’
reliance on offshore debt markets, according to the statement.  The nation’s pension funds have about half their assets in
stocks, the most among 29 nations tracked by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the lowest stake
in bills and bonds after  South Korea , a September  report  showed.
That’s limited their share of Australian corporate bonds’ 34
percent risk-adjusted gains in the past decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They beat the 16 percent increase for global
peers and the 9.7 percent advance on local stocks.  “Investors are looking for low-volatility assets such as
bonds to fund retirement,” said Andrew Gordon, director of
fixed-income origination at FIIG Securities Ltd. in Sydney.
“The government wants to allow investors access to a broader
array of fixed-income products, and give companies access to the
large pool of superannuation capital to domestically fund
borrowings.”  Offshore sales  Australian issuers, led by the nation’s banks, raised $70.7
billion last year from debt denominated in currencies other than
the local dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Non-financial companies typically tap banks for funds, with
$83.6 billion of loans signed in the country last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with A$14.3 billion of
domestic bond sales by companies outside the finance industry.  Australian pension funds reduced the portion of investments
in bills and bonds by 2.5 percentage points in the decade to
2011, the OECD report showed. They increased that for stocks by
7.8 percentage points.  Superannuation funds, as the investments are known in
Australia,  increased  their assets to A$1.4 trillion as of June
30, rising 3.7 percent from a year earlier. Self-managed
superannuation funds, which have less than five members and are
typically an individual or family saving for retirement,
accounted for A$439 billion of that, regulatory data show.  Receptive Environment  “It is important for the Australian debt market to provide
a facilitative and receptive environment to accommodate the
growing needs of companies and investors,” the Australian
Financial Markets Association said in an e-mailed statement on
Jan. 11. “Promoting a deep and liquid domestic corporate  bond
market  depends on a range of factors and the government’s
proposals will advance this cause.”  Australian stocks have provided higher returns than bonds
when risk isn’t taken into account, gaining 140 percent in the
10 years to the end of 2012 including reinvested dividends. That
compares with a 97 percent total return on corporate bonds, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Still, the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index  has declined in
three of the past five years, falling 41 percent in 2008 amid
the global credit freeze. It rallied 31 percent the next year.  Risk-adjusted returns are calculated by dividing total
returns by volatility, or the degree of price variation, giving
a measure of income per unit of risk. Higher volatility means
the price of an asset can swing more dramatically, increasing
the potential for unexpected losses.  Term Deposits  Investors have responded to the price swings on the
Australian stock market by piling into term deposits. Such
investments swelled to a record A$545.6 billion in August 2012,
according to central bank data.  They fell to A$538.7 billion in November, as  central-bank
rate cuts  reduced the attractiveness of such holdings and the
equities market gained.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark by 1.75 percentage
points since the beginning of November 2011 to bolster the
economy against slowing global growth and a fading mining boom.  Swap contracts show a 36 percent chance the RBA will lower
the overnight cash-rate target to a record 2.75 percent next
month, after a 0.25 percentage point cut to 3 percent on Dec. 4.  Yields on 10-year  government bonds  have risen 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, since Dec. 31 to 3.45 percent
as of 1:07 p.m. in Sydney. The securities offer 158 basis points
more yield than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Global Demand  The Australian dollar climbed 1.5 percent this year to
$1.0546. Demand for assets in the so-called Aussie spurred
foreign holdings of  government bonds  to a record last year. SK
Telecom Co., a South Korean phone company, raised A$300 million
last week selling Australian-dollar notes, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Even so, Australian companies with large cash needs have
tended to seek funds in U.S. and European markets. BHP Billiton
Ltd. raised a record $14.2 billion from bonds in 2012 at
borrowing costs as low as 1 percent, more than 90 percent of
which came from markets other than Australia, Bloomberg-compiled
data show. Its A$1 billion local sale in October was the
company’s first in more than a decade.  “Domestic corporates and banks often go to offshore debt
markets because they can get bigger size, longer tenor and
better execution certainty,” said James Hayes, head of fixed
income in Sydney at BNP Paribas SA. “I’m not sure the change in
legislation is the magic bullet to building a deeper domestic
corporate bond market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  