-- Perion CEO Says Google Won’t Hit Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-13T15:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/perion-ceo-says-google-won-t-hit-sales-israel-overnight.html
Perion Networks Ltd. (PERI)  gained to a
record after its chief executive officer said revenue will rise
this year even as the Israeli company meets new guidelines set
by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for use of its search engine in products.  Shares of Tel Aviv-based Perion gained 0.8 percent to a
record 46.18 shekels, or the equivalent of $12.35, at the close
in Tel Aviv. Trading was 1.3 times the three-month average
trading volume. The benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  equities index slipped 0.5
percent to 1,217.76.  “Our 2013 forecast takes into account that in the short
term there may be a negative effect on the business as a result
of the new changes required by Google,” CEO Josef Mandelbaum
said in a Jan. 8 phone interview from Tel Aviv. “But these
changes will have no negative impact on the business.”  Perion  (PERI) sells  e-mail, photo sharing and Internet security
products that often come packaged with Google’s search engine.
The stock posted its biggest decline in six months in December
on concern new rules designed to regulate third-party
distribution of Mountain View, California-based Google’s engine
would reduce sales, according to Chardan Capital Markets LLC.
Perion was asked to make the changes, which come into force Feb.
1, to guarantee “transparency,” Mandelbaum said.  The New York shares soared 32 percent last week to $12.14,
the biggest weekly jump since July 2009, after the company
forecast sales this year that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Google Rules  “Perion apparently feels very comfortable with their
relationship with Google,”  Jay Srivatsa , managing director of
equity research at Chardan, said in a phone interview from Las
Vegas Jan. 11. “If they didn’t believe that things were secure
with Google, they wouldn’t have gone to raising guidance.”  The new rules are aimed at making it clear to users that
download Internet products featuring Google from distributors
like Perion that they are giving that company management of
the program’s operations, said Srivatsa. Third-party
distributors make money when their customers use Google’s  search
engine , he said.  Google confirmed that it had tightened rules for use of its
search engine by third-party distributors. “We recently
announced that we are updating our ads policies and stepping up
enforcement in order to ensure that users have a safe,
trustworthy experience online,” Aaron Stein, a spokesman for
Google, said in an e-mailed statement Jan. 11.  Sales in 2013 will exceed $110 million, Perion said in a
Jan. 8 statement, beating the $102 million average of two
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue is expected
to have increased 70 percent last year compared to 2011.  Earnings per share on an adjusted basis in 2013 will reach
$1.61, Perion said, compared with an average of three analysts’
 estimates  for $1.31. Fourth-quarter revenue will reach $21
million, the company said, compared with an $18.1 million median
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  