-- Qatar Airways CEO Says Interested in Indian Carrier Stake
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-13T10:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/qatar-airways-ceo-says-interested-in-indian-carrier-stake.html
Qatar Airways  Ltd., the Middle
East’s second-largest carrier, is interested in purchasing a
stake in an Indian airline, Chief Executive Officer Akbar  Al Baker  said.  “India is a huge market, India is a potentially lucrative
market,” Al Baker told reporters today in Doha. “Qatar Airways
will be interested once we are sure the regulations and the laws
are properly liberalized.”  The CEO said he’s not studying any specific purchase in
India, where changes to rules curbing foreign direct investment
from airlines have spurred interest in the market.  Gulf carriers including  Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad Airways are
looking to expand into the Indian market after Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government in September allowed foreign
airlines to own as much as 49 percent of India’s carriers as
part of a push to attract investment and boost growth. The move
opens up a possible new source of funding for  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and other operators struggling to translate the
country’s rising travel demand into earnings.  Al Baker denied press reports that the Qatari airline is
looking to buy a stake in Alitalia SpA, adding that he had not
been approached by the Rome-based airline.  Al Baker confirmed that Qatar Airways sold its 35 percent
stake in Luxembourg’s Cargolux Airlines International SA.
Luxembourg’s government announced last month that it bought
Qatar Airways’ 35 percent stake in Cargolux for $117.5 million.  Doha’s new airport, currently under construction, will
receive its first passengers on April 1 and is expected to be
fully open to all airlines in the second half, Al Baker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  