-- Russian Protest Against U.S.-Adoption Ban Draws Thousands
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-01-13T16:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/russian-protest-march-against-u-s-adoption-ban-starts-in-moscow.html
Thousands of protesters defied
freezing weather to march through central Moscow today as a law
banning the adoption of Russian children by U.S. citizens
reinvigorated the opposition movement.  The rally, called the “March Against Scum,” follows a
year of protests against President  Vladimir Putin  that began
after disputed parliamentary elections in December 2011. More
than 50,000 people joined the march, opposition leaders Sergei Udaltsov and Ilya Yashin said in postings on Twitter Inc. The
Moscow police estimated as many as 9,500 people had participated
before dispersing at about 4 p.m., according to their website.  Russia passed legislation last month barring U.S. adoptions
in retaliation for American sanctions over the death of lawyer
Sergei Magnitsky, who’d sought to expose corruption among
Interior Ministry officers. Putin signed it into law on Dec. 28.
Protesters called for Russia’s parliament to be disbanded.  “Nobody cares for these children, and no one needs them,”
said Liza Kulkova, 71, a pensioner from Klin,  Russia , who
volunteers at an orphanage. “This is my first protest, and I
don’t think it will make a difference but I came anyway. These
kids are a living tragedy, and it’s outrageous to use them for a
political end.”  ‘Shame’ Posters  Protesters filled the stretch from Strastnoy Boulevard to
Trubnaya Square, which runs about a kilometer, according to
photographs and accounts posted by attendees on Twitter and
Facebook Inc. pages. Police removed one person dressed as a bear
from the march.  People carried posters with the word “Shame” written
across photographs of politicians who supported the ban, while a
large banner urged the dismissal of the State Duma, the lower
house of parliament.  Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, said the president is
aware of the protest, while calls to dissolve parliament aren’t
constructive, Interfax reported. Russia is streamlining
procedures for its own citizens to adopt children and passing
laws to improve orphans’ lives, the news service said, citing
Peskov.  United Russia ’s Ekaterina Lakhova, the deputy head of the
State Duma’s social and religious organizations committee, said
“not many people” showed up at the protest, according to the
ruling party’s  website  after she spoke on the Echo Moskvy radio
station.  Russia ‘Enemies’  “They don’t hear the government’s voice and are gathering
not to defend children’s rights but to support American
business,” Lakhova said.  United Russia members have accused opponents of the
adoption legislation, called the Dima Yakovlev Law, after a
Russian boy who died in the U.S. in 2008 after being left in a
car on a hot day, of being unpatriotic.  “All enemies of Russian sovereignty have come out as
passionate supporters of American adoption,” Andrei Isayev,
deputy secretary of the party’s general council, said in an
 article  posted on United Russia’s website on Jan. 11, which
called the movement the “March of the Child-Sellers.”  Russia is under no obligation to allow adoptions by U.S.
citizens to proceed under a treaty between the two nations after
the ban took effect at the start of the year, the Foreign
Ministry said Jan. 11.  ‘Red Flag’  Families will be able to take home Russian children where a
court has already approved the adoptions, while other
proceedings will be halted, Peskov said in an interview on Dozhd
TV the same day.  Russian authorities say that 46 children had been cleared
for adoption before the ban took effect. About 500 to 1,000 U.S.
families are in various stages in the process of adopting
Russian children, according to the U.S. State Department.  “Unfortunately, this meeting may make things worse,
because it’s like waving a red flag at a bull,” said Anya
Borzenko, a 56-year-old teacher, mother of six children and
grandmother of nine. “But we couldn’t stay away because the
life given to these children shouldn’t be destroyed, because
these children are dying in our institutions and orphanages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  