-- Russia’s Yuriev Opens U.S. Shale Fund as State Dominates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-01-14T14:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/russia-s-yuriev-opens-u-s-shale-fund-as-state-dominates-at-home.html
Mikhail Yuriev, a former Russian
politician and businessman, said he’s quitting Russia to invest
in the U.S. energy industry where cheaper financing, better
infrastructure and support for foreign businesses boost returns.  Yuriev plans to raise $2 billion to invest in shale oil and
gas exploration and processing, he said in an interview in
Moscow. U.S. money will account for half of his Amshale Capital
Partners fund, according to the investor, who with Russian
partners may add as much as $200 million.  Yuriev is channeling his wealth into industries abroad as
President  Vladimir Putin  increases the state’s role in Russia’s
oil and gas industry, the world’s largest. Small and mid-sized
investors, such as those driving the U.S. shale boom, lack the
resources to compete in Russia where the top 10 producers pump
about 90 percent of oil output, Energy Ministry figures show.  While Russia’s limited access and an uncompetitive market
can result in high profit margins for a few companies, its
higher cost of services, financing and taxes makes the U.S. a
more attractive proposition, according to Yuriev. Russian
projects also face “superfluous”  government regulation  and an
“unfriendly” business environment, he said.  Yuriev, ex-deputy speaker of the State Duma, Russia’s lower
house, and a former vice president of business lobby the  Russian
Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs , has invested in
energy and industrial companies across the former  Soviet Union 
and held board seats on businesses including  Evrofinance Group .  U.S. Drilling  His new fund will include a focus on exploration in areas
such as  Texas , Montana and  Louisiana , according to Yuriev. His
managing company is already drilling in southern Texas, with
contractor  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  this month starting the third of a
10- to 15-well program across 200,000 acres of shale leases.  “I see incredible rationale in Russian financial
investors, and ultimately Russian strategic investors, investing
in the U.S. oil and gas industry,” said Rob Van Genderen,
managing director of Pharos Financial Group. “The U.S. is
expected to become the largest producer of oil over the next
several years.”  Shale oil and gas is extracted using hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, which involves blasting rock with sand, water and
chemicals to release fuel. A boom in shale output has seen the
U.S. surpass  Russia  as the world’s largest gas producer, while
sending U.S. prices for the fuel to their lowest in a decade.  Price Decline  Yuriev plans to take advantage of the price decline by
using U.S. gas to make urea, an industrial fertilizer not widely
used in Russia. Work has begun on a plant in Louisiana that will
make the product, he said, valuing the U.S. nitrogen-fertilizer
market at almost $15 billion a year.  Yuriev is also examining building a plant to make hot-
briquetted iron, which is used in steelmaking, to take advantage
of cheap gas supplies, he said.  As well as ease of gas processing, the U.S. provides
investors with ready access to export markets, cheap debt and a
favorable tax system, Yuriev said. Those advantages will help
energy producers withstand plummeting prices as output swells,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  