-- Tunisia’s President: All Arab Dictators Will Fall
-- B y   M o n c e f   M a r z o u k i
-- 2013-01-13T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/tunisia-s-president-all-arab-dictators-will-fall.html
The U.S. futurist Alvin Toffler used
to say that when a society reaches a certain degree of
development, democracy becomes a technical necessity, not simply
an ethical one.  This rule didn’t seem to apply to the Arab world.
Industrialization failed, “modernity” arrived late due to
colonization, and when the democratic wave destroyed
dictatorships in  Latin America  and Eastern  Europe , it seemed
without effect in North Africa and the  Middle East .  Racists pointed to the wrong cause for this phenomenon,
citing cultural specificity.  The blockage was instead mainly due to external influences,
above all  Israel ’s conflict with the Palestinians and the
support that Western powers gave to dictators. In return, these
regimes were mandated to defend the West’s interests in terms of
security and access to oil.  Despite these obstacles, Arab societies have grown ever
more complex during the past 50 years, and the technical
necessity that Toffler spoke of eventually broke down all
obstacles in the way of democracy -- even the Western support
for dictatorships.  Different Speeds  Today, democratization progresses in different forms and at
different speeds throughout the Arab world. In  Syria , it is
coming at a terrible human cost and in the context of a global
and regional struggle for power; in Tunisia and  Egypt , with a
very limited degree of outside help; in  Libya , with direct
intervention.  However different the mechanisms and paths, all Arab
dictators will fall, probably within the next 10 years.  Once freed from dictatorship, Arab societies will go
through a phase of instability that may be more or less violent
and will last for many years. Some countries may very well fall
into chaos and go back to another form of authoritarian regime.
Others will become advanced democracies.  To succeed, they must overcome two types of challenges. The
first is the political requirement for reconciliation and
compromise among the two components of Arab societies today.
These are the conservatives, focused on identity and represented
by Islamists, and the secular -- largely Westernized --
modernists, represented by parties that are broadly categorized
as democratic. The latter are an assemblage of liberals, former
socialists, former nationalists and pan-Arab nationalists.  The second challenge is social and economic. This one is
essentially based on a relentless battle against corruption and
the establishment of an economy that must be oriented toward
solidarity, departing from the ultra-free-market liberal model
that would benefit only the Westernized elites.  Tunisia  is presently the best-placed Arab Spring country to
win this double challenge.  Despite the initial jolts inherent in any transition
period, Tunisians have established a government, led by a
coalition of moderate secularists and moderate Islamists. The
constitution that is being prepared will result from a wide
consensus that will guarantee the valuable durability for the
document.  The social and economic challenge is more difficult for
Tunisia to resolve because the level of expectation among the
least-advantaged parts of the population is very high, and
resources are scarce.  Tunisia’s Assets  That said, as soon as the constitution has been voted into
law and presidential and parliamentary elections have taken
place -- all before the end of this year -- Tunisia will be able
to tackle this second challenge, too, thanks to its numerous
assets. Tunisia has an educated population, human resources (in
terms of the qualifications and availability of the  labor
force ), numerous local entrepreneurs who are ready to invest,
plus the help and friendship of the U.S., Europe and the Gulf
countries. It also enjoys the absence of external enemies and of
any real spread of Salafism, which for now threatens the
country’s image more than its stability.  Tunisia is a real laboratory of democracy. The success of
the Tunisian experiment will have a very positive impact on the
entire Arab world. Today, the motto of Tunisians is the
following: We have only two options, to succeed or to succeed.  (Moncef Marzouki is president of the Republic of Tunisia
and was a dissident under the regime of former dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Moncef Marzouki at  infocom@carthage.tn .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 