-- Zoomlion Says New Products Boosted Sales as Letter Raises Doubts
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-01-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-13/zoomlion-says-new-products-boosted-sales-as-letter-raises-doubts.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) , seeking to boost investor confidence after an
anonymous letter questioned its sales, said business surged last
year after it offered new products and hired more people.  “We achieved growth in 2012 because some of our products
gained market share.” Zhan Chunxin, chairman of  China ’s second-
biggest construction-equipment maker, told reporters in
Guangzhou on Jan. 11. “Zoomlion is a company with integrity.”  GPS tracking devices are installed on every machine sold
and employees meet each client to ensure there are no fabricated
sales contracts, said Hong Xiaoming, a vice president. Zoomlion
is trying to allay concerns over its accounts as Chinese
companies’ finances draw increased scrutiny after short seller
 Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC uncovered irregularities
including those at now-bankrupt Sino-Forest Corp.  Zoomlion, based in Changsha, China, last year introduced
lighter and longer concrete pumps with sections made from carbon
fiber, Zhan said. Zoomlion had 31,018 workers by end of June,
7.6 percent more from 2011-end, according to the company’s
annual and interim reports.  The company’s first-half profit jumped 21 percent in 2012
while larger  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  posted a 13 percent decline.
Construction-equipment makers face a glut in China, where demand
is slowing amid curbs on property market.  Zoomlion didn’t offer customers “aggressive” financing to
boost sales as the industry is highly competitive, company
secretary Shen Ke said at the briefing. Leasing finance given to
customers helped generate about 32 percent of  sales  in the first
nine months of last year, said Hong, who heads the finance
department. As much as 27 percent of sales came from offering
installment options and 21 percent from mortgages, she said.  Unsigned Letter  Ming Pao Daily reported Jan. 8 it got the unsigned letter
alleging Zoomlion’s sales are exaggerated, prompting the company
to have its stock halted from trading. Copies of the note were
also sent to Zoomlion and the Hong Kong Securities and Futures
Commission, according to the report. The shares plunged the most
in eight months when trading resumed the next day.  In statements to Shenzhen and Hong Kong stock exchanges,
Zoomlion said it follows Chinese accounting rules and that its
financial report for the six months ended June was prepared in
compliance with international accounting standards.  Zoomlion said last week that stock exchanges in Hong Kong
and Shenzhen hadn’t visited the company for investigations
following the report. Hong Kong stock exchange declined to
comment on Zoomlion’s statement and Shenzhen bourse didn’t reply
to faxed questions from Bloomberg News.  Hong Kong-listed shares  of Zoomlion rose 37 percent last
year, compared with a 23 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index. Its Shenzhen-listed shares climbed 20 percent in 2012.
Sany Heavy dropped 16 percent in  Shanghai  last year.  “Zoomlion has a solid financial position that can
withstand any test,” Hong said. “Business in 2012 grew
steadily. We have no clue how the letter came up with false
figures and then accused us of exaggerating earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  