-- AB Inbev, U.S., Said Ready to Seek Extension for Talks
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-03-15T17:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ab-inbev-u-s-said-ready-to-seek-extension-for-talks.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and the
U.S. Justice Department will probably seek a court extension to
continue talks about a proposal to settle a U.S. lawsuit to
block the beermaker’s purchase of  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , two people
familiar with the matter said.  Talks between the companies and the Justice Department are
progressing well and the extension request isn’t a negative
sign, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
talks are confidential. A federal judge in  Washington  agreed to
suspend litigation until March 19 when the parties are scheduled
to report on their progress.  The discussions center on AB InBev’s revised proposal to
sell control of all Modelo brands in the U.S., and a brewery in
Mexico, to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , people with knowledge of
the deal have said.  The Justice Department is reviewing Constellation’s plan to
boost brewing capacity by about 70 percent at the Piedras Negras
plant, now owned by Modelo, to ensure it can keep Modelo-brand
products as a viable competitor in the U.S. beer market, said
the people.  Laura Vallis, a New York-based spokeswoman for Leuven,
Belgium-based AB InBev and Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for
Grupo Modelo in Mexico City, declined to comment on the matter.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a phone call seeking
comment.  Shares Drop  AB InBev  shares  extended declines on the news of the likely
extension request, falling as much as 3 percent before closing
down 1.6 percent, or 1.19 euros, at 73.05 euros. Constellation
rose 24 cents to $44.95 at 1:01 p.m. in New York. Modelo shares
were little changed at 111.70 pesos in  Mexico  City.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  