-- AB Inbev, U.S. Ask Judge for More Time for Modelo Talks
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ab-inbev-u-s-ask-judge-for-more-time-for-modelo-talks.html
Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV (ABI)  and the
U.S. Justice Department told a federal judge they want to
postpone until April 9 the government’s antitrust lawsuit to
block its purchase of Grupo Modelo SAB, citing “substantial
progress” toward settlement of the case.  In a joint court filing yesterday in  Washington , AB InBev
and the government said the talks are based on a revised
proposal to sell control of all Modelo brands in the U.S., and a
brewery in Mexico, to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)   “The parties request additional time to continue their
discussions and, should the parties reach a resolution, complete
the necessary court filings pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures
and Penalties Act,” according to the filing.  Constellation and Crown Imports LLC, which had filed to
intervene in the case, agreed to April postponement, according
to the filing.  The  Justice Department  is reviewing Constellation’s plan to
boost brewing capacity by about 70 percent at the Piedras Negras
plant, now owned by Modelo, to ensure it can keep Modelo-brand
products as a viable competitor in the U.S. beer market, said
two people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named
because the talks are confidential.  U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts earlier granted a
request by the parties to delay the case until March 19,
ordering them to report on progress toward a settlement or to
begin setting a litigation schedule.  The revised deal, submitted on Feb. 14, is aimed at
appeasing U.S. authorities, who sued to block Leuven, Belgium-
based AB InBev’s proposed $20.1 billion purchase of the rest of
Mexico City-based Modelo, arguing the merger would hurt
competition and lead to higher prices. AB InBev, the world’s
biggest brewer, controls almost half the U.S. beer market, while
Corona is the country’s biggest imported brand.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net  