-- Abe, BOJ Will Never Reach 2% Inflation Goal, Sakakibara Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-03-15T07:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/abe-boj-will-never-reach-2-inflation-goal-sakakibara-says-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s plan to beat deflation with money printing by the central
bank is bound to fail as the root causes are more structural,
said  Eisuke Sakakibara , a former Ministry of Finance official.  Haruhiko Kuroda was confirmed as  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor
today along with two deputies, ushering in new leadership to
pursue Abe’s plan to boost growth by achieving 2 percent gains
in the  consumer price index .  “They will continue easy monetary policy, but CPI will
never reach 2 percent,” Sakakibara, known as “Mr. Yen” for
his efforts to influence exchange rates in the late 1990s, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Susan Li . “This
deflation is structural. It’s a result of the integration of the
Japanese economy with the rest of east Asia and it has taken
place for the last 20 years.”  Japanese  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in January from a year earlier, government data showed
this month. The so-called core inflation rate has decreased an
average of 0.2 percent every month over the past decade.  “If you exclude prices of  consumer durables  like cars and
televisions, which have come down, what we have had is stable
prices,” said Sakakibara, who served as vice finance minister
from 1997-1999. “I don’t agree with policy of getting out of
so-called deflation. Nobody’s suffering.”  The yen rose 0.1 percent to 96.04 per dollar as of 4:57
p.m. in  Tokyo . It reached a more than three-year low of 96.71
this week and has plunged about 13 percent since Abe’s election
in December amid expectations of expanded monetary stimulus.  Extreme Iwata  “I think it will be traded in the range of between 92 and
97, 98, and I think it will be very difficult to go over 100,”
Sakakibara, who is now a professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University 
in Tokyo, said about the yen. Markets have “already absorbed”
expectations for the BOJ to expand monetary easing, he said.  Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso also won approval today as
deputy governors of the central bank.  Japan ’s main opposition
party voted against Iwata, who has been an advocate of monetary
easing since the 1990s and has said the government should have
more say in setting BOJ policy.  “Iwata is a little bit too extreme,” Sakakibara said.
“Iwata’s extremism will be watered down by Kuroda.”  Japan may be able to reach gross domestic product growth of
up to 2.5 percent in 2013, while in the U.S., improvements in
housing and employment are propelling the economy, he said later
at a forum in  Singapore .  “The comeback of the  U.S. economy  this time is real,”
Sakakibara said. “I think this trend of the U.S. economy will
continue for another two years or three years. And because of
that, I think dollar will continue to be very strong, vis a vis
other currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  