-- Abe Says Preparing for Seoul Summit With China, South Korea
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-03-15T13:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/abe-says-preparing-for-seoul-summit-with-china-south-korea.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said
 Japan  was preparing for a trilateral summit with  China  and South
Korea, in a sign territorial tensions between the three Asian
neighbors may be cooling after a change of leadership.  Japan has not held a top-level meeting with China since May
last year, after a row over disputed islands in the East China
Sea erupted into riots in China that damaged Japanese
businesses. Japanese and Chinese ships have been tailing one
another around the uninhabited islands, called Diaoyu in China
and Senkaku in Japan, for months.  Abe is set to meet Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, who was
appointed today, and new South Korean President Park Geun Hye in
Seoul, he said in an interview on NHK public television, without
specifying a date. Japan is engaged in a dispute over a separate
group of islets with South Korea.  “It is set to be held in  Seoul ,” Abe said of the summit.
“If a meeting between these three countries can be held, it
will be very positive for diplomacy and for regional security,”
he added.  A report in the Nikkei newspaper today said the talks may
be held on May 25-26.  Abe, who took office on Dec. 26 after a landslide election
victory, said Japan would strengthen ties with its ally the
U.S., including by cooperating on sanctions against North Korea.  “If it continues on its current course, North Korea is on
the path to extinction,” Abe said in the televised interview.
“Secretary Kim should make the wise decision to change policies
and put North Korea on the path to prosperity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  