-- ACLU Suit for CIA Drone Data Revived by Appeals Court
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-03-15T20:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/aclu-wins-reversal-of-ruling-denying-cia-drone-program-data-1-.html
The  American Civil Liberties Union 
won a round in its bid to get data from the Central Intelligence
Agency on its use of drones as a U.S. appeals court ruled public
statements by officials had already disclosed the program.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  today sent the case back to a lower court for further
review. The panel said in light of the officials’ statements,
the CIA couldn’t argue the program was secret so it didn’t have
to confirm or deny whether it had documents regarding drones’
use to kill individuals in Pakistan and Yemen.  “Given these official acknowledgments that the  United
States  has participated in drone strikes, it is neither logical
nor plausible for the CIA to maintain that it would reveal
anything not already in the public domain,” Circuit Judge
Merrick B. Garland wrote in a 19-page opinion on behalf of the
panel, which included Judges David Tatel and  Thomas Griffith .  The dispute involves a Freedom of Information Act request
by the ACLU seeking records on the legal basis for using
unmanned aerial vehicles to kill human targets, the number of
strikes and selection of targets.  The group also wants documents on whether the program
involves cooperation with foreign countries, the determination
of possible civilian casualties and the evaluation of completed
strikes.  Officials’ Comments  The ACLU argued in its appeal that the CIA’s refusal to
confirm or deny existence of the records was unlawful because
officials including President  Barack Obama  and  Leon Panetta , the
defense secretary at the time, had acknowledged the program’s
existence in public statements.  The ruling “will make it more difficult for the government
to deflect questions about the program’s scope and legal
basis,” said ACLU Deputy Legal Director Jameel Jaffer, who
argued the case before the panel in September. “It also means
that the CIA will have to explain what records it is
withholding, and on what grounds it is withholding them.”  CIA spokeswoman Jennifer Youngblood said “the CIA does
not, as a rule, comment on matters before the courts,” in an e-
mailed note.  The ACLU filed its FOIA request in January 2010, seeking to
learn when, where and against whom drone strikes can be
authorized and whether the U.S. ensures compliance with
international law restricting extrajudicial killings.  National Security  In September 2011, the district court granted the
government’s request to dismiss the case, accepting the CIA’s
argument that it couldn’t release any documents because even to
acknowledge the program’s existence would harm national
security.  When an agency has officially acknowledged otherwise exempt
information through previous disclosures, it has waived its
right to withhold that information, Garland wrote in today’s
opinion. Besides Obama and Panetta, the judge cited remarks by
 John Brennan , Obama’s ex-counterterrorism adviser and now CIA
director, about the presence of the drone targeting program.  “There comes a point where courts should not be ignorant
as judges of what they know as men and women,” Garland wrote.
“We are at that point with respect to the question of whether
the CIA has any documents regarding the subject of drone
strikes.”  Just how detailed those disclosures must be, “is another
matter,” Garland wrote.  The case is American Civil Liberties Union v. Central
Intelligence Agency, 11-5320, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 