-- Maersk Stock Rises as China Container-Shipping Rates Jump
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-15T08:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/maersk-stock-rises-as-china-container-shipping-rates-jump.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container line, rose the most in 10 days in
Copenhagen trading after freight rates out of  China  jumped.  Maersk’s B shares rose as much as 1.7 percent, the most
since March 5. The stock gained 1 percent to 46,520 kroner at
9:45 a.m. local time, with trading volume at 22 percent of the
three-month daily average. The gain outpaced a 0.1 percent
increase in the  Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20 (KFX)  index.  Container companies, including Copenhagen-based Maersk
Line, have said they plan to raise rates starting today in an
effort to combat price declines caused by overcapacity. The
Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, a measure of box rates out
of China, rose 13 percent today, the most in a year and the
first advance in two months.  “It seems that container lines have enjoyed initial
success in their efforts to boost rates, but it was also
needed,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Sydbank A/S, said by
phone. “It will be interesting to see if rates go up again next
week as some of the announced increases may not have filtered
through yet in today’s SCFI.”  Today’s increase is “more or less in line with what I
expected,” Pedersen said. The analyst, who’s based in the
Danish city of Aabenraa, has a buy  recommendation  on Maersk
shares.  Maersk Line cut capacity on the Asia/Europe route -- its
biggest -- by about 21 percent last year amid a slowdown in
demand. The shipping line said Feb. 22 that profit this year
will be higher than the $461 million reached in 2012 as the
company cuts costs and as growth in global container demand
accelerates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  