-- Maine Booze-Bond Plan Buoys Hospitals Needing Cash: Muni Credit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/maine-booze-bond-plan-buoys-hospitals-needing-cash-muni-credit.html
Maine  Governor Paul LePage, a
Republican who’s curbed borrowing since he took office two years
ago with Tea Party backing, aims to take a page from Nevada and
 Ohio  in a plan to sell bonds backed by booze revenue.  LePage wants to create debt paid out of proceeds from a new
contract to operate Maine’s liquor-distribution system, using
the money to pay what it owes hospitals in the state. The $186
million payment to 39 hospitals -- led by Eastern Maine Medical
Center in Bangor, owed $72 million, and Maine Medical Center in
 Portland , owed $68 million -- would also trigger $298 million in
federal funds.  Democrats, who control the legislature, oppose the plan as
a burden for taxpayers. Yet John Flahive, director of fixed
income at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, says it would strengthen
the local health-care industry. Bonds sold by Maine hospitals
have been gaining amid a rally in securities of the facilities
nationwide. Eastern Maine Medical, the Bangor area’s primary
health provider, has seen relative borrowing costs on some debt
fall about 25 percent since January.  “You’re getting a positive benefit to the health-care
institutions and you also have potentially another revenue bond
from an issuer who doesn’t issue all that often,” Flahive said
from  Boston . His firm manages $22 billion of municipal
securities, including Maine hospital debt.  Booze Backing  LePage’s attempt follows similar moves in other states. The
2013-2015 budget proposal from Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval, a
Republican, included $58 million in general-obligation bonds to
repair state buildings. His administration has considered using
booze levies to back the debt. In January, a private entity
created by Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, to spur job
growth sold $1.5 billion in debt backed by profits from the
state’s wholesale liquor-distribution system.  “Investors like revenue streams,” said John Mousseau, a
portfolio manager in Vineland,  New Jersey , at Cumberland
Advisors. The firm manages about $2.2 billion, including Maine
hospital debt.  “Securitizing liquor tax can be more measurable and
consistent over a full faith and credit pledge,” he said.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are already
demanding less extra yield to hold Maine hospital borrowings.  Hospital Rally  Eastern Maine Medical bonds rated two levels above junk by
 Standard & Poor’s  and due July 2043 traded March 13 with an
average yield of 4.09 percent, or about one percentage point
above AAA munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That spread
has dropped from about 1.3 percentage points when the bonds sold
at the end of January.  Hospital munis have earned 2.2 percent in the past six
months, compared with 1.5 percent for the broader market,
Barclays Plc data show.  The governor of the 10th-smallest state by population was
elected in 2010. He faces opposition from Democrats, who won
back control of both legislative chambers in November. The
hospital debt issue has consumed lawmakers since LePage unveiled
his plan in January.  His proposal marries two otherwise unrelated issues: the
hospital payments and revenue the state expects to earn when it
renegotiates a new liquor contract to replace the one expiring
in 2014. LePage had vowed to veto all legislation -- even his
own -- if Democrats didn’t go along with this plan. Assistant
House Majority Leader Jeff McCabe, a Skowhegan Democrat, said
the governor’s behavior was “irrational” and represented “do-
nothing politics.”  Dueling Plans  Maine took private the operation of its wholesale liquor-
distribution system in 2004, striking a 10-year deal with Maine
Beverage Company for an upfront payment of $125 million and an
annual revenue share that tallied $8.7 million last year, said
Gerry Reid, director of the Bureau of Alcoholic Beverages and
Lottery Operations.  Democrats introduced a plan this week to renew the contract
for an upfront payment of $200 million, which would go toward
the hospital tab, as well as a stream of annual payments and
profit sharing.  LePage’s proposal, which Reid helped write, will net more
money, Reid said. Reid said his “conservative” estimate is
$458 million over 10 years, based on the $45.8 million in
operating income that Maine Beverage earned last year. The plan
would use some of that money to lower prices for consumers and
help decrease the $30 million Mainers spend annually in  New
Hampshire  on liquor. That annual stream would also back the
bonds.  Hospital Bill  Democrats say that by not bonding, taxpayers wouldn’t be
saddled with interest payments.  “Asking  Wall Street  to pay our hospitals only leaves us in
debt to Wall Street,” Senate President Justin Alfond, a
Portland Democrat, said in a January statement about the
governor’s proposal.  Senate Majority Leader Seth Goodall, who sponsored the
party’s proposal, said the governor’s plan may be against the
state’s constitution, which he said prohibits using bonds to pay
for current expenditures.  Maine’s debt to hospitals grew to $484 million over the
past four years after it failed to fully pay for MaineCare, the
local version of Medicaid that provides for the poor, elderly
and disabled. The Maine Hospital Association worked with the
governor on his proposal yet hasn’t come out against the
Democratic version. It cites the program’s enrollment growth, to
about 338,000 in a state of 1.3 million, from 220,000 a decade
ago, as a primary cost driver.  Expanding Pie  “We need these payments,” said Jeffrey Austin, the
Augusta-based association’s chief lobbyist. “The longer you
wait, the bigger the piece of the pie you’re responsible for”
as the federal government reimburses the state less each year.  Democrats, who began expanding MaineCare’s eligibility
rules when they controlled the legislature in 1997, say the
program provides a lifeline. They point to the $3.7 billion in
payments to hospitals over the past decade and their passage of
a pay-as-you-go system for the state’s hospital debt as proof of
their commitment to paying the bills.  LePage’s initiative could “substantively” increase the
state’s debt load, according to  Fitch Ratings . In addition to
creating the liquor-revenue bonds, it calls for issuing $100
million in debt for a new corrections facility. LePage has said
he would also release $105 million in general-obligation bonds
that he has refused to issue since voters approved them
beginning in 2009.  In January, Fitch cut its rating on Maine’s approximately
$472 million of general obligations to AA, the third-highest
level, citing budget gaps and growing MaineCare costs.  Market Movement  Yields on benchmark munis due in 30 years climbed about
0.06 percentage point to 3.12 percent yesterday, the highest
since Aug. 22, Bloomberg data show.  Following are pending sales:  NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY is set to sell $1.4 billion
of revenue bonds as soon as next week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Bond proceeds will help finance road-widening
projects and bridge upgrades. (Added March 15)  NEW YORK  CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to sell
$1 billion of revenue debt as soon as next week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds will be repaid with
personal-income tax and sales-tax revenue, according to bond
documents. Proceeds will help finance capital projects, school
construction and refund debt. (Added March 15)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  