-- Airbus Test Pilot Says Air France Crash Defeats Simulators
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-15T13:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/airbus-test-pilot-says-air-france-crash-has-simulators-stumped.html
Almost four years after an  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  plane crashed into the Atlantic killing 228
people, Airbus SAS, which built the ill-fated A330 jetliner, is
still seeking ways to help pilots avoid a repeat occurrence.  With flight simulators unable to accurately replicate the
conditions after an aircraft loses lift, or stalls, wholesale
changes to training regimes may be required, according to Airbus
test pilot Terry Lutz. Other solutions might include giving more
control to computers even in the confused conditions under which
command currently diverts to the human crew.  “The whole training philosophies need to be adjusted,”
Lutz said in a presentation at the Royal Aeronautical Society in
London. “It’s time for everybody to take a step back in the
training environment and decide what things are absolutely
crucial and need to be maintained year after year.”  Air France Flight 447 was lost en route from  Rio de Janeiro 
to Paris on June 1, 2009, after its pilots took control when the
autopilot disengaged in response to conflicting speed data later
found to have been caused by iced-up sensors. A probe by French
accident investigators said the crew lacked the training to
respond to the surprise scenario and worsened the situation by
opting to lift the plane’s nose in an attempt to gain altitude.  ‘Extremely Challenging’  While work is under way across the industry to improve the
models used to run simulators, until the feedback they provide
is completely reliable their use could cause pilots to make poor
decisions, said Stephane Vaux, an Airbus flight-test engineer.  The dynamic and varied flying conditions that follow a loss
of lift are especially tough to replicate, according to Paul
Bolds-Moorehead, a senior lead engineer at  Boeing Co. (BA) , who took
part in a rare joint presentation with his Airbus counterparts.  “It has been extremely challenging to try and get an
accurate simulator, post-stall,” he said.  Vaux, who also spoke at the event, added that low-altitude
stalls are one area where understanding is particularly poor.  Engineers are also exploring whether a plane could be
better protected after a stall by expanding the use of computer-
generated responses even when control reverts to its pilots
following the receipt of conflicting information, as happened in
the Air France crash.  “Could we develop a way to provide some kind of angle-of-
attack limiting function?” Bolds-Moorehead said. “It would be
very problematic to do, but it’s something we should probably
look into.”  Automation Debate  Programming an aircraft to effectively recover itself has
even been discussed at a “philosophical level,” though
Boeing’s mantra remains to leave the pilot in charge, he said.  Air-safety officials are studying whether increased cockpit
automation has actually caused basic flying skills to atrophy.
The crew of a Colgan Air turboprop that crashed near Buffalo,
 New York , in 2009 also failed to properly deal with a stall, the
U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has found.  When a plane loses lift its fate will ultimately be
determined by the willingness of its pilots to push down the
nose and force more air over the wings to regain control, even
though that action might seem counterintuitive with altitude
being lost, said Van Chaney, Boeing’s deputy chief test pilot.  “You have to be willing to give up thousands of feet of
altitude to break stall,” he said at the London presentation.  Airbus has said the A330 in the AF447 crash was responsive
throughout its descent into the sea. Air France has defended its
pilots, saying confusing cockpit readouts were partly to blame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  