-- Alam Sutera Plans Dollar Bond as Indonesia Sovereign Mulls Sale
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-15T05:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/alam-sutera-plans-dollar-bond-as-indonesia-sovereign-mulls-sale.html
PT Alam Sutera Realty joined
Indonesian companies planning dollar-denominated notes as the
Southeast Asian nation’s government lines up an offering. Bond
risk in Australia and  Japan  fell.  The Jakarta-based property developer hired Morgan Stanley
and UBS AG to arrange fixed-income investor meetings, and a sale
may follow the talks, said a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.
PT Pertamina Persero and PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia  Persero Tbk,
along with the Republic of Indonesia, are also planning deals.  Capital markets  should be the main funding source for
Indonesian companies instead of banks, Muliaman Hadad, chairman
at the nation’s Financial Services Authority, said in January.
Dollar offerings from  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy fell 59
percent to $1.1 billion so far this year from the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There has been a lack of supply from Indonesia,” said
Brayan Lai, an analyst in emerging-market credit trading at
Jefferies Group Inc. “Most of the issuers from that nation are
probably hoping to ride on the back of the sovereign.”  Yield premiums for Indonesian dollar notes fell 19 basis
points this month to  271.5 basis points  more than Treasuries,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 101.5 basis points
as of 9:04 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The measure is set for its lowest
close since January 2011, CMA data show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 0.5 of a basis
points to 101.8 as of 9:23 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The benchmark had fallen 20.4 basis points this month
through yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 2 basis points to
104 basis points as of 11:19 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. The last time the gauge closed below that
level was in May 2011, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  