-- Malaysia Default Swaps Rise on Election Concern; Ringgit Weakens
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-03-15T02:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/malaysia-default-swaps-rise-on-election-concern-ringgit-weakens.html
The cost of insuring  Malaysia ’s
sovereign debt against default was set for the first weekly
increase in more than a month and the ringgit fell on concern
the government will lose support in upcoming elections.  The opposition coalition will win the next polls with a
parliamentary majority of more than 10 seats and control at
least six of the nation’s 13 states, leader Anwar Ibrahim said
in a March 8 interview. Prime Minister Najib Razak, who must
dissolve parliament by April 28, saw his approval rating drop to
61 percent in February, the lowest since August 2011, from 63
percent at the end of December, according to a survey from the
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research released Feb. 26. Najib has
embarked on a $444 billion, 10-year economic development plan.  “There was speculation early in the week that parliament
was dissolved,” said Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange strategist in
 Singapore  at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia . “The outcome of
the polls is also a big question mark.”  Five-year credit-default swaps on Malaysian debt climbed
five basis points this week to 78 yesterday in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. They increased one basis point yesterday. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The ringgit weakened 0.3 percent from its March 8 close to
3.1143 per dollar as of 9:53 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
6.68 percent. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent today.  Government bonds were steady this week and today. The yield
on the 3.26 percent notes due March 2018 held at 3.24 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  