-- Half of Michigan Blacks Lose Local Power in Detroit Takeover
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-15T12:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/half-of-michigan-s-blacks-lose-local-control-in-detroit-takeover.html
When emergency manager Kevyn Orr
arrives in near-bankrupt  Detroit , almost half of  Michigan ’s
black population will live under the rule of state overseers
with little say in the governments nearest them.  In cities run by governors’ appointees after decades of
decline, Michiganders whose ancestors fled the segregated South
for factory jobs and the right to vote weigh the abstract value
of autonomy versus the palpable comfort of a stable community.  Joe Harris, 69, embodies the conflict. His family left
 Alabama  in the 1930s after the Ku Klux Klan threatened an uncle
for refusing to let a white man cut in a line. Eight decades
later, the longtime government auditor unilaterally ran Benton
Harbor, Michigan, where the state installed him after the
majority-black city failed to free itself from fiscal distress.  “I understand their frustration with this concept of,
‘Well, you’re taking away our democratic rights,’” Harris said.
“But what’s the alternative, especially in Detroit?”  Governor  Rick Snyder , a white Republican, yesterday named
Orr, an African-American bankruptcy lawyer from  Washington , as
Detroit’s emergency manager. The city is 82 percent black with a
history of racial migration and strife.  The city was an industrial powerhouse with 1.8 million
residents in the 1950s. It has withered to about 700,000 people
in a sparsely populated 139 square miles (36,000 hectares) as
the  auto industry  contracted and revenue plunged.  Dollars First  While a law taking effect March 28 allows for some input by
local elected officials in cities the state has taken over,
appointed managers have ultimate authority to operate and
restructure them, selling assets and canceling union contracts.
Some residents complain that leaves them with no vote in the
government closest to them, the one that fills potholes, cleans
streets and maintains parks -- or, in some cases, doesn’t.  While Snyder and supporters say fiscal struggles are the
reason for Orr’s appointment to run the home of  General Motors
Co. (GM) , some residents fear it is meant to strip the city of its
assets and the people of their rights.  Orr will have wide authority, though he must seek
alternative money-saving plans from the council and mayor before
he sells assets or changes union contracts.  “To some folks in Detroit, it looks like white folks are
trying to come in and steal back the city,” said state
Representative Fred Durhal, 61, who’s running for mayor this
year. “What I tell them is what’s going on has more to do 
with another color, and that’s green.”  Great Migration  The cities under emergency management, Detroit, Flint,
Pontiac, Allen Park,  Benton Harbor  and Ecorse, account for 49.5
percent of the state’s black population, according to U.S.
Census data. They contain only 2.1 percent of the white
population.  About 6 million blacks moved from the South to Michigan and
other northern states during the Great Migration, which began
during World War I and ended in the 1970s, said Isabel
Wilkerson, author of “The Warmth of Other Suns,” a book about
the era. Detroit’s black population increased from 5,740 in 1910
to 120,000 by 1930, or about 9 percent of the population, and
nearly 30 percent was black by the early 1960s, according to
“The Detroit Almanac.”  Forbidden Games  They were fleeing a system known as  Jim Crow , which
controlled every aspect of black southerners’ lives, including
matters as picayune as forbidding whites to play checkers with
blacks in Birmingham, Alabama, Wilkerson said. Industries
seeking cheap workers recruited the first migrants, and
succeeding generations followed to work in the auto industry and
other factories, she said.  “The parents, grandparents and great-grandparents of many
African-Americans now in Detroit and the rest of the state left
to find freedom to pursue their dreams,” Wilkerson said by e-
mail from Atlanta. “It would not be surprising if the
descendants of the Great Migration would be desirous of help but
wary of and sensitive to efforts to control their destiny,” she
said.  In Benton Harbor, home of  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , factories sent
buses south after World War II to bring workers, said Robert
Myers, curator of the Berrien County Historical Association.  From 2010 until Tony Saunders II took over Feb. 1, Harris
ran the city of 10,000 where almost 90 percent of the residents
are black, according to U.S. Census data. The city lost almost
half its population since 1960, 48 percent of the citizens live
in poverty, and the median  household income  is $17,815 compared
with $48,669 statewide.  After three years of emergency management,  Benton Harbor’s
debate about race and the law hasn’t been settled.  Racist Miasma  Marcus Muhammad, a city commissioner since 2010, said the
law establishing emergency managers has been “a dismal
failure.”  “The evidence is overwhelming that this is a racist law,
and that it cannot escape the racial overtones that are leaking
out of it like alcohol leaks out of pores,” said Muhammad, 38.  Wilce Cooke, Benton Harbor’s former mayor, said his mother
came to the city from  Arkansas  to join relatives who moved for
foundry jobs. He calls the emergency-manager law “subtle Jim
Crow.”  James Hightower, who succeeded him in 2011, said elected
officials failed to make decisions needed for fiscal stability.  “Poor management is not black, it’s not white, it’s not
red or yellow,” Hightower said in an interview. “It’s just
poor management.”  The emergency manager’s appointment is “non-political and
purely financial,” Jeff Noel, a spokesman for Whirlpool, said
in a statement. “The process is painful, and invites debate,
but the process also creates positive change.”  Surrendered Phones  Standing on her porch in Benton Harbor, Evelyn Wilburn, 41,
said that while she doesn’t like losing voting power, she wants
good services and doesn’t think city workers needed the mobile
phones and gas cards they gave up.  “If it’s best for the city, that’s OK,” Wilburn said.  Michigan, like most states, has broad authority over local
governments, even the power to abolish them, said John Mogk, a
law professor at  Wayne State University  in Detroit who
specializes in urban policy.  While that basic organizational power is different from the
intricate legal codes of segregation, the emergency-manager
measure links blacks with failure, said David Pilgrim, founding
curator of the Jim Crow Museum of Racist Memorabilia and a
sociology professor at Ferris State University in Big Rapids,
Michigan.  Ruled and Rulers  “If I’m a young, African-American person growing up in
Detroit or Benton Harbor or one of these mostly black areas,
what is the message that sends?” Pilgrim said. “It certainly
looks like the message is that people that look like you can’t
govern.”  In downtown Detroit on March 7, Charles Williams II, a
reverend, and about 50 supporters protested the emergency-
manager law. He used a bullhorn to promise a struggle in the
spirit of civil-rights leaders such as Medgar Evers,
assassinated in  Mississippi  in 1963.  “I don’t see how it couldn’t be racially motivated,”
Williams, 30, said of the law. “We will stop this because of
folks who stood before us, like Medgar Evers, who fought for
 voting rights .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Benton Harbor at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  