-- Angola Minister Says Oil Will Stay Higher Than $100 in 2013
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-15T15:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/angola-minister-says-oil-will-stay-higher-than-100-this-year.html
The price of crude oil will remain
at more than $100 a barrel for the rest of 2013, Angolan
Petroleum Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said.  “For this year, yes, everything indicates that the price
will be maintained, although there are many variables in the
market,” Vasconcelos said yesterday in an interview in Luanda,
the capital. “The most important thing is that the price is
over $100 a barrel.”  Brent crude  has averaged $113.26 a barrel this year,
compared with $111.66 in 2012. The May contract traded at
$110.18 a barrel as of 3:35 p.m. in  London . The average of
Brent, Dubai and West Texas Intermediate grades will be $99.17
this year and $96.78 in 2014, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Angola’s oil output of about 1.8 million barrels
a day is  Africa ’s largest after  Nigeria .  The southwest African country is a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which meets May
31 in Vienna to determine the group’s production quota and
select a new secretary-general. Any discussion of quotas for
individual countries would depend on the situation, Vasconcelos
said. OPEC’s output has at times exceeded its own limit of 30
million barrel a day by about 1 million and there hasn’t been an
effect on the price, he said.  Angola  LNG, a $10 billion liquefied natural gas plant that
was supposed to start more than a year ago, has been delayed by
engineering adjustments after unexpected test results in
October, Vasconcelos said. Baptista Sumbe, board member of
Sonangol EP, the state energy company, said Feb. 25 construction
would be completed in four to six weeks, followed by a decision
on when the first fuel would be shipped.  Destination Angola  The LNG carrier Soyo signaled March 11 that its next
destination is “off Angola,” an 18-day trip from its location
in  Malaysia , according to IHS Fairplay ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg. Vasconcelos said he wasn’t aware of the
tanker’s movements.  The facility, with a capacity of 5.2 million metric tons a
year, is located at the mouth of the Congo River on the
country’s north border. Sonangol has a 22.8 percent stake in the
Angola LNG plant.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  owns 36.4 percent, while  Total
SA (FP) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Eni SpA each hold 13.6 percent, according to the
project’s  website .  Candidates for the position of OPEC secretary-general are
being analyzed by a committee and Vasconcelos said he didn’t
have a favorite for the decision, which is achieved by
consensus. The cartel was unsuccessful at the last meeting on
Dec. 12 in Vienna to select a replacement for  Libya ’s Abdalla
El-Badri, whose second three-year term was supposed to have
ended Dec. 31. He was given a one-year extension.  Onshore Blocks  Angola will ensure negotiations protect the environment,
cultural heritage and landowners on 15 blocks to be part of the
country’s first round of onshore  concession  bidding this year,
the minister said.  Five blocks in the Congo basin and 10 in the Kwanza basin
are to be awarded, Sonangol said Feb. 25. The company has
divided the Kwanza basin around Luanda into 23 blocks of 1,000
square kilometers (386 square miles) each. The 9,960 square-
kilometer  Kissama National Park  lies within the concession.  “These commitments that have been made will result in
negotiations preventing the undermining of some areas, such as
the national park,” Vasconcelos said. “It’s not just about the
environment, but also cultural heritage, and we have to take
into account the owner of the land.”  Petrofina Refinery  Belgium ’s Petrofina and  France ’s Cia Francais Petroleo,
predecessors to Total, tapped the Tobia and Galinda fields near
Cabo Ledo, 120 kilometers (75 miles) south of Luanda, about 40
years ago. Production was piped to the Petrofina refinery in
Luanda. New prospecting is expected to use the latest
technology, such as 3-D seismic mapping, to find more oil.  The government has promoted the onshore blocks as a means
for Angolan companies to enter the oil sector because it costs
less than offshore drilling. Almost all of the southwest African
country’s output is from Atlantic Ocean fields operated by
companies such as Total, Chevron, Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP.  The government will cut fuel subsidies this year, the
minister said, while he declined to say by how much because it
is a sensitive issue. Subsidies will remain in place for  diesel
fuel  used in public transportation and agriculture, and butane
gas and lighter fuel used in home cooking, he said.  Fuel subsidies amounted to 6.3 percent of economic output
in 2011, according to the IMF. Gasoline sells for 60 cents a
liter across the country, diesel for 40 cents.  The government is in “very preliminary” discussions with
potential partners to build a 200,000 barrel-a-day refinery
within the next five years, Vasconcelos said. He declined to
identify the interested companies for the project in the
northern town of Soyo, where international companies have bases
for offshore operations and the nearby LNG terminal.  Construction at the 200,000 barrel-a-day refinery in the
southern port of Lobito is proceeding while the government
remains open to partnership offers, the minister said. Sonangol
is building the $8 billion facility amid concern about the cost
and having to pump crude up a seaside cliff to the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  