-- Anji Reddy, Founder of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Dies
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-03-15T18:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/anji-reddy-founder-of-dr-reddy-s-laboratories-dies.html
K. Anji Reddy, the founder of
 India ’s second-largest drugmaker, died yesterday. He was 74.  Reddy, who had been ill, died in Hyderabad, the company
said in an e-mailed statement, without giving details. Reddy was
suffering from  liver cancer , the  Press Trust of India  reported,
without saying where it got the information.  Billionaire Reddy, a chemical engineer, founded  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  in 1984, according to the statement. He
started funding research with an investment of 60 million rupees
($1.1 million) in 1993 with the goal of making the Hyderabad-
based company the first Indian  firm  to create a drug and sell it
globally, Reddy said in an interview in 2006.  “The second line of management that he had created is good
enough to take the company forward,” said Surya Narayan Patra,
an analyst at Systematix Shares & Stocks Ltd. in Mumbai.  Reddy’s son Satish Reddy is the company’s managing
director, while the founder’s son-in-law G.V. Prasad is the vice
chairman and chief executive officer of the company.  Reddy, who was conferred India’s third-highest civilian
honor, the Padma Bhushan, in 2011, listed Dr. Reddy’s on the  New
York  Stock Exchange in 2001, the first  drug company  from Asia,
excluding Japan, to list on the U.S. bourse.  The company reported record  sales  of 96.6 billion rupees
($1.8 billion) in the year ended March 31. Larger rival  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  reported revenue of 122.5 billion rupees in
the 12 months to Dec. 31  ‘Playing God’  “I want to see one of my products being taken by people
across the world,” Reddy said in the 2006 interview. “I want
to see them improving and leading a better life. It’s like
playing God.”  Kallam Anji Reddy spent his early years in the village of
Tadepalli in the southern Indian state of  Andhra Pradesh , where
his father grew turmeric, an Indian spice. Reddy graduated from
the local high school and went on to get a bachelor of science
degree from Andhra Christian College in Guntur in 1958.  “In improving access to affordable, high quality medicines
and in innovation, his contributions have been extraordinary,”
Satish Reddy said in yesterday’s statement.  A native speaker of Telegu, Reddy taught himself English
and earned another bachelor’s degree in pharmaceuticals and fine
chemicals in 1964 from the University of Bombay, now called the
University of Mumbai. He followed that with a Ph.D. in chemical
engineering from the National Chemical Laboratory in the western
city of Pune.  In 1985, Reddy started making methyldopa, an off-patent
hypertension drug that Merck had discovered. A year later, Reddy
listed his company on the  Bombay Stock Exchange  and four
regional exchanges by selling 1.1 million shares to the public.
Reddy’s passion for research led Dr. Reddy’s taking up drug
discovery research in 1993 and was the first pharmaceutical
company in India to initiate basic drug discovery research.  Reddy served as a member of the  Global Alliance  for
Improved Nutrition,  Switzerland  and the Prime Minister’s Council
on Trade and Industry.  Reddy is survived by his wife and two children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  