-- ArcelorMittal Seeks $3 Billion Cost Cuts as Steel Recovers
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-03-15T15:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/arcelormittal-sets-3-billion-target-for-costs-cuts-by-end-2015.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, plans to cut costs by the end of 2015 as it seeks to
emerge from a slump in demand and revive earnings.  ArcelorMittal said the savings will be targeted in stages,
through a program that includes improving the reliability and
productivity of its blast furnaces and cutting fuel costs.
ArcelorMittal is optimistic about the industry’s outlook and
expects profit to be bolstered by rising demand, executives told
investors today in presentations in London and New York.  “These focal points, combined with our leading market
position in developed and  emerging markets , our diverse mix of
products, as well as our world class customer service will
enable us to be successful in this new operating environment,”
 Lakshmi Mittal , chief executive officer of the Luxembourg-based
company, said in a statement.  The steelmaker said last month it expects an earnings
recovery in 2013 after posting the lowest quarterly profit in
three years. Earnings in the industry have slumped as Europe’s
economic crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on
commodity prices. European steelmakers are grappling with excess
capacity that’s pushing down prices as operating costs climb.  ArcelorMittal said today it expects global steel
consumption to rise by 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year.
 European demand  will slide to a low point before rebounding next
year.  Better Margins  The company plans to boost the profit it makes on each ton
of steel in the next five years. Per-ton earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will rise to $150
from an average of about $87 between 2010 and 2012, it forecast.
Demand in both  Europe  and North America will rise by about 20
million tons in the next 5 years.  ArcelorMittal won’t raise its dividend or invest in growth
capex until reducing  net debt  below a medium-term target of $15
billion, Chief Financial Officer Aditya Mittal said today. The
company, which reported debt of $21.8 billion at the end of the
fourth quarter, is seeking to reduce borrowings after its credit
rating was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  ArcelorMittal said it wants to regain its investment grade
rating “in time” and that it will shun deals that have a
negative impact on its credit rating.  The company has scaled back its dividend and sold assets,
including a $1.1 billion stake in its Canadian mining business
in a bid to pare debt to $17 billion by the end of June. It said
today that it had completed the first installment of the sale of
15 percent in ArcelorMittal Mines Canada to a POSCO-led group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  