-- Argentina Rating Cut by Moody’s on Default Risk From Court Case
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-03-15T17:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/argentina-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-default-risk-from-court-case.html
Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded  Argentina ’s foreign bonds to seven levels below
investment grade, as a U.S. court case with holdout creditors
increases the chances the country will default.  The rating on  government securities  under foreign
legislation was cut to Caa1 from B3 while the rating on the
country’s local law bonds were affirmed at B3, Moody’s said in
an e-mailed statement today. The outlook on both ratings is
negative. The Caa1 rating is in line with Cuba, Ecuador and
 Pakistan .  While the country has the capacity to meet its debt
obligations, “the government has repeatedly stated that it
would not pay litigating bondholders in full,” Moody’s analysts
 Gabriel Torres  and Bart Jan Sebastian Oosterveld wrote.
“Today’s rating action reflects the risk that the final court
ruling will result in some delay or loss to restructured
foreign-law debt bondholders.”  The U.S. appeals court on Oct. 26 upheld a ruling by
District Court Judge Thomas Griesa that Argentina must pay
holders of defaulted debt whenever it pays performing bonds. The
U.S. appeals court asked Argentina to propose a payment formula
by March 29 as part of a review of a ruling ordering the country
to pay holdout creditors, including billionaire hedge fund
manager  Paul Singer , $1.33 billion.  Speculation  South America ’s second-biggest country will
default for the second time in 12 years rose after Argentina
said in a Feb. 27 court hearing the nation would halt payments
on its restructured debt before giving into holdouts who refused
to accept prior renegotiations. Moody’s said that potential
liabilities from investors holding defaulted debt could rise to
$12 billion.  Bonds Fall  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion in 2001 and
offered investors new securities as part of restructurings in
2005 and 2010 at discounts of about 70 percent. Argentina says
about 92 percent of investors participated in the debt swaps.  Phone calls to the Argentine Economy Ministry seeking
comment on the downgrade went unanswered. Norma Madeo, a
spokeswoman at the ministry, didn’t immediately return an e-
mail.  Yields on Argentina’s  New York  law bonds due 2017 rose 21
basis points to 16.46 percent at 1:39 p.m. New York time. The
price fell 0.51 cents to 77.23 cents on the dollar.  The cost to protect Argentine debt against non-payment over
the next year using credit-default swaps surged 275 basis points
to 6,885, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest in the world and implies a 61 percent chance of default
over the next 12 months.  “People get nervous with headlines but nothing has really
changed, the conditions in Argentina have been clear for a
while,” said Diego Ferro, co-chief investment officer at
Greylock Capital Management LLC in a phone interview from New
York. “It’s mystifying to me that the rating would be cut to
such a low level for something that hasn’t happened yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  