-- Maryland Execution Ban Passes as More States End Killings
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-03-15T20:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/maryland-death-penalty-ban-passes-as-more-states-end-killings.html
Maryland lawmakers voted to repeal
the death penalty following five other U.S. states that have
ended capital punishment in the past six years.  The House of Delegates today passed a bill that would stop
prosecutors from seeking to execute those convicted of murder,
the only crime for which the state allows capital punishment.
The measure passed the Senate earlier this month, and Democratic
Governor  Martin O’Malley  plans to sign it, said Takirra
Winfield, a spokeswoman.  “This is the ultimate power of the state -- the power to
take a human life,” said Delegate Anne Healey, a Democrat,
during debate. “What we can’t live with, what I can’t live
with, is if we do make a mistake, it costs someone his life.”  O’Malley, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, had
pressed lawmakers to adopt the ban. The legislature is also
moving toward adopting some of the nation’s strictest gun laws
backed by O’Malley, including new licensing requirements for
handguns, in response to the Dec. 14 school shooting in Newtown,
 Connecticut .  O’Malley today praised the legislature’s vote at a news
conference in Annapolis, the capital. The state has “a moral
responsibility to stop doing the things that are wasteful, and
that are expensive, and that do not work and do not save
lives,” he said.  Death Row  The governor will decide on a case-by-case basis the fate
of five current death-row inmates, he said in a statement.  Once O’Malley signs the measure, Maryland would become the
18th state without the death penalty.  New Jersey ,  New York ,
 Illinois ,  New Mexico  and Connecticut since 2007 have abolished
executions amid concern about the cost, racial bias in its use
and the risk of condemning those wrongfully convicted.  “There’s a pretty strong trend away from capital
punishment,” said Richard Dieter, the executive director of the
Death Penalty Information Center, a Washington-based nonprofit
that advocates against the practice.  While Maryland and 32 other states allow the death penalty,
its use has declined nationally over the past decade. There were
78 such sentences handed out last year, down from as many as 315
in 1996, according to the Death Penalty Information Center.  In Maryland, executions are rare. Three of the five people
on death row were sentenced more than 25 years ago -- and only
five have been executed since the early 1990s. The most recent
was Wesley Eugene Baker, who was put to death in 2005 for
killing a woman in front of her two grandchildren in a shopping
mall parking lot.  Effective Ban  Executions in the state have effectively been banned since
2006, when a court ruled that the regulatory procedures for
administering them were adopted without required public comment.
The O’Malley administration hasn’t completed regulations that
would allow it to be reintroduced.  O’Malley, who was first elected governor in 2006, has
maintained that the death penalty fails to deter crime, costs
three times as much as sentencing someone to life without
parole, and is prone to racial bias.  The Catholic Church and the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, the Baltimore-based civil-rights
group, joined the effort to repeal capital punishment.  During the debate in the  Maryland  House, some lawmakers
said the death penalty should be kept as a bargaining tool for
prosecutors, a way to deter potential criminals and as a
punishment for crimes such as mass murder and killing children.  Getting ‘Justice’  “The death penalty is not a deterrent, it is justice,”
said Maryland Delegate C.T. Wilson, a Democrat. “What we will
be setting up is a lack of faith in our system when fathers will
not be able to get the justice they deserve.”  Oregon Governor John Kitzhaber, a Democrat, said in 2011 he
wouldn’t allow executions during his term, a step that didn’t
need legislation. In January, Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe, a
Democrat, said he would be willing to halt them in his state, if
the legislature passed a bill to do so. Colorado Representative
Claire Levy, a leader of the Democrats, is planning to advance a
bill to do away with it there.  “We will see more states looking to take the same
action,” said Shari Silberstein, the executive director of
Equal Justice USA, a New York-based group that advocates for
repeal.  After the 82 to 56 vote in Maryland today, cheers erupted
in the House, where advocates of repealing the death penalty
gathered. Among them was Kirk Bloodsworth, who was the first
death-row inmate exonerated by DNA evidence.  “It can happen to anyone in this country,” he told
reporters. “It’s time to do something about it and Maryland is
on the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  