-- Asian Stocks Advance on U.S. Jobless Claims, BOJ Governor
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-15T10:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/asian-stocks-gain-as-u-s-jobless-claims-drop-before-boj.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
regional benchmark index poised to advance for a fourth week,
after U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly dropped and Japan’s upper
house confirmed Haruhiko Kuroda as central bank governor.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese carmaker that gets 44 percent
of sales from North America, gained 2.6 percent. Sony Corp.
surged 11 percent in Tokyo after Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
recommended buying shares of the consumer electronics maker. BYD
Co., the Chinese automaker partially owned by Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., tumbled 7.8 percent as the company is
said to be planning to sell as much as 20 percent of its Hong
Kong-traded shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.5 percent to 136.02
as of 7:34 p.m. Tokyo time, with about five shares rising for
every four that fell. The gauge is heading for a 0.3 percent
advance this week as accelerating U.S. retail sales and a
decline in weekly jobless claims added to signs the world’s
biggest economy is recovering.  “There’s a level of confidence to say that the economic
momentum, albeit tepid, is still positive,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne. “That supports an asset allocation move out of
bonds and into equities. China remains a risk, with increasing
concerns about bubbles developing in the  property market .”  This week’s gain on the Asian benchmark has been limited by
data that showed China’s consumer prices rose at the fastest
pace in 10 months, with People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou
Xiaochuan saying monetary policy is “no longer relaxed.”  BOJ Leadership  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 1.5 percent to
the highest close since September 2008. Kuroda, an advocate of
aggressive monetary easing, was confirmed as  Bank of Japan (8301) 
governor today by parliament’s upper house, along with deputy
governor nominees Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso. Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa and his deputies step down on March 19.  There’s talk of a possible emergency meeting for the BOJ,
said Kenichi Kubo, a senior  fund manager  at Tokio Marine Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $52 billion. “If it
happens, it could introduce drastic measures,” he said. The
central bank’s next policy meeting is scheduled for April 3-4.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 4.6 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks around the world maintained
loose monetary policies to stimulate the global economy and
Japanese shares rallied on speculation Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
will step up efforts to revive economic growth. Shares on the
gauge traded at 14.8 times estimated earnings compared with 14
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  added 0.1 percent to a record
close. The gauge rose a fourth straight week after central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler pledged to keep borrowing costs at a
record low until next year. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
advanced 1.8 percent, the most since July 19. The Jakarta
Composite climbed 0.7 percent.  China Shares  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.4 percent, extending
gains for a second day. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.4
percent, posting its first weekly decline in three weeks as
developers retreated after banks raised  mortgage rates . Taiwan’s
Taiex Index lost 0.3 percent, erasing an advance of 0.6 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.8 percent after gaining as
much as 0.4 percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  slid 0.1 percent today. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  yesterday extended the longest
rally since 1996 as reports showed the number of Americans
filing applications for  unemployment benefits  dropped last week
to the lowest level in almost two months and confidence among
U.S. consumers increased for a sixth straight week.  ‘Growing Optimism’  “Growing optimism about the  U.S. economy  pushes markets
up, even though concerns about China continue to linger,” said
Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research in Sydney
at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25 billion.  Exporters rose. Honda climbed 2.6 percent to 3,820 yen in
Tokyo. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, added
1.4 percent to 5,020 yen.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , the maker
of Ryobi power tools that gets about 72 percent of revenue from
 North America , jumped 2.8 percent to HK$18.10 in Hong Kong.  Sony surged 11 percent to 1,668 yen after Daiwa Securities
raised its rating to buy from neutral, saying it anticipates a
“dramatic earnings turnaround.”  Nikon Corp. (7731) , which makes cameras and chip-manufacturing
equipment, rose 2.5 percent 2,262 yen in Tokyo. The Nikkei
newspaper reported the company won a 6 billion yen ($62 million)
order from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , its  second-biggest customer .  Tariff Barriers  Nippon Meat Packers Inc., a maker of ham and sausages that
owns two Japanese baseball teams, jumped 6.5 percent to 1,552
yen on speculation the government agreed to remove tariff
barriers protecting the country’s beef and wheat farmers when
Japan joins the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks.  Chinese airlines rallied. China should increase investment
for airport construction as facilities in the country won’t be
able to meet travel demand, Shanghai Securities News reported,
citing  Li Jiaxiang , head of the Civil Aviation Administration of
China. Air passenger and cargo volumes will grow faster this
year than last, he said.  China Southern Airlines (1055) , the country’s second-largest
carrier by market value, gained 2.9 percent to HK$4.24 in Hong
Kong. China Eastern Airlines Corp. advanced 1.5 percent to
HK$3.32.  Among shares that fell, BYD tumbled 7.8 percent to
HK$24.25. The company has hire Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG to
arrange a share offering, according to two people familiar with
the matter. Based on yesterday’s close, the sale would be worth
as much as HK$4.17 billion ($538 million), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  