-- Australian Dollar Trades Near Five-Week High Before RBA Minutes
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-15T06:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/australian-dollar-trades-near-five-week-high-before-rba-minutes.html
Australia ’s dollar headed for the
strongest weekly gain in six months before minutes on March 19
from the  Reserve Bank ’s latest meeting, when policy makers
refrained from cutting  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie traded within 0.3 percent of the
highest level in more than five weeks versus the greenback as
traders scaled back rate-cut bets following a report yesterday
showing the biggest job gains in almost 13 years. New Zealand’s
currency, nicknamed the kiwi, headed for a weekly loss as the
nation’s central bank reiterated its focus on exchange rates.  “The expectation of an RBA rate cut has been pared back
quite substantially,” causing a “huge bounce” in the
Australian dollar, said Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford
Capital, a currency risk-management company in Sydney. “I think
the RBA is cautious of cutting too far, too soon.”  The Australian currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.0371 as
of 5:03 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched $1.0401,
the highest since Feb. 6. It has climbed 1.3 percent this week,
the biggest gain since the five days ended Sept. 14 and the best
performance among the Group of 10 currencies.  The  New Zealand  dollar weakened 0.1 percent to 82.13 U.S.
cents. For the week, the kiwi was poised to fall 0.1 percent.  Minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia’s March 5
meeting, due March 19, will give insight into the thinking of
policy makers after they left the developed world’s highest
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a third-straight time.  Rochford’s Mumford expects the Aussie dollar to rise to
$1.0450 in coming weeks.  Yield Surge  Australian bond yields of all maturities surged above the
RBA’s 3 percent cash rate for the first time since 2011
yesterday, after the statistics bureau in Sydney said  employers 
boosted positions by 71,500 in February from a month earlier,
the biggest gain since July 2000.  Australia’s  three-year bond  yield fell four basis points
today, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.11 percent. Yesterday it
touched 3.18 percent, the highest since April 23. The 10-year
yield declined six basis points to 3.62 percent from yesterday,
when it touched 3.71 percent, the highest since April 26.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 87 percent chance the central bank will refrain from
cutting the benchmark rate at the next meeting on April 2, up
from 78 percent odds last week.  The RBA reduced 1.75 percentage points from the key rate in
the 14 months through December.  ‘Forecasting Issues’  In New Zealand, the central bank reiterated today it is
monitoring exchange rates.  “Currently, monetary policy faces some big forecasting
issues,” John McDermott, assistant governor and head of
economics at the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand , said in a text of
a speech in Wellington. “One is the treatment of the  exchange
rate  and its likely future path, which will have substantial
effects on the economy.”  McDermott said an interest-rate cut might help inflation
return to target sooner.  New Zealand’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 2.5 percent following a policy
meeting yesterday.  “The overvalued  New Zealand dollar  is undermining
profitability,” RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a
statement after the decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  