-- Taylor Morrison Said to Start Marketing IPO Next Week
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-03-15T17:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/taylor-morrison-said-to-push-ahead-with-initial-offer-next-week.html
Taylor Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC) , a
builder of houses in the U.S. and Canada, is moving ahead with a
U.S. initial public offering next week, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The homebuilder will begin pitching the sale to investors
next week and expects to complete the IPO within about two weeks
of starting the marketing, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the process is private. Taylor Morrison filed for
an IPO with a $250 million placeholder amount in December and
later increased the amount to $500 million.  Taylor Morrison, based in Scottsdale, Arizona, is seeking
to benefit from a recovery in home sales and  prices , which have
climbed following the worst housing crash since the Great
Depression. The company’s owners, which include TPG Capital and
Oaktree Capital Management LP, are taking advantage of rising
demand for new equities as record-high U.S. stocks help fuel a
pickup in the IPO market.  An official at Taylor Morrison didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  Tri Pointe (TPH)  Homes Inc., an Irvine, California-based builder
backed by  Barry Sternlicht , raised $233 million in a Jan. 30
stock sale, the first homebuilder IPO since 2004. As many as
five closely held homebuilders may go public within two years,
as the industry bounces back, according to Robert Crowley, a
managing director at Moelis & Co. who advised Tri Pointe.  Shares Rise  Shares of Tri Pointe, which were offered at $17, gained 12
percent since the IPO through yesterday, compared with a 4.1
percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 . The 11-member
S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  has risen 60 percent over
the past 12 months, compared with an 11 percent gain for the  S&P
500 .  Housing  starts  probably rose to an annual pace of 915,000
in February, the median of 45 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The pace was 890,000 in January, according to the Commerce
Department, which reports February data on March 19.  Taylor Morrison builds homes in Arizona, California,
Colorado, Texas, Florida and Ontario, Canada. It was sold for
$955 million in 2011 by its British parent,  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) ,
to a group of investors backed by David Bonderman’s TPG, Los
Angeles-based Oaktree and JH Investments Inc.  The homebuilder joins at least two other companies that aim
to complete IPOs larger than $500 million. Pinnacle Foods Inc.,
the frozen vegetable maker that’s owned by Blackstone Group LP,
is seeking $580 million in an offering scheduled for March 27,
regulatory filings and data compiled by Bloomberg show. West
Corp., the telecommunications-services provider that’s
controlled by  Thomas H. Lee Partners , is attempting to raise
$532 million in a March 21 IPO.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are leading the
offering for Taylor Morrison, which plans to list on the  New
York  Stock Exchange under the symbol TMHC. Representatives at
Credit Suisse and Citigroup declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  