-- Baltics Solve Dispute Over Cross-Border Power Flows in Nord Pool
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-15T13:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/baltics-solve-dispute-over-cross-border-power-flows-in-nord-pool.html
The European Union’s three Baltic
states agreed on terms for managing international flows of
electricity, settling a dispute that threatened to delay their
final integration to the Nordic power exchange in June.  National grid operators  Litgrid AB (LGD1L)  of  Lithuania , Elering AS
of Estonia and Augstsprieguma Tikls AS of Latvia today in
Vilnius signed an agreement on the calculation and allocation of
cross-border capacity, the three companies said in a  joint
statement . Allocation will be managed by Nord Pool Spot AS from
June 3, when the exchange opens a Latvia price area, they said.  Connecting the Baltics to power markets and networks in
neighboring EU countries is a priority for the European
Commission. Estonia and Lithuania objected in January to a
Latvian plan to give Russia import preference, which they said
would worsen summer overloads on the Estonian-Latvian border and
lead to more Russian imports of power to the region.  “Agreed rules of the capacity allocation with third
countries give ability to maximize energy flows on the Estonian-
Latvian border for the local market participants,” Taavi Veskimagi, chief executive officer of the Estonian transmission
system operator, said in the statement.  Nord Pool Spot has 370 member companies from 20 countries
who trade power in the Nordic and Baltic regions, and in the
U.K., with 316 terawatt-hours bought and sold last year.  Russian Power  Until Latvia starts trading day-ahead power on the
exchange, Lithuania is isolated as it only has cross-border
connections to the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad and Belarus,
and none to the Nordic or EU power markets. Lithuania has
largely relied on Russian electricity since closing its Soviet-
era Ignalina nuclear plant in late 2009.  Now Lithuania will be able to import more Estonian and
Finnish electricity, Litgrid Chief Executive Office Virgilijus Poderys said in the statement that was published on the websites
of all three grid operators.  “Looking at the near future, all three Baltic countries
will be able to take advantage of the electricity
interconnections between Estonia and  Finland  more efficiently,”
Poderys said.  Baltic power trader  Inter RAO Lietuva AB (IRL) , which sells
electricity supplied by Russian state-controlled OAO Inter RAO
UES, its majority owner, said in January that there was enough
transmission capacity in the region for all interested parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  