-- Bank Tax Credits, Cartel Fines, PVM Oil: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-15T12:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/bank-tax-credits-cartel-fines-pvm-oil-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s efforts to
hide trading losses, outlined in a Senate report yesterday,
probably will ignite debate over whether the largest U.S. bank
is too big to manage and ratchet up pressure on Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  to surrender his role as chairman.  Dimon misled investors and dodged regulators as losses
escalated on a “monstrous” derivatives bet, according to a
301-page  report  by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. The bank “mischaracterized high-risk trading as
hedging,” and withheld key information from its primary
regulator, sometimes at Dimon’s behest, investigators found.
Managers manipulated risk models and pressured traders to
overvalue their positions in an effort to hide growing losses.  After nine months of investigation, the panel concluded
that JPMorgan had “a trading operation that piled on  risk ,
ignored limits on risk taking, hid losses, dodged oversight and
misinformed the public,” Chairman Carl Levin, a Michigan
Democrat, told reporters yesterday. His team combed through
90,000 documents and interviewed dozens of current and former
executives.  Former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 56, among Wall
Street’s most powerful women until she resigned in May four days
after the bank disclosed the initial trading losses, will
testify today at Levin’s hearing in her first public appearance
since leaving the New York-based bank.  U.S. lawmakers have pushed banks to halt so-called
proprietary trading, and regulators are weighing tightening
exemptions for hedging. A panel of British lawmakers today urged
regulators to “bear down” on prop trading and renew the case
for an outright ban within three years.  JPMorgan, regarded on Wall Street as one of the best-
managed banks in the world, lost more than $6.2 billion over
nine months last year in a derivatives bet on companies’
creditworthiness.  The bank has “repeatedly acknowledged mistakes” in
handling the loss, Mark Kornblau, a spokesman for the bank, said
in an e-mail.  “Our  senior management  acted in good faith and never had
any intent to mislead anyone,” Kornblau said. The bank
cooperated with the investigation and has “already identified
many of the issues cited in the report,” he said. “We have
taken significant steps to remediate these issues and to learn
from them.”  Statements and regulatory filings by the bank “raise
questions about the timeliness, completeness and accuracy of
information” given to investors, the committee said in a
section on securities laws and their requirements about
disclosing information. The Securities and Exchange Commission
has been conducting its own investigation of the bank’s losses.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  OTC Derivatives Traders in EU Face Tougher Rules Starting Today  Traders in over-the-counter derivatives will face tougher
disclosure  rules  beginning today as part of a European Union
push to regulate transactions that take place outside authorized
venues.  The EU rules will require banks and other firms that
conduct OTC transactions to provide more data to so-called trade
repositories, including information on the value of contracts
and on related collateral, according to the  EU’s website .  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the $639
trillion  market  for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of  American International Group Inc., (AIG)  two of
the largest traders in credit-default swaps.  The Group of 20 nations set an end-2012 deadline for
nations to adopt rules requiring standard forms of OTC
derivatives to be processed through clearinghouses, and logged
in trade depositories.  The measures that take effect today are part of a package
of implementing standards published by the EU  last month .  EU Said to Plan Concession on Using Tax Credits in Bank Capital  Banks in Europe may be given longer to adhere to rules
restricting the use of tax credits as part of their capital
buffers, according to four people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  The Basel III regulations will stop European banks from
using so-called deferred tax assets, or losses they can write
off against tax, for more than 10 percent of their capital base.
The  European Commission  plans to double the period that lenders
have to implement the change to 10 years, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Tax credits already account for about 10 percent, or 105
billion euros ($136 billion), of the core Tier 1 capital of
banks assessed under the continent’s July 2011 stress tests,
though some lenders’ levels were far higher, according to the
 European Banking Authority . European governments lobbied to
extend the tax-credits change because it may encourage foreign
banks to buy their most troubled lenders, the people said.  Stefaan De Rynck, a Brussels-based spokesman for the
commission, declined to comment. Deirdre Farrell, a spokeswoman
for the Irish rotating presidency of the European Union,
declined to comment.  Dallas Fed Cap Would Force U.S. Banking Units to Shrink by Half  A proposal by the  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas  to limit
government support for banks could force JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Bank of America Corp.  to shrink their U.S. consumer and
commercial-lending units by more than half.  The plan would cap assets at deposit-insured divisions of
the largest U.S. financial firms at about $250 billion and wall
off investment banking from traditional lending, Dallas Fed
Executive Vice President Harvey Rosenblum said in an interview.
The limit is needed to allow the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
to shut a failed bank without using taxpayer funds, he said.  Rosenblum and his boss, Dallas Fed President  Richard
Fisher , join a chorus of Democratic and Republican policy makers
in expressing dissatisfaction with efforts to assure that banks
are no longer too big to fail. FDIC Vice Chairman  Thomas Hoenig 
has called for breaking up the largest lenders and Senator
Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, for limiting their size.  Fisher revealed the outlines of the proposal in a Jan. 16
Washington speech.  JPMorgan’s U.S. consumer and commercial-lending units had
assets of $646 billion at the end of December, according to a
 regulatory filing  by the New York-based bank. Similar divisions
at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America had $686
billion of assets.  That means each would have to shrink by about 60 percent to
drop below the Dallas Fed’s proposed cap. JPMorgan is the
largest U.S. bank by assets, and Bank of America is No. 2, when
all their businesses are included.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest lender, would need to
reduce its U.S. consumer unit by about 30 percent. Traditional
banking in the U.S. makes up a smaller portion of the New York-
based firm’s total assets than at peers. San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest U.S. bank, might have to
shrink about 70 percent.  Spokesmen for the four companies declined to comment on the
Dallas Fed proposal.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  CFTC’s Chilton Says Benchmark Pricing May Need Review  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission member Bart
Chilton said interest-rate rigging means other benchmark-pricing
mechanisms may need reviews, after the Wall Street Journal
reported the commission is discussing possible manipulation in
gold and silver.  The CFTC is “discussing internally” whether daily price
fixings of gold and silver in London are open to manipulation,
the Wall Street Journal reported March 13, citing people
familiar with the situation. No formal investigation has been
opened, and the CFTC is looking at various aspects of the so-
called fixings, including whether they are sufficiently
transparent, the newspaper said.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment
yesterday on the Wall Street Journal report.  The London gold  fixing  is conducted twice a day by five
banks:  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank of Nova Scotia , Deutsche Bank AG,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  The pricing started in
1919. It began taking place by telephone in 2004.  David Rose, head of metals trading at HSBC, and Martyn
Whitehead, head of metals sales at Barclays, declined to
comment. Sebastian Howell, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, and
Ila Kotecha, a Societe Generale spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Joe Konecny, a spokesman for Scotiabank, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Aelred Connelly, a spokesman for the  London Bullion Market
Association , and Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment
research at the  World Gold Council , declined to comment when
asked about the fixings.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman at the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, declined to comment on whether it was looking into
the gold and silver fixings.  The FSA’s Managing Director Martin Wheatley and CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler are chairing an  International Organization
of Securities Commissions  taskforce that is looking specifically
at all benchmarks that could potentially be open to abuse
similar to Libor, the FSA’s Hamilton said.  For more, click here.  PVM Oil Futures Gets Apology From FSA After Trading Probe  The U.K. financial regulator apologized to PVM Oil Futures
Ltd., an oil brokerage firm, after its complaints commissioner
found its conduct was “unprofessional” during a trading probe.  Financial Services Authority staff misled PVM about a March
2012 meeting to discuss a report on suspicious transactions,
tried to remove the firm’s lawyer from proceedings and made
intimidating comments about jail time, the commissioner found.  The FSA and PVM have crossed paths before, fining a former
broker in 2010 for trading without client authorization and
lying to his employer about it while going on drinking binges.  In the case that led to the apology, the FSA wrote to PVM
in October 2011 asking whether the firm had considered filing a
so-called suspicious transaction report in connection with
trades placed by a client. Three months later, the FSA wrote
again to schedule a meeting to discuss requirements for trade
reviews in general.  PVM officials claimed the regulator misled them and that
the FSA had planned to use the meeting as an opportunity to
obtain evidence to support an enforcement case.  “As regulated persons must act with integrity, so must the
regulator,” Sara George, the lawyer at Stephenson Harwood LLP
referred to in the complaint, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The FSA is responsible for policing the integrity of the
markets. The public must have confidence that it applies the
same standards of integrity to itself.”  Courts  Fresh Del Monte Wins Banana Cartel Fine Cut, Dole Loses  Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. (FDP)  won a reduction in a European
Union cartel fine to 8.82 million euros ($11.4 million) while
 Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  lost an EU court challenge against its 45.6
million-euro fine for rigging banana prices.  The EU General Court yesterday ruled Fresh Del Monte’s fine
merited a reduction from the original 14.7 million euros, citing
cooperation with regulators and mitigating circumstances. The
Luxembourg-based court dismissed Dole’s appeal.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, in
 October 2008 fined  the two companies for colluding on prices
between 2000 and 2002 in eight EU countries, including Austria,
Germany and the Netherlands. Banana exports rose to the highest
in at least a decade in 2011, making it the most-traded fruit,
according to the World Trade Organization.  “We strongly believe that the European competition laws
were not violated and we will appeal this decision to the EU
Court of Justice,” C. Michael Carter, Dole’s president and
chief operating officer, said in a statement. “The General
Court’s decision treats discussions about general market
conditions the same as a price-fixing cartel.”  Fresh Del Monte got its penalty jointly with Internationale
Fruchtimport Gesellschaft Weichert GmbH.  Chiquita Brands
International Inc. (CQB)  escaped an 83.2 million euro-fine because it
was first to tell EU regulators about the cartel.  Dole, based in Westlake Village, California, made an
initial fine payment of $10 million to the commission in January
2009 and “provided the required bank guarantee for the
remaining balance,” the company said in a March 12 filing.  The cases are:  T-588/08 , Dole Food and Dole Germany v.
Commission;  T-587/08 , Fresh Del Monte Produce v. Commission.  Ex-SAC Fund Manager’s Tipper Nguyen Gets One Year in Prison  An expert-networking consultant who leaked illegal tips to
former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager Noah Freeman and
other portfolio managers was sentenced to a year and a day in
prison.  The term imposed yesterday for Tai Nguyen is almost four
years shorter than the sentence sought by prosecutors, who
argued that Nguyen corruptly used his sister, then an employee
at  Abaxis Inc. (ABAX) , to give him nonpublic information which he then
sold to fund managers including Freeman, Barai Capital
Management LP founder Samir Barai and others from 2006 to
mid-2009.  Nguyen’s lawyer asked that the prison term be less than the
2 1/2 years recommended by probation officials, saying Nguyen
was a refugee from Saigon, Vietnam, who emigrated with his
family to the U.S. in 1975.  The judge ordered Nguyen to surrender to U.S. Bureau of
Prison authorities by May 1.  “If there is ever a person in court who felt the weight of
punishment and is significantly deterred, it is my client,”
Wikstrom said. “I ask the court to be gentle with him.”  Nguyen pleaded guilty in June to a count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and wire fraud by passing material
nonpublic information about companies. Nguyen said he passed the
illegal tips to Freeman and Barai and other fund managers. The
SEC alleged that Nguyen reaped $145,000 by trading in Abaxis in
his own personal account.  Nguyen agreed to forfeit $400,000 to the U.S. as part of
his sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 12-cr-00495, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  CFTC ‘Probably’ Can Avoid Furloughs, Move on Rules Agenda  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission has been
operating cautiously in preparation for the sequester measures,
Chairman  Gary Gensler   told  the  House Agriculture Committee .  Gensler also said the CFTC probably will complete uncleared
swaps rule around the last three months of this year.  The “bulk” of the remaining rules are on track to be
completed by August, he said. The agency aims to finish cross-
border issues by July, while other international issues will
continue on a day-to-day basis.  Gensler also said he’s not sure yet whether the agency will
rework proposed rules aimed at bolstering the protection of
customer deposits at futures commission merchants following the
collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Peregrine Financial
Group Inc.  The CFTC will take “very thoughtful look” at concerns
raised about the cost and practicality of proposed regulations,
he told the Committee. CFTC Commissioner Jill Sommers on March
13 called for the reproposal of a proposed CFTC rule.  The issue concerns the provision in which futures
brokerages must keep so-called residual interest to cover
deficits from their customers. Some brokerages say this isn’t
practical because they sometimes use one customer’s surplus to
guarantee other customers’ deficits on intraday basis, according
to Gensler.  Warren Says CFPB Foes Protect Profits for ‘Bad Actors’  U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat,
spoke about the importance of consumer protection agencies and
the stalled nomination of Richard Cordray as the head of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Warren, who set up the CFPB before seeking office, said
Republicans preventing a vote on Cordray as the agency’s
director are “keeping the game rigged.” She spoke to the
 Consumer Federation of America  conference in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Japan’s Upper House to Confirm BOJ Nominees, Nikkei Says  All three of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s nominees for the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  have enough support from opposition parties to be
confirmed, Nikkei newspaper reported.  Haruhiko Kuroda was endorsed March 13 by the lower house of
parliament to become Bank of Japan governor, clearing the first
hurdle in Abe’s plan to install a central bank leadership in
favor of more easing. Lawmakers in the chamber, which is
dominated by the ruling coalition, March 13 also approved Kikuo
Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso for two deputy governor posts.  Japan’s  Nikkei 255 Stock Average (NKY) , the best performing
developed-market benchmark gauge this year, advanced after the
lower house endorsed Abe’s nominees for the Bank of Japan’s
leadership.  Kuroda attended All Souls College at the University of
Oxford, where he studied with Nobel Laureate economist John
Hicks.  Oxford gave Kuroda, 68, a different mindset than that of
his predecessor,  Masaaki Shirakawa . Kuroda is in line for the
BOJ job on a pledge to pull Japan out of 15 years of deflation,
while Shirakawa’s studies at the University of Chicago were
steeped in Milton Friedman’s advocacy of low inflation and
disciplined central banks in the context of well-run budget
policy.  Kuroda’s views reflect those of Abe, whose push for
aggressive monetary easing has helped lift  stock prices  to their
highest level since September 2008 and pushed the yen to a 3
1/2-year low against the dollar.  For more, click here.  Senate Panel to Hold Vote March 19 on SEC Chairman Nomination  The  Senate Banking Committee  will vote March 19 on
President Barack Obama’s nomination of Mary Jo White to lead the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The committee also will vote on the nomination of Richard
Cordray for director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. The nominations must also be voted on by the full
Senate. No date for a floor vote has been set for either
nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  