-- Bank Pekao to Boost Dividend as Profit Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-03-15T13:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/bank-pekao-to-boost-dividend-as-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,  Poland ’s second-
largest lender and a unit of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , proposed to pay the
 highest  dividend in five years after its fourth-quarter profit
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Management recommended a payout of 8.39 zloty a share,
planning to spend 75 percent of last year’s profit, the bank
said in regulatory statement today. That compares with 5.38
zloty paid last year and a 7.12 zloty forecast by Bloomberg. The
dividend is set to be the highest since 2008 when the Warsaw-
based lender paid 9.6 zloty a share, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The payout is higher than expected,” Marcin Materna, an
analyst at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw, said by phone today.
“Assuming that lending growth will stagnate this year, banks
don’t need this surplus capital.”  Banks in Poland boosted their combined profit 4.5 percent
to a record 16.2 billion zloty ($5.1 billion) last year as
lending continued to grow even as the country’s economy slowed,
according to data from the country’s financial regulator.
Commerzbank AG’s  BRE Bank SA (BRE)  last month proposed its first
dividend in a decade while Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy SA
announced a plan in March to more than double its payout.  Pekao shares rose for a third day, adding 1.5 percent to
163.4 zloty at 2:10 p.m. in Warsaw, trimming this year’s decline
to 2.5 percent.  Slower Growth  Fourth-quarter net income was 742.6 million zloty, beating
the mean 714.8 million-zloty estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Full-year profit was little changed at 2.96 billion
zloty, Pekao said in a separate statement today.  The bank’s profit this year may decline “by a few
percent” as the country’s worst economic slowdown in more than
a decade cuts demand for loans and boosts bad-loan provisions,
Chief Executive Officer Luigi Lovaglio told reporters today.  The industry’s combined pretax profit may drop 13 percent
in 2013 as retail loan growth is set to slow to 3.1 percent
while corporate lending in Poland will probably shrink 0.9
percent, according to Pekao estimates released to the media.  Pekao may play a “significant” role in the consolidation
of the banking market in Poland even as becoming the largest
lender by assets is not its main goal, according to Lovaglio.  State-controlled  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO)  is Poland’s biggest
bank, while  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , which Banco Santander SA took
over in 2011 and merged with Kredyt Bank SA this year, is the
third-largest by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  