-- Bayern to Play Juventus in Champions League Quarterfinals
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 0 0 1 1 1 5 ]   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   [ ]
-- 2013-03-15T14:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/bayern-to-play-juventus-in-champions-league-quarterfinals-1-.html
Former winners Bayern Munich and
Juventus will meet in the Champions League soccer quarterfinals,
while Barcelona takes on Paris Saint-Germain.  Record nine-time champion Real Madrid meets  Turkey ’s
Galatasaray and La Liga’s Malaga plays Borussia Dortmund in the
other matchups determined by today’s draw in Nyon, Switzerland.  The two-match quarterfinals will be played April 2-3 and
April 9-10. The final of  Europe ’s elite club competition is May
25 at Wembley Stadium in  London .  Bayern, seeking its fifth European Cup, advanced to the
last eight on away goals against Arsenal two days ago, while
two-time winner Juventus routed Celtic 5-0 over two matches.
Bayern’s victory left no English teams in the quarterfinals for
the first time since 1996.  “I know Juventus very well,” Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes,
whose club has lost in the finals in two of the past three
seasons, said in comments on the website of tournament organizer
UEFA. “I’m sure it will be two great football matches and I
hope that we can prevail. But I think that it’s a very open
game. They are very strong opponents.”  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup in eight
seasons, became the first team to overturn a two-goal deficit
without scoring an away goal in knocking out seven-time winner
AC Milan three days ago. French league leader PSG, which beat
Valencia, is in the quarterfinals for the first time in 17
years.  `Very Tough'  “We know it will be very tough,” PSG coach Carlo
Ancelotti said on UEFA’s website. “Alongside Real  Madrid ,
Barcelona are the favorites to lift the trophy. Barcelona have
experience, confidence. We’ll play to our strengths.”  Real Madrid, fresh off a victory over Manchester United,
was drawn with Galatasaray, which is making its first
quarterfinal appearance since 2001. Real manager Jose Mourinho
is trying to become the first coach to win the Champions League
with three different teams, having done so previously with Porto
and Inter Milan.  The final matchup will have 1997 European champion Dortmund
taking on Spanish club Malaga, which is in the competition for
the first time.  The quarterfinal draw for the second-tier Europa League was
also held, and none of the three English teams still in the
competition were paired with each other.  Chelsea faces Russian club Rubin Kazan. The Blues are in
the Europa League after being eliminated from the Champions
League, which they won last season.  Tottenham, seeking to join Juventus, Liverpool and Inter
Milan as three-time champion, faces Basel; Newcastle plays
Benfica and Lazio takes on Fenerbahce.  The quarterfinals will be played April 4 and 11. The Europa
League final will take place May 15 in Amsterdam. 