-- Beacon Sheds Crummy Image With Galleries, DIA, Train
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/beacon-sheds-crummy-image-with-galleries-dia-train.html
“When I moved to the area, it was
basically a ghetto,” said Mary Madden, president and Chief
Executive Officer of the Hudson Valley Federal Credit Union, as
she walked through Beacon, a town along the Hudson River some 65
miles north of New York.  “The first time I drove down the street in 1999,
everything was boarded up,” she added. “There were syringes on
the ground.”  Even so, Madden, enterprising and newly divorced, bought a
wreck on the corner of Main and Cross Streets, then spent a few
months cajoling the puzzled resident drug dealer to depart with
his clients. (For a slideshow of images of Beacon, click  here .)  We spoke on a late Saturday afternoon as food platters and
wine arrived at the Mad Dooley Gallery, where Patricia Reller’s
captivating figurines dangled in the window and glittered on the
wall.  The party coincided with Beacon’s popular “ Second
Saturdays ,” when the galleries along Main Street stay open into
the evening and a glass blower draws an appreciative audience at
the  Hudson Beach Glass  studio. For a slide show,  click here .  Many Dogs  Beacon has taken off. As the sun set on cafes, antique and
junk stores, tourists and locals, all of whom seemed to be
walking at least one dog, strolled along the street. Not a
syringe was in sight.  Madden’s old homestead is now the  RiverWinds Gallery  which
sells modestly priced jewelry, photographs and paintings.  Across the street, a small crowd studied an elegantly
provocative anti-fracking piece by  Tatana Kellner  that was
displayed in the window of the edgy  Theo Ganz Studio .  Inside, painter Joseph Ayers continued the theme of
environmental disasters with his picture of a lost whale.  The catalyst for Beacon’s turnaround was the establishment
in 2003 of  Dia: Beacon . In a town of about 15,000 people, the
massive contemporary art collection, housed in a restored,
300,000 square-foot warehouse was a reality-changing event.  “We knew Dia was going to put Beacon on the map,” said
Linda Hubbard, president of the Beacon Arts Community
Association, and co-founder of RiverWinds. “Dia opened in May,
and we opened in July.”  Scenic Complex  Main Street’s gentrifiers moved from the west (the Hudson
River) to the east (the Fishkill River), so far skipping a
forlorn middle stretch, though a branch of Madden’s credit union
holds out hope.  As the mile-long street curves toward the Fishkill -- an
area that long resisted revival -- the dramatic improvements
include the opening of Swift at the  Roundhouse , a handsome
restaurant in an old factory building.  “I haven’t talked to anyone who remembers there being
anything in it, so the building must have been empty for 50 or
60 years,” said Brendan McAlpine, whose father, Bob, is the
developer.  The scrubbed brick complex includes an expanding boutique
hotel and spa.  Still Alive?  “This is the first stop on the Metro North Line where a
young couple can afford to buy a house,” said Greg Glasson, an
artist and owner of  Glasson Sculpture Works  in Gardiner, New
York. (He is also Madden’s husband, having met her in Beacon).
“A lot of young people move up here from  Brooklyn , from
filmmakers to writers to photographers.”  With the addition of tourists to the town’s burgeoning
creative class, the community has been able to sustain a year-
round cultural scene.  “My lawyer used to drive by my building every day to make
sure I was OK,” remembers Madden. “Those days are gone.”  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Lewis Lapham’s  podcast  and Zinta
Lundborg’s NYC  Weekend Best .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 