-- BOE’s Dale Signals Concern More Stimulus May Fuel Inflation
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-03-15T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/boe-s-dale-signals-concern-more-stimulus-may-fuel-inflation.html
Bank of England  Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said there’s a risk that more stimulus could stoke
consumer-price gains and he defended the current inflation
targeting remit as flexible enough to aid economic growth.  “The argument that monetary policy can be used to expand
demand with little or no implications for inflation challenges
the consensus that the best contribution that monetary policy
can make to the long-term health and prosperity of the economy
is to deliver price stability,” Dale said in a speech in  London 
today. “We should be nervous about how quickly we overturn that
consensus.”  Dale’s comments come days before Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  presents his annual budget, when he may
rethink the BOE’s remit. The chief economist said while it’s
right that inflation targeting “should be questioned and
challenged,” policy makers must take account of the potential
economic costs of letting inflation get out of control.  “The best contribution monetary policy can make to
sustainable growth and long-run prosperity is to deliver
enduring price stability,” Dale said. “That is important to
remember in the face of suggestions that inflation is somehow
yesterday’s battle. Without credibility there can be no
flexibility.”  The debate on inflation targeting and the use of new policy
tools was sparked by  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney , who
will replace  Mervyn King  as BOE Governor in July. Carney has
said he sees his role as aiding a Bank of England “re-
founding.”  Inflation Target  “The inflation target and the MPC are the result of a long
and painful search for a credible money anchor,” Dale said.
“They provide the memory to ensure that we don’t return to the
inefficiency and inequity of the 70s and 80s. They provide the
memory that underpins the consensus that low and stable
inflation is a perquisite for economic prosperity. And they
provide the memory that guards against some of the dangerous
talk of late.”  Dale also questioned the argument that additional stimulus
can be provided without fueling inflation, saying that the
argument that it’s possible to achieve growth without
exacerbating is seductive and “like being offered a free
lunch.”  “There are some grounds for thinking that the trade-off
between growth and inflation may well be unusually favourable,”
he said. “But how strong those mechanisms actually are is far
from clear.”  “Taken to its limit, the argument that monetary policy can
be used to expand demand with little or no implications for
inflation challenges the consensus that the best contribution
that monetary policy can make to the long-term health and
prosperity of the economy is to deliver  price stability ,” Dale
said. “We should be nervous about how quickly we overturn that
consensus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  