-- Borissov’s Government Canceled Bulgarian Stock Exchange Sale
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-03-15T13:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/borissov-s-government-canceled-bulgarian-stock-exchange-sale.html
Bulgaria’s previous administration
of Boyko Borissov canceled the sale of the government’s stake in
the Bulgarian Stock Exchange on Feb. 20, the day it resigned
amid protests against poverty that turned violent.  Former Finance Minister Simeon Djankov sent a letter to the
Privatization Agency saying too much time has elapsed since the
government’s decision to sell the bourse and “the investment
situation in the country has changed,” the Finance Ministry in
Sofia said in an e-mailed statement today. Djankov was succeeded 
by Kalin Hristov, who took office as member of the interim 
Cabinet on March 13.  Borissov’s government asked the Privatization Agency in a
letter to sell the bourse on March 13, 2012, according to the
statement. The Finance Ministry holds 50.05 percent of the
Sofia-based bourse and 42.7 percent in the Central Depository,
which serves as a stock clearing house.  Since 2008, the stock exchange has traded on the  Deutsche
Boerse (DB1) ’s Xetra platform. Bulgaria has discussed ways to sell its
stake over the past decade with Austria’s Wiener Boerse,
Sweden’s OMX AG and exchanges in Greece and Poland to boost
interest in local stocks and make trading more transparent.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest member in terms of
per-capita output, has endured five weeks of rallies against
poverty and demands for a change in the political system.  Anti-austerity protests have toppled prime ministers across
Europe and forced out Borissov, whose government focused on
budget cuts to ward off bailouts and turbulent bond markets,
boosting unemployment to the highest in eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  