-- LBOs Imperil $940 Billion of U.S. Company Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-03-15T10:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/lbos-imperil-940-billion-of-u-s-company-bonds-credit-markets.html
Investors holding almost $1
trillion of the lowest-rated U.S. investment-grade corporate
bonds are at a greater risk of losses as the pace of buyouts
surges to the fastest pace in six years because the debt offers
few protections.  About $940 billion, or 58 percent of the $1.6 trillion of
securities in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch US Corporate
Index with ratings in the BBB tier, lack safeguards that would
allow creditors to sell the debt back to the issuer at a premium
in the event of a merger, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Leveraged buyout deals from  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  and  Virgin
Media Inc. (VMED) , totaled $51 billion last month, the most since April
2007, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Investors who have seen gains in the debt of almost 59
percent since the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc., now face the threat of their claims being weakened by more
senior-ranking lenders financing buyouts. Borrowers have already
obtained more than $160 billion in speculative-grade loans this
year, compared with $300 billion in all of 2012, according to
JPMorgan.  “Most bonds are trading at a pretty high premium and could
face significant price erosion,” Natalie Trevithick, who
oversees $35 billion as head of investment-grade debt at Los
Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, said in a telephone interview.
“After the Lehman crisis, when LBO risk went away, the change
of control term was not standard format and those bonds are
still outstanding.”  Investor Protection  Before the crisis, many bonds were sold with provisions
that forced companies to repay securities at a premium to par,
or above 100 cents on the dollar, if they were bought in a
leveraged buyout. Such debt-fueled transactions often result in
the borrower’s credit rating being cut to below investment
grade, or junk.  The almost 2,900 BBB bonds in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index trade at an average price of about 111.3 cents on
the dollar, or 6.4 cents above the average over the last decade.  “Our research shows that the level of protection in U.S.
investment-grade bonds generally is not all that great,”
Alexander Dill, head of covenant research at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a telephone interview. “A change of control is
the most meaningful form of investment-grade protection against
event risk like an LBO.”  Swap Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, Chesapeake Energy Corp. was
denied a request for an emergency court ruling allowing it to
start redeeming $1.3 billion in notes early without the risk of
incurring about $400 million in interest. The cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell to a three-year
low. Investec Plc is considering its first collateralized loan
obligation since the financial crisis.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.23 basis point to 13.63 basis
points. The measure widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities  and narrows when they favor
assets such as corporate debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers yesterday, accounting for 3.5 percent of
the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Chesapeake Ruling  Chesapeake had sought a ruling saying it could issue a
notice to bondholders by today informing them it will redeem the
6.775 percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, six
years before they mature. Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., as
trustee, said the company missed the deadline for such a
redemption.  Chesapeake told U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in
 Manhattan  before the decision that they didn’t plan to redeem
the notes if they didn’t get a favorable ruling.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of
78.3 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest level for the index since January 2010.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined 0.3 to 103.7 at 10 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  was little
changed at 101.5.  Investec CLO  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Investec, a bank and money manager in  South Africa  and the
U.K., is weighing its first CLO since June 2008 as investor
appetite returns for high-yielding structured notes. Money
managers in  Europe  including Apollo Global Management and
Pramerica Investment Management Ltd. are considering deals after
Cairn Capital Ltd. issued a 300.5 million-euro CLO last month,
the region’s first since 2011 and only the third since 2008.  Investors shunned hard-to-value structured credit following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers, meaning asset managers and
banks couldn’t profit from issuing CLOs.  Emerging Markets  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds
are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  In  emerging markets , relative yields fell 2 basis points to
281 basis points, or 2.81 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The measure ended last year at
265.8.  Record low borrowing rates engineered by the  Federal
Reserve  and an improving economy are combining to make leveraged
buyouts more attractive. Investors are paying an average of
98.17 cents on the dollar to buy pieces of leveraged loans, up
from the record low 59.2 cents in December 2008, according to
the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan Index.  The average spread on loans purchased by non-bank lenders,
such as CLOs, was 377.6 basis points last month, down from 515
at the end of June, according to S&P Capital IQ Leveraged
Commentary and Data. At the height of the market in March 2007
spreads were as tight as 243.3 basis points.  Heinz Buyout  “It is important to think big about the kind of deals that
can get done,” Stephen Antczak, the head of U.S. credit
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The Fed is encouraging everybody to take risk. As
investors are increasingly focused on boosting returns, they are
likely to force corporate managers to help them do that.”  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Jorge Paulo
Lemann ’s 3G Capital agreed to buy ketchup maker Heinz for about
$23 billion, according to a Feb. 14 statement.  Investors owning about $900 million of Heinz’s  existing
bonds  won’t be able to sell the securities back to the company
because there are no change of control covenants, according to a
March 6 Moody’s report. The merger may double Heinz’s ratio of
debt to earnings, according to a Feb. 15 Fitch Ratings report.  Fitch cut its  rating  on Heinz to BB-, or three levels below
investment grade, on March 12. Both Moody’s, with a Baa2 rating,
and S&P, which has the company one level higher at BBB+, have
placed Heinz on a “negative” watch. Heinz’s 6.75 percent $436
million notes maturing in March 2032, which were trading at
125.1 cents on the dollar, lost as much as 24 cents the day
after the deal was announced, Bloomberg prices show.  Virgin Deal  Heinz’s takeover is being financed with $12 billion in
loans and $2.1 billion in bonds, the most amount of debt raised
for an LBO since a group led by KKR & Co. and Texas Pacific
Group borrowed $24.5 billion when they bought Energy Future
Holdings Corp. for $48 billion in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Inc. agreed to buy  Virgin
Media  for $16 billion last month. The deal is being financed
with about $3.65 billion in speculative-grade bonds and about
$4.7 billion of loans, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring against losses on Virgin Media debt
using credit-default swaps has climbed as much as 120 basis
points since the deal was announced to 382 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  “The combination of low yields, high levels of cash on
corporate balance sheets, strong demand for high-yield loans and
receding global risks have spurred LBO activity recently,”
analysts at JPMorgan led by London-based Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou
wrote in a March 1 report.  Financial Bonds  Payden & Rygel has updated its models to screen for
potential LBO candidates that would cause bond prices to fall,
Trevithick said.  “We prefer investing in financials relative to industrials
as you don’t have the same sort of event risk associated with
them,” Trevithick said. “Financial institutions are so large
that there is a lesser threat” of a corporate raider “coming
in and doing an LBO,” she said.  Buffett’s bid for Heinz, which previously wouldn’t have
been considered a typical target for a buyout, indicates the
need for creditors to carefully analyze their portfolio,
according to Pieter Staelens, a London-based analyst at
 Henderson Global Investors , which oversees about $25 billion in
fixed-income assets.  “Lack of change of control is definitely a problem that
investors have to worry about,” Staelens said in a telephone
interview. “If you are an investor in these bonds, you need to
make sure exactly what you own and how much protection you have
against potential LBOs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  