-- Bovespa Index Set for Weekly Decline as Earnings Miss Sinks MRV
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-15T16:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/bovespa-index-set-for-weekly-decline-as-earnings-miss-sinks-mrv.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index headed for a
weekly drop as MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA led
homebuilders lower after posting earnings that trailed analysts’
projections for a fifth quarter.  Real-estate brokerage  LPS Brasil Consultoria de Imoveis SA 
traded at a one-month low after disappointing fourth-quarter
sales. The BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index was poised for its
weakest level in six months.  The Bovespa declined 2 percent this week to 57,285.15 as of
1:20 p.m. in Sao Paulo and was little changed today. The real
depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.9770 per dollar. Thirty of 44
companies on the benchmark index that have reported fourth-
quarter earnings missed analysts’  estimates , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve seen many companies reporting earnings that were
worse than expected in the fourth quarter, and the real estate
industry is one of the sectors with the biggest
disappointments,” Hamilton Moreira, a strategist at Banco do
Brasil SA, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  MRV tumbled 7.5 percent today to 9.86 reais. The company
posted adjusted net income of 115.4 million reais in the fourth
quarter, compared with the average forecast of 144.4 million
reais among nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The figures
spurred Banco BTG Pactual SA to lower its recommendation to the
equivalent of hold.  Gafisa Retreat  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , which on March 12 reported an unexpected
quarterly loss, retreated 3.1 percent today to 3.87 reais. LPS
Brasil fell 0.7 percent to 35.35 reais.  The Bovespa has dropped 9.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China
has slid 4 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.76 billion
reais yesterday, which compares with a daily average of 7.6
billion reais this year through March 13, according to data
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  