-- Braunstein Recites ‘I Don’t Recall’ When Questioned About Dimon
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/braunstein-repeats-i-don-t-recall-at-senate-grilling-on-dimon.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Douglas Braunstein repeatedly said he couldn’t remember specifics as
U.S. senators grilled him about Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s role in withholding data from regulators.  Lawmakers pressed Braunstein, the bank’s former finance
chief, yesterday on statements he made to investors about
trading losses and on Dimon’s decisions as the firm held back
details about the investment bank from regulators.  Carl Levin ,
the head of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, asked
about Dimon’s reaction when the division resumed the daily
profit and loss reports to the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. An examiner at the OCC had said Dimon halted them
because the CEO “believed it was too much information.”  “I don’t recall the specifics of his reaction,” answered
Braunstein, in one of at least three exchanges in which he said
he couldn’t remember details. A Senate report released this week
said Dimon “reportedly raised his voice in anger” when told
the profit and loss reports had resumed.  Lawmakers expressed exasperation throughout the hearing as
current and former JPMorgan executives deflected assertions that
the bank, Dimon and other executives misled investors and dodged
regulators while losses mounted on the so-called London Whale
bets. The senators’ 301-page report examined the trading
debacle, which cost the New York-based firm $6.2 billion in last
year’s first nine months.  Ina Drew, who led the bank’s chief investment office, where
the losses occurred, said it was “reasonable” for her to rely
on the expertise of her U.K. office’s trading supervisors,
Javier Martin-Artajo and Achilles Macris.  ‘Fully Informed’  “I made sure that key members of the company’s senior
management were fully informed of the issues,” she said, adding
that she didn’t learn of “deceptive conduct” at the London
office until after stepping down.  JPMorgan  shares  fell 1.9 percent to $50.02 yesterday, the
worst performance on the 30-company  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . More than 60 million shares changed hands, the highest
volume since July.  Dimon, Martin-Artajo, Macris and Bruno Iksil, the U.K.
trader known as the London Whale, didn’t appear at the  hearing .
The other current and former bank executives testifying
outnumbered senators, with 12 of the 14 subcommittee members
absent most of the time.  “Braunstein’s testimony in particular returns the focus to
Mr. Dimon’s actions,” said Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC, in an e-mail. “It is
difficult to imagine how Mr. Dimon will not be asked to
testify.”  Asking ‘Why?’  Senators and congressmen questioned Dimon, 57, about the
Whale trades at hearings last June, when some lawmakers sought
his advice on regulations and the economy.  The Senate’s report said JPMorgan withheld the disclosures
to the OCC in late January or early February of 2012. Scott Waterhouse, the lead OCC examiner assigned to JPMorgan, said
during testimony today that it occurred in August 2011. Bob Garsson, an OCC spokesman, Mark Kornblau at JPMorgan and Tara Andringa at Levin’s office either declined to comment on the
date or didn’t respond to messages.  JPMorgan stopped the OCC disclosures because of concern
information wouldn’t be secure, Braunstein said yesterday. The
executive, now vice chairman, said he expressed that worry to
the agency before restarting the reports.  Waterhouse testified that he got resistance from Dimon
during talks about why the bank had halted the reports. Dimon
kept pressing, “Why do you need this information?” Waterhouse
recalled. “He said, ‘I don’t think you need this amount of
detail. You can still do your supervision without it.’”  ‘Regulatory Risk’  Dimon expressed “dismay” and raised his voice during a
conversation to Braunstein after discovering that the finance
chief had already resumed the statements, Waterhouse said.  By withholding data “they gave rise to an immense amount
of regulatory risk, as we’re seeing right here,” said Clifford Rossi, a former risk manager and managing director at Citigroup
Inc. who now teaches at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H.
Smith School of Business. “In this situation, it makes it look
like he had something more to hide,” Rossi said of Dimon.  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the ranking Republican on the
panel, pressed Braunstein on whether data-security concerns
should allow JPMorgan to duck oversight.  Can firms “just decide, ‘Well, because we’re concerned
about something, we’re not going to comply with the
regulations,’?” McCain asked. “Is that how JPMorgan works?”  “No sir, it does not,” replied Braunstein, 52.  ‘Too Protective’  “Banks are much too protective of this data,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst covering the financial industry at FBR
Capital Markets, by phone. They are particularly worried about
illiquid investments, because their inability to sell quickly
gives other market participants a chance to place opposite bets
and profit, he said. “That is a legitimate concern. But the OCC
should have pushed back.”  Thomas Curry , the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency, said
the agency should have noticed “red flags,” and that
JPMorgan’s failure to provide data doesn’t excuse the OCC from
questioning the bank.  “The risk-management culture and processes that led to the
significant trading losses at the bank are unacceptable,” Curry
said in written testimony. “Corporate governance and oversight
were lacking with respect to the CIO risk-taking.”  ‘Glowing Call’  Braunstein and Dimon were named in the report as executives
who misled investors in April last year when they discussed the
CIO’s credit-derivatives portfolio on a conference call with
analysts. Dimon dismissed press accounts of the trades as a
“tempest in a teapot,” while Braunstein said the company was
“very comfortable” with the positions.  Braunstein said yesterday that his April statements were
his “best, good-faith effort” based on knowledge at the time.  Levin said he had “a lot of trouble” believing the
statements were “anything other than an effort to calm the
seas, because they all were exaggerations or inaccurate.” The
Michigan Democrat asked whether investors should have been told
during the call that the CIO’s portfolio was losing money,
difficult to exit and violated risk limits.  “You gave this very glowing call,” Levin said, calling
the presentation “one-sided.”  Accounting Change  Levin also questioned Michael J. Cavanagh, who is now co-
CEO of the corporate and investment bank, on changes to
JPMorgan’s bookkeeping that appeared to reduce the size of the
losses as the trade soured. Levin asked Cavanagh, who led the
internal review of the losses, whether the favorable marking was
“a coincidence.”  “It’s not consistent with accounting practice to change
the way you mark these things in order to make your losses go
away,” Levin said after several exchanges with Cavanagh on the
topic. Toward the end, Cavanagh acknowledged that changes
reduced reported  losses .  “I clearly know now, having done the review, that the
people ultimately were mismarking, were not properly marking
their books, at least during the course of the middle of March
to the end of March,” he said.  Levin then asked whether the purpose of the change was to
reduce reported losses.  “Yes,” Cavanagh responded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  