-- Brazil’s Robusta Coffee Premium Advances on Higher Local Prices
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-15T13:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/brazil-s-robusta-coffee-premium-advances-on-higher-local-prices.html
Sellers of robusta coffee from
Brazil, the second-biggest producer of the variety used in
instant drinks and espresso, are charging a higher premium for
their beans as local prices climb, according to Flavour Coffee.  Conillons, as Brazilian robustas are known, are offered for
sale at a premium of 5 cents a pound ($110 a metric ton) above
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  for beans from
the next crop, the Rio de Janeiro-based broker said in a report
e-mailed yesterday. That compares with a premium of 1 cent a
pound to the futures price last week, data from the broker
showed. Conillons will start being harvested next month.  “Prices from origin are firmer, therefore differentials
are no longer around Liffe level,” Flavour Coffee said,
referring to a discount or a premium paid for physical coffee in
relation to the futures price. While offers are higher, buyers
still want to pay the Liffe price or less, the broker said.  Robusta coffee futures gained 3.1 percent last week as dry
weather in Vietnam, the largest producer, may cut output in the
2013-14 season that will start on Oct. 1. Prices slipped 0.2
percent this week on speculation prices rose too far.  Coffee production in  Vietnam  may plunge as much as 30
percent to 1 million tons in 2013-14 from 1.43 million tons this
year, according to the median of eight trader and shipper
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the smallest
since 2005-06, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.
The decline will be at least 10 percent, the survey shows.  Holding Stocks  “Vietnamese news come to the spotlight, with talk of a
severe drought in the country, which may affect the production
and cut 15 percent to 20 percent of the crop,” Thiago Cazarini,
a broker at Cazarini Trading Co. in Varginha, Brazil, said in a
separate report e-mailed yesterday. “On the other hand, traders
think it’s too early to measure it and define if it was that
bad. Like in  Brazil , Vietnam coffee producers are holding their
stocks and hoping for higher prices.”  Arabica coffee from Brazil, the leading grower of the
variety, was trading at a discount to the price on the ICE
Futures U.S. exchange in New York, according to Flavour Coffee.
Arabica beans of good-cup quality were trading at a discount of
20 cents a pound, unchanged from last week, Flavour Coffee data
showed. Arabica coffee of fine-cup quality was at a discount of
10 cents a pound, also unchanged from a week earlier.  Robusta coffee for delivery in May was up 0.6 percent at
$2,176 a ton by 12:39 p.m. in London. Arabica coffee for
delivery in May declined 0.3 percent to $1.392 a pound in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 