-- Brazil Miracle Architect Emerges as Ally of Rousseff’s Rate Cuts
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-15T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/brazil-miracle-architect-emerges-as-ally-of-rousseff-s-rate-cuts.html
Brazil  should refrain from raising
interest rates if President  Dilma Rousseff  hopes to win a “tug
of war” with banks and spur faster growth, the architect of the
country’s economic miracle in the early 1970s said.  Antonio Delfim Netto was finance chief when Brazil’s
dictatorship jailed the then-Marxist activist Rousseff in 1970.
Now, as a consultant and columnist he’s an often solitary voice
praising her government’s cutting of rates to a record and use
of  capital controls  to weaken the real.  Delfim Netto’s views run contrary to that of economists
from Itau Unibanco Holdings SA, the nation’s largest bank, and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., who say Rousseff’s policies on rates and
the currency have been stoking  inflation  above the 4.5 percent
target since 2010. Rousseff is on the right track and should
stay the course, defying rate-swap traders who expect the
central bank to raise  interest rates  150 basis points by year-
end, he said.  “If you raise rates 25 basis points now, the game is
over,” Delfim Netto, 84, said in an interview at his office in
 Sao Paulo . “You’ll have to raise them 25 basis points at the
next meeting, then 25 at the one after that. But it’s a deadly
trap since inflation is going to slow anyway, and when it does
the market will say it was because they were right.”  The central bank board led by President Alexandre Tombini
said yesterday any rate action will depend on future indicators,
because while inflation of 6.3 percent is the highest in 14
months, the economy has been recovering more slowly than
anticipated.  Economic Miracle  As finance minister from 1967 to 1974, Delfim Netto oversaw
what became known as the Brazilian  economic miracle , when gross
domestic product expanded at an average annual clip of 10
percent, still the fastest on record.  Rousseff then was a member of the underground group VAR-
Palmares that took up arms against Brazil’s dictatorship and
allegedly plotted to  kidnap  Delfim Netto, the so-called super
minister and the most powerful civilian in the government.  While Rousseff has criticized the dictatorship’s human
rights abuses, she’s found common cause with some of its
economic policies as drafted by Delfim Netto. These include the
generals’ championing of big-ticket infrastructure projects and
state-run oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  as well as the
promotion of labor-intensive manufacturing over finance.  Rates War  “Delfim always believed that policy will triumph and
that’s a view Dilma shares,” said  Albert Fishlow , a former U.S.
deputy secretary of state who has known Delfim Netto since the
1960s, when he began studying Brazil’s economy. “He never fully
believed that markets, prices, financial flows and globalization
were dominant characteristics of the way the world was
changing.”  Delfim Netto said his admiration for the president stems
from what he described as the “tug of war” she started with
banks, which for years profited from borrowing in dollars to
lend reais to the government at rates that were the highest in
the world.  Since taking office in 2011, Rousseff has vowed to lower
borrowing costs to “civilized” levels and under her watch
policy makers have cut the benchmark rate 525 basis points to a
record 7.25 percent, more than any other Group of 20 nation.  “The financial system is always worried when you want them
to make an honest living,” said Delfim Netto, who as planning
minister at the end of the 1964-1985 dictatorship negotiated
with banks a rescheduling of Brazil’s foreign debt. “But what
people refuse to understand is that Brazil for years was the
only country feeding investors turkey and stuffing when it
wasn’t even Thanksgiving.”  Brazil’s banking federation, known as Febraban, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Growth ‘Tragedy’  Lower rates should stimulate the economy after it expanded
0.9 percent last year, a level that Delfim Netto called a
“tragedy” though one that helped correct policy mistakes.  Growth can accelerate without stoking inflation because
price increases will subside in the second half of the year from
a peak of around 6.5 percent as a better harvest takes pressure
off food prices and a 14 percent increase in the minimum wage
last year is fully absorbed, he said. If such a benign scenario
doesn’t materialize, central bank President Tombini won’t 
hesitate to raise borrowing costs, he said.  “The curtain dropped and a new show is about to begin,”
said Delfim Netto, whose policies for state-driven growth gave
way to inflation that, after the 1970s energy crisis, exceeded
200 percent.  Currency Intervention  “What’s surprising isn’t that growth this year will be 3
percent to 4 percent but that some people are happy with that,”
he said in the March 4 interview. “It shows that there’s an
enormous amount of work to be done that’s just beginning.”  Delfim Netto also supports the government’s taxing of
capital inflows to weaken the real, which he said needs to stay
stable at around 2.10 to 2.15 per  U.S. dollar  for manufacturers
to compete with goods made in  China . The real closed at 1.9717
yesterday and has gained 4.05 percent this year.  “Brazil’s problem doesn’t have anything to do with
productivity but with the policies supported by a false ideology
that the market can regulate itself,” he said. “For years we
had an overvalued currency and imagined that it didn’t have any
consequences. It had consequences, and very serious ones.”  Delfim Netto is still active as a lobbyist for corporate
clients through his Sao Paulo-based consulting firm Ideias, a
sought-after lecturer and a weekly  columnist  for the country’s
main business daily,  Valor Economico .  Economic Czar  Brazilian weekly magazine IstoE said in a special
anniversary edition last October that Delfim Netto is the
official who best personifies Brazil’s economic development over
the past four decades.  After once supporting the generals’ silencing of dissent
and freezing workers’ salaries as economic czar, he’s reinvented
himself as an enthusiast of the wealth redistribution policies
of Rousseff’s predecessor and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ,
a former union leader.  Lula frequently spoke with Delfim Netto while in office
from 2003 to 2010 and praised him in public. Rousseff’s press
office declined to name non-government economists she consults,
saying in an e-mail that private activities aren’t disclosed.
While Delfim Netto has urged business to back Rousseff, he
denies that he’s a confidant.  Lula’s Surgeon  “Do you believe everything in the press?” he joked,
pointing to a newspaper cartoon parodying Rembrandt’s  “Anatomy
Lesson,”  with a bearded Lula resembling the corpse and himself
as the surgeon Dr. Nicolaes Tulp before an audience of ex-
presidents and policy makers. “In my case, the patient lived.”  While Delfim Netto approves of Rousseff’s performance -- he
says under her tough managerial approach “Brazil now works from
7 a.m. to 11 p.m.” -- he does have some friendly criticism. For
one, he says the government relies excessively on “useless
accounting tricks” to mask the growth of spending since the
2008 financial crisis, undermining the credibility of its fiscal
numbers. The government is also burdening Petrobras by requiring
it have at least a 30 percent stake in pre-salt oil projects, he
said.  While Rousseff got off to a bad start by “being a little
aggressive” with investors, she’s since moderated her
discourse, he said, adding that an upcoming round of road, port
and railway upgrades being auctioned should draw heavy interest.  “Perhaps what you can say is that she’s generated anguish
by trying to attack all these problems at the same time, but all
of her interventions have been in the right direction,” he
said. “She needs to fight with everyone because we need to
undertake structural and institutional changes for Brazil to
grow 5 percent again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  