-- Brent Spreads Hit 8-Month Low as Supply Recovers: Energy Markets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-15T10:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/brent-spreads-hit-8-month-low-as-supply-recovers-energy-markets.html
The incentive for investors to buy
and hold Brent crude has dwindled to its weakest level in eight
months as supplies from the North Sea recover.  The premium for immediate supplies of Brent crude versus
later deliveries shrank to 28 cents a barrel on March 13, the
least since July, as production headed for the highest in 10
months. The narrowing spread is dimming the attraction of buying
front-month futures and then transferring, or rolling, the
position into the next contract at each monthly expiry. Brent
traded as high as $109.55 a barrel in  London  today.  “The Brent structure has been weakening,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at consultant Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
 Switzerland , said by phone on March 13. “And if Brent cannot
sustain a high enough roll return, then investors will be more
hesitant to hold it at these kinds of  price levels .”  Futures have dropped 8 percent from this year’s peak of
$119.17 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the resumption of North Sea
output prompted money managers to cut bullish bets by the most
in 18 months. Returns are falling just as the price difference
between Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark
oil, shrinks to its narrowest since Jan. 18.  Roll Yield  Excluding gains or losses from changes in the price of the
underlying security, an investor could have made almost $12,000
by buying and rolling a 1,000-barrel lot of Brent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The same strategy returned $17,000
per contract in 2011.18  Buying WTI, for which immediate supplies are cheaper than
later deliveries, and rolling it through 2012 would have lost
$3,150 per contract.  The Brent curve is “slackening” amid the resumption of
North Sea supplies, a seasonal lull in refiner demand while
plants are in maintenance, and the prospect of a drop in Asian
demand, said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Exports of the 12 main North Sea crude grades will rise by
8 percent in April to 2.04 million barrels a day, the highest
level since June, according to loading programs obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Supplies have been boosted by the resumption of
the Buzzard and Elgin-Franklin oilfields, and the restart of the
Brent Pipeline system following a leak.  The 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard field, the biggest
contributor to supplies of Forties, the North Sea’s most
abundant crude stream, returned from a scheduled halt on March
4, Calgary-based operator  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  said the following day.  Korean Buying  Total SA (FP)  is working on restoring output from the Elgin-
Franklin field to 70,000 barrels a day, or about half its total,
after a gas leak almost a year ago, Europe’s third-biggest
energy company said on March 11. The Brent Pipeline System,
which transports the grade to its export terminal in  Scotland ,
resumed flows on March 7 after the leak on one of the platforms
halted operations for five days.  Speculation that South Korean refiners may curtail
purchases of  North Sea  crude if tax incentives are removed are
“what has really moved the market,” according to Petromatrix’s
Jakob. Purchases by  Asia ’s  fourth-largest economy , spurred by a
Free Trade Agreement with the European Union, “kept the market
very well supported for the last 18 months and introduced a
notion that one could not be short the Brent spread,” he said.  South Korean firms that import North Sea crude stand to
receive smaller rebates on their exports of oil products under
tax changes scheduled to start April 1, according to government
and refinery officials, diminishing their incentive to buy the
region’s oil. The Asian country purchased 39.8 million barrels
from Norway and the U.K. last year, or about 4.2 percent of
total imports, according to data from Korea National Oil Corp.  Brent Contango  Global supply constraints and strengthening demand will
still ensure Brent for earliest delivery remains more expensive,
or in backwardation, relative to later supplies, according to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and BNP Paribas, rather than become
cheaper, or in contango, which offers investors no roll return.  “For a contango in Brent, you would need a situation in
which the Atlantic basin develops a surplus of light, sweet
crude,” Tchilinguirian said. “You would need the U.S. to
completely stop importing light oil.”  While the Brent curve is unlikely to flip into contango,
the backwardation has probably peaked and “if anything, is
susceptible to slackening,” Tchilinguirian said. Markets in
contango are typically associated with price declines, while
backwardated markets are more correlated with gains.  Hedge Funds  The slide in Brent returns may be leading speculators to
trim their holdings.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut
bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 159,816 lots in the week ended
Feb. 26, the biggest reduction since Aug. 9, 2011, according to
data from ICE Futures Europe.  “Tightness in the Brent market is being alleviated,” said
Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, chief investment officer at Archbridge
Capital AG, a Zug, Switzerland-based hedge fund. “For long-
only, commodity-index investors the narrowing of the
backwardation is going to make Brent slightly less attractive.”  Brent’s premium to WTI shrank to as little as $15.27 a
barrel yesterday, the smallest gap since Jan. 18. The spread
widened to a record $28.08 in October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  