-- Buffett Reaps $102 Million as Dimon Gets Dividend Raise
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/buffett-reaps-102-million-as-dimon-gets-dividend-raise.html
Warren Buffett ’s  cash hoard  will
pile up $120 million faster each year and Jamie Dimon will get a
$1.85 million raise now that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  American Express Co. (AXP)  and U.S. Bancorp are boosting payouts.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is one of the biggest
holders of Wells Fargo, which increased its  dividend  20 percent,
as well as AmEx with a 15 percent jump and U.S. Bancorp, which
announced an 18 percent rise. The second-richest American has
said he personally owns shares of JPMorgan, whose dividend rose
27 percent. Dimon is the bank’s chief executive officer and owns
5.78 million shares.  The bonanza was made possible by this week’s Federal
Reserve announcement that 16 of the 18 biggest U.S. lenders had
passed the central bank’s annual review of their financial
strength. Investors have clamored for restoration of cuts made
to stave off collapse of the financial system during the 2008
credit crisis, and banks needed the Fed’s blessing before adding
to dividends or stock buybacks.  “We like increased dividends, and we love repurchases at
appropriate prices,” Buffett  wrote  in his annual letter to
shareholders March 1, describing the capital plans of some of
his company’s largest holdings, including Wells Fargo and
American Express. “We applaud their actions and hope they
continue on their present paths.”  Berkshire is the largest holder of San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, the No. 1 U.S. home lender, with 456.2 million
shares, according to the Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s annual
report. For Berkshire, the increase to 30 cents from 25 cents in
the lender’s quarterly dividend adds up to $91.2 million a year.  American Express  AmEx, the New York-based credit-card issuer, raised its
dividend to 23 cents from 20 cents, giving Berkshire an extra
$18 million from its 151.6 million shares. U.S. Bancorp’s new
payout would add $10.9 million based on Berkshire’s 78 million-
share stake. The nation’s largest regional lender, based in
 Minneapolis , will ask its board to raise its quarterly dividend
to 23 cents from 19.5 cents.  The increased dividends affirm Buffett’s strategy to
prepare Berkshire for his eventual departure by amassing
investments that will compound in value over time, said Bill Smead, who oversees about $350 million including Berkshire,
Wells Fargo and JPMorgan shares in separate accounts and as
portfolio manager of the Smead Value Fund.  Long View  “Everything he’s doing now is setting up a very long-
duration stock ownership and company ownership,” Smead said in
a phone interview.  Buffett, 82, is Berkshire’s largest shareholder and chief
executive officer. The billionaire has transformed the company
from a textile maker into a $255 billion business during the
last five decades through takeovers and stock picks. Berkshire
had about $47 billion in cash at the end of December.  Dimon, 57, benefits as his New York-based company’s
quarterly dividend increases to 38 cents from 30 cents on the
5.78 million JPMorgan shares he and his wife own, according to
his latest regulatory  filing . His holdings would produce about
$8.79 million in annual income, on top of his $11.5 million
compensation package, which included a $1.5 million salary.  Buffett and Dimon didn’t respond to requests for comment e-
mailed to their firms.  Regulators have pressed firms since the 2008 credit crisis
to give executives more stock and less cash to align their
interests with those of  shareholders . The banks are required to
pass stress tests run by the Fed and submit capital plans that
include any changes in dividends or stock-buyback programs.  London Whale  Dimon’s reputation has been wounded by the so-called London
Whale episode last year, in which a massive wrong-way bet on
derivatives by a U.K. trader led to a record $6.2 billion
trading loss. Dimon’s compensation package was cut in half by
the  board , which held him partly responsible.  Senate hearings yesterday in  Washington  accompanied a
report that said Dimon misled investors and dodged regulators as
losses escalated on a “monstrous” derivatives bet. The bank
“mischaracterized high-risk trading as hedging,” and withheld
key information from its primary regulator, sometimes at Dimon’s
behest, investigators found.  The bank has “repeatedly acknowledged mistakes” in
handling the loss, Mark Kornblau, a spokesman for the bank, said
via e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  