-- BYD Said to Be Planning Sale of New Stock; Shares Tumble
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/buffett-s-byd-said-to-plan-sale-of-up-to-20-of-hong-kong-stock.html
BYD Co., the struggling Chinese
carmaker partially owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , fell on concern existing investors will be diluted after
two people familiar with the matter said the company plans to
issue new stock.  BYD,  China ’s biggest maker of electric vehicles, fell 10
percent to $3.02 at the close in  New York , the  biggest loss  in a
year. Shares traded in  Hong Kong  fell 7.8 percent to HK$24.25,
the biggest decline since Sept. 26.  Shareholders don’t like additional offerings as they dilute
the value of their investment in the absence of other positive
developments, said  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm
AutoTrends Inc. and a former equity analyst for UBS Warburg. The
sale may be worth as much as a 20 percent stake, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the proposal
hasn’t been made public.  “There’s got to be a really good reason,” Phillippi said.
“To do it just to bring new cash isn’t going to sit well with
shareholders, especially institutional investors. Ideally,
you’ve got to have a string of good earnings numbers behind you,
an expected string of two or three good quarters ahead of you
and your economy is rising.”  BYD hired Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG to arrange the sale
of new Hong Kong-listed shares worth and the company’s board may
approve the plan next week, one of the people said. Veronica Jiang, a Shenzhen-based BYD spokeswoman, said the company
doesn’t currently have plans to issue new shares. She declined
to elaborate.  Plunging Profit  Proceeds from the sale -- worth as much as HK$3.85 billion
($496 million) based on the stock’s latest close in Hong Kong --
would help the automaker fund investments and pay off debt.
BYD’s profit in 2012 probably fell 94 percent to the lowest
since 1999, based on preliminary company estimates, as it faced
increasing competition in its battery business.  BYD’s vehicle sales fell 18 percent to 77,004 units in the
third quarter. In the first nine months of last year, BYD
received 371.1 million  yuan  ($60 million) in government
subsidies for research and development and energy-saving
automobiles, helping it earn 20.8 million yuan in net income,
according to a filing to the Hong Kong exchange.  Using Proceeds  Proceeds from the sale would add to the company’s
fundraising in the past year. The company sold 3 billion yuan of
five-year bonds in June 2012.  China Development Bank  agreed last
year to provide financing to buyers of BYD’s electric buses and
taxis so that they need no down payment if the purchases are for
public transportation.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway, is BYD’s  largest investor  with 225 million
shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BYD won approval in January from the European Union to sell
its electric buses in all  member states  without the need for
individual national permission. In December, the automaker had
agreed to set up a joint venture with Bulmineral Ltd. to produce
electric buses in Bulgaria. The company’s electric buses are in
operation in the Netherlands,  Hungary  and  Spain .  Last September, BYD said it plans to open new manufacturing
plants in Yunnan province to build new-energy vehicles as part
of an expansion plan into southwest China and neighboring Asian
countries.  The automaker also has a joint venture with Daimler AG to
produce a new-energy vehicle. The two partners will boost
capital in the venture by 430 million yuan each, according to a
March 1 statement to the Shenzhen stock exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  