-- Buffett’s Dairy Queen Returns to Trinidad After 30 Years
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-03-15T21:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/buffett-s-dairy-queen-returns-to-trinidad-after-30-years.html
International  Dairy Queen  Inc.
returned to Trinidad and Tobago after a 30-year hiatus as the
restaurant chain of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
expands outside the U.S.  The restaurant known for its ice-cream desserts opened in
December in the Caribbean nation’s capital city of Port of
Spain, three decades after Dairy Queen shuttered operations
there as trade laws restricted imports from the U.S., said
Justin Holtkamp, vice president of international marketing. He
said the franchisee is the son of the original owners.  “Mom and dad owned the first Dairy Queen,” Holtkamp said
in a phone interview. “Their son brought it back” after trade
laws loosened in recent years. Holtkamp didn’t identify him.  Dairy Queen, which also sells hamburgers and soft drinks,
has more than 1,000 stores outside the U.S. and Canada. It
opened its 500th restaurant in China last year and has more than
270 in Thailand. The company has expanded in  Saudi Arabia ,
Egypt, Guatemala and Singapore.  The franchisee in Trinidad has exclusive rights to all
future Dairy Queens there, Holtkamp said. Three more locations
will open in Trinidad over the next few months, the Minneapolis-
based company said yesterday in a statement.  Dairy Queen, whose brands include fruit-drink maker Orange
Julius and popcorn-retailer Karmelkorn, was purchased by Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire in 1998.  The ice-cream maker caters its menu to local flavors in
addition to selling standard American items, Holtkamp said.
Dairy Queen will add the Mango Cheesecake Blizzard dessert to
its Trinidad menu.  It’s a “flavor that you’d find in more tropical markets
and you would not find in the U.S.,” Holtkamp said.  Trinidad and Tobago  lies off the coast of Venezuela and has
a  population  of about 1.3 million. Economic reform and the
“liberalization” of trade and investment regulations have
encouraged foreign investment in the island nation, according to
a 2012  report  from the U.S. State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  