-- Canada’s Mulcair Says NDP Would Raise Business Tax Rate
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-15T20:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/canada-s-mulcair-says-ndp-would-raise-business-tax-rate.html
Canada’s New  Democratic Party  would
increase corporate income tax rates if it won power to invest in
social programs while keeping sales and personal income taxes
unchanged, its leader said.  Thomas Mulcair , speaking in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York, said corporate tax cuts implemented by
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government haven’t helped create
 jobs  and have gone primarily to the largest companies such as
Royal Bank of Canada.  Corporate income taxes were one of the main campaign issues
in the 2011 federal election. Harper has cut the rate to 15
percent, from above 22 percent in 2007, a move opposition
lawmakers have said wasn’t affordable at a time when the
government was running  deficits .  The biggest gainers “are the  oil companies  and the banks
who didn’t ask for it and don’t need it,” Mulcair said, adding
the governing Conservatives have “gutted the fiscal capacity of
the state and we’re still running very, very high deficits.”  Lower corporate taxes helped fuel federal shortfalls that
may be poised to top C$170 billion between 2008 and 2015,
according to finance department projections released in
November. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday he will
deliver a  federal budget  on March 21 that will eliminate the
country’s deficit by 2015, primarily by controlling spending.  Social Spending  The additional revenue raised from the tax increases would
be used for social programs to combat poverty, and to finance a
reversal of the government’s plan to raise the  retirement age 
for some pensioners.  Flaherty last year raised the eligibility for the Old Age
Security income supplement to 67 from 65, with changes starting
in 2023.  Flaherty criticized Mulcair for his comments, saying in a
press release today the NDP policy would hurt “job creators at
a time when the global economic climate is unstable and
competition for business investment is fierce.”  Mulcair said he would not raise taxes for high-income
earners because marginal tax rates in the country are already
too high.  “Absolute guarantee it will never be part of my program,”
he said. “It’s never been my policy and it never will be.”  Sales taxes also would not increase if he became prime
minister because they hurt the poor disproportionately, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  New York  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  