-- Canadian Dollar Advances to 3-Week High on U.S. Inflation Data
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-15T21:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/canadian-dollar-rises-to-3-week-high-before-u-s-inflation-data.html
The Canadian dollar reached the
strongest level in three weeks against its U.S. peer as a report
showed American inflation is contained, giving the Federal
Reserve scope to maintain its monetary stimulus program.  Canada ’s currency pared its gain after the nation’s
existing home sales fell 2.1 percent in February from the
previous month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said. The
Canadian dollar had its first five-day gain in six weeks against
the greenback after touching an eight-month low on March 1,
boosted by data March 8 that showed both the U.S. and Canada
created more jobs than estimated in February. Fed policy makers
meet next week to review the bank’s bond-buying program.  “The corrective downside to U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar
has got some legs, and could have some more legs,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto. “Heading into the Fed
meeting, you could see some more  U.S. dollar  selling.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.3 percent to
C$1.0194 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after reaching
C$1.0181, the strongest level since Feb. 22. It gained 0.9
percent this week. One loonie buys 98.10 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
1.90 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
gained 45 cents to C$107.20.  Oil Rises  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, advanced 0.6
percent to $93.58 a barrel in New York, after earlier touching
$93.84 per barrel, the strongest since Feb. 25.  “ Oil prices  holding above 90 hasn’t hurt the Canadian
dollar,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist
at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York. “Sentiment coalesced
making the Canadian dollar a weak currency, and people are now
taking some money off of the table.”  Traders were the least bearish on the loonie in six weeks
as so-called risk-reversals show options traders are paying the
least for protection against loonie weakness since Feb. 2. The
three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to 0.98 percentage
point from 1.49 percentage points on Feb. 26, its highest since
Sept 7.  Futures traders  moved in the other direction, increasing
their bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the
U.S. dollar to the highest level in six years, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the loonie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 53,397 on March
12, the most since March 2007, compared with net shorts of
46,663 a week earlier.  Economic Indicators  The loonie rose as U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent
in the 12 months ended in February, after a 1.6 percent year-
over-year gain the prior month, a Labor Department report showed
today in  Washington . The core CPI, excluding food and energy,
also rose 2 percent from February 2012, following a 1.9 percent
advance in the prior 12 month period. The U.S. is Canada’s
largest trade partner.  Canada’s dollar pared gains as  home sales  in  Vancouver  fell
9.8 percent to 1,759 units, while sales in Toronto declined 2.8
percent to 6,743 units. Overall sales slid to 34,954 units from
January, when they rose 1.3 percent, the realtor said.  The ratio of Canadian  household debt  to disposable income
rose to another record last quarter, with debt including
mortgages reaching 165 percent of disposable income, compared
with 164.7 percent in the prior three-month period,  Statistics
Canada  said today in Ottawa.  Central Bank  “This home data certainly will not strengthen the case
Canada’s turning the corner on some of the weak data we’ve seen
recently,” Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign-exchange
sales, said by phone from Toronto. “Where the strong employment
numbers last Friday had put the breaks on the Canadian dollar
slide against the U.S., we’re going to need more data points to
decide whether that was an aberration or not.”  The loonie has gained 0.9 percent since reports last week
showed employment gains in Canada and the U.S. exceeded
forecasts, with both nations’  unemployment rates  at four-year
lows.  The loonie has lost 0.5 percent this year against nine
developed nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The greenback has gained 2.5 percent and the
Japanese yen has lost 7.6 percent, the biggest decline in the
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  