-- Canada Fourth Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/canada-fourth-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s national balance sheet account report for the
fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased to $6.9 trillion in the fourth
quarter, up 1.0% from the third quarter of 2012 to reach
$195,900 on a per capita basis. Higher prices for many assets
led the advance, while national saving accounted for 29% of the
increase in national net worth. National saving was again led by
corporate sector saving.  The decrease in Canada’s net foreign indebtedness also
contributed to the gains in national net worth. Lower net
foreign debt was largely a result of lower inflows of funds from
abroad and the positive effect of a lower Canadian dollar on
foreign currency denominated international assets.  National wealth advanced $62.5 billion to reach $7.2
trillion at the end of the fourth quarter. This represented a
gain of 0.9%, largely reflecting increases in the value of
residential real estate.  Sector analysis  Household sector  Household net worth advanced 1.4% in the fourth quarter,
led by gains in the values of equity holdings (including mutual
funds) and pension assets. However, these assets grew at a
slower pace than in the previous quarter, largely reflecting
weaker Canadian stock markets. The Standard and Poor’s / Toronto
Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.9% in the quarter,
compared with a 6.2% increase the previous quarter. The value of
household real estate increased by 0.9% in the fourth quarter,
reflecting continued investment in housing. On a per capita
basis, household net worth rose to $199,700 in the fourth
quarter, from $197,400 in the previous quarter.  Funds raised by households ( consumer credit , loans and
mortgages) were $14.7 billion in the fourth quarter. Mortgage
borrowing led the demand for funds, at $11 billion in the
quarter. Mortgage debt reached $1.1 trillion and consumer credit
debt stood at $477 billion by quarter-end.  Leverage was largely unchanged in the quarter. Owner’s
equity as a percentage of real estate remained just under 69%,
and household credit market debt to disposable income remained
at almost 165% in the fourth quarter. On an annual basis, the
level of debt increased by 5.5% in 2012.  Government  The overall government sector borrowing was down relative
to the first three quarters of 2012, amounting to $8.5 billion
in the fourth quarter. Nevertheless, government net debt
(expressed at book value) rose to $913.4 billion in the fourth
quarter, compared with $896.3 billion in the third quarter. Part
of this increase was related to higher values for foreign
currency denominated debt, reflecting a lower Canadian dollar.  The ratio of total government net debt to gross domestic
product continued to trend upward, increasing to 50.3% in the
fourth quarter from 49.6% in the third quarter.  Non-financial corporations  The demand for funds on financial markets by non-financial
corporations was lower in the fourth quarter. Nevertheless,
funds were raised through both borrowing and share issuances. On
a book value basis, debt-to-equity was unchanged by quarter-end,
with 56 cents of credit market debt for every dollar of equity.
The trend since early 2009 has been a general decrease in non-
financial corporate debt-to-equity.  The corporate sector remained a net lender to the rest of
the economy, led by financial corporations. This mainly
reflected continued strong internally-generated funds.  Institutional investors  Financial institutions saw their financial assets increase
by $76.5 billion to reach $9.3 trillion, a 0.8% rise over the
previous quarter, through both transactions and revaluations.
Increases in loan assets were led by deposit accepting
intermediaries and increases in share assets by mutual funds.  Funds raised on financial markets and credit market debt  Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors on
financial markets amounted to $34.5 billion in the fourth
quarter, with households accounting for a little over half of
private sector demand for funds. Overall government demand for
funds decreased in the quarter, mainly in the federal government
sector.  Credit market debt (consumer credit, mortgages, loans,
short-term paper and bonds) of domestic non-financial sectors
totaled $4.0 trillion at the end of the fourth quarter, up 0.9%
from the previous quarter. Bonds and mortgage debt accounted for
the largest share of total non-financial sector credit market
debt outstanding.  Note to readers  This release is a combined analysis of the National balance
sheet accounts and Financial flow accounts. The National balance
sheet accounts comprise the balance sheets of all sectors and
sub-sectors of the economy. The main sectors are households,
non-profit institutions serving households, financial
corporations, non-financial corporations, government, and non-
residents. They cover all national non-financial assets and
financial asset-liability claims outstanding in all sectors.  The Financial flow accounts (FFA) measure net lending or
borrowing by examining financial transactions in the economy by
sector. The FFA arrive at a measure of net financial investment
which is the difference between transactions in financial assets
and liabilities (for example, net purchases of securities less
net issuance of securities). The FFA also provide the link
between financial and non-financial activity in the economy
which ties estimates of saving and non-financial capital
acquisition (for example, investment in new housing) with the
underlying financial transactions.  Definitions concerning financial indicators can be found in
Financial indicators from the National Balance Sheet Accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/olc-cel?catno=13-605 -
X201200411730&amp;lang=eng) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  