-- Canada’s Mulcair Says Oil Companies Would Gain From NDP Victory
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/canada-s-mulcair-says-oil-companies-would-gain-from-ndp-victory.html
Thomas Mulcair, leader of  Canada ’s
main opposition party, said  oil companies  hoping to build
infrastructure needed to reach export markets would have more
success if his party were in power.  A New Democratic Party government would do a better job
gaining public acceptance for infrastructure projects like new
pipelines because it would enforce a more credible environmental
review process, Mulcair said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York.  “I’m claiming that the NDP would be better for anybody who
wants to develop any natural resources because we would put in
place, and we’d maintain and we’d enforce a credible, thorough
assessment process,” Mulcair said. “You want to get people
onside if you want to move product to market. That’s what’s
missing.”  Producers are encouraging  new pipeline  construction to
carry bitumen from oil sands deposits to coastal refineries and
overseas markets, relieving a glut of supply that has
constrained Canadian prices. Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper has called the creation of new energy infrastructure a
national priority, and oil-rich  Alberta  has blamed the low price
of crude for depressing royalty revenue and keeping Canada’s
wealthiest province per-capita in deficit.  Proposed projects, including  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s  Northern Gateway , have been opposed by
environmental groups.  Record Discount  The price of Western Canada Select, the benchmark heavy
crude exported from Alberta to the U.S., reached a record
 discount  below the price of U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil
last year amid uncertainty over the prospect for Keystone,
Northern Gateway and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ’s proposal
to expand its Trans Mountain pipeline that ends at the Pacific
Ocean near Vancouver.  “All of a sudden you are talking about quintupling the
number of heavy tankers in that water,” Mulcair said. Harper
“will never get the public onside for that.”  Mulcair, a former  Quebec  environment minister who was
elected NDP leader a year ago, said he agrees the country needs
to diversify markets for its energy, adding Canada should build
a pipeline to ship oil from Western Canada to the east.  Exports make up about a third of the world’s 11th-largest
economy, with about three-quarters of all shipments headed for
the U.S.  Harper has taken steps to speed up and simplify
environmental reviews for major energy and mining projects,
including imposing hard deadlines on reviews, consolidating
agencies that conduct reviews and forgoing federal reviews for
smaller projects, angering environmental groups.  “This is a process that is set up to fail,” Mulcair said.
“There is no credible process in place to get the public
onside.”  ‘Big Obstacle’  Mulcair faces an uphill battle to convince the oil industry
that its interests are aligned with environmentalists, said John Stephenson, senior vice president and portfolio manager at First
Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  “The big obstacle to infrastructure is the environmental
movement, so I don’t know how you square the circle,”
Stephenson, who helps oversee C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) and
manages shares in Canada’s largest oil producers and pipeline
companies, including  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , TransCanada and
Enbridge, said in a telephone interview.  Mulcair gave the interview one day after  speaking  to the
Woodrow Wilson Center in  Washington  about building a “balanced,
sustainable economy in North America.” His remarks drew a
rebuke from Alberta Premier Alison Redford, who said “it is
truly unfortunate the federal NDP continues to put politics
ahead of fact, betraying the economic interests of all
Canadians.”  Northern Gateway  “Their comments are exactly the opposite of what we
need,” Redford said in an e-mailed statement.  Canada’s regulatory body, the  National Energy Board , has
been holding hearings on Enbridge’s proposed Northern Gateway,
which would move crude from Alberta’s oil sands to Kitimat,
British Columbia on the West Coast where it can be shipped to
Asia. Environmental and aboriginal groups say the project will
increase the risk of an oil spill off the coast. The panel has
said it plans to complete the review by the end of this year.  About 34 percent of British Columbians in an October Angus
Reid poll of 800 respondents said they completely opposed
Northern Gateway and another 23 percent said they are opposed
but could change their minds, according to  a statement  on the
polling company’s website.  Canada is awaiting a U.S. decision on whether to approve
the Keystone pipeline, designed to carry 830,000 barrels of
crude a day to Gulf Coast refineries.  While he wouldn’t have made Keystone a priority, Mulcair
said it’s up to the U.S. to make a decision in its own interest.  Environmental Costs  Mulcair also said Harper’s Conservatives have hurt the
nation’s economy by not requiring companies to absorb the
environmental costs of their operations. “Failure to enforce
existing environmental legislation had meant that there was an
artificially high number of U.S. dollars flowing into the
Canadian economy, pushing the dollar artificially high,”
Mulcair said.  Canada’s dollar has gained 44 percent over the past decade
versus its U.S. counterpart, the fifth-most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney, who is stepping down
June 1 to head the Bank of England a month later, has  rejected 
Mulcair’s assertions about the currency and investment, calling
it a “caricature” that would limit development of the oil
sands.  Mulcair, the second oldest of 10 children, was born in
Ottawa and raised in Laval, Quebec, just north of  Montreal . He
holds a law degree from that city’s McGill University. He
replaced Jack Layton, who died from cancer only months before
leading the party to the best election result in its 50-year
history, largely due to a breakthrough in Quebec, where they won
59 of the province’s 75 districts. The next election is
scheduled for 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 