-- Carell’s Mess; Wild Mouseketeers; Free Philip Roth: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-03-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/carell-s-mess-wild-mouseketeers-free-philip-roth-film.html
For all his loud-mouthed bluster,
 Steve Carell  can be a timid comedian, retreating from full-on
jerkdom into teary pandering.  He shows that hand again in “ The Incredible Burt
Wonderstone ,” a clumsy, dazzle-free comedy about big-time Vegas
magicians.  Carell plays the title character, an egotistical headliner
who cruelly treats his old friend and onstage partner Anton
Marvelton (Steve Buscemi) like a prop.  They look like Siegfried and Roy, but behave like The
Sunshine Boys.  Lest we take the Siegfried and Roy bit too literally,
“Wonderstone” materializes a lovely magician’s assistant (Olivia
Wilde) as Burt’s love interest, who comes across as a
screenwriter’s afterthought.  Make that screenwriters. No fewer than six are attached to
the flat “Wonderstone” screenplay, and none seem to have logged
much time at magic shows.  The performances of Burt and Anton wouldn’t have passed
muster 40 years ago with Ed Sullivan’s audience, much less
today’s.  Worse, a mugging, long-haired Jim Carrey (buff but looking
every minute of his 51 years) is cast as an upstart David Blaine-type performer whose reliance on physical endurance
stunts threatens the popularity of Burt’s old-school illusions.  No Charms  “Wonderstone” is oblivious to the charms of the milieu it
both mocks and sentimentalizes. We’re lectured repeatedly about
the wonders of well-performed magic, yet director Don Scardino
relies on computer-generated trickery. The coup de theatre that
puts Burt and Anton back on top is a cheat of literally
unbelievable proportions.  Most off-putting of all, though, is Carell’s weirdly
inconsistent approach. One moment he’s effetely dissing his
rival as “a hot mess,” and the next he’s oafishly choosing a
female volunteer over a gay guy in the audience.  Perhaps the filmmakers blanched at going full-Siegfried. Too
bad: Carell and Buscemi might have had some fun going all-out
flamboyant. Instead, “Wonderstone” hedges its bets and spoils
the trick.  “The Incredible Burt Wonderstone,” from New Line Cinema, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  ‘Spring Breakers’  “I’m starting to think,” says one of the girls gone very
wild in Harmony Korine’s “ Spring Breakers ,” “that this is the
most spiritual place I’ve ever been.”  If you missed out on beer bonging yourself into a spring-
break stupor, Korine’s loopy, lurid and hypnotic film could
serve as a travelogue to that junction of heaven and hell.  With a cast of bikinied ex-Disney starlets and the
ubiquitous  James Franco , “Spring Breakers” re-imagines the
annual beach bacchanal as an ultraviolent sexploitation drive-in
movie.  Selena Gomez, Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Benson and Rachel
Korine (the writer/director’s wife) are college students
desperate for a trip to  Florida ’s St. Petersburg.  The neon-lit, pseudo-documentary style, with dreamy
flashforwards and scenes repeated from varying perspectives, is
a long way from “ Where the Boys Are .”  With a fake gun and a real mallet, three of the girls rob a
local Chicken Shack to fund their trip.  Jail Birds  Once in Florida, they drink, do drugs, phone home (“Hi
Grandma!”) and eventually land in jail. Too scared to call their
parents, they accept bail from a courtroom lurker with corn-
rowed hair and a mouthful of silver.  That’s Alien (Franco), a drug-dealing, gun-selling gangsta
who seems a far worse option than jail for the naïve revelers.  But here’s where Korine, the former boy wonder who wrote
Larry Clark’s notorious 1995 “ Kids ,” upends our expectations.
Donning matching pink ski masks and brandishing semi-automatic
weapons, three of the girls more than fit into Alien’s violent
world.  They blossom.  Like his heroines, Korine gets carried away with himself,
and has less to say about youthful amorality than he pretends.
Recklessness has its own appeal, though, and that “Spring
Breakers” has in spades.  “Spring Breakers,” from A24, is playing in  New York  and  Los
Angeles  (and across the U.S. March 22). Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Reality’ Bites  Luciano, the childlike fishmonger in Matteo Garrone’s
“ Reality ,” becomes so convinced he’s about to be picked to
compete on “Big Brother” that he starts thinking the judges are
watching and -- like God -- evaluating his every move.  In a competitive frenzy he treats street people to meals and
gives his furniture to the poor. His put-upon wife, Maria
(Loredana Simioli), watches his breakdown in despair.  Aniello Arena, the superb actor who plays Luciano, has a
Gene Kelly grin and a nose like the great Neapolitan comic
Toto’s. If you wonder why you haven’t seen him before, it’s
because he’s doing life for a 1991 multiple murder he took part
in as a mob hit man. Garrone got him day passes for the filming.  The director had also wanted him for “ Gomorrah ,” his 2008
adaptation of Roberto Saviano’s study of the economics of crime.
The judge took one look at the subject matter and said no.  Where “Gomorrah” was washed out and dark -- the tones of
dried blood and despair -- the candy-colored piazza on which
Luciano’s fish store shares space with a cafe-bar, a church and
a tripe stand could serve as the set for an Italian “Pee-wee’s
Playhouse.”  Alexandre Desplat’s tinkly score, an homage to Nino Rota,
sends further frills of wigginess into the air.  The picture won the Grand Prix at Cannes last May. But
ultimately Garrone and his co-scenarists don’t know what to do
with the cul-de-sac they’ve devised. As Luciano’s grip goes, so
does the movie. Until then, though, it’s an original: freakishly
cheerful and bright -- the colors of dementia.  “Reality,” from Oscilloscope Laboratories, is playing in New
York. Rating: ***1/2 (Seligman)  Free Roth  “I don’t write in Jewish, I write in American,” our greatest
novelist -- Jewish, American, whatever -- stipulates at the
beginning of “ Philip Roth : Unmasked,” a documentary by Livia
Manera and William Karel.  The film, from Cineteve and American Masters, is showing at
Film Forum (information:  http://www.filmforum.org ) in New York
through March 19 -- Roth’s 80th birthday. (PBS will broadcast it
nationally on March 29.) To mark the occasion, and thanks to a
grant from the Ostrovsky Family Fund, admission is free for the
entire run. Rating: *** (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 