-- McCarthy Says House Should Subpoena Documents on Drones
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/mccarthy-says-house-should-subpoena-documents-on-drones.html
The U.S. House should subpoena the
Obama administration if it fails to provide the rules and
justifications for its secretive drone program, according to
Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the chamber’s No. 3 Republican.  “This is a transparency issue,” McCarthy, of  California ,
said in an interview with Bloomberg’s Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  So far, President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
provided Congress with only part of its rationale for using
drones to target and kill U.S. citizens identified as
terrorists. The administration let the Senate intelligence panel
see Justice Department documents on that subject to secure
support for  John Brennan ’s confirmation last week to head the
Central Intelligence Agency.  Lawmakers from both parties are in a dispute with the Obama
administration over its reluctance to provide legal
justifications and ground rules for its use of drones to kill
those suspected of ties to the al-Qaeda terror network.  McCarthy cited the House’s “responsibility” for
intelligence programs as one of the reasons why lawmakers should
subpoena the administration for the documents.  “How is somebody being able to make those decisions
without a check and balance?” McCarthy said.  John Podesta , the chairman of the Center for American
Progress and President  Bill Clinton ’s former White House chief
of staff, said the Obama administration is “wrong” to withhold
the documents from Congress and the American people.  ‘Secret Law’  “Protecting technical means, human sources, operational
details and intelligence methods cannot be an excuse for
creating secret law to guide our institutions,” Podesta, who
has close ties to the White House, wrote in a Washington Post
opinion piece published March 13.  “In refusing to release to Congress the rules and
justifications governing a program that has conducted nearly 400
unmanned drone strikes and killed at least three Americans in
the past four years, President Obama is ignoring the system of
checks and balances that has governed our country from its
earliest days,” Podesta wrote.  Attorney General Eric Holder testified before the Senate
Judiciary Committee last week that the administration is
struggling with how to provide the legal opinions and memoranda
that govern the drone program.  Holder Letter  The Obama administration also issued a terse statement last
week saying the president doesn’t have the power to carry out
targeted killings on “an American not engaged in combat on
American soil.” Yet that letter from Holder -- meant to curb a
13-hour filibuster by Republican Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  -
- had left many questions unanswered.  The execution of drone strikes killing alleged enemy
combatants in countries including Pakistan and Yemen has been
central to a borderless U.S. war against terrorism. Now, a
growing number of U.S. law enforcement officials are asking to
employ the unmanned aircraft to fight domestic crime.  “You’re going to start to see the emergence of a checks-
and-balances caucus, and that there will be a lot of Democrats
in it,” said Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon , the only Democrat to
join Paul and other Republicans in the talk-a-thon that delayed
Brennan’s confirmation as CIA director.  “Regardless of which side you stand on the use of drones,
I think there has to be greater transparency,” McCarthy, 48,
said in the “Political Capital” interview.  Budget Battle  While intelligence matters were part of a series of
meetings Obama had on  Capitol Hill  with Democrats and
Republicans this week, the dominating topic was the U.S. budget
and efforts to reduce the deficit.  McCarthy expressed optimism that the House and Senate could
find some accord on the budget. Still, he reiterated Republican
resistance to raising revenue as part of any deal. Democrats
insist that no agreement can happen without tax increases.  The budget blueprints for 2014 unveiled by the two
chambers’ chief budget writers show how far apart the parties
are on budget and policy matters.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, unveiled a tax-and-spending proposal that he said
would eliminate the deficit within a decade by cutting $4.6
trillion out of a vast swath of federal expenditures.  His Democratic counterpart in the Senate,  Patty Murray  of
Washington, put forth a budget that proposes $1.85 trillion in
net deficit reduction by 2023, including $975 billion from
revenue increases and $975 billion from spending reductions. The
changes would reduce the  deficit  by $1.85 trillion.  ‘Good Sign’  The Senate’s blueprint is the first it has produced in four
years. While McCarthy acknowledged the differences between the
two proposals, he said the Senate’s delivery of a document is
“a good sign” and presents “good odds of doing something” in
eventually finding common ground with the House.  Ryan’s plan would overhaul the  tax code  by dropping the top
rate to 25 percent and collapsing the number of brackets to just
two from the current seven, with the other rate set at 10
percent. It would finance those reductions by squeezing
individual tax breaks, without identifying which ones would have
to go.  McCarthy defended Ryan’s approach and refused to identify
which tax breaks Republicans are willing to eliminate, though he
said that doing away with the home mortgage and charitable
deductions would be “pretty tough.”  “They’re tough, but I think you can look at the process,”
he said, adding that Congress should debate them.  McCarthy, whose district is about 36 percent Hispanic, said
that he would support a “legal status” for those who came to
the U.S illegally only after the U.S. borders are secured.  “I’d let them get back, just like everybody else, but not
give them any way upfront in line,” he said, adding that he
supports guest-worker visas.  “I hear from the president, all he wants to do is create
amnesty,” he said. “That will not happen, because what you do
is you’re breaking down the rule of law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  