-- Chavez Entombed as Venezuela Focus Turns to Elections
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-15T22:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chavez-s-remains-to-be-transported-across-caracas-once-more.html
Hugo Chavez’s remains were laid to
rest in a marble tomb in Caracas today in the last of a series
of remembrance events before a snap election triggered by his
death on March 5.  Chavez’s coffin was transported in a hearse through the
streets lined with throngs of supporters and followed by a
motorcade of motorcyclists clad in red, the color of his “21st
century revolution.” The body was moved from a chapel in the
military academy where it lay in state for nine days as millions
of Venezuelans filed to bid farewell.  “Today we begin the march without your presence but with
you at the forefront,” acting President Nicolas Maduro said
before his coffin in a speech broadcast on state television.
“If there’s someone who has earned his place in heaven to be
alongside Jesus Christ then that person without a doubt is Hugo
Chavez Frias. Mission accomplished, Comandante.”  Maduro, handpicked as his successor by Chavez three months
before his death from cancer, visited his mentor’s coffin more
than 10 times while it lay in state as he used the national
sense of grief to win support ahead of the April 14 election,
said Luis Vicente Leon, president of Caracas-based polling firm
Datanalisis. Maduro, Chavez’s longtime foreign minister and a
former bus driver and union leader, is pitted against opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski in the election.  “It’s obvious that they’re highlighting the emotion to aid
the campaign,” Leon said in a phone interview.  Mountain Barracks  Following a service at the military academy attended by
Bolivian President Evo Morales, family members carried his
coffin to a hearse as more than 2,000 cadets bade him farewell.
The 18.4 kilometer (11.4 mile) motorcade through the streets
lined with supporters ended at the “Barracks in the Mountain,”
where Chavez organized a failed 1992 coup against the government
of former President Carlos Andres Perez. The barracks, that look
over the presidential palace, have since been converted into a
museum celebrating Chavez’s “21st century revolution.”  “Thank you, comandante, for giving us back the
fatherland,” Chavez’s daughter, Maria Gabriela, said in a
eulogy at the service. “We will look after your fatherland and
we will defend your legacy as you taught us to do. You will
never be gone because we have your flame in our hands, Hugo
Chavez.”  Emotional Appeal  In a Datanalisis poll taken from Jan. 31 to Feb. 20, Maduro
is backed by 46 percent of voters compared with 34 percent for
Capriles, who lost by 11 percentage points to Chavez in a vote
last October. The poll’s margin of error was 2.4 percentage
points.  Maduro retracted an original plan to have Chavez’s body
embalmed and placed on permanent display at the museum. The
National Assembly also postponed voting on whether to call a
referendum to adjust the constitution so that Chavez could be
buried alongside his hero, South American liberator Simon Bolivar, in the National Pantheon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  