-- Chelsea Clinton Said to Buy Condo at Manhattan’s Whitman
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-03-15T19:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chelsea-clinton-said-to-buy-condo-at-manhattan-s-whitman.html
Chelsea Clinton and her husband,
Marc Mezvinsky, are in contract for a four-bedroom condominium
near Manhattan’s Madison Square Park that was listed at $10.5
million, a person with knowledge of the building said.  The couple agreed to purchase a 5,000-square-foot (465-
square-meter)  apartment  on the fourth floor of the Whitman on
East 26th Street, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the deal is private. The  full-floor unit  is one of four
residences at the five-story building, according to
StreetEasy.com, a property-listings website.  The Whitman, built in 1924, “has been completely re-
imagined into a magnificent condominium seamlessly blending
prewar quality with postwar conveniences,” according to the
 listing  by Melanie Lazenby and Dina Lewis of brokerage Douglas
Elliman Real Estate.  The New York Post reported Clinton’s purchase yesterday.  “It’s a beautiful brick building that looks like a mansion
from the 1920s, and it’s landmarked,” Lazenby said in a
telephone interview. “Every apartment is going to have direct
park views.”  Each apartment in the Whitman includes wide-plank oak
floors, Italian marble-slab bathrooms, a private elevator
landing and refrigerated storage rooms. With a full-time doorman
serving just four residences, “it’s one of the highest-level
service opportunities that you would have in any building in New
York,” Lazenby said.  The property’s 6,540-square-foot duplex penthouse is listed
for $22.5 million.  Clinton, 33, the daughter of former President Bill Clinton
and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, is a special
correspondent for Comcast Corp.’s NBC television network.
Formerly an associate at Avenue Capital Group LLC, she earned a
master’s degree in public health from Columbia University.  Mezvinsky is a co-founder of Eaglevale Partners LP, a New
York-based hedge fund. He didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment. An e-mail to Matt McKenna, a spokesman for the
Clintons, also wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  