-- Chesapeake Calls Bonds After Judge Rules on ‘Make-Whole’
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-15T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chesapeake-may-still-make-early-call-without-as-much-risk.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  issued a
notice to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early, at par, after a
judge ruled that the gas producer would probably prevail in
court over any demand to pay $400 million in extra interest.  The company said in a statement today that it will continue
to pursue a lawsuit in Manhattan federal court to confirm that
it has met the deadline to redeem without triggering a “make-
whole” provision that would require paying the extra interest.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in Manhattan yesterday
denied Chesapeake’s bid for an order barring a “make-whole”
request by indenture trustee  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. and
noteholders, while saying there was little risk Chesapeake would
ever be forced to make the extra payment if it chose to take the
dispute to trial.  “The court stated multiple times that it is
‘overwhelmingly’ likely that the company’s notice to redeem at
par will not be determined by the court to be a notice to redeem
under the ‘make-whole’ provision of the indenture, even if the
notice to redeem at par is ultimately deemed untimely,”
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in today’s statement.  Payment will be made on May 13 subject to a court ruling
that Chesapeake met its deadline, according to the statement.  Notes Fall  The $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due March 2019 fell
2.75 cents on the dollar to 104.5 cents to yield 5.87 percent at
8:53 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The  shares  rose 11 cents to $22.63 at 8:56 a.m. before the start
of regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  Chesapeake has argued that today is the deadline for it to
issue a notice of early redemption and avoid the make-whole
provision.  BNY Mellon (BK)  has said the call would have to be
completed today and it’s now too late. Engelmayer said the
contract was ambiguous and he would need to see evidence about
how it was drafted before deciding at a trial who is correct.  “Chesapeake is overwhelmingly likely to win on this point
if it’s ever litigated,” Engelmayer said of the make-whole
payment yesterday. Ambiguity in the indenture on the point of
the deadline “should not be read as a make-whole windfall for
noteholders,” he said.  Suit Filed  Chesapeake, the  second-biggest  natural gas producer in the
U.S., sued March 8 seeking a court order allowing it to issue a
notice to bondholders by today that it would redeem the 6.775
percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, six years
before they mature and without risk of a make-whole demand.  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, triggered the
lawsuits after it initially agreed with Chesapeake and then
changed its position when noteholders objected.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, declined to comment
on the redemption notice.  Engelmayer said yesterday that he would rush a trial within
60 days if Chesapeake chose to issue an early redemption notice.  Chesapeake didn’t win the preliminary injunction yesterday
because, Engelmayer said, it hadn’t shown it would suffer
“irreparable harm” without one, citing a requirement for such
an order.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 