-- Chesapeake Calls Bonds After Judge Rules on ‘Make-Whole’
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-15T16:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chesapeake-calls-bonds-after-judge-rules-on-make-whole-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  issued a
notice to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early, at par, after a
judge ruled that the gas producer would probably prevail in
court over any demand to pay $400 million in extra interest.  The company said in a statement today that it will continue
to pursue a federal lawsuit to confirm that it has met the
deadline to redeem without triggering a “make-whole” provision
that would require paying the extra interest. The 6.775 percent
notes fell the most since May.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in Manhattan yesterday
denied Chesapeake’s bid for an injunction barring a make-whole
request by indenture trustee  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. and a
group of noteholders, while saying there was little risk
Chesapeake would ever be forced to make the extra payment if it
chose to take the dispute to trial.  “The court stated multiple times that it is
‘overwhelmingly’ likely that the company’s notice to redeem at
par will not be determined by the court to be a notice to redeem
under the ‘make-whole’ provision of the indenture, even if the
notice to redeem at par is ultimately deemed untimely,”
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in today’s statement.  Notes Fall  The $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due March 2019 fell
2.75 cents on the dollar to 104.5 cents to yield 5.87 percent at
11:30 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The  shares  rose 40 cents to $22.92 at 11:40 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Chesapeake, the  second-biggest  natural gas producer in the
U.S., argued that today is the deadline for it to issue a notice
of early redemption and avoid the make-whole provision.  BNY
Mellon (BK)  said the call would have to be completed today and it’s
now too late. Payment will be made on May 13 subject to a court
ruling that Chesapeake met its deadline, according to today’s
statement.  Engelmayer, in his ruling, said the contract was ambiguous
and he would need to see evidence about how it was drafted
before deciding at a trial which side is correct.  Rush Trial  Engelmayer had said yesterday that “the ball is in
Chesapeake’s court as to whether or not to issue the notice of
special redemption,” and that if it did so, he would rush a
trial outcome “comfortably” within 60 days.  “In the event that a notice is issued, this litigation
needs to move forward fast, presumably with extremely expedited
discovery,” Engelmayer said, referring to the production of
evidence by both sides.  The judge directed Chesapeake, BNY Mellon and the group of
noteholders that backed the bank to meet over the weekend and
submit a joint letter to him by Monday saying what they plan to
do and offer a proposed trial schedule. He tentatively scheduled
another hearing on the matter for March 19 at 5 p.m.  Chesapeake sued March 8 seeking a court order allowing it
to issue a notice to bondholders by today that it would redeem
the 6.775 percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, six
years before they mature and without risk of a make-whole
demand.  Changed Position  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, triggered the
lawsuits after it initially agreed with Chesapeake and then
changed its position when noteholder River Birch Capital LLC
objected. Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on the redemption notice.  Chesapeake may pursue the litigation so it can issue notes
of the same maturity with interest of 4.75 percent to 5 percent,
Brian Gibbons Jr., an analyst at New York-based CreditSights
Inc., wrote in a report yesterday.  “There is some reputational risk for the company with the
bondholders broadly, but we’ve seen way worse behavior rapidly
forgiven,” he said.  While the dispute over the make-whole provision went in
favor of Chesapeake, the company still needs to prove at trial
that its interpretation of the March 15 deadline is correct to
meet the goal of refinancing the debt at a lower interest rate.
That means the early redemption could still be scrapped within
two months if the company was wrong about the deadline.
Engelmayer said the noteholders appear to have a better argument
based on the early evidence he’s seen.  ‘Better’ Argument  “On the very limited extrinsic materials submitted to me
at this stage, the noteholders seem to have, slightly, the
better of the argument,” Engelmayer said yesterday.  Engelmayer rejected River Birch’s claim that an early-
redemption notice would cause “economic harm” to recent
purchasers of the notes, particularly those who thought Feb. 13
was about the last date Chesapeake could issue such a notice and
complete the call by March 15. River Birch bought the notes on
Feb. 15, according to the ruling.  On March 12, River Birch and several of the other investors
calling themselves an “ad hoc noteholder group” won court
permission to intervene in the litigation, allowing them to
attend hearings and file court papers.  The group also includes Archer Capital Management LP, Ares
Management LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital
LP, Cetus Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative
Capital LP, Schoenfeld Asset Management LP and Taconic Capital
Advisors LP.  ‘Irreparable Harm’  Chesapeake didn’t win the preliminary injunction yesterday
because, Engelmayer said, it hadn’t shown it would suffer
“irreparable harm” without one, citing a requirement for such
an order.  Steven Bierman, the lawyer for the group of investors,
declined to comment when reached by phone today. BNY Mellon’s
lawyer, Paul Weinstein, also declined to comment.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in Manhattan at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 