-- Chicago-Area Gun Stores Sue Cook County Over Firearm Tax
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-15T00:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chicago-area-gun-stores-sue-cook-county-over-firearm-tax.html
Seven Chicago-area gun shops sued
Cook County, which includes the city and surrounding towns,
claiming a $25-per-gun  sales tax  unconstitutionally infringes on
citizens’ right to bear arms.  “The tax is excessive and arbitrary,” the shops and four
individuals claimed in a complaint filed today in state court in
 Chicago . “The tax which is imposed on law-abiding citizens and
retailers has no clear and reasonable relationship to the
victims of violent crime or to any other legitimate governmental
or regulatory function of Cook County.”  The plaintiffs are seeking a ruling that the tax violates
the U.S. and  Illinois  constitutions and an order blocking its
enforcement. County Revenue Department Director Zahra Ali and
Sheriff Thomas J. Dart are named as defendants.  The lawsuit was filed as Illinois’s legislature grapples
with a U.S. appeals court ruling last year that threw out a
state law banning anyone from carrying a loaded gun outside
their home or regular place of business.  The court gave lawmakers 180 days from the Dec. 11 ruling
to adopt a replacement law that passes constitutional muster.  The county enacted the gun tax in November with the
expectation it would raise $600,000 in revenue in 2013,
according to a  statement  published on its website.  Anti-Violence Fund  Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle said then the
measure would be paired with setting aside a $2 million fund for
violence prevention and reducing gun violence.  The tax becomes effective on April 1. Failure to comply
with it can result in assessment of a $1,000 fine for a first
offense and $2,000 for each subsequent offense, according to  the
ordinance .  Tandra Simonton, a spokeswoman for Cook County State’s
Attorney Anita Alvarez, said she couldn’t immediately comment on
the lawsuit. Sophia Ansari, a spokeswoman for the sheriff’s
office, said it hadn’t been served yet with the complaint and
couldn’t comment on the allegations.  No one could be immediately reached by phone at the
county’s Department of Revenue.  The lead corporate plaintiff is ERP Inc., doing business as
Chuck’s Gun Shop & Pistol Range in suburban Riverdale, Illinois.
All the gun shops that signed onto the suit are located outside
Chicago city limits.  The case is ERP Inc., doing business as Chuck’s Gun Shop v.
Ali, 2013CH07263, Cook County Circuit Court,  Chancery Division 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  