-- Chile Keeps 5% Key Rate on Surging Economy and Slowing Inflation
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/chile-keeps-5-key-rate-on-surging-economy-and-slowing-inflation.html
Chile’s central bank kept  benchmark
borrowing costs  unchanged for the 14th consecutive month
yesterday, highlighting faster-than-forecast economic growth and
easing inflation.  The bank board, led by the institution’s President  Rodrigo Vergara , held the benchmark rate at 5 percent, as forecast by
all 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank last changed
borrowing costs in January 2012 with a quarter-point reduction
that surprised economists.  While policy makers said internal demand is expanding
faster than gross domestic product, there is little chance they
will raise  interest rates  anytime soon after they highlighted
easing inflation and a strong  exchange rate , economist Matias  Madrid  said. Traders in the interest rate swap market forecast
borrowing costs will remain on hold through at least June.  “They could have published a much tougher statement on
eventual inflationary pressures or internal demand,” Madrid,
chief economist at Banco Penta, said after yesterday’s decision.
“The bias remains totally neutral.”  Two-year rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views of
average borrowing costs, rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, from the end of last month to 5.22 percent
yesterday. That indicates traders expect growth to prompt a
quarter-point rate increase by September, according to
calculations by Banco de  Chile .  Inflation Slows  While growth has exceeded analysts’ forecasts for six
consecutive months, easing  inflation  is keeping pressure off the
central bank board to raise rates, Nathan Pincheira, a senior
economist at Banchile Inversiones, said by phone from Santiago
March 12.  Inflation slowed to 1.3 percent in February from 1.6
percent in January, and compared with 3.55 percent in  Mexico ,
1.83 percent in  Colombia  and 6.31 percent in  Brazil . Price-
growth has remained below the central bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent for three months.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
declined 11 basis points to 2.86 percent yesterday from the end
of last month.  “The central bank needs stronger evidence that inflation
could be faster than the central bank wants for it to make
changes,” Pincheira said. “Evidence just needs to be firmer.”  Growth Outlook  Policy makers eventually need to tighten monetary
conditions as economic growth rates threaten to put pressure on
inflation, Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director at Moody’s
Analytics, said March 13.  GDP in the world’s top copper producer expanded 5.6 percent
last year and will climb 4.8 percent in 2013, the fastest growth
among major Latin American economies after  Peru , according to
analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Brazil, which is Latin America’s largest economy, has cut
its key interest rate 3.25 percentage points in the past year to
shore up lagging growth, while Mexico last week reduced
borrowing costs for the first time since 2009. Colombia has
reduced rates six times since June.  While cutting rates in Chile would be a proactive step to
protect against an expected economic slowdown later this year,
policy makers ruled out that option last month amid concern that
inflationary pressures would increase, according to minutes of
the Feb. 14 meeting posted on the central bank website.  “Domestic risks have gained importance, at least in the
short term,” Vergara said on March 6 in a speech in Santiago.
“Output and demand indicators exceeded forecasts over the last
year.”  ‘Sooner or Later’  Unemployment fell to 6 percent in the three months through
January from 6.6 percent the year before as wages expanded 4.3
percent above inflation in the first month of 2013 from the year
earlier, according to government data. Retail sales surged 9.5
percent in January after climbing 8.8 percent in 2012.  “Domestically, output and demand indicators have exceeded
forecasts,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision. “Economic activity reflects improvements
in mining, while demand growth, driven by investment, is
outpacing GDP. The labor market is still tight.”  Chile’s peso has responded to the economic growth by
strengthening 2.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12
months, the best performance among major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Peru. The peso fell less
than 0.1 percent to 471.44 per dollar yesterday.  “Sooner or later inflation is going to respond positively
to the pressures coming from fast economic growth,” Coutino
said by phone from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 