-- China Skyscraper Builder Enters Australia on A$480 Million Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T03:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/china-skyscraper-builder-enters-australia-on-a-480-million-deal.html
Shanghai Greenland Group Co., the
developer building one of  China ’s tallest towers, is investing
A$480 million ($498 million) in a redevelopment in Sydney, the
latest among Chinese homebuilders venturing overseas.  Shanghai Greenland and Canada’s  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc. (BAM/A)  bought two buildings at the corner of Bathurst and Pitt
streets for the 3,969-square-meter (42,721-square-foot)
redevelopment, the state-owned Chinese developer said in an e-
mailed statement today. Shanghai Greenland said it is the
biggest deal of its kind by a Chinese firm in Australia.  Chinese developers are entering overseas markets as the
government puts curbs on residential property at home to damp
price gains.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest developer listed on
mainland exchanges, said last month it entered a residential-
property venture in  San Francisco , while  Xinyuan Real Estate Co. (XIN) 
in September said it was developing a New York project.  “The healthy and stable property market in Australia has
given big confidence to investors,” Zhang Yuliang, chairman of
Shanghai Greenland, said in the statement. “New immigrants,
including those from China, have boosted property purchase
demand in the country and we expect it to be sustainable.”  Home prices  across major Australian cities rose 1.2 percent
in January and 0.3 percent in February, following a 0.4 percent
decline in 2012 and a 3.8 percent drop in 2012, according to
figures from researcher RP Data.  Construction is expected to start this year, after it
receives Chinese government approval, and will begin to sell
early next year, the company said.  Wuhan Tower  Shanghai Greenland, the closely held company set up in 1992,
said in 2010 that it will invest 30 billion  yuan  ($4.8 billion)
to develop a 606-meter skyscraper in the central city of Wuhan.  The 660-meter Ping An Finance Center in the southern city
of Shenzhen will be China’s tallest building when it is
completed 2015, according to the skyscraper center database of
the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. China’s tallest
building currently is the 492-meter Shanghai World Financial
Center.  Vanke and Tishman Speyer Properties LP, the owner of New
York’s Rockefeller Center, are planning two residential towers
in San Francisco that will cost $620 million,  Rob Speyer ,
Tishman’s president and co-chief executive officer, said last
month.  Xinyuan Real Estate in September took control of a lot
slated for more than 200 units near New York’s Brooklyn
waterfront for $54.2 million, a deal the Beijing-based company
said was the first of its kind by a Chinese firm in the U.S.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  