-- Cincinnati Parking Privatization Opponents Seek Vote
-- B y   D e n i s e   T r o w b r i d g e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-15T19:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/cincinnati-parking-privatization-opponents-seek-vote.html
Cincinnati’s  plan  to privatize
parking is being challenged by six city residents who claim the
March 6 ordinance should be put to a public referendum.  The measure places the  Port of Greater Cincinnati
Development Authority  in charge of street parking for 30 years
and off-street parking for 50 years, giving it the ability to
contract with private operators. In exchange, the authority is
to pay Cincinnati about $92 million now and an estimated
$3 million annually for 30 years.  The city council classified the ordinance as an emergency
measure needed to close a budget hole and save 344 jobs,
including 269 police and fire department positions. The
objectors say that’s a ruse to avoid a public vote on the deal,
and they want a judge to block the deal until it can be placed
on the ballot in November.  “Don’t believe any argument from the city that this is
doom and gloom, because it’s not supported by the evidence,”
Curt Hartman, an attorney for the opponents told Hamilton County
Judge Robert Winkler at a hearing today in Cincinnati. It’s “a
naked attempt by the city leadership to deny the people the
right to vote.”  Similar disputes have arisen elsewhere in the U.S. as state
and local governments consider privatizing prisons, lotteries,
airports and roadways to raise revenue and balance budgets.  Chicago Plan  Chicago faces a lawsuit over the 99-year, $563 million
lease of four of its downtown parking garages to an entity
controlled by two Morgan Stanley investment vehicles.  The  Ohio  Supreme Court has said it will consider whether a
nonprofit group is eligible to challenge the use of profits from
the state-owned liquor business to fund a private economic-
development program backed by Governor John Kasich.  Cincinnati has characterized the parking dispute as a
matter of charter interpretation and called the opponents’
position legally incorrect. Eleven percent of Cincinnati’s
downtown parking spaces are affected by the privatization plan,
according to a court filing by the city. Cincinnati Assistant
City Solicitor Terrance Nestor said the present estimated value
of the deal is $207 million.  Winkler issued a temporary restraining order on March 6 to
keep the plan from going forward until he can decide whether it
must be put to a referendum. He heard 90 minutes of argument
today without immediately rendering a decision.  “The ordinance shouldn’t be on the ballot,” Nestor told
Winkler today. “Ohio law provides for emergency legislation
that is not subject to a referendum.”  If voters don’t like what the nine-member city council has
done, they can go to the polls and elect new councilors, Nestor
said.  The case is McQueen v. Dohoney, A1301595, Hamilton County,
Ohio, Court of Common Pleas (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denise Trowbridge at the Court of Common Pleas in Cincinnati at
   dgtrowbridge@yahoo.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  