-- Colombia Peso Declines as Santos Calls for More Intervention
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-03-15T19:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/colombia-peso-declines-as-santos-calls-for-more-intervention.html
Colombia’s peso fell the most in
two weeks as President Juan Manuel Santos asked central bankers
to find new ways to ease the currency’s gains.  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 1,806.20 per U.S. dollar at
the close of trading in Bogota, the most since Feb. 25. It’s
down 0.3 percent this week.  Santos said yesterday at the swearing-in ceremony of
central bank board members Ana Fernanda Maiguashca and Adolfo Meisel that he wants them to “bring new light to how we can be
more creative” in stemming the peso’s rally, which erodes
exporters’ profit margins. The peso gained 9.7 percent in 2012
and touched a 17-month high on Jan. 2, prompting policy makers
to increase dollar purchases in the foreign-exchange market. It
has since weakened 2.4 percent.  “The market is on the lookout for what will be discussed
in terms of currency intervention” in the March 22 monetary
policy meeting, said Sebastian Martinez, an analyst at Helm Bank
in Bogota. “They probably won’t announce anything concrete
given the dollar purchase program runs through May, but people
will be watching for what they have to say.”  The central bank said Jan. 28 that it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion between February and May. Finance Minister
Mauricio Cardenas has also said that the government will buy $1
billion to pay for interest and principal on foreign bonds
coming due this year, in addition to the $1 billion it will
purchase for its oil-stability fund.  Banco de la Republica will lower the overnight lending rate
a quarter percentage point to 3.5 percent at this month’s
meeting, according to the majority of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Yields on Colombia’s benchmark peso bonds due 2024 were
little changed today at 4.92 percent, according to the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  