-- Corvex Asks Court to Void CommonWealth REIT Amendments
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-15T16:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/corvex-asks-court-to-void-commonwealth-reit-amendments-1-.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s largest
investors, activist Keith Meister and Related Cos., asked a
Maryland state court to void the real estate investment trust’s
bylaw amendments that make it difficult for shareholders to
replace board members.  The amendments are a “clear contravention” of
CommonWealth’s charter, Meister’s  Corvex Management LP  and
Related said today in a statement. The request was filed in an
amended complaint in a case pending in state court in Baltimore.  “We believe shareholders will have the opportunity in the
near term to exercise their right to vote on the removal of the
entire CWH board of trustees,” Meister and Related Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Blau said in the statement.  Corvex and Related sued to stop an offering of 34.5 million
shares that was completed last week because of the dilution it
would cause. The two companies filed documents with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13 asking
shareholders to consent to the board’s removal.  “We continue to dispute their various allegations and we
will continue to defend against them vigorously,” Tim Bonang, a
spokesman for CommonWealth, said today in a phone interview.  Bylaw Change  CommonWealth, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , changed its
bylaws on March 1 to make it harder for an investor to replace
board members. A shareholder or group of investors must own
3 percent of the company for at least three years before taking
action to remove a trustee, according to a regulatory filing.  Prior to March 1, no more than two shareholders had a
reported holding that filled the requirements of the amendment,
Corvex and Related said in the amended complaint.  Corvex and Related own a stake of about 8.6 percent,
according to a March 13 regulatory filing. The companies owned
9.8 percent of outstanding shares prior to the equity offering
and alleged in the complaint that commencement of the
transaction, two days after their stake crossed the 5 percent
threshold, was “very suspicious.”  CommonWealth’s five-member board of trustees includes
President Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company
founder. They also own Reit Management & Research LLC, the
external management company for the REIT.  Management Fees  Reit Management is to blame for much of CommonWealth’s
conduct, Corvex and Related said in the amended complaint. The
trust has implemented a portfolio strategy of purchasing
properties at a high valuation to maximize the management
company’s fees and has engaged in multiple party-related asset
transactions to develop new business platforms and income
streams for Reit Management, according to the complaint.  “The trustees and RMR have engaged in self-interested
conduct that has sacrificed and continues to sacrifice
CommonWealth shareholder value for the benefit of the trustees’
and RMR’s own entrenchment and profit,” according to the
complaint.  The amendments restricting shareholders’ ability to act by
written consent and extending the consent solicitation period to
210 days from 120 days seek to “unlawfully eviscerate” the
legal rights of shareholders, according to the complaint. The
amendments were not subject to shareholder approval or
ratification, Corvex and Related said in the filing. They are
asking a judge to rule the changes invalid and unenforceable.  The case is Corvex v. CommonWealth REIT, 24C13001111,
Circuit Court of  Maryland , Baltimore City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  