-- Cuomo Nears Deal With Lawmakers on $136 Billion Budget
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-15T01:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/cuomo-nears-deal-with-lawmakers-on-136-billion-budget.html
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and
legislative leaders are closing in on a deal that would smooth
passage of a $136.5 billion budget and make it the state’s
earliest spending plan in 30 years.  The accord is expected to close a $1.35 billion gap without
new taxes. If approved by the legislature by March 21 as
planned, it would be the earliest budget since 1983. It also
would be the state’s third consecutive on-time spending plan, a
first since 1984, when Cuomo’s father, Mario, was governor. New
York’s fiscal year starts April 1, unlike most states.  “We hope to have a deal within the next 24 hours,” Dean Skelos, the Long Island Republican who is co-leading the Senate
with a group of five breakaway Democrats, said yesterday after
emerging from a meeting with Cuomo.  Lawmakers and the governor, a Democrat, have agreed to
general spending levels, though exactly how the money will be
distributed hasn’t been decided. Legislative leaders and Cuomo
may meet in New York City today to negotiate further. Prolonging
a tax increase on high-income earners was said to be among the
issues still under discussion.  Extending the higher rate on joint filers earning $2
million or more a year has been the focus of robust discussion
during private meetings between Cuomo and legislative leaders,
according to two people familiar with the talks who asked not to
be identified because the negotiations were private. The levy
raises $1.9 billion annually and is set to expire in 2014.  Still Undecided  The length of an extension and whether to include it in the
budget remain undecided, said the people. Cuomo, who comes up
for re-election in 2014, pushed the tax change through the
legislature in December 2011, coupling it with reductions for
married couples earning less than $300,000 year.  The deal may include an increase in the minimum wage that
Cuomo and Democratic lawmakers are pushing for, as well as tax
cuts for small businesses that Republicans want. An agreement
probably won’t include a plan for three upstate casinos in
Cuomo’s January budget proposal, said Tom Libous, a Binghamton
Republican and the party’s second-highest ranking senator.  The governor said he intends to keep negotiating the casino
provision with lawmakers. Cuomo has said he expects a casino
plan to pass by June, before the legislative session ends. If
the proposal is adopted, voters would still have to approve a
constitutional amendment in November legalizing Las Vegas-style
casino gambling for the plan to move forward.  Closing Gaps  In his first two years in office, Cuomo, 55, has closed
more than $12 billion in deficits, in part by winning wage
freezes from the state’s biggest unions.  The on-time, balanced budgets are helping move the state
toward regaining the highest credit grade from Standard &
Poor’s. The rating company last had it at AAA in 1972.  In August, New York-based S&P revised its outlook on the
state’s AA rated general-obligation debt to positive from
stable, saying two more years of balanced budgets may merit a
one-step rating increase, to AA+.  Lawmakers have agreed to move forward with a plan that
allows localities to cut pension costs, according to Cuomo,
Skelos and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan
Democrat. After Cuomo included the plan in his proposed budget,
some local elected officials, including Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner, a Democrat, said it would be a form of borrowing that
would only increase municipal expenses.  Cuomo has said the plan was optional and designed to let
local governments cash in now on savings from pension changes
enacted last year, such as raising the retirement age for new
workers to 63 from 62. Associated cost reductions won’t begin
until the next generation of public workers is hired.  At a news briefing in  Albany  yesterday, Cuomo said he’s
hopeful for a budget agreement, though negotiations may continue
through the weekend.  “You’re at the three yard line,” he said. “But what does
it mean? I’ve seen a lot of teams on the three yard line that
never get over the goal line. So we’ll see how it goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  