-- Cyberspace Becoming a Conflict Zone Says Ex-U.S. Official
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/cyberspace-becoming-a-conflict-zone-says-ex-u-s-official.html
U.S. companies and the government
must do more to protect their  computer networks  as cyberthreats
become more common, said the State Department’s former senior
adviser on innovation.  “We have to harden our networks,” Alec Ross said in an
interview yesterday with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s Money Moves. “Unfortunately, the cyberdomain is
going from being merely competitive to increasingly conflict-
ridden.”  Ross led the State Department’s “21st Century Statecraft”
initiative under former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , an
effort to use technology to bypass governments and speak
directly to people around the world. President  Barack Obama  has
prioritized cybersecurity, issuing an executive order on the
issue Feb. 12 and hosting chief executive officers from energy,
finance, and technology companies at the White House this week
to discuss the threat of criminal and state-sponsored hackers.  Yesterday, Obama discussed the need for China and the U.S.
to address the threat of cyberattacks in a call with Chinese
President Xi Jinping, according to the White House.  National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said in a March 11
speech that U.S. businesses are increasingly expressing
“serious concerns” about “sophisticated, targeted theft” of
confidential information as a result of “intrusions emanating
from  China  on an unprecedented scale.”  “From the president on down, this has become a key point
of concern and discussion with China at all levels of our
governments,” Donilon said in the address to the  Asia Society .  Executive Order  Obama issued an executive order Feb. 12 outlining policies
for wider sharing of government data on hacking with companies,
particularly operators of vital infrastructure such as power
grids. The order directed the government to develop voluntary
cybersecurity standards for those businesses and instructs U.S.
agencies to consider adding the standards to existing rules.  “We have seen a steady ramping up of cybersecurity
threats,” Obama said in an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning
America” program broadcast March 13. “Some are state-
sponsored,” and some are “just sponsored by criminals.”  James Clapper , the U.S. director of national intelligence,
told the Senate intelligence committee March 12 that hostile
hackers or an “isolated state” may succeed in breaching U.S.
computer networks and disrupting power grids and other vital
services in the next two years.  Ross said that his four years at the State Department
underscored that power is shifting from governments to
individuals, driven largely by technology.  “Things that would have once taken a huge media company or
a government or tens or hundreds of millions of dollars of
upfront capital,” Ross said, “now because of processing power
that exists in the consumer’s pockets, things can be done much
more agilely by small institutions and individuals.”  In an effort to reach people around the world, the State
Department and U.S. embassies had at least 195 accounts with San
Francisco-based Twitter Inc. by the end of Ross’ tenure, and 290
pages on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  with 15 million subscribers and tens of
millions more visitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  