-- Dairy Output Growth to Slow in New Zealand as Drought Spreads
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-03-15T05:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/dairy-output-growth-to-slow-in-new-zealand-as-drought-spreads.html
Dairy- production  growth in New
Zealand may slow or remain flat this year as the world’s largest
exporter suffers from the worst drought in at least three
decades, pushing prices higher, according to ASB Bank Ltd.  Output of milk solids may be little changed in the year to
June 30 after rising 11 percent to 1.68 billion kilograms a year
earlier, said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB, owned by
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia . Tuffley cited initial
indications from  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , which accounts
for about 40 percent of global dairy trade, for the forecast.  The government expanded a drought declaration today to
cover all of the North Island after warning that the dry weather
may cut economic growth. Whole-milk powder at Fonterra’s bi-
weekly auction, which sets a global benchmark, surged this month
by the most since 2010, and has rallied 36 percent this year.
Dairy exports of NZ$11.4 billion ($9.4 billion) last year made
up 25 percent of the country’s total merchandise shipments.  “Because New Zealand is quite a key dairy exporter, and
the vast majority of production is exported, if there’s a shift
in New Zealand dairy supply, it tends to affect the volume that
is traded globally,” Tuffley said from Auckland. “We’ve
already seen dairy prices get pushed up and there’ll be quite a
bit of that left.”  Powder for  May delivery  rose 19.3 percent, the most since
Sept. 1, 2010, according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra’s
GlobalDairyTrade website last week. The near-term contract for
New Zealand product rose to $4,343 a ton, the highest price
since March 1, 2011.  Growth in milk volumes will probably slow to 1 percent this
year after expanding 6 percent at the start of the season as the
drought hurts production, Theo Spierings, chief executive
officer of Auckland-based Fonterra, said on Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  