-- Denmark Extols Euro Peg as Currency Gains Hurt Nordic Peers
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-15T08:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/denmark-extols-euro-peg-as-currency-gains-hurt-nordic-peers-1-.html
Denmark ’s government underscored
its commitment to a fixed  exchange rate  as neighboring  Sweden 
and  Norway  endure currency appreciations that threaten to stall
exports and kill jobs.  The euro peg that AAA rated Denmark defends has helped the
nation’s exporters sell their goods in Europe’s single currency
bloc even as the region stays mired in a recession. Since the
height of the global financial crisis in March 2009, the krona
of neighboring Sweden has soared 39 percent against the euro,
while Norway’s krone has risen 18 percent in the same period,
hampering the two countries’ trade competitiveness.  “Confidence in the krone’s exchange rate is worth its
weight in gold,” Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said in an
e-mailed reply to questions. “That’s much more interesting than
fluctuations up and down.”  Sweden’s exporters have pleaded with the government and
central bank to prevent the krona appreciating further, warning
the competitive disadvantage its gains create will force them to
cut jobs. In neighboring Norway, the central bank has resorted
to rate cuts to stem the krone’s ascent. That’s underpinned
credit growth and pushed  house prices  to records, prompting
warnings from the financial regulator that Norway’s overheated
property market may end in a bubble.  SNB Peg  Unemployment in Denmark, including people in vocational
training programs, eased to 6.1 percent in January, according to
the statistics office. In Sweden, the jobless rate rose to 8.5
percent last month, official data showed yesterday.  Denmark’s central bank, which has defended the krone’s peg
to the euro since the single currency’s debut in 1999, last year
pushed rates to record lows to counter a capital influx that had
threatened to breach the peg. It cut the deposit rate to an
unprecedented minus 0.2 percent in July, forcing investors to
pay to hold most short-term krone-denominated assets.  Other central banks in AAA rated economies have also
resorted to pegs after the euro area’s debt crisis triggered a
capital flight out of southern  Europe  and into the continent’s
richest nations. The Swiss central bank yesterday pledged to
keep up its defense of the franc cap introduced in September
2011 after almost doubling its foreign currency holdings.  The Danish krone’s peg to the euro has also brought
depreciations against the Swedish krona and Norwegian krone.
Since the end of last year, Denmark’s krone has lost 2.5 percent
against the krona. It’s down 0.7 percent against Norway’s krone.  Export Growth  The Danish krone traded at 7.4576 per euro as of 9:39 a.m.
in Copenhagen today, unchanged from yesterday. Norway’s krone
slipped 0.2 percent to 7.5458 while Sweden’s krona gained 0.1
percent to 8.3558 per euro.  “In the short term, currency swings led to improving
Danish competitiveness,” Jacob Graven, chief economist at
 Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , said in a phone interview. “This is particularly
the case versus neighboring currencies like kronor and kroner.
Swedish kronor make up a significant part of Danish exports.”  Denmark sends about 60 percent of its exports to the
European Union, with 12 percent destined for Sweden. Denmark’s
trade surplus grew 61 percent to 6.6 billion kroner ($1.1
billion) in January, the statistics office estimates.  “Our krone peg has kept rates low and held a hand under
the jobs market since the crisis started,” Vestager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  