-- Detroit Outlook Raised to Stable After Emergency Manager Named
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-15T19:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/detroit-outlook-raised-to-stable-after-emergency-manager-named.html
Detroit ’s credit outlook was raised
to stable from negative by  Standard & Poor’s  after the governor
named an emergency manager to run it.  Michigan Governor Rick Snyder yesterday chose Kevyn Orr, a
Washington bankruptcy lawyer who helped Chrysler Group LLC
reorganize in 2009, to lead the turnaround of the state’s
largest city. A recent review declared it in a financial
emergency with a deficit that hit nearly $327 million in 2012
and long-term debt topping $14 billion.  “We view the appointment of an emergency manager as a
positive step toward regaining structural balance and improving
the city’s overall financial condition,” said Standard & Poor’s
credit analyst Jane Hudson Ridley.  The city’s continued B rating on general-obligation bonds,
five steps below investment grade, reflects its financial
imbalance, revenue shortfalls and long-term obligations
including potential swap-termination payments and unfunded
retirement costs, the company said.  A tax-exempt Detroit general-obligation bond sold in 2005
and maturing in April 2014 traded after S&P’s announcement at a
1.82 percent yield, the lowest since January, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Other tax-exempt debt from Detroit
maturing in 2023 traded at an average yield of 6.85 percent,
down from 8.3 percent on Feb. 20, when it last traded.  Snyder, a Republican, declared a crisis on March 1
following a state review that reported a lack of progress
cutting a deficit that would have been $936.8 million had the
city not borrowed more. Detroit hasn’t had a  budget surplus 
since 2004, according to the report.  Detroit lost one-fourth of its population from 2000-2010,
which has reduced the tax base and strained basic services such
as public safety and buses.  “The appointment of an EM allows the city to move forward
in a more efficient manner, continuing to make the types of
adjustments necessary to regain structural balance,” Ridley
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  