-- Detroit Rescue Given to Lawyer Who Helped Save Chrysler
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/detroit-rescue-given-to-lawyer-who-helped-save-chrysler.html
Kevyn Orr,  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder ’s pick to take control of Detroit, will probably need
every ounce of experience he gained helping Chrysler Group LLC
reorganize to create a plan for the Motor City to survive.  Orr, a bankruptcy lawyer and  University of Michigan 
graduate, was formally appointed to the job yesterday after
being introduced publicly by Snyder at a news briefing. In 2009,
the Jones Day partner helped Chrysler win $4.96 billion needed
to restructure and streamline operations by cutting 789 dealers.  “When I heard his name, I thought, ‘This is a great break
for Detroit,’” Spencer Overton, a law professor at George
 Washington  University in Washington and friend of Orr’s, said in
an interview. “Kevyn Orr brings so much to the table.”  Orr, 54, arrives with the city of 706,600 teetering on the
verge of bankruptcy.  Detroit  ran up a deficit of almost $327
million last year and has $14 billion in long-term obligations.
Growing gaps in services have frustrated residents while
potentially rancorous union negotiations are approaching. In
all, not a dissimilar situation to the one he found at Chrysler
in 2009, when it lost almost $3.8 billion.  With U.S. government backing, the automaker went through a
bankruptcy in which  Fiat SpA (F)  took control of the suburban
Detroit manufacturer’s attractive assets and the rest were
liquidated. Chrysler’s net income soared to $1.67 billion last
year, from $183 million in 2011.  Useful Experience  Fixing Detroit will be unlike fixing an automaker, yet
he’ll draw on that experience, Orr told reporters yesterday. He
quit Washington-based  Jones Day  to take the Michigan job. A
native of  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , Orr said he expects to
complete his work in Detroit within 18 months.  “I undertake a job that needs to be done, that has a fuse
on it, and if I do a good job, I get fired,” Orr said. “Can I
get the job done? I am highly motivated. I am all in.”  Chrysler, which when it entered court protection in April
2009 was the largest industrial bankruptcy ever, took 41 days to
exit the process amid predictions it might take years.  “He quickly got attuned to the political dynamics of the
Chrysler bankruptcy, and you will recall there were many,” said
John Bozzella, who was the company’s vice president of external
affairs. “He’ll need those kind of skills. He understood the
political sensitivity well.”  Biggest Challenge  Detroit may be Orr’s biggest challenge. The city has lost
more than a quarter of its residents since 2000. Those who
remain endure unreliable buses, inadequate police and fire
protection and broken street lights.  Orr said he’s a lifelong Democrat who’s prepared for
controversy as protests of his appointment took place outside
the Detroit building where he was introduced.  “In my business, you’re sort of the undertaker that walks
up to the front door,” Orr said. “You might say I’ve been
inoculated against the concept that people aren’t exactly happy
to see me come along.”  Orr will be a hands-on manager who won’t just rely on
advisers, said Overton, the GWU law professor and a Detroit
native. His wife’s parents still live in the city.  Orr said he’ll meet with Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat, aides
to Snyder and City Council members to set priorities.  “There’s no doubt in my mind that we’re going to work
together,” Bing said at the news briefing. City residents, he
said, “want things fixed. That’s what we’ve got to focus on.”  ‘Honest Broker’  Alan Fein, a lawyer in Miami, described Orr, a former
colleague, as well-liked, with a charming demeanor. He said Orr
is “an honest broker, and fair to the core.”  “He’s a great facilitator, he’s a smart guy,” Fein said.
“He’s somebody who walks in the room and you want to know him
and like him.”  Fein said Orr and his wife, Donna Maria Neale, have young
children, and a cat. Orr said Donna is a surgeon. The family has
a house in the Washington suburb of  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland .  Before joining Jones Day, Orr held several U.S. government
jobs, including director of the Justice Department unit that
oversees bankruptcy cases and trustees, according to Jones Day.  While Orr said while he’ll look for consensus, he’ll do
what needs to be done. When some Chrysler creditors balked at
cutting the company’s bank debt to $2.25 billion from $6.9
billion, his team took the automaker’s case to  bankruptcy court 
instead.  In the briefing yesterday, Orr described bankruptcy as a
“cudgel” weighted in favor of municipalities. He said he
wouldn’t rush to use it.  “Let’s get at it and work together,” Orr said of state and
city government officials. “Because if we can’t resolve this,
people of good faith, don’t make me go to the bankruptcy court.
You won’t enjoy it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 