-- Deutsche Bank Suspends Exchange-Traded Note Issuance Until April
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-03-15T20:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/deutsche-bank-suspends-exchange-traded-note-issuance-until-april.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  is suspending
offerings of new shares for 26 exchange-traded notes until it
updates financial statements after an April shareholder meeting.  Issuance will end after the close of trading March 29, then
is expected to resume after the April 11 meeting,  Germany ’s
biggest lender said in a statement yesterday. The offerings are
ceasing after the bank said  Feb. 26  it would postpone
registering a form called a 20-F with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that’s needed to issue public debt
securities. The filing allows foreign companies to offer new
debt, including exchange-traded notes and structured notes.  Foreign issuers’ audited financial statements have to be
updated every 15 months, and they would “not be able to access
the public markets in the U.S.” until updated financial
statements are on file, Robert Treuhold, a partner at Shearman &
Sterling LLP in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
Deutsche Bank’s last 20-F  includes  audited statements for the
year ended Dec. 31, 2011.  Private offerings would not be affected, Treuhold said.  The April 11 meeting is scheduled to “confirm the
contested resolutions” of its 2012 annual general meeting,
which included resolutions related to the election of an
auditor, according the statement last month.  Trading Continues  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman for the bank, declined
to comment beyond the two statements.  ETNs already issued by the lender will continue to trade,
according to yesterday’s statement.  Deutsche Bank is the 9th largest U.S. structured notes
issuer this year, selling $402.4 million of the securities this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The issuer’s
largest ETN by assets is the  PowerShares (DGP)  DB Gold Double Long
ETN, with about $369.1 million in assets as of noon.  Issuers usually close structured note offerings at the end
of each month, Bloomberg data show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  