-- Dolphins Sign Tight End Dustin Keller as Jets Add Goodson, Colon
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/dolphins-sign-tight-end-dustin-keller-as-jets-add-goodson-colon.html
The  New York  Jets continued their
offseason makeover, losing a tight end while picking up a
running back and someone to block for him on the third full day
of the National Football League free-agent period.  Dustin Keller , who played for the Jets for five years,
signed with the  Miami Dolphins , the team announced yesterday in
an e-mailed release. The Jets, meanwhile, added running back
Mike Goodson, who played for the Oakland Raiders last season,
and offensive lineman Willie Colon of the Pittsburgh Steelers.  The San Diego Chargers signed running back  Danny Woodhead ,
formerly of the New England Patriots; the Minnesota Vikings
signed quarterback Matt Cassel and wide receiver  Greg Jennings ,
and the Arizona Cardinals released quarterback  Kevin Kolb .  Keller, 28, had 28 receptions for 317 yards and two scores
in 2012 while missing eight games with groin and ankle injuries.
He caught 241 passes for 2,876 yards and 17 touchdowns during
his Jets career.  “We have been able to see first-hand what kind of impact
he brings to an offense during his time with the New York Jets
and look forward to his contributions,” Dolphins General
Manager Jeff Ireland said in the statement.  The Dolphins also added wide receiver  Mike Wallace  and
linebacker Dannell Ellerbe in the past few days. The Jets, who
also compete in the American Football Conference East division,
have lost five starters to free agency, including running back
 Shonn Greene  and safety LaRon Landry.  Goodson, 25, carried the ball 35 times for 221 yards and no
touchdowns last season with the Raiders, and caught 16 passes
for 195 yards and one score. His signing, announced in an e-
mailed release, comes two days after Greene joined the Tennessee
Titans.  Colon’s Deal  The Jets signed Colon to a one-year, $1.2 million deal,
according to ESPN. Released this week by the Pittsburgh
Steelers, Colon has started 62 games in six NFL seasons.  Woodhead and the Chargers agreed to a two-year deal, the
team announced in an e-mailed release. Woodhead, who played for
the Jets in 2009 and 2010, had four rushing touchdowns and three
receiving scores last year with the Patriots.  The Chargers also said they had re-signed running back
Ronnie Brown to a one-year contract. Brown, 31, had 46 rushes
for 220 yards last season for  San Diego .  The Vikings made official their signing of Cassel, 30, who
was released a day earlier by the Kansas City Chiefs, and also
said they had signed Jennings, 29, who spent his first seven NFL
seasons with the Green Bay Packers.       The Cardinals announced on their Twitter account that they
released Kolb after two seasons with the team. Kolb was 6-8 in
14 starts with Arizona, throwing 17 touchdown passes and 11
interceptions. The Cardinals traded a second-round draft pick
and cornerback Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie to the Philadelphia
Eagles for Kolb in July 2011. A year ago, they elected to give
Kolb a $7 million bonus and dropped their pursuit of  Peyton Manning .  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  