-- EchoStar, Nintendo, VirnetX: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-15T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/echostar-nintendo-virnetx-intellectual-property.html
EchoStar Corp. (SATS) ’s Sling Media, whose
gadgets lets users watch live television shows on their mobile
devices, filed a U.S. trade complaint seeking to keep its
competitors out of the burgeoning market.  Sling Media claims  Belkin International Inc. ’s @TV Plus and
@TV Premium and  Monsoon Multimedia Inc. ’s Vulkano and HAVA
devices are using a technology it invented called place-shifting
technology, which allows media stored on one device to be
accessed on another. The company contends its rivals infringe
six patents.  The EchoStar unit makes the Slingbox, a device that lets
customers get their pay-TV channels “slung” to laptops,
smartphones and tablet computers. The patented inventions are
incorporated in the company’s new Slingbox 350 and Slingbox 500,
as well as  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Hopper With Sling set-top box.  “Sling Media has invested tens of millions of dollars in
research and development,” the company said in the complaint
filed with the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Rachel Jones-Pittier, a spokeswoman for Playa Vista,
California-based Belkin, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment. A phone message left with FortyThree
PR, an agency that handles press inquiries for Monsoon according
to the technology company’s website, also wasn’t immediately
returned.  The ITC complaint, filed March 12 in Washington, also
targets chips made by San Jose, California-based C2 Microsystems
Inc. for the Belkin and Monsoon products. The company couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The devices allow consumers to watch their favorite show
when it airs without being tied to the television or waiting for
it to become available on cable companies’ on-demand services.
 Charlie Ergen , chairman of Englewood, Colorado-based EchoStar,
bought Sling Media in 2007 and has used it as part of a strategy
to push the satellite-technology company and Dish, which he also
runs, into Internet and on-demand services.  Sling Media also filed a lawsuit against closely held
Belkin and Monsoon in January over some of the same patents.
That case is pending.  In addition to its Vulkano devices, San Mateo, California-
based Monsoon makes circuit boards that are used in Belkin
products, according to the complaint. Sling Media said the
Monsoon and Belkin products are made in China.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that investigates
allegations of unfair trade practices, including patent
infringement, and has the power to block products from entering
the U.S. It typically completes investigations in 15 to 18
months.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
Having Placeshifting or Display Replication Functionality and
Products Containing Same, Complaint No. 2943, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  Nintendo Told by Jury to Pay $30 Million in 3-D Patent Suit  Nintendo Co. (7974)  was ordered to pay $30.2 million to a former
 Sony Corp. (6758)  employee after a jury in New York found the company’s
3DS machine infringed his patent.  The handheld 3DS game and video player infringed a 3-D
technology patent held by Seijiro Tomita, the Manhattan jury
found March 13, according to the office of U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, who tried the case.  Tomita, who worked for Sony for almost 30 years before
quitting in 2002, sued Nintendo in June 2011. That year
Nintendo, the world’s biggest video-game console maker,
introduced the 3DS, which allows users to see 3-D images without
special glasses. Nintendo said it will appeal.  “We believe we can win a ruling that our 3DS doesn’t
infringe the patent,”  Yasuhiro Minagawa , a spokesman for
Nintendo, said by phone.  In April 2012 Rakoff denied Nintendo motions for judgment
without a trial on the grounds that Tomita couldn’t prove either
that Nintendo infringed the patent or that it had willfully
infringed it.  “A reasonable jury could find, based on clear and
convincing evidence, that Nintendo’s defenses are so
unpersuasive that an objectively high likelihood of infringement
in fact exists,” Rakoff said in a memo explaining his ruling.  Tomita said he met representatives of Nintendo in August
2003 to demonstrate his technology, according to court papers. A
month later, he was asked to create a sample for the company,
according to the filings. Tomita said he requested payment or a
licensing agreement and received no response. He said he had no
“direct communications” with Nintendo from September 2003
until the suit was filed in 2011.  “The same employees who attended the demonstration helped
to develop the 3DS, and a reasonable jury could find that they
would have understood the similarities between the 3DS and the
prototype Mr. Tomita had shown them,” Rakoff wrote.  Nintendo released its latest home console, the Wii U, last
year.  Tomita Technologies Ltd. is based in Yokohama, Japan.  The case is Tomita Technologies USA v. Nintendo Co., 1:11-
cv-04256, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  VirnetX Loses Patent Trial to Cisco Over Private Networks  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC)  lost a patent-infringement trial
against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , as a jury cleared the networking-
equipment maker of allegations it infringed inventions related
to virtual private networks.  A jury in Tyler,  Texas , said the company’s patents weren’t
infringed. VirnetX was seeking $258 million in damages.  The dispute is over virtual private networks, through which
a website owner can securely interact with a customer or an
employee can work at home and have protected access to a
company’s electronic files. Doug Cawley of  McKool Smith , a
lawyer representing VirnetX, said Cisco used the technology to
improve security in its own networks.  VirnetX won a $368.2 million verdict against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
November over the same technology, including two of the same
patents, before a different Tyler jury. In 2010, Zephyr Cove,
Nevada-based VirnetX reached a $200 million settlement with
Microsoft Corp. over the same inventions.  The case decided yesterday focused on Cisco routers,
software and phones that have virtual-private-networking
functions including its Unified Communications Manager product,
Telepresence or AnyConnect. Cisco, whose products handle traffic
over the Internet, reported sales of $12.1 billion in the
quarter ended Jan. 26.  VirnetX relies on patent licensing for its revenue. The
company is testing its Gabriel Connection Technology to create
secure communications links, according to its annual report.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis, who is presiding over
the Apple and Cisco cases, on Feb. 26 upheld the jury verdict
against Apple. Davis denied a VirnetX request for an order that
would have limited Apple’s ability to provide virtual private
networks on its products.  The case is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 10-cv-
00417, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  ISE Opts Out of CBOE Patent Trial in Favor of Appellate Path  International Securities Exchange LLC, an all-electronic
options trading market, opted out of a patent trial against
Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. on the day its lawyers were
to deliver opening statements to a jury.  U.S. District Judge Joan H. Lefkow, who was presiding over
the lawsuit in federal court in Chicago, issued a series of
adverse pre-trial rulings that compelled ISE to “cease pursuit
of the case,” it said in a statement yesterday.  The Deutsche Borse AG unit alleged the Chicago exchange
infringed an automated trading patent. CBOE, in a separately
filed case, asked Lefkow to find the ISE patent was invalid.  “ISE strongly believes in the merits of its case that CBOE
copied and continues to infringe ISE’s patented trading
technology,” the New York-based company said. “ISE plans to
immediately file an appeal to the Federal Circuit to reverse
these rulings.”  The trial, which was set to start on March 11 and delayed
for three days while Lefkow addressed the preliminary motions,
was one of at least three legal disputes between ISE and
Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , operator of the biggest U.S.
options exchange.  Jurors were discharged yesterday without ever hearing
arguments or evidence in the trial Lefkow had told them on March
11 would last until early April.  Jonathan Marshall of New York’s Fish & Richardson PC, an
attorney for the CBOE, said in a courtroom interview that
lawyers for ISE asked the judge to enter a judgment of non-
infringement, freeing ISE to appeal.  ISE concluded the “net effect of the rulings would make it
impossible to make their case at trial,” Marshall said.  In one ruling, made public on March 11, Lefkow had barred
ISE from presenting evidence of pre-suit damages to the jury,
concluding that the exchange had failed to comply with a federal
“marking statute,” requiring it to make public its patent
claim.  “We are gratified that this case has reached the correct
result,” CBOE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William J. Brodsky said in a statement.  The cases are Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 07-cv-00623, and
International Securities Exchange LLC v. Chicago Board Options
Exchange Inc., 07-cv-04709, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Kweichou Mountai’s ‘National Liquor’ Trademark Draws Complaints  Kweichou Moutai Co. (600519) , a Chinese distiller, registered
“national liquor” as a trademark, generating protests from
domestic competitors,  People’s Daily  reported.  Competing distillers have threatened to go to court and
claim the issuance of the mark violated Chinese trademark
regulations, according to the newspaper.  They claim issuing the mark gave Guizhou province-based
Kweichou Moutai an unfair advantage, falsely suggesting the
company produces the best quality product.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Universal Loses Appeal Bid to Restore Veoh Copyright Suit  Copyright claims by  Universal Music Group  and other studios
against the Internet video-site operator Veoh Networks Inc. were
properly dismissed, a federal appeals court ruled.  Veoh was protected from the claims by “safe harbor”
provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which
shields Internet service providers that unknowingly post
copyrighted material and remove it when alerted, a three-judge
panel in  San Francisco  said yesterday.  The court previously ruled in favor of Veoh in 2011,
granting the studio’s request for rehearing. It issued a new
opinion yesterday. The lawsuit was filed in 2007 against Veoh
and its backers. Most of Veoh’s assets were acquired in 2010 by
 Qlipso Media Networks Ltd.   Universal Music  is a unit of Paris-based  Vivendi SA. (VIV)   Steven Marenberg, an attorney for Universal, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment about
the ruling.  The case is UMG Recordings Inc. v. Veoh Networks Inc., 10-
0955902,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  Pirate Bay Founders’ Infringement Appeal Rejected by Court  The European Court of  Human Rights  held that the conviction
of two founders of the Pirate Bay file-sharing site for criminal
copyright infringement was justified.  In a March 13 ruling, the court said it rejected the
argument of Frederik Neij and Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi that their
sharing of content was permitted under guarantees of freedom of
expression.  The material they shared was protected under copyright law
and the conviction “pursued the legitimate aim of protecting
copyright,” the court said.  The interference with the two defendants’ freedom of
expression “had been necessary in a democratic society,” the
court ruled, finding their appeal to be “manifestly ill-
founded.”  Judge Says Filing in Downloading Case ‘Gamesmanship’  In a case involving unauthorized downloading of adult
films, a federal judge in  Los Angeles  told counsel for the film
company that one of its recent court filings lacked merit and
“exemplified gamesmanship.”  U.S. District Judge Otis Wright II said a March 11 hearing
“raised questions” about the conduct of counsel and other
parties and suggested they may be culpable for sanctionable
conduct and may have defrauded the court through their actions.  Counsel and other parties were ordered to appear at a March
29 hearing and show why they shouldn’t be sanctioned.  The case is Ingenuity13 LLC v. Doe, 12-cv-08333, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  