-- Egyptians March in Port Said to Reject Mursi Overture
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-15T16:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/egyptians-march-in-port-said-to-reject-mursi-overture.html
Thousands of Egyptians marched in
Port Said in rejection of a pledge by President Mohamed Mursi to
probe violence that has seen dozens of protesters killed in
clashes with police since the start of the year.  “We are saddened by any drop of Egyptian blood in Port
Said or elsewhere,” Mursi told residents of the northeastern
city in a televised address late yesterday. “When the findings
emerge, everyone will get what they deserve.”  Mursi said law and order should be respected. He also vowed
to heed calls to create jobs and a free trade zone in Port Said,
demands that predate the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . “Your demands for employment and trade are in my heart
and it is my responsibility to fulfil them,” he said.  Violence erupted in Port Said in January after a Cairo
court sentenced 21 locals to death for their role in a fatal
soccer riot last year. Relative calm returned after the military
took over security and the police chief was replaced. Residents
say police have used excessive force against protesters, with
government consent, and many have called for Mursi to resign.  “We are all Egyptians, one hand, and one heart,” Mursi
said in the TV address. “There are those who try to frame our
differences as a split, which is untrue.”  Last year’s riot took place at a league match when fans of
the local Al Masry team rushed across the field toward
supporters of Cairo’s Al Ahly team in the stands. More than 70
Al Ahly fans were killed, and the police have been criticized
for failing to stop the violence.  On March 9, two senior security officials were sentenced to
15 years in jail for negligence, and seven policemen and two
soccer officials were acquitted, fanning tensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  