-- El-Erian Say Fed ‘Forced’ Central Banks to Ease Policy
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-15T19:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/el-erian-say-fed-forced-central-banks-to-ease-policy.html
The Federal Reserve’s record
monetary stimulus has compelled central banks from Mexico to
Japan to follow suit, said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian.  The Fed’s “artificially low” benchmark interest rate has
put upward pressure on several currencies, threatening to erode
the competitiveness of those nations’ economies, El-Erian, chief
executive officer of the world’s largest manager of bond funds,
said in a speech today in Stanford, California. “Ultimately,
they are forced -- Mexico has been forced, Brazil has been
forced, Korea has been forced, Japan has been forced -- into
doing exactly the same thing” as the Fed.  Mexico’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate last week for the first time since 2009, while
Haruhiko Kuroda, who was confirmed today as  Bank of Japan (8301) 
governor, has pledged to do more to beat deflation.  “Central banks are carrying the majority of the policy
burden, not by choice but by perceived necessity,” El-Erian
said at a conference held at Stanford University.  Fed officials have defended their record easing to global
policy makers as  emerging markets  tackled an influx of capital
that has pushed up their currencies. Vice Chairman Janet Yellen
said in October that other countries have the tools to manage
excess capital flows.  ‘Price Setter’  The U.S. central bank has kept its main interest rate near
zero since December 2008 and is engaged in a third round of bond
purchases to spur economic growth and reduce 7.7 percent
unemployment. As a result, the Fed has become the equity
investors’ “best friend” and a “price-setter” in financial
markets, El-Erian said.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke “pivoted” in 2010 and started
using “imperfect tools,” leaving the balance of benefits and
costs unclear, El-Erian said.  “It’s the equivalent of a pharmaceutical company that has
no choice but to put medication on the market even though the
medication’s hasn’t been clinically tested,” he said. “That is
why the Fed talks a lot about the costs” of its quantitative
easing program, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed yesterday to within
two points of its record closing level of 1,565.15 set in
October 2007. The gauge has more than doubled from its bottom in
2009, fueled by corporate earnings that topped estimates and
monetary stimulus from the Fed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
set an all-time high for the eighth day in a row yesterday.  Consumer Confidence  Stocks (SPX)  fell today as a report showed U.S.  consumer
confidence  unexpectedly weakened in March. The S&P 500 declined
0.3 percent to 1,558.85 at 3:30 p.m. in New York, and the Dow
was also down 0.3 percent to 14,489.57.  Fed officials are debating the potential costs of the
easing. Governor Jeremy Stein last month said that some credit
markets, including leveraged loans and junk bonds, show signs of
potentially excessive risk-taking. Kansas City Fed President
Esther George has warned of risks from farm land prices at
“historically high levels.”  While the costs of the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases are currently “very isolated” and financial markets
are in a “sweet spot,” El-Erian said the longer-term outlook
is “unusually uncertain” with a “major, major fork” awaiting
investors, he said.  Either the economy will successfully make a transition from
a state of “assisted growth” to “genuine growth,” or the
expansion will fall short of reaching “escape velocity” as Fed
officials discover the benefits of their stimulus no longer
outweigh the costs, he said.  “In order to deliver a competitive country that can grow
sustainably, in order to catch up with what we have left behind
since the crisis, we need to deal with structural impediments,”
El-Erian said. While only the government has the power to fix
those longer-term issues, the Fed can buy time “for the system
so that others can get their act together,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  