-- Emerging Stocks Cap Biggest Weekly Drop Since May on U.S.
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-15T21:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-four-months.html
Emerging-market stocks capped their
biggest weekly slump since May as a gauge of American consumer
sentiment unexpectedly dropped and  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. led
declines in technology shares in  Asia .  Samsung Electronics sank the most in six weeks in  Seoul  as
the world’s biggest smartphone seller unveiled its Galaxy S4.
BYD Co. tumbled 7.8 percent in  Hong Kong  as two people with
knowledge of the matter said the company plans to sell new
shares. Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  slumped as MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA led homebuilders lower. Colombia’s peso
weakened after President  Juan Manuel Santos  asked central
bankers to find new ways to ease the currency’s gains.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.5 percent to
1,042.24 in  New York , dropping a fifth day. The gauge extended
its weekly decline to 2.2 percent. Stocks joined a slump in
American shares as a measure of U.S.  consumer confidence  dropped
to the lowest level since December 2011.  “On a risk-off day in the U.S., emerging markets act in
line,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist for
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said in a
telephone interview. His firm manages $55 billion.  Nine out of 10 groups in the in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index retreated as phone and technology companies had the
biggest losses. The broader measure has slipped 1.2 percent this
year and trades at 10.9 times  estimated  12-month earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
multiple of 14.3 for the  MSCI World Index (MXEF)  of developed-nation
shares, which has climbed 7.9 percent in 2013.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF slipped 0.9 percent
to $42.77 in New York, extending its loss for the week to 3.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 0.9 percent to 15.97.  Brazil’s Bovespa lost 0.7 percent, dropping a fourth day.
MRV sank 8.1 percent after posting earnings that trailed
analysts’ projections for a fifth quarter.  Colombia’s peso dropped 0.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar . The peso gained 9.7 percent in 2012 and touched a 17-
month high on Jan. 2, prompting policy makers to increase dollar
purchases in the foreign-exchange market.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.3 percent as Russia left
borrowing costs unchanged for a sixth month. VTB Group erased
gains and fell less than 0.1 percent. Russia’s second-biggest
lender may sell shares before “autumn” 2013, First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said today in  St. Petersburg .  Asian Market  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent, extending
gains for a second day. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.4
percent, posting its first weekly decline in three weeks as
developers retreated after banks raised  mortgage rates .  Samsung Electronics declined 2.6 percent, the most since
Jan. 28. The company, which unveiled the Galaxy S4 at New York’s
Radio City  Music Hall  yesterday, dragged  South Korea ’s Kospi
index down 0.8 percent to a three-week low.  BYD, the Chinese automaker partially owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., slid the most in a year. The
company plans to sell new shares equivalent to as much as 20
percent of its Hong Kong-traded stock, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Chinese equities sank to the lowest level since November in
New York after the nation’s new leaders failed to announce
specific policy measures to stoke growth in Asia’s largest
economy.  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  slid the most since December after Chinese
state television said the  Internet company  collects users’
private information.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 286 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  