-- Empire State Building Holders Supporting IPO, Malkins Say
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-15T16:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/empire-state-building-holders-supporting-ipo-malkins-say.html
A proposal to include the Empire
State Building in a public real estate investment trust has been
approved by 90 percent of the tower’s unitholders who have voted
so far, according to the skyscraper’s supervisors.  Support is even higher from unitholders of two other
Manhattan buildings slated to be part of the REIT, Malkin
Holdings LLC said in a letter to investors, filed today with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Holders of 1 Grand Central
Place shares have voted 95 percent in favor, while 97 percent of
investors in 250 West 57th St. have approved the plan. About
two-thirds of unitholders have voted, the Malkins said.  The fate of the proposed initial public offering may depend
on what the other third of Empire State Building investors do.
The plan requires support from holders of 80 percent of the
3,300 units of Empire State Building Associates LLC, which owns
the iconic tower, to proceed.  “This remarkable level of participation in such a short
period has exceeded our hopes,” Malkin Holdings Chairman Peter Malkin and President Anthony Malkin said in the letter. “We
encourage the very small percentage of participants who have
voted against any proposal to consider now changing their votes
to be for all the proposals.”  Voting No  The Malkins are interpreting the numbers in their own
interest, said Richard Edelman, an Empire State Building
beneficiary who has been among those coordinating efforts to
oppose the REIT. Edelman operates a  website  critical of the
proposal, and last week led a conference call of investors
discussing the plan.  “These numbers are the same as we are seeing in our
polling of ESBA participants,” he said in an e-mail. “About 40
percent of ESBA participants are telling us they are voting no.
Not sending in a ballot is the same as voting no.”  Members of Empire State Building Associates have been
voting since late January on a plan that would entitle them to
receive about half the skyscraper’s appraised $2.53 billion
value in shares of the REIT. The Malkins hold a 15.4 percent
stake in the company, according to filings related to the
offering. Most of the remaining interests are scattered among
more than 2,800 investors, many of them elderly original
unitholders or descendants of ones who have died.  The other half of the Empire State Building’s value would
go to investors in Empire State Building Company LLC, which
holds a sublease on the property. That entity is majority-owned
by the estate of Leona Helmsley, which is seeking to liquidate
its holdings.  In a March 6 letter to investors, Peter Malkin urged
unitholders to get their consents in by March 25, the first day
under SEC rules that the solicitation may be completed. A quick
approval will reduce costs and the risk of litigation, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  