-- Menendez Welcomes Review Amid Report of Grand Jury Probe
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-15T16:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/menendez-welcoms-review-amid-report-of-grand-jury-probe.html
U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez  would
“welcome any review” of his conduct, his spokeswoman said,
responding to a report that a grand jury is probing his role in
promoting the business interests of a longtime donor and friend.  The federal grand jury in Miami is investigating the New
Jersey Democrat’s intervention in matters affecting  Florida 
ophthalmologist Salomon Melgen, the Washington Post reported
yesterday, citing three unidentified people familiar with the
matter. Menendez, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, hasn’t been asked to testify as part of the probe, a
person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News.  Federal agents have interviewed witnesses about ties
between Menendez and Melgen, and the grand jury has issued
subpoenas for the doctor’s business and financial records, the
Post reported, citing people who asked to not be identified in
discussing an active probe. Grand juries are a preliminary step
in prosecutions and don’t always lead to criminal charges.  Tricia Enright, the spokeswoman for Menendez, said
yesterday that the senator’s “actions have always been
appropriate, and we believe the facts will confirm that.”  “Every day, more evidence emerges that the false smears
against Senator Menendez are nothing but an elaborate campaign
orchestrated by Republican political operatives,” Enright said
in an e-mailed statement.  Public Disapproval  Menendez’s approval ratings have plunged amid allegations
that he improperly helped Melgen, even as fellow Democrats say
they’re standing behind him. A Quinnipiac University poll
released last month showed that 36 percent of New Jersey voters
approve of his performance, down 15 points from January. Seventy
percent of those polled, including 72 percent of independents,
said they had read or heard about the controversy.  On Jan. 29, the FBI, along with officials from the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services inspector general’s
office, raided Melgen’s  West Palm Beach , Florida, office as part
of a probe into possible Medicare fraud, a person with knowledge
of the investigation told  Bloomberg News  and asked not to be
identified in discussing the matter.  The raid fueled scrutiny of Menendez’s ties to Melgen, who
donated more than $700,000 last year to the senator’s campaign
and other Senate Democrats. Menendez in 2009 and in 2012 raised
concerns with top officials at the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services about the agency’s finding that the doctor had
overbilled the government by $8.9 million, the Washington Post
reported.  Ethics Review  Federal agents conducted the raid primarily to look into
possible fraudulent billing activities by Melgen’s ophthalmology
business, according to the Miami Herald.  The person with knowledge of the raid cautioned that it
didn’t mean the action was related to the Menendez accusations.  Following the raid, Georgia Senator  Johnny Isakson , the top
Republican on the chamber’s six-member Ethics Committee, said
the panel would review the matter.  According to the Washington Post, FBI agents also are
looking into Menendez’s role in pushing enforcement of a port-
security contract in the Dominican Republic held by a company in
which Melgen is an investor.  Melgen stood to gain a windfall if the contract, which
calls for operating X-ray scanners to screen cargo at the
country’s ports, was enforced, the Post said.  Never ‘Bought’  Menendez, who has denied any wrongdoing, said he wrote a
$58,500 check in January to reimburse Melgen for two 2010 trips
the lawmaker took to the Dominican Republic on Melgen’s private
jet once the senator’s staff discovered the trips hadn’t been
paid for earlier.  “No one has bought me,” Menendez said in a Feb. 8
interview with Univision, a Spanish-language television station.
“No one. Ever.”  Inquiries he made on Melgen’s behalf were part of “normal
process,” Menendez said in the interview, which the network
translated into English.  Melgen, a wealthy eye surgeon born in the  Dominican
Republic , has been a prolific donor to and friend of Menendez
for years. According to published reports, Menendez has
accompanied Melgen a number of times to the Dominican Republic,
where Melgen owns a villa in Casa de Campo, an oceanfront gated
golf resort.  Broad Probe  Daniel Stein, the former head of the public corruption unit
in the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Southern District of  New
York , said any grand jury probe would probably be comprehensive.  “If it’s true that a federal grand jury investigation is
under way, then it will likely be wide-ranging and thorough,”
Stein said in an e-mail. “Investigators will be trying to find
evidence of the parties’ intent, which would typically lead them
to try to place this interaction in a broader context.”  Menendez, 59, retains support from Democrats such as Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , of  Nevada , who told reporters last
month that his confidence in Menendez “hasn’t wavered at all”
because of the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  