-- Euro Ministers Push for Cyprus Deal After Merkel Demand
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-03-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/merkel-demands-cyprus-action-amid-clashes-on-haircuts.html
Euro-area finance ministers pushed
through the night toward a Cyprus rescue deal after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said  Europe  must act to support Cyprus
after nine months of bailout talks.  Policy makers began meeting at 5 p.m. yesterday in Brussels
in a hastily convened gathering, seeking to trim the amount of
aid, overcome differences on losses for investors and decide on
a role of the  International Monetary Fund .  Making way for the currency bloc’s 17 finance ministers,
Merkel said that while euro countries won’t provide assistance
“under any conditions,” the currency union needed to prevent
Cyprus from lurching toward insolvency.  “Simply to leave Cyprus alone and see what happens would
be, in my view, irresponsible,” Merkel told reporters in the
Belgian capital after a two-day European Union summit. In her
wake, the finance officials arrived, along with European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi and IMF chief  Christine Lagarde , for
the Cyprus talks.  Even though it accounts for less than half a percent of the
euro economy, the Mediterranean island nation has tested
leaders’ resolve in overcoming the debt crisis and preventing
contagion to Italy and  Spain . A central conflict among officials
has become which investors will be called on to sustain losses,
given the aftermath of Greece’s debt restructuring last year.
Uncertainty surrounding that bailout triggered a renewed round
of market turbulence.  Shuttle Diplomacy  As rescue talks continued, Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris shuttled between meetings with his counterparts and
conferences with President Nicos Anastasiades, who remained in
Brussels after most EU leaders headed home.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the chairman of
the group of euro finance ministers, said officials will seek a
“good solution.” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said ministers must overcome “very difficult” challenges to
rescuing the country, the bloc’s fifth rescue since the debt
crisis began in 2009.  Cyprus’s “sovereign debt is too high; the deficit is too
high; the economic situation is the way it is; the banking
sector is disproportionately large,” Schaeuble told reporters
as he entered the meeting, which could go late into the night.  Officials have fallen short of agreement on Cyprus since it
requested assistance last June, clashing over issues such as
debt sustainability, the presence of Russian wealth and
disagreements with the previous government. They also are
seeking an independent review of anti-money-laundering efforts
as a way to reassure voters in  Germany  and other creditor
countries about the bailout’s bona fides.  First Summit  The election of Anastasiades, who participated his first EU
summit, breathed new life into talks after he took office on
Feb. 28.  Still, front-and-center was the conflict on cost sharing.
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said an agreement should involve
a broad swath of investors, while Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  warned that losses on depositors and
other senior creditors should have no place in a package.  “It is very frustrating Cyprus got into this,” Rutte told
reporters today. “In any case, we want private-sector
participation as well as IMF involvement.”  ‘Brutal’ Haircut  Juncker warned that such a “brutal form of haircut” of
the kind that was imposed as part of the Greek rescue could
upend a market calm that ensued after the ECB last year pledged
to buy unlimited sovereign debt.  “One has to pay very good attention to the credibility of
the entire zone by not giving the impression that one is doing
here in a tweaked way what we did in  Greece , while we said we
wouldn’t do that ever again,” Juncker said today.  Finance ministers aim to reduce the size of a rescue from
an expected 17 billion euros ($22 billion) to about 10 billion
euros, Dijsselbloem said this week. He declined to say the exact
amount under review, instead citing prior estimates of 10
billion euros to shore up Cypriot banks and 7 billion euros to
fund the government.  A final deal must include ways to reduce Cypriot debt to
about 100 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, he said.  “It is useless to develop a program if it is impossible
for a country to get out of the valley,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  