-- Meth Labs Found in West Africa as Transit Hub Turns to Producing
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2013-03-15T10:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/meth-labs-found-in-west-africa-as-transit-hub-turns-to-producing.html
Criminals in West  Africa , a region
used for the transit of illicit narcotics such as cocaine and
heroine, have begun producing drugs including methamphetamines
for export to Asia and South Africa, the United Nations said.  “The region is shifting from a transit and consumer place
to a producing place,” Pierre Lapaque, regional representative
for the UN Office on Drugs and Crime, said an interview in the
Senegalese capital, Dakar, on March 12. “Nigerian criminal
groups have quickly identified methamphetamine production as a
criminal niche.”  West Africa became a hub for moving drugs mainly from South
America to  Europe  and Asia, with an estimated 47 tons of cocaine
transited in 2007. As law enforcement improved and trafficking
dropped, methamphetamines production has risen, according to the
UN. That will probably put pressure on health-care and justice
systems as more drugs in the region may lead to higher addiction
rates, the UNODC said.  Methamphetamines, commonly known as crystal meth or simply
meth, are produced by cooking precursor chemicals including
common cold decongestants. Three “big-scale, serious
laboratories” have been found near Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial
capital and Africa’s second-biggest city, Lapaque said. One was
discovered in January, he said.  Nigerians in the country use connections with nationals
living around the world, Lapaque said. “Nigeria has a fantastic
diaspora that they use and mis-use,” he said. “They are
connected worldwide.”  Asia Exports  The risk of being caught with the drug in West Africa is
minimal because many customs officials haven’t seen
methamphetamines before, Lapaque said. The chemicals used to
make the drug are poorly controlled by states in the region,
making them easily available, he said.  The UNODC estimates that as much as 3,000 kilograms (6,613
pounds) of the drug could have been exported to Asia in 2010,
the latest data available. A kilogram of crystal meth in  Tokyo 
costs $200,000, according to a report released last month by the
Vienna-based organization. The cost to produce a kilogram in
West Africa is a 10th of that, Lapaque said.  The African producers may face competition from Asian
methamphetamines makers, which would mean more drugs dumped on
local markets and higher addiction rates, he said.  West Africa’s rise as a producer has come as the number of
labs found in Cape Town dropped since 2008. The South African
city has the world’s highest prevalence of methamphetamines,
with 2 percent of adults using the drug, according to the UNODC.
Drug producers are unlikely to shift out of the region, Lapaque
said.  “As long as you have weak governance and weak rule of law,
as long as you can pay your way out of jail and find people to
assist you for a couple of dollars, there is no good reason to
leave West Africa,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  