-- European Stocks Decline as EU Leaders Meet in Brussels
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-15T15:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/european-index-futures-climb-as-leaders-meet-in-brussels.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined from a 4
1/2-year high, as European Union leaders eased constraints on
national budgets amid a deepening euro-area recession, and
confidence among American consumers unexpectedly slid in March.  Volkswagen AG fell to the lowest since November after
Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. sold shares. Vivendi SA ended a
five-day rally after halting the planned sale of its Brazilian
phone and Internet unit, GVT.  Ingenico SA (ING)  fell to its lowest in
three weeks as Safran SA’s Morpho plans to sell part of its
stake.  Rentokil (RTO)  Initial Plc surged the most in 3 1/2 years after
saying 2012 finished strongly.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent to 297.19 at
3:02 p.m. in  London . The gauge is heading for a 0.6 percent gain
this week, on course for a fourth straight weekly advance, its
longest winning streak since December. The benchmark has risen
6.3 percent this year as data on U.S. payrolls and Chinese
exports bolstered confidence in the global economic recovery and
central banks around the world continued stimulus measures.  “After the impressive performance of the past weeks and
months, the rally is seeing a bit of fatigue,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in
Luxembourg. “U.S. economic figures have been good, but there is
the need for the market to take a pause. With the expiries
today, it’s best not to have any bad news.”  Stock moves may be influenced by the expiration of futures
and options contracts today, a process known as witching. The
volume of Stoxx 600 shares changing hands was 37 percent greater
than the average of the past 30 days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the western
European markets except Iceland and Switzerland.  Germany ’s DAX
slid 0.5 percent, while  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.7 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 0.8 percent.  European Union leaders endorsed “structural” budgetary
assessments, using code for granting countries such as France,
Spain and Portugal extra time to bring down deficits. Still,
balanced budgets remained the goal and there was no talk of
large-scale spending programs or bond issues.  “If there is too much austerity, there will be too much
unemployment,” French President Francois Hollande said at an EU
summit in Brussels late yesterday. “Flexibility is necessary if
we want to make growth the priority.”  European political chiefs also paved the way for finance
ministers to wrangle a rescue for Cyprus today as the euro area
seeks progress toward a bailout that’s been batted about for
nine months.  Cyprus Resolution  “I can’t imagine that we’ll let the weekend go by without
resolving the Cyprus problem,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said early today after euro leaders met midway
through the two-day summit in Brussels. The EU gathering ends
today with a 27-nation discussion of foreign policy, to be
followed by a euro-area ministers’ meeting.  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary sentiment index for March fell to 71.8 from 77.6 in
February. The gauge was projected to increase to 78, according
to the median estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Asia,  Japan ’s political parties confirmed Haruhiko
Kuroda as the Bank of Japan governor as well as Kikuo Iwata and
Hiroshi Nakaso as deputies, ushering in a leadership that may
push for more monetary stimulus within weeks.  Volkswagen Shares  Volkswagen’s preferred shares declined 3.5 percent to
158.90 euros. Waddell & Reed sold 914 million euros ($1.19
billion) of the stocks, after they touched a four-month low
yesterday on the carmaker’s 2013 outlook. The 5.78 million
shares were sold for 158 euros each, a 4 percent discount to
yesterday’s close, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  slipped 0.7 percent to
150.5 pence after forecasting 2013 revenue lower than current
market estimates. Gross average daily revenue in January and
February fell 7 percent from the final quarter of 2012 after a
decision to “focus on nationally regulated markets and on high
value customers,” the gambling company said. The shares had
earlier fallen as much as 8.3 percent.  Vivendi (VIV)  lost 3.5 percent to 16.07 euros. The company halted
the planned sale of GVT after failing to get a satisfactory bid
for the division, which had been valued at 5.2 billion euros.  Vivendi wasn’t satisfied with the offers it received and
now prefers to develop GVT, a spokesman said yesterday. It
solicited bids for the division last year.  Ingenico Stake  Ingenico, a French provider of payment terminals and
services, declined 2.9 percent to 44.66 euros. Safran’s Morpho
will sell 6.6 million Ingenico shares, or a 12.57 percent stake,
in a private placement, while retaining a 10.2 percent stake.  Rentokil surged 10 percent to 99.9 pence, its biggest
increase since July 2009. The world’s largest pest control
company said 2012 saw a “strong finish” with fourth-quarter
adjusted pretax profit rising 15.9 percent.  Bouygues SA (EN)  gained 2.8 percent to 22.94 euros. The owner of
France’s third-largest mobile phone company won approval from
the telecommunications regulator to use the 1,800 megahertz band
to offer faster services from Oct. 1.  Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scarl  jumped 8.8 percent
to 5.92 euros. Exane BNP Paribas raised its target price for the
shares by 5 percent to 8.30 euros, citing the benefits of the
bank’s funding structure, which is based on retail deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 