-- Euro-Area Inflation Slows on Telecommunications Costs
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-03-15T10:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/euro-area-inflation-slows-to-1-8-on-telecommunications-1-.html
The  euro-area inflation rate  fell
for a second month in February, led by price declines in the
telecommunications industry.  Annual consumer-price growth slowed to 1.8 percent from 2
percent in January, in line with an initial estimate on March 1,
the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
In the month, prices rose 0.4 percent. The annual core inflation
rate, excluding volatile costs such as energy, alcohol and
tobacco, held at 1.3 percent.  The  European Central Bank  last week maintained its
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.75 percent as President  Mario Draghi  described the inflation outlook as “broadly balanced.”
The ECB forecasts that euro-area consumer prices will increase
1.6 percent this year, below its 2 percent ceiling, as gross
domestic product declines 0.5 percent.  “Inflation isn’t a severe risk to the economic situation,
neither in  Germany  nor in the  euro zone  as a whole,” Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany, said before
the data were released. “It is very comfortable for the ECB to
see inflation rates come down for their argument to stick to
very low interest rates.”  The euro was higher against the  U.S. dollar  after the data,
trading at $1.3061 at 11:11 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent on
the day.  The cost of food, alcohol and tobacco rose an annual 2.7
percent in February after a 3.2 percent annual gain in January,
according to today’s release. Telecommunications costs declined
5.2 percent.  Labor Costs  Energy cost growth was steady at 3.9 percent, while the
cost of services increased 1.5 percent, the data showed.  Nominal hourly  labor costs  in the euro area rose 1.3
percent in the fourth quarter from the year-earlier period, down
from growth of 1.8 percent in the third quarter, a separate
report showed today.  Euro-area industrial output dropped 0.4 percent in January
from the month before, adding to signs that the region’s
recession extended into the first quarter. GDP in the final
quarter of last year declined 0.6 percent, the most in almost
four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  