-- Euro Swap-Tied Note Sales Surge in South Korea as Yields Decline
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-15T02:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/euro-swap-tied-note-sales-surge-in-south-korea-as-yields-decline.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
euro swap rates are surging in  South Korea  this year, as the
country’s issuers look beyond falling local benchmark yields to
generate attractive terms.  Issuance of the securities since Dec. 31 through February
jumped 80 percent to 360 billion won ($324 million) from 200
billion won in the first two months a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Nice Pricing Services Inc., a bond-pricing
agency in  Seoul . The notes, so-called steepeners, earn more when
there’s a wider gap between long and short-term euro swap rates.  South Korea’s three-year  sovereign bonds  dropped to a
record low of 2.61 percent on March 13 amid forecasts of a
slowing economy. The difference between  the country ’s 20- and
two-year won interest rate swaps was 49 basis points as of March
13, less than a third of the spread in  euros , according to
Bloomberg data, making it more challenging to create steepeners
using local benchmarks.  “You can’t create attractive notes with local yields
now,” said Shin Dong Jun, a fixed-income analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Issuers are creating them by mixing
overseas rates.”  All of the euro-swap notes sold this year were issued by
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s South Korean banking unit, the
country’s top issuer of rate-linked structured notes last year.  The securities, sold in five offerings from January to
February, pay 4.5 percent to 5.86 percent annually in the first
two years before tracking the spread between the 20-year and
two-year constant maturity swap rates in the euro, according to
the data from Nice. The coupons are capped at levels ranging
from 6 percent to 7.5 percent.  Chung Han Young, a Seoul-based spokesman for  Standard
Chartered , wasn’t immediately able to comment on the reason for
the increase in issuance of the securities when contacted by
phone.  Issuance of total rate-linked notes in South Korea rose 23
percent to 900 billion won through February this year from the
same two-month period in 2012, according to the Nice data. Apart
from the steepeners, the rest of the sales involved so-called
range accrual notes linked to swaps and the London interbank
offered rate in U.S. dollars. The products pay coupons only for
days when the reference gauges remain in certain bands.  Standard Chartered accounted for 83 percent of total
issuance this year, boosting its share from 34 percent in the
same period a year ago, the Nice data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  