-- Ex-Altium Banker to Be Charged in FSA Insider-Trade Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-15T18:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ex-deutsche-bank-broker-5-others-face-2014-insider-trade-trial.html
A former managing director at
Altium Capital Ltd. will be charged in an insider-trading
investigation and face trial next year along with a former
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  broker and four others.  Grant Harrison was sent a summons yesterday and told to
appear in court in April to be charged, a lawyer for the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, Neil Saunders, said at a London
court hearing today. Harrison will be added as a defendant in
the case against Martyn Dodgson, a former managing director at
Deutsche Bank, Saunders said.  The case is scheduled to go to trial in September 2014 and
last as long as three months, according to information from the
hearing today. Contact information for Harrison couldn’t
immediately be found.  “The FSA has informed us that the allegations relate
entirely to this individual’s personal actions while with a
previous employer,” Altium said in a statement. Harrison no
longer works for the firm and his actions haven’t had any impact
on Altium’s clients, it said.  Harrison, who is listed as “inactive” on the FSA’s
register of people approved to work in the industry, joined
Altium as a managing director and the head of public company
business development in September 2011, according to a  statement 
on the firm’s website from when he was hired. He previously
worked for Lloyds Banking Group Plc in its equity capital
markets business, and for a Panmure Gordon & Co. unit.  Little Tavern  The charges stem from the FSA’s biggest insider-trading
investigation, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern. The U.K. regulator arrested seven people and raided 16
addresses in  London  and southeast  England  in March 2010 as the
FSA sought to crack down on insider trading among bankers and
traders in London’s financial district. More arrests came later.  Dodgson, who was employed by Deutsche Bank at the time of
his arrest in 2010, as well as Andrew Hind, Benjamin Anderson
and Iraj Parvizi were charged with “conspiracy to insider
deal” between Nov. 1, 2006, and March 23, 2010, the  FSA  said in
October. The agency alleges the men made more than 3 million
pounds ($4.5 million) on improper trades. Another defendant,
Richard Baldwin, was charged in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  