-- Mexico Peso Set for Best Week Since January as S&P Spurs Rally
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-15T13:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/mexico-peso-set-for-best-week-since-january-as-s-p-spurs-rally.html
Mexico’s peso headed for its
biggest weekly gain since January after  Standard & Poor’s  raised
the outlook on its  credit rating , adding to speculation that
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s reform agenda will bolster growth
in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The peso climbed 1.7 percent in the past five days to
12.4208 per  U.S. dollar  as of 6:58 a.m. in Mexico City, which
would be the biggest weekly advance since the period ended Jan.
4. It was little changed today, gaining from 12.4235 yesterday.
The peso touched an 18-month high on March 13, and its 3.5
percent return this year is the best among the dollar’s 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after Brazil’s real.  S&P raised Mexico’s outlook on March 12 from stable to
positive, meaning it is more likely to be raised than lowered
from its BBB rating, the second-lowest investment grade. Lisa Schineller, an S&P analyst, wrote in the report that Pena
Nieto’s economic overhauls, including plans to open the  energy
industry  to more private investment and shore up the country’s
tax base, had the potential to improve growth prospects and
increase “the country’s fiscal room for maneuver.”  “The news about Mexico has been positive,”  Rafael
Camarena , an economist for Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico
SAB, said in a telephone interview. The prospects of economic
overhauls passing congress this year “led Standard & Poor’s to
say that they could review the credit rating because they see a
greater probability that agreements can be reached over fiscal
and energy reforms. That’s what’s helping the  exchange rate .”  Yields on the government’s peso bonds due in 2024 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.94 percent today,
paring the weekly decline to six basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  