-- Factories in New York Area Expanded in March for Second Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/factories-in-new-york-area-expanded-in-march-for-second-month.html
Manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded for a second month in March and industry
managers grew more optimistic about the future, indicating the
area’s factories are rebounding.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  eased to 9.2 this month from 10 in February, which was the
highest since May. Readings exceeding zero signal expansion in
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The
median projection in the Bloomberg survey was 10. A measure of
manufacturers’ outlooks climbed to the highest level in almost a
year.  Growth in orders and sales this month show manufacturing is
on the mend after a slowdown in the second half of 2012 as
companies brought inventories more in line with demand.
Sustained consumer spending and more equipment purchases by
businesses will probably help fuel production gains, cushioning
any setback posed by automatic government budget cuts, known as
sequestration.  “Manufacturing is continuing to expand but at a modest
pace simply because aggregate demand is doing the exact same
thing,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report. “Once we get
the adjustment to payroll taxes and sequester behind us I think
we’ll be back on track. The headwinds are starting to
diminish.” Ameriprise forecast an Empire index reading of 8.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 49 economists for the
February data ranged from 2 to 15.  Factory executives in the New York Fed region were more
optimistic about future activity. The gauge measuring the
outlook six months from now advanced to 36.4, the highest since
April, from 33.1. The gauge reflected increased optimism about
orders, sales and  capital spending .  New Orders  The Empire State gauge of current  new orders  decreased to
8.2 in March from 13.3, which was the highest reading since May
2011. A measure of shipments fell to 7.8 from 13.1 the previous
month.  The index of prices paid dropped to 25.8 from 26.3, while
prices received decreased to 2.2 from 8.1.  A measure of  factory employment  declined to 3.2 from 8.1.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due March 21, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management  figures  on U.S. manufacturing. The
national report is scheduled for release April 1.  Retail Sales  Consumer spending  gains and stronger orders for business
equipment point to further strength in manufacturing. Retail
sales climbed 1.1 percent in February, the most in five months,
after a 0.2 percent gain in January, Commerce Department figures
showed this week.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, advanced 7.2
percent, the biggest gain since September 2004, Commerce
Department figures showed on March 6.  The pickup at factories helps explain recent gains in
manufacturing employment. Industry  payrolls  increased by 14,000
in February, after gains of 12,000 and 13,000 in the prior two
months.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
raised the lower end of its forecasts for first-quarter sales.
The company has increased production in anticipation of higher
demand, Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said.  “In general, the stronger demand environment has
continued,” Slaymaker said on a March 7 conference call.
“We’re now building backlog for the first time in several
quarters.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  