-- Fannie Mae Preferred Stock Soars to High Since Bailout Month
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-15T21:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/fannie-mae-preferred-stock-soars-to-highest-since-bailout-month.html
Preferred and common stock of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  soared after four Senators proposed
legislation related to the mortgage financiers that were placed
into government conservatorships in September 2008.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s 8.25 percent preferred shares climbed to $2.96
as of 4:15 p.m. in New York from $2.08 on March 13, reaching the
highest since the month of its bailout, when the dividends were
suspended. The Washington-based company’s  common stock  rose to
40 cents, the highest since May 2011, from 29.2 cents.  The securities may be worthless unless the companies can
pay off the funds they owe to taxpayers or see their bailouts
reworked. Lawmakers including Tennessee Republican  Bob Corker 
and Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, yesterday introduced a
bill that would prohibit increases in the firms’ mortgage-
guarantee fees to pay for other government spending, as well as
ban sales of senior-ranking U.S. Treasury-owned preferred shares
without congressional approval.  “It’s not clear why” the “Treasury would sell the
preferred or why anyone would want to own it,”  Jim Vogel , an
analyst at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note
to clients.  The Treasury bought $187.5 billion of senior preferred
shares in the two companies to help them remain solvent. The
government, which starting this year will be paid any profits
they make under a revision to their bailout agreements in
August, also owns 79.9 percent of their equity.  Fannie Mae also said yesterday it expects to report
“significant net income” for both the last quarter of 2012 and
the full year. It will miss a March 18 deadline for reporting
more details on the earnings as it analyzes how to handle some
deferred tax assets, the company said in a securities filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  