-- FBI Can’t Demand Customer Records From Telcos, Judge Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/fbi-can-t-demand-customer-records-from-telcos-judge-says-1-.html
FBI demands on phone companies for
confidential customer records in terrorism investigations were
ruled unconstitutional by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco said the
Federal Bureau of Investigation must cease issuing so-called
national security letters to phone companies and stop barring
the letters’ recipients from talking about them, according to an
order provided by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The group
is a cyber-rights advocate representing an unidentified phone-
service provider that received one of the letters.  The ruling yesterday throws out one of several federal laws
that authorize the FBI to issue such letters, known as NSLs.  The statute contains “multiple constitutional problems”
and “there is no ‘reasonable construction’ that can avoid the
constitutional infirmities that have been identified,” Illston
said in her decision.  She put her order on hold for 90 days to allow the
government to appeal.  “We are very pleased that the court recognized the fatal
constitutional shortcomings of the NSL statute,” Matt
Zimmerman, an attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation
said in an e-mail. “The government’s gags have truncated the
public debate on these controversial surveillance tools. Our
client looks forward to the day when it can publicly discuss its
experience.”  Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said by
e-mail that Illston’s order is under review.  Previous Ruling  The ruling is at least the second by a federal judge on the
legality of the letters. In 2007, a judge in Manhattan struck
down aspects of the letters as amended by the U.S. Patriot Act.  Civil-rights groups say NSLs give federal agents unchecked
powers to spy on people while the government says they’re a
crucial tool in the fight against terrorism and threats to
national security.  The requests can be issued without any outside review and
present a “serious risk of unfettered abuse by the
government,” lawyers for the foundation said in court filings.
They claimed the letters violate the U.S. Constitution’s right
to free speech rights and prohibitions against prior restraint
of speech, according to partially redacted documents unsealed in
the case.  Customer’s Name  The FBI issued an NSL to the phone service provider in the
lawsuit in 2011, directing it to provide the name, address and
length of service for accounts held by one of its customers. The
customer’s name and other details were withheld in court papers.  The provider sued the government, saying NSL recipients can
challenge the letters in court if they are “unreasonable,
oppressive or otherwise unlawful,” according to court
documents.  Justice Department lawyers claimed NSL recipients can ask
courts to modify or invalidate the letters, not void NSL laws.  The nondisclosure requirement doesn’t constitute prior
restraint of speech because recipients can be punished only
after they make a prohibited disclosure, lawyers for the U.S.
argued in court filings.  The case is In Re National Security Letter, 11-2173, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  