-- Fed Remits $88.4 Billion to Treasury in Audited Financial Report
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-03-15T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/fed-remits-88-4-billion-to-treasury-in-audited-financial-report.html
The  Federal Reserve  paid a record
$88.4 billion to the  U.S. Treasury  in 2012 as part of an annual
dividend it remits to taxpayers.  The central bank provided the figure as part of its annual
audited financial statements released today in Washington. The
central bank’s financial statements are audited by  New York- 
based  Deloitte & Touche LLP . The Fed provided a preliminary
estimate of an $88.9 billion remittance to taxpayers on Jan. 10.
Last year, the Fed returned $75.4 billion to the Treasury.  While currently bringing in record profits, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  warned Congress last month that the central
bank’s income may dwindle when it begins to unwind its record
balance sheet.  “Federal Reserve analysis shows that remittances to the
Treasury could be quite low for a time in some scenarios,
particularly if  interest rates  were to rise quickly,” Bernanke
said in his Feb. 26 testimony. “However, even in such
scenarios, it is highly likely that average annual remittances
over the period affected by the Federal Reserve’s purchases will
remain higher than the pre-crisis norm.”  Today’s audit shows the Fed earned $90.6 billion in net
income in 2012, with about $80.5 billion in interest income on
its securities holdings and $13.3 billion in gains on Treasury
sales. The Fed system had a total of $2.9 trillion in  assets  at
the end of 2012, a sum that is growing as Bernanke continues his
$85 billion a month bond buying program aimed at boosting the
labor market.  Potential Losses  A Feb. 26 story by Bloomberg news showed the potential for
losses in the Fed’s portfolio. MSCI Inc. of  New York , a firm
that specializes in portfolio risk analysis, showed the value of
Fed holdings shrinking by $547 billion over three years in an
adverse scenario that includes an economic contraction and
rising inflation.  MSCI put the Fed’s mark-to-market loss at less than half
that, or $216 billion, if the economy performs in line with
consensus forecasts of gradually rising growth, inflation and
interest rates. The adverse and baseline scenarios were taken
from the Fed’s own stress tests of the 18 largest banks.  The Fed doesn’t mark its portfolio to market, and its
losses may be only a fraction of MSCI’s totals because the
central bank could hold the bulk of its assets to maturity. The
central bank cannot go bankrupt and can continue to operate with
losses on its books.  The audited financial statements show the central bank
currently has an unrealized gain of $214.5 billion on its
assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  