-- FERC Lacks Power to Regulate Futures, Court Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-15T18:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ferc-ruled-lacking-authority-to-regulate-futures-contracts-1-.html
The  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  lacks authority over futures contracts, a U.S.
appeals court ruled, handing a victory to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and an ex-Amaranth Advisors LLC trader fined
$30 million by FERC.  Congress intended to centralize oversight of futures
contracts in the CFTC, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington 
said today. It brushed aside FERC’s contention that the two
agencies share jurisdiction over aspects of energy markets that
allowed FERC to fine trader  Brian Hunter  for alleged market
manipulation.  “FERC lacks jurisdiction to charge Hunter with
manipulation of natural-gas futures contracts,” U.S. Circuit
Judge David Tatel wrote for a three-judge panel. The Commodity
Exchange Act gives the CFTC “exclusive jurisdiction,” he said.  The case highlights a turf battle between the two agencies
developing at least in part from expanded powers Congress
granted to FERC in 2005 to regulate energy trading in the wake
of blackouts in  California  triggered by Enron Corp. traders.  FERC had argued that the CFTC’s exclusive jurisdiction over
regulating futures contracts and  futures markets  doesn’t extend
to manipulation.  ‘Mere Futures’  “Market manipulation transactions go beyond mere futures
trading and involves conduct in several markets,” Robert
Solomon, a FERC lawyer, told the judges in a Feb. 7 hearing. If
the transactions have “a direct and profound effect on physical
natural gas markets then FERC does have a role.”  In such circumstances, as in the Hunter case, both agencies
would have authority, Solomon said.  Steve Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC, and Tamara Young Allen, spokeswoman for FERC, declined to comment on the ruling.  Hunter’s attorney,  Michael Kim , of  Kobre & Kim LLP , said in
a statement that “FERC unjustly vilified Mr. Hunter for years,
but in fact it was the FERC which had acted outside the law.”  Hunter dumped large numbers of contracts within the last 30
minutes of trading in an effort to drive down the closing price
of the futures, according to court documents. The move benefited
Amaranth’s larger opposing positions in off-exchange
derivatives, regulators said.  Amaranth Losses  Amaranth lost $6.6 billion betting on the price of natural
gas. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund that once
controlled half of the gas market collapsed in 2006. In August
2009, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million to end U.S. cases
brought by FERC and the CFTC over price manipulation.  On April 11, a federal judge in  Manhattan  gave final
approval to a $77.1 million settlement by Amaranth to resolve a
class action brought by traders.  FERC filed an administrative case against Hunter the day
after the CFTC brought a civil enforcement action against him in
federal court in Manhattan over the same trading. The commission
ordered him to pay $30 million in penalties, ruling he
manipulated the price of contracts on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange in 2006 while boosting the value of financial
derivatives.  The CFTC’s case against Hunter was put on hold in January
2012 after Hunter sued to challenge FERC’s authority in the
matter, according to court records.  Enforcement Staff  FERC, with an enforcement staff of 200 people, hasn’t
backed down in its oversight. The agency’s staff on Jan. 28
proposed $488 million in penalties for Barclays Plc and four
former traders for allegedly gaming the electricity markets. The
London-based bank has vowed to challenge the matter in court.  An energy-trading unit of Deutsche Bank AG on Jan. 22
agreed to pay FERC’s proposed penalty of $1.6 million for
alleged violations, rather than fight the matter in court. The
agency is also investigating a JPMorgan Chase & Co. unit for
alleged manipulation and has suspended its electricity-trading
authority for six months starting in April.  The case is Hunter v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
11-1477, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 