-- Ford Seeks More Stability for Employee Pension Plans
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ford-seeks-more-stability-on-pension-after-shortfall-widened.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the automaker
moving to close a growing deficit in its pension, will shift
more of its plan’s assets to fixed income to shield against
changes in  interest rates .  The shortfall for Ford’s U.S. pension plans would have
dropped by $2.3 billion or risen by $2.8 billion as of the end
of 2012 if interest rates went up or down by 1 percentage point,
according to a  presentation  yesterday. Ford’s target is for the
change in the pension deficit to be $400 million or less.  Ford is working to diffuse pension risks after the
shortfall for its worldwide plans widened by $3.3 billion last
year to $18.7 billion, even after the Dearborn, Michigan-based
company contributed more than required. The pension liabilities
and size of its deficit affect Ford’s credit rating, borrowing
costs and stock price, Treasurer Neil Schloss told analysts on a
conference call yesterday.  “For companies like us and the other large industrials
that have large plans where their shortfalls are meaningful
relative to their market cap, pension de-risking should be a big
piece of their overall capital strategy,” Schloss said in an
interview after the call.  Ford plans to “walk toward” a long-term target for
80 percent of its U.S. plan assets to be in fixed income
securities, Schloss said. The company ended last year with
55 percent of assets in fixed income, up from 30 percent before
2007, he said. Ford didn’t give specifics on when it may reach
the 80 percent target.  Lower discount rates, which determine the present value
of future obligations, widened Ford’s pension shortfall by
$8.9 billion last year. That more than offset $1.8 billion in
net asset returns and $3.8 billion in contributions. Ford plans
to contribute $5 billion to its pensions this year, $3.4 billion
of which will be discretionary.  Ford  rose  0.1 percent to $13.45 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have advanced 3.9 percent this year, compared with a
9.4 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  