-- Ford Cuts Pay for CEO After Falling Short of Targets
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-16T05:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ford-reduced-pay-for-ceo-mulally-29-to-21-million.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  cut Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally’s compensation by 29 percent last year
after the second-largest U.S. automaker fell short of its
targets for profit, cash flow and market share.  Mulally received $2 million in salary, $3.95 million in
bonus and $15 million in stock, options and other compensation,
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. That compares with $2 million in salary, $5.46 million
in bonus and $22 million in other compensation for 2011.  Ford is restructuring its European operations and adding
plants in  China  to curb losses in those regions, which drag on
the company as it relies on profits in North America. Ford
achieved just 3 percent of its target for global market share
and 32 percent of its goal for automotive operating cash flow.
That reduced the bonus paid to Mulally, 67, who has received
$162 million in  compensation  since joining Ford in 2006 from
 Boeing Co. (BA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “To the mass majority of people, these are enormous
numbers,” David Whiston, an equity analyst with  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in a phone interview. “But is it
excessive? It really depends on who you ask. Ford shareholders,
especially those that bought in the low-single digits, are
probably thinking Mulally’s worth every penny.”  Ford’s stock, which traded below $2 four years ago, rose 20
percent last year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s
13 percent climb. The shares rose 0.1 percent to $13.45 at the
close in New York yesterday. Ford last year reclaimed
investment-grade  credit ratings , paid out its first  dividend 
since 2006 and reported net income of $5.67 billion.  Succession Planning  Ford shuffled its leadership team last year to prepare for
the eventual departure of Mulally, who has engineered a
turnaround by globalizing Ford’s operations, cutting costs and
overhauling its lineup with more fuel-efficient models. Ford on
Nov. 1 named Mark Fields chief operating officer, positioning
him as front-runner to take over as CEO after at least 2014.  In addition to the compensation reported in proxy
statements, Ford gave Mulally $11.7 million in stock this month,
$58.3 million last year and $56.6 million the year before as a
reward for the automaker’s turnaround. Those awards boost
Mulally’s payout to almost $289 million.  Executive Chairman Bill Ford received total compensation of
$14.8 million, up 2.6 percent from $14.5 million in 2011. The
55-year-old great-grandson of founder Henry Ford received $2
million in salary, $1.13 million in bonus and $11.7 million in
stock, option awards and other compensation.  ‘Major Accomplishment’  Since replacing Bill Ford as CEO, Mulally has instituted a
global product development plan called One Ford to boost profits
by selling the same models globally, rather than different
versions for various regions. Ford has earned $35.2 billion the
past four years after losing $30.1 billion from 2006 through
2008.  “It’s a major accomplishment for him to have come in from
outside the auto industry and unify Ford and get rid of all
those fiefdoms that they had regionally,” Morningstar’s Whiston
said of Mulally. “They’re bringing the company up to its true
capabilities. Before, there was a lot of waste.”  Ford disclosed in a filing last month that it will pay
Mulally another bonus after his employment ends. The payment
will be based on the company’s contributions to Mulally’s
company retirement and benefit equalization plans, according to
the filing, which didn’t provide further details.  Automaker CEOs  Mulally is probably the world’s highest-paid automotive
CEO.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the largest European automaker, paid CEO
Martin Winterkorn 14.5 million euros ($18.9 million), 17 percent
less than in 2011.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest
automaker, paid President Akio Toyoda 136 million yen ($1.43
million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nissan Motor
Co. paid CEO Carlos Ghosn $10.3 million.  While General Motors Co. hasn’t reported CEO Dan Akerson’s
2012 compensation yet, the largest U.S. automaker, said last
month that his target remains $9 million a year. In 2011, he
received $7.7 million.  At Ford, Fields, 52, became COO in December after leading
the company’s North American and South American automotive
operations since late 2005. In his new post, the 23-year company
veteran now runs a weekly business-review meeting that Mulally
instituted at Ford. Fields was awarded total compensation of
$8.85 million for last year, a 0.2 percent increase from 2011.  North America  Rising demand for F-Series pickups in Ford’s home market
last year paced a record $8.34 billion annual pretax profit for
the company’s operations in North America, which countered
overseas losses. The North American results also led to profit
sharing of about $8,300 on average to Ford’s 45,300 hourly
workers represented by the United Auto Workers union, a record
payout that was made March 14.  GM (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker, is paying its hourly
workers as much as $6,750 in profit sharing, while Chrysler
Group LLC’s will get about $2,250.  Ford began paying a quarterly dividend of 5 cents a share
in March of last year and said in January that it would double
the payout. Moody’s Investors Service raised Ford to investment
grade in May after Fitch Ratings lifted the company to the
status in April. Standard & Poor’s ranks Ford’s debt BB+, the
highest level of speculative grade, with a positive outlook.  Ford scheduled its annual meeting for May 9 in Wilmington,
 Delaware . Shareholders will vote for the ninth consecutive year
on a proposal to strip the Ford family of its 40 percent voting
control of the automaker and move to one vote per share. The
measure is opposed by Ford’s board, which includes two Ford
family members, Bill Ford and Edsel Ford II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  