-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Assets Slows on Treasuries, Agency Sales
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-15T16:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/foreign-demand-for-u-s-assets-was-below-estimate-in-january-1-.html
International purchases of U.S.
stocks, bonds and other financial assets slowed for the first
time in four months in January as private investors sold
Treasuries and agency bonds during the stock market’s best month
in more than a year.  Net buying of long-term financial  assets  totaled $25.7
billion during the month, down from net purchases of $64.2
billion in December, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $40 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “Private investors have a greater appetite for risk
because there is more clarity in fiscal policy in January,”
Thomas Simons, a government debt economist at Jefferies Group
Inc. in  New York  said. “Judging by the stock market trend and
better global financial market conditions, we are likely to see
more outflows from Treasuries by private investors.”  European stocks rose to an almost five-year high this week
as policy makers gathered for a two-day summit in Brussels. The
U.S. continues to remain attractive as the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  extended the longest rally since 1996 yesterday. The
 House of Representatives  broke a year-long impasse over how to
head off $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that
had been scheduled to begin taking effect on Jan. 1.  The Dow gained 5.8 percent in January, its biggest monthly
advance since October 2011.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $110.9 billion in January, up from net
purchases of $22.2 billion the previous month.  China Purchases  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in January after its holdings rose $44.1 billion to $1.26
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Japan , the second-largest
holder, was little changed at $1.1 trillion in holdings.  Net sales by private investors in Treasury notes and bonds
totaled $20.8 billion and agency selling amounted to $900
million, the report showed. Official purchases of U.S. notes and
bonds totaled $53.1 billion, compared with $8.4 billion the
previous month, it showed.  Foreigners bought a net $32.3 billion of Treasuries in
January, according to today’s report, up from $29.9 billion the
month before.  Estimates of foreign transactions in long-term U.S. assets
in January ranged from net buying of $25 billion to $45 billion,
according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  