-- Former TV Talk Show Host Gets Finance Portfolio in Israel
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-03-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/former-tv-talk-show-host-gets-finance-portfolio-in-israel.html
Yair Lapid, the former talk show
host who unexpectedly became  Israel ’s power broker with the
campaign slogan, “Where is the money?” is now in position to
find it: He’s going to be the next finance minister.  Lapid, a 49-year-old high school dropout and ex-model,
inherits the stewardship of Israel’s economy at a time of
slowing growth. Billions of shekels will have to be cut from
planned spending and a revenue shortfall has made tax increases
likely. In the meantime, millions of middle class Israelis whose
cause he champions are struggling to make ends meet.  Complicating the challenge are Lapid’s stated ambitions:
While he’s a novice politician, he’s already said he wants to be
premier. As a finance minister with no economic background, he
will be under pressure to chart a fiscally responsible course
that could cost him some of his popularity, said Ben-Zion Zilberfarb, a former  finance ministry  director-general.  “He created expectations for big changes, for making life
easier for the middle class,” Zilberfarb said. “On the other
hand, he is coming at a time when he needs to cut the budget and
raise taxes. There may be a big gap between the expectations and
implementation, and even if he does execute changes, it will
take time. This is a difficulty specific to him.”  Economy Slowing  Israel’s economy, which grew 4.6 percent in 2011, slowed to
3.1 percent last year and, excluding first-time natural gas
revenues, is expected to shrink further in 2013. With revenue
also coming in under forecast, the outgoing finance minister,
Yuval Steinitz, has said the next government must cut 14 billion
shekels ($3.8 billion) from 2013 spending to tame the  budget
deficit .  The government reported a 2012 budget deficit equal to 4.2
percent of gross domestic product, more than double its original
target. The  Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development , which calculates it differently, puts the deficit
at 4.7 percent. That’s still less than an average deficit of 5.5
percent for developed countries, according to the OECD.  Lapid held a meeting with Steinitz yesterday on the
transition at the finance ministry, the Yesh Atid party said in
an e-mailed statement.  The market looks at Lapid’s appointment “in a positive
way,” said Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at the Ramat Gan-based
Ayalon Group Ltd.  His agenda “matches that of the prime minister and is led
by fiscal responsibility. You know the issues will be dealt with
and they will not do dangerous experiments with the budget,”
Pagot said.  Budget Squabbles  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called the Jan. 22
election almost a year ahead of schedule because he was having a
hard time wresting compromises from his governing coalition to
pass a 2013 budget. Lapid, too, recognized the unpopular
measures that might have to be taken, and the finance ministry
was not his first choice. He took it after Netanyahu refused to
give him the foreign minister’s job he coveted, Yael German, a
member of Lapid’s Yesh Atid party, said this week.  Lapid’s prospects for success have been improved by a
surprise political alliance he made that forced ultra-Orthodox
Jewish parties, traditional king-makers with billions of shekels
in budgetary demands, out of the government.  Lapid and Yesh Atid, Hebrew for “There is a Future,”
unexpectedly captured 19 of parliament’s 120 seats, in defiance
of polls forecasting a dozen at best. His privileged life as the
son of an influential journalist and Cabinet minister, and
later, as a well-paid news anchor, newspaper columnist and
celebrity promoter for  Bank Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd., didn’t stop him from
carving out an image for himself as an Israeli Everyman.  Domestic Focus  Lapid campaigned on domestic issues he said were important
to Israel’s middle class, such as lowering housing costs,
cutting entitlements for ultra-Orthodox Jews and eliminating the
military draft exemptions they enjoy.  Yesh Atid also opposes letting Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
take over  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , which mines minerals from the
 Dead Sea  for fertilizers. That would make it more difficult for
the Canadian company to persuade the Israeli government to let
the sale go through. The state holds a so-called golden share in
Israel Chemicals, allowing it to block a takeover.  After the election, Lapid broadsided Netanyahu by joining
forces with the pro-settlement Jewish Home party, which unlike
Yesh Atid, opposes the creation of a Palestinian state. That
alliance forced the Israeli leader to break ranks with the
ultra-Orthodox parties that have been his traditional coalition
partners.  Ultra-Orthodox Unemployment  The  Bank of Israel  has voiced concern that more than half
of the men in the growing ultra-Orthodox community pursue
lifelong religious studies and don’t work. They have been able
to do so because their wives’ salaries are supplemented by
government stipends ultra-Orthodox lawmakers have won for the
men and their families. Some 60 percent of the community lives
below the poverty line, according to government figures.  Lapid will try to cut benefits for the ultra-Orthodox and
trim the public sector, predicted  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist
at I.B.I-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. The market will
welcome the incoming government, dominated by Netanyahu’s Likud-
led slate, Yesh Atid and Jewish Home, “because this is a
government that can do the right thing for the economy,” Gozlan
said.  The new government will have no trouble passing a spending
plan, because coalition partners won’t want to see the
government fall over a budget impasse, Gozlan said. “The minute
they have a coalition agreement, there is an agreement on a
budget.”  Father’s Legacy  At the same time, Gozlan said, economic policy might be
compromised by political rivalry between Netanyahu and Lapid.
“At the end of the day, if Lapid wants to advance reforms he
needs the backing of the prime minister,” he said. If each is
suspicious of the other and trips the other up, “then nothing
will get done,” he said.  Lapid has said he entered politics in part to carry on the
legacy of his father, Tommy Lapid, who died in 2008. Before the
elder Lapid’s now-defunct Shinui party imploded amid internal
conflicts, Shinui prodded the government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to reduce child allowances, which hurt large ultra-
Orthodox families, and remove Jewish settlements from the  Gaza
Strip .  The Haaretz newspaper has called the younger Lapid, who has
also dabbled in acting and amateur boxing, a “former teenage
heart-throb with daddy issues” and “the ultimate
personification of a political domain obsessed with stardom.”  Zilberfarb, the former finance ministry director-general,
pointed out that Lapid is not the first Israeli finance minister
to have no economic background. What he will critically need is
an experienced staff, he said. “He is taking office at a time
when the situation isn’t simple at all,” Zilberfarb said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  