-- Germany Moves to Mitigate Banking Risk With Election-Year Laws
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-03-15T12:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/germany-moves-to-mitigate-banking-risk-with-election-year-laws.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble introduced election-year legislation to parliament to
separate some parts of investment from retail banking, saying
the government is determined to mitigate financial risk.  “The financial system needs to be kept stable by ensuring
that misallocated investments in some areas don’t put the whole
system at risk,” Schaeuble told lower-house lawmakers in Berlin
today, as he introduced the package of three financial bills.
The government aims to pass the bills before the summer recess.  The legislation aims to protects  Germany ’s universal
banking system while complying with the European Commission’s
drive to find common rules curbing business that carries the
threat of destabilizing the financial system. Schaeuble said
last month that as many as 12 banks based in Germany may be
affected by the moves to force some large retail banks to spin
off proprietary trading.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats, facing
federal elections on Sept. 22, are sparring with the opposition
Social Democrats over regulating financial markets after the
coalition curbed manager pay, banned some short-selling and made
banks pay into a resolution fund.  In an interview with the Chemnitzer Freie Presse newspaper
published March 13, Merkel said she backs European Union efforts
to limit compensation in the financial industry and to let
shareholders decide on pay for corporate officers, saying “lack
of moderation” doesn’t jibe with a “free and social” country.  Manager Pay  Sixty-seven percent of 1,000 respondents to an N24-Emnid
poll released yesterday said they wanted manager pay including
executives in other industries than finance to be set by law as
proposed by Merkel’s Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck . Thirty-three percent said that pay should be set by
shareholders and board members, N24 television said in an e-
mailed statement. The poll was conducted March 13. No margin of
error was given.  A group led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen is
studying Europe-wide proposals to force large lenders to spin
off some trading activities into separately capitalized units in
a bid to curb risk and prevent banks being too-big-to-fail. The
EU commission has said it will present draft bank-structure
rules in September.  Schaeuble’s proposals stop short of splitting investment
business from retail banking as suggested by the Liikanen group.
The banks affected by the German plan may exit the relevant
businesses rather than incur the cost of capitalizing them
separately as they “make relatively small contributions to
earnings,” Fitch Ratings said last month.  Complementing Liikanen  Schaeuble said the German legislation aims to complement
the Liikanen proposals.  “We need to find a way to separate investment banking and
normal bank business in such a way that risks from one area
don’t spill into the other,” he said.  The German legislation forces deposit banks to hive-off
lending and guarantees to hedge funds as well as high-frequency
trading when associated activities exceed 100 billion euros, or
20 percent of the balance sheet.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  were named by the Liikanen
group as being affected.  Under the bill, top managers at banks face prison sentences
of up to five years or a penalty of as much as 11 million euros
if they intentionally violate rules and the banks that employ
them get into trouble as a result.  The package of German laws would go into effect in 2014 and
banks would have until July 2015 to comply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  