-- German Stocks Drop From Five-Year High; Volkswagen Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-15T16:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/german-stocks-are-little-changed-munich-re-advances.html
German stocks  declined from a five-
year high as European leaders met in Brussels for a second day
amid concern that stringent austerity conditions on debt-ridden
nations are crimping their economic recovery.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  dropped 2.6 percent, leading losses on the
benchmark index. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
jumped to a 10-year high after Bank of America Corp. upgraded
its rating for the shares, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura
Holdings Inc. raised their price estimates.  K+S AG (SDF)  rose for a
sixth day as Commerzbank AG recommended buying the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.2 percent to 8,042.85 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The benchmark measure has still rallied
5.7 percent this year amid optimism central banks around the
world will continue to support economic growth. The broader HDAX
Index slipped 0.2 percent today.  “A broad profit-taking retreat in stocks can happen
swiftly at these strong levels,” Daniel Weston, a portfolio
manager at Aimed Capital Management LCC in Munich, wrote in a
message. “The market has had immense momentum which investors
are in love with, but the economic environment isn’t so rosy in
our eyes.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 83 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Leaders Meeting  European Union leaders, meeting for a second day in
Brussels today, may endorse plans for loosening austerity
measures and giving debt-ridden countries more time to bring
down deficits.  “If there is too much austerity, there will be too much
unemployment,” French President  Francois Hollande  said late
yesterday. “Flexibility is necessary if we want to make growth
the priority.”  In the U.S., Industrial production increased 0.7 percent in
February after being unchanged the previous month, figures from
the  Federal Reserve  showed in  Washington . The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent gain.  Confidence among American consumers unexpectedly slumped in
March, another report showed.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, dropped 2.6 percent
to 160.30 euros. Deutsche Bank AG is managing a sale about 5.8
million Volkswagen preferred shares for as much as 929 million
euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury
cars, fell for a fifth day. The stock retreated 1.3 percent to
70 euros.  Munich Re  Munich Re  advanced 2.1 percent to 150.25 euros, its highest
price since 2002. Bank of America upgraded the shares to neutral
from underperform. JPMorgan Chase and Nomura raised their target
prices on the shares to 167 euros and 140 euros, respectively.  K+S, Europe’s biggest potash distributor, gained 2.2
percent to 37.53 euros as Commerzbank upgraded the shares to buy
from hold.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest cement
maker, increased 1.2 percent to 56.90 euros after Citigroup Inc.
raised its target price on the shares to 61 euros from 57 euros.
UBS AG raised its forecast price on the shares to 55 euros from
48 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  