-- Great Rotation Trigger Is 3% Yields, Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-15T18:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/great-rotation-trigger-is-3-yields-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
Yields on benchmark 10-year U.S.
Treasury notes need to rise higher than 3 percent to prompt
investors to flee the bond mutual fund for equities, according
to  Jeffrey Rosenberg  of BlackRock Advisors LLC.  “You’re going to need to see some significant and
protracted losses in the  bond market  to see the great rotation”
into equities, Rosenberg, chief investment strategist for fixed
income at BlackRock, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “That yield is going above 3
percent. It’s no where near that right now.”  Treasuries rose today, with yields on benchmark 10-year
notes falling three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2
percent at 2:12 p.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data.  Investors are fleeing money-market funds and traditional
savings accounts, more than Treasuries, in favor of such
investments as equities and  junk bonds , Rosenberg said, as the
 Federal Reserve ’s $85 billion-a-month asset-buying program
continues to pressure yields downward.  “The problem with the Fed policy is interest rates, at 2
percent for the 10-year, are below the level of inflation,”
said Rosenberg. “People are reaching to get a yield that is
above the level of inflation to protect their savings. When
 interest rates  are set by the Fed to be so low, for so long,
that behavior eventually shows up.”  Fed Action  The dollar dropped to a one-week low today against the euro
as a report showed U.S. inflation is contained, giving the Fed
scope to maintain its monetary stimulus program. The U.S.
currency headed for its first weekly loss against the 17-nation
currency since February before the  Federal Open Market Committee 
meets next week to review its bond-buying program.  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, after a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain the
prior month, a Labor Department report showed today in
Washington.  “There are some signs that investors are reaching for
yield, but I do not now see pervasive evidence of trends such as
rapid credit growth, a marked buildup in leverage, or
significant asset bubbles that would clearly threaten financial
stability,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in a March 4
speech in Washington.  Fed policy makers indicated in December that an
“exceptionally low” target interest rate is appropriate as
long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to more than 2.5
percent and unemployment stays above 6.5 percent.  Saver Impact  The FOMC cut its target  interest rate  to a range of zero to
0.25 percent in December 2008, where it has stayed since. The
committee at its Jan. 29-30 meeting said it will continue its
monthly bond purchases until the labor market improves
substantially.  “Bernanke and the Fed talk very much about unemployment,
about getting the economy going, but what about the impact on
saver?” Rosenberg asked. “Savers don’t simply sit back and
accept negative real returns -- they take actions. They take on
greater risks. And that’s one of the problems that, when not
addressed in the form of rising interest rates from policy
makers, then what you get is potential for asset inflation
leading into asset bubbles.”  Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein  said last month that some credit
markets, including leveraged loans and junk bonds, show signs of
overheating. Kansas City Fed President Esther George has warned
that prices of some farm land have hit “historically high
levels.”  Stocks have also gained, with the Dow Jones Industrial
 Average (INDU)  at an all-time high and the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX) 
almost at its 2007 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  