-- Greek Terna Mulls Gas-Fired Thermal Plant in Serbia, Natsis Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-15T12:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/greek-terna-mulls-gas-fired-thermal-plant-in-serbia-natsis-says.html
Terna SA, the Greek builder with a
portfolio ranging from highways to power plants, is interested
in building a 400 million-euro ($522 million) gas-fired thermal
electricity plant in  Serbia .  Terna wants to initiate talks with Serbia’s energy
regulator, power company Elektroprivreda Srbije JP and gas
monopoly Srbijagas JP, on the project, which could be
operational in three years, Stathis Natsis, Terna’s executive
director for overseas business, told Bloomberg in an interview
during a business forum in Kopaonik, Serbia.  “We would be interested in a power plant of between 350
and 500 megawatts, which is a mid-sized plant,” Natsis said
yesterday.  Serbia expects supplies to expand as the country builds a
route to join the South Stream pipeline to transport gas from
 Russia , along the Black Sea floor to  Bulgaria  and across the
Balkans to central  Europe . Serbia plans to double purchases from
Russia’s  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  to 5 billion cubic meters a year through
2021 from 2 billion cubic meters.  The Greek company is ready to discuss “as soon as
possible” various options including a partnership with EPS or
agreement with the power company to buy all electricity produced
at the new plant, Natsis said.  “We do have the idea and we do see an opportunity because
there is demand,” he said. “Over one or two months we will
find out, we will understand whether we will go ahead.”  Serbia wants to become self-sufficient in electricity
production by 2015 by adding some 2,000 megawatts of new
capacity, including coal-fired plants, while attracting
investments in new hydro plants, wind and solar parks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  