-- Groupon Gains as Legg Mason’s Miller Sees Growth Opportunity
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-03-15T20:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/groupon-gains-as-legg-mason-s-miller-sees-growth-opportunity.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  gained the most in two
weeks after Legg Mason Capital Management Chairman  Bill Miller 
said the largest daily-deal website has a “tremendous”
opportunity for growth.  The  shares  rose 6.1 percent to $5.39 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since March 4. The stock has climbed
11 percent this year, compared with a 9.8 percent increase for
the Russell 1000 Index.  “They have no debt; they have an enormous addressable
market,” Miller said in an interview today on CNBC.
“Expectations are low. The stock is cheap.”  After the ouster of  Andrew Mason  as chief executive officer
last month, Groupon is searching for a replacement who can help
restore credibility and create a moneymaking business after the
Chicago-based company  lost  $723.8 million in the past three
years. Groupon’s board may have made the right move in seeking
to replace Mason, a first-time entrepreneur, with a more
seasoned executive, Miller said.  “Andrew is a very smart guy,” he said. “He did a great
job building the business. Maybe the business is a little too
complex for a guy who is 31 or 32 years old.”  Legg Mason is among Groupon’s largest institutional
investors, and Miller’s track record beating the returns of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index give his opinions weight with
investors, said  Tom Forte , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group
in New York.  “His track record is phenomenal,” Forte said in an
interview today. He has a $5 target price on the shares.  Groupon’s strong balance sheet gives the company the
necessary breathing room to evolve its business model, Forte
said. The daily-deal provider had  $1.21 billion in cash  at the
end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company has time to adjust,” Forte said. “That’s
key.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  