-- Li Takes Mantle as China Premier With Growth Model at Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T02:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/li-takes-mantle-as-china-s-premier-with-growth-model-at-stake.html
Li Keqiang today became  China ’s
first premier with an economics doctorate, expertise he may need
as policy makers struggle to shift the world’s second-largest
economy toward a model relying on consumption over  exports .  The appointment of Li, 57, by the National People’s
Congress makes him head of the State Council, or cabinet,
succeeding  Wen Jiabao . The legislature will fill out Li’s team
tomorrow with decisions on senior government posts including
vice premiers, ministry heads and the central bank chief.  Li’s elevation comes days after data showing China remains
reliant on overseas sales and investment at home to propel its
expansion, underscoring the challenges faced by an
administration that puts urbanization at the forefront of its
domestic initiatives. In two days he will have a chance to
detail his agenda amid calls for deepening China’s shift toward
free markets and away from state-directed  lending .  “These are enormous challenges,” said William Overholt, a
senior research fellow at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy
School of Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , who formerly
was a Nomura Holdings Inc. regional strategist in  Hong Kong .
“The government and party bureaucracies have become accustomed
in recent years to adopting a defensive crouch rather than
positioning the country to move forward.”  Press Conference  The legislature elected Li, previously the top vice premier,
by a vote of 2,940 to 3 with six abstentions, for the first of
what may be two five-year terms. The premier traditionally holds
a press conference following the conclusion of the annual
parliamentary meeting, set to end March 17.  Li was appointed the Communist Party’s No. 2 official in
November, under  Xi Jinping , who became president yesterday.  China’s exports showed the biggest January-February gain
since 2010 and fixed-asset investment accelerated, while
 industrial output  had the weakest start to a year since 2009 and
lending and retail sales growth slowed. At the same time,
inflation accelerated to a 10-month high, prompting People’s
Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  to say the nation should
be on “high alert” over price risks.  Leaders are trying to keep  growth  from slowing excessively
after decelerating last year to 7.8 percent, a 13-year low,
following an average annual rate of 10.6 percent over the
previous decade. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index had
dropped 6.7 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 6 through
yesterday, wiping out almost all of 2013’s gains, amid concerns
monetary tightening and property curbs will slow expansion. It
was down 0.1 percent as of 10:38 a.m. local time.  Growth Goal  Wen, in his final annual report to the legislature on March
5, set a 7.5 percent goal for expansion in 2013, the same target
as last year. He called for China to “accelerate the change of
the growth model” and “unswervingly take expanding domestic
demand as our long-term strategy for economic development.”  “Maintaining high levels of growth is going to become
tougher,” said Kerry Brown, a former U.K. diplomat in Beijing
who’s now a Chinese politics professor at the  University of
Sydney . Li inherits “an economy full of growth potential”
along with policy dilemmas involving state-owned enterprises,
the tax system and housing, Brown said.  Li has stressed that deepening China’s rural-urban shift
will drive  growth , building on a central theme of his career.
China’s urban population of just more than 50 percent is “much
lower” than the 80 percent in developed nations, Li said in a
November article in the party’s flagship People’s Daily.  ‘Complete Change’  “Urbanization is not about simply increasing the number of
urban residents or expanding the area of cities,” Li wrote in
the full-page piece. “More importantly, it’s about a complete
change from rural to urban style in terms of industry structure,
employment, living environment and social security.”  Making changes to the system of household registration is
necessary to achieve  urbanization , Harvard’s Overholt said. The
so-called hukou system denies education and social welfare
benefits to millions of migrant workers in cities.  Li was born in Anhui province in central China in July 1955
to a father who was a county-level government official. During
the Cultural Revolution he was sent to work in the province’s
countryside, spending several years doing manual labor while
becoming his unit’s party branch secretary.  He was among about 3 percent of applicants to pass the
college entrance examinations in 1978, according to Cheng Li, a
China scholar at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . Li
obtained his Ph.D. at  Peking University  in 1994.  Reform Economist  While Li studied with Li Yining, the “leading reform
economist in China,”  Li Keqiang  has “always played it cautious
since” and may face resistance on the Politburo Standing
Committee to enacting more significant policy changes, said
David Zweig, director of the Center on China’s Transnational
Relations at the  Hong Kong University  of Science and Technology.  Li was named to the paramount Standing Committee in 2007
after serving as party chief in Liaoning and Henan provinces.
His time in Henan was marked by an enduring HIV blood scandal
and fatal conflagrations that gave him the nickname “Three-
Fires Li” and a reputation for bad luck.  The extent of Li’s policy shifts will depend on his
relationship with Xi, said Steve Tsang, a professor and director
of the China Policy Institute at the University of Nottingham in
 England . “The premier in China is not the chief executive of
the country,” Tsang said. “He is more like the chief operating
officer.”  -- Kevin Hamlin , Scott Lanman. With assistance from Nerys Avery,
Aipeng Soo and Zhou Xin in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman,
Nicholas Wadhams  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  