-- Iceland Faces Bank Talks as Krona Risk Contained: Nordic Credit
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-03-15T12:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/iceland-faces-bank-talks-as-krona-risk-contained-nordic-credit.html
Iceland is ready to start talks
with the creditors of its failed banks as the island tries to
unwind a currency overhang that’s blocking foreign investments,
its finance minister said.  Parliament last week abandoned a 2013 deadline on the
removal of  capital controls , which are blocking as much as $8
billion in krona assets from being offloaded. The island imposed
the restrictions after its three biggest banks defaulted on $85
billion in 2008, driving the currency down as much as 80 percent
against the euro offshore and plunging the nation into its worst
recession in six decades.  “The reason we abolished the sunset clause is that we’ve
mapped out the status of the estates,” Finance Minister Katrin Juliusdottir said in an interview from Reykjavik. “We’ve
realized what kind of impact it may have on financial stability
and the outflow of foreign exchange. We’re now almost ready to
enter into formal discussions with the creditors of the failed
banks on how to complete the winding up proceedings.”  The banks’ winding-up committees are lobbying to win
exemption from the controls, in place since 2008, as they seek
to complete composition agreements to repay at least 454 billion
kronur ($3.6 billion) assets trapped by the collapse. Central
bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson said Feb. 25 the krona assets will
need to be written down by a “considerable degree” as the
currency comes under “considerable” pressure.  Protecting Icelanders  The March 9 parliament agreement to drop the 2013 deadline
for capital control removal was accompanied by a second bill
designed to make it more difficult for offshore investors to re-
invest their kronur inside the island.  If approved, investors affected by the controls will be
unable to purchase securities that can be used in repo
transactions with the central bank. The bill includes Treasury
bonds with shorter maturities, Thordur Gunnarsson, an analyst at
Jupiter Capital Management hf, said in a note to clients on
March 13. Offshore investors owned 197 billion kronur in
Treasury bonds and Treasury bills as of Feb. 28, he said.  Scrapping the capital control deadline shows that the
nation is willing to take any “measure needed to protect the
interests of Iceland,” according to Juliusdottir, whose
coalition government faces an election on April 27.  Election Looms  “The kronur claims against the banks are registered at
their nominal value at the moment,” she said. “Then there’s
the question -- when we’re in this sort of an environment --what
the true value of the kronur claims is and what they’re willing
to offload them for in order to take them out of the Icelandic
economy.”  Icelanders head to the polls on April 27, four years after
the Social Democratic-led government ousted its pro-deregulation
predecessor following a wave of protests over economic
mismanagement. Most polls suggest the government of Prime
Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir, who also backs writedowns on
bank creditors’ krona claims, won’t be re-elected.  The krona has lost about 7 percent against the euro since
an August peak. That’s spurred  inflation  and left Icelanders
worse off. Households owe the island’s banks 1.43 trillion
kronur in debt indexed to inflation, according to a statement
the parliament’s website on March 7.  EU Membership  The nation has been praised for its approach in handling
the crisis, in part because it put households’ wellbeing ahead
of honoring bank creditor claims. The country emerged from an
International Monetary Fund-backed program in August 2011 and is
now outgrowing most of  Europe . The island’s economy expanded 1.6
percent last year, according to Statistics Iceland.  The government in January agreed to freeze membership talks
on joining the European Union until after elections. Iceland
began EU accession talks in July 2010.  “So far time has been on our side,” said Juliusdottir.
“However, those discussions need to take place soon and we have
to prepare for that. These discussions will most likely begin
before the elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 