-- IMF Urges More Forceful Action to Repair EU Bank System
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-15T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/imf-urges-more-forceful-action-to-repair-eu-bank-system.html
The European Union needs to take
“more forceful action” to shore up its damaged financial
sector, including targeted asset-quality reviews to make sure
banks aren’t hiding further problems, International Monetary
Fund staff said in a report today.  From French banks with big cross-border exposures to
vulnerable German savings banks,  Europe ’s banking industry faces
risks that mean it should press ahead with efforts to build a
banking union, the Washington-based IMF said in its first
assessment of financial regulation across the 27-nation bloc.
The report said “pockets of weak banks” continue to threaten
hard-won progress to restore financial stability.  “Moving banks and sovereigns jointly to safety is
essential,” the IMF staff said. “This should be accomplished
by policy contributions that strengthen banks without weakening
public-sector balance sheets or vice versa.”  EU leaders decided last year to create a common euro-area
bank supervisor at the  European Central Bank  as part of efforts
to contain the sovereign debt crisis. The EU also raised the
prospect of offering banks direct aid from the euro area’s 500
billion-euro ($653 billion) firewall fund as a way to break the
cycle of banks and nations exacerbating each others’ woes.  The IMF urged the EU to meet June targets for designing
rules for the ECB supervisor and on how banks can apply for
direct aid. It also warned that if not well planned, the ECB’s
oversight could be hampered by individual nations or conflicts
from the central bank’s main policy goals.  ‘Not Optimal’  “There is a risk of conflicts of interest between the
monetary policy function and the supervisory function,”
according to the report. “Given that the ECB Governing Council
must pursue its primary objective of  price stability , it may
take decisions that from a supervisory perspective are not
optimal.”  EU leaders also have set a June deadline for governments
and the European Parliament to agree on legislation that sets
out how authorities should handle  bank failures . In the absence
of such a system, the bloc’s nations have injected 1.7 trillion
euros into their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European Commission
data.  “Risks remain elevated, especially in a context of low
growth and fiscal retrenchment,” the IMF’s executive board said
in its response to the financial stability assessment. The board
underscored the report’s call for nations to coordinate bank
oversight and find ways for banks to repair their balance sheets
and reduce reliance on wholesale funding.  Bank Resolution  In the staff report, the IMF renewed its call for the EU to
press ahead on bank resolution at the same time that the new
supervisor takes effect. It urged the EU to create a toolbox,
rather than a rigid regime, and it warned that efforts to put
creditors in the firing line for losses could fall short of
expectations because “only a handful of banks have so far made
progress in raising liabilities subject to bail-in” when a bank
fails.  The European Banking Authority’s next round of EU bank
stress tests will examine lenders’ preparations to meet
international bank capital rules, the IMF said. The
requirements, known as Basel III, are scheduled to take full
effect in 2019. These reviews are likely to involve three-year
projections of banks’ reserves “under a baseline and a stressed
scenario,” according to the IMF report.  Once the ECB is given bank supervision powers, the EBA
should continue to coordinate stress tests, the IMF said.
Regulators also should develop further stress testing to monitor
liquidity “while safeguarding sensitive results” to avoid
spooking markets, the IMF said.  Previous rounds of the EU exams, and a separate capital-
raising exercise that the EBA began in 2011, have failed to
fully restore confidence in the bloc’s lenders, the IMF said,
“in part because the market suspects some banks of having been
insufficiently transparent” about “their losses and exposures
to problem sectors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  