-- India Said to Alert Airports to Prevent Italy Envoy Leaving
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-15T18:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/india-said-to-alert-airports-to-prevent-italian-envoy-leaving.html
India alerted airports nationwide
to prevent the Italian ambassador from leaving the country amid
an escalating diplomatic row triggered by  Italy ’s decision to
block the return of two marines charged with killing fishermen.  The notice was issued by the Home Ministry in New Delhi
today, according to a ministry official with direct knowledge of
the matter. The official asked not to be named as he’s not
authorized to speak publicly. Calls to the mobile phones of two
Foreign Ministry press officers in  Rome  were not answered.  A  Supreme Court  bench headed by Chief Justice Altamas Kabir
yesterday ordered envoy Daniele Mancini not to leave the country
without its permission, and requested he explain by March 18 the
Italian government’s move.  Italy will seek a “friendly solution” to the standoff
with India “based on international law,” Italian President
Giorgio Napolitano said in an e-mailed statement.  The court allowed the marines to leave India to vote in
Italy’s election following an undertaking from Mancini that they
would be sent back within four weeks. The men, who were guarding
an Italian-flagged tanker from pirate attack on its journey
across the  Indian Ocean , are charged with shooting dead two
fishermen in waters off the Indian state of Kerala.  Standoff Intensifying  The  standoff  between the two nations over the fate of the
men has steadily intensified, with Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
this week saying there would be “consequences” for bilateral
ties if Italian authorities in Rome don’t “keep their word.”
India’s foreign ministry said it is reviewing the full range of
its relations with Italy.  “If it wasn’t a Supreme Court matter and only between the
two governments, they could have consultations and take their
own decisions,” said Shashank, a former foreign secretary of
India. “Now the court has to decide what action it would like
to take. And the government can’t go beyond the court order.”  Mancini “waived his diplomatic immunity” by voluntarily
giving the undertaking to the Supreme Court that the marines
would return, said Shashank, who uses only one name.  India’s foreign ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin told
reporters yesterday in  New Delhi  that the “entire expanse of
our interaction” with Italy is being reviewed, while
underscoring that Italy must respect agreements its ambassador
submitted to India’s top court.  Diplomatic Immunity  The court order doesn’t violate the ambassador’s diplomatic
immunity as he had willingly submitted himself to the court’s
jurisdiction, said Akbaruddin. “No aspect of the Vienna
convention has been impacted on,” he said.  The marines were guarding the  Enrica Lexie  tanker on its
journey to  Egypt  from  Singapore , a route that includes crossing
the Indian Ocean, where Somali pirates operate.  Italy has argued that the men shot the two fishermen in
self-defense suspecting them to be pirates, and that the marines
should be tried in their own country because the incident
occurred in seas outside of  India ’s jurisdiction. India says the
attack happened in its territorial waters off the southern state
of Kerala.  “Everything that is necessary to ensure the dignity and
the primacy of India in this matter will be preserved,” Foreign
Minister Salman Khurshid told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.
“This is a matter that will be treated with greatest urgency.
We have to take steps.”  India on March 12 summoned ambassador Mancini to protest
his government’s decision.  Bribes Alleged  The attempted prosecution of the Italians is the first to
hold armed maritime guards accountable for the deaths of
innocent people in an anti-piracy operation. Relations between
the two countries were further strained by allegations that
bribes were paid by AgustaWestland, a unit of Italy’s
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , to secure the contract to supply 12 civilian
helicopters to the Indian government.  Mancini informed the Indian authorities that marines
Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone “won’t return to
India,” the European nation’s Foreign Ministry said March 11.
The Italian government said India failed to respond to a request
to negotiate a diplomatic solution.  Ferrari SpA, the Italian sports carmaker, even weighed in,
having two of its cars carry the flag of the Italian navy during
the Oct. 28 Formula One grand-prix race in New Delhi.  India’s Chief Justice ruled in January that the two men
could be put on trial, ordering hearings before a specially
convened court in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  