-- Manufacturing Picks Up Heading Into U.S. Budget Cuts
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-15T20:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-increases-by-most-in-three-months.html
Manufacturers boosted production in
February heading into U.S. budget cuts and political squabbles
this month that hurt consumer sentiment, reports today showed.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.7
percent, the most in three months, exceeding the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey, according to data from the
Federal Reserve in Washington. The Thomson Reuters/ University of
Michigan  preliminary sentiment  index  for March unexpectedly fell
to 71.8, the lowest level since December 2011.  “Manufacturing has been leading the recovery,” said  Gus Faucher , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Pittsburgh, whose firm is the second-best forecaster of
industrial production for the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “That’s good news for the labor market,
it’s good news for wages, it’s good news for  consumer spending ”
because manufacturers pay above-average wages, said Faucher, who
also correctly projected last month’s gain in production.  Business investment  and lean inventories are spurring gains
in output at companies such as  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  that will
help propel growth. The pickup may enable the world’s largest
economy to cope with across-the-board federal spending cuts, a
 payroll-tax  increase and higher gasoline prices that are shaking
household confidence.  Shares Drop  Stocks fell, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lower
for the first time in 11 days, on the unexpected slump in
confidence. The benchmark gauge slid 25.03 points, or 0.2
percent, to 14,514.11 at the close in  New York .  Another report today showed factories in the New York
region expanded for a second month in March, indicating the
gains are being sustained. The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York’s so-called Empire State  index  eased to 9.2 this month from
10 in February. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Economists forecast industrial production would climb by
0.4 percent in February, according to the median estimate of 83
projections in a Bloomberg. Utility output rose in February,
while mining decreased for a third straight month.  Within manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent
of the economy, output increased 0.8 percent following a 0.3
percent decrease in January.  Factory production  jumped by 1.3
percent in December and 1.7 percent the previous month.  The breakdown showed a 2.5 percent gain in production of
business equipment, the biggest advance in three months. Output
of construction materials and business supplies also increased
in February.  Looking ‘Good’  “It looks like a pretty good quarter for manufacturing,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, who correctly projected the gain in production.
“Capital goods are doing well, autos came back a little bit and
there’s strength in  consumer goods . It’s looked pretty broad-
based.”  Texas Instruments, the largest maker of analog chips,
earlier this month raised the lower end of its forecasts for
first-quarter sales and profit.  “We’re building backlog for the first time in several
quarters,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice president at Dallas-based Texas
Instruments, said on a March 7 conference call. “We have
increased production starts this quarter to support the higher
level of anticipated demand.”  The February output of motor vehicles and parts increased
3.6 percent after a 4.9 percent drop a month earlier, today’s
Fed report also showed.  Auto Sales  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  project automobile
sales, on pace for the best year since 2007, will remain
resilient. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.3 million annual
rate in February after 15.2 million a month earlier, according
to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  It cost Americans more to run those cars last month,
another report showed. The consumer-price index advanced 0.7
percent in February, the first increase in four months and the
biggest since June 2009, reflecting the biggest jump in gasoline
prices in more than three years, according to data from the
Labor Department.  The jump in fuel costs, combined with concern that $85
billion in  federal budget  cuts, or sequestration, that began
this month will slow the economy and hiring, probably
contributed to the slump in confidence last month. That tempered
optimism created by record stock prices, gains in employment,
and a housing rebound that have so far helped propel bigger-
than-forecast gains in spending.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  increased  1.1 percent in February, double the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and the most
in five months, Commerce Department figures showed this week.  The Michigan survey found 34 percent of consumers polled
had heard negative news about the government in March, the
highest share since monthly records began in 1978, Cooper Howes,
a New York-based economist for Barclays Plc. said in research
note.  “Nobody knows what impact fiscal tightening will have, but
it seems quite scary,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief economist at
Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors Inc. in White Plains, New York,
said in a telephone interview from London. “This is consistent
with a clear slowdown in spending, though not catastrophic.”
Shepherdson projected the sentiment index would drop to 70, the
lowest among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Increase Projected  The University of Michigan’s gauge was projected to
increase to 78, according to the  median  estimate of those
surveyed.  A better job outlook may help underpin spending even as
confidence wanes. Payrolls rose by 236,000 workers in February
and the number of people let go in January dropped to the lowest
level in records going back 12 years, according to figures from
the Labor Department. The jobless rate dropped to a four-year
low of 7.7 percent last month from 7.9 percent.  Also, the housing market rebound is boosting consumers’ net
worth. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 U.S.
cities increased 6.8 percent in December from the same month in
2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since July 2006.  Nonetheless, consumers are contending with a higher payroll
tax. The levy that funds  Social Security  reverted to its 2010
level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent as of January, and an
American who earns $50,000 is taking home about $83 less a month
as a result.  David C. Novak, chief executive officer of Louisville,
Kentucky-based  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , which operates and franchises
restaurants such as Taco Bell, KFC and  Pizza Hut , said their
research indicates consumers remain uneasy.  “Nobody is really taking a victory lap,” Novak said in a
March 13 presentation. “People want to have confidence, but I
don’t think they necessarily have it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  