-- Tinkler Living Off Allowance From $1.5 Billion Trust
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-15T08:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/tinkler-says-his-companies-owe-about-500-million.html
Nathan Tinkler , the former
Australian mining billionaire under pressure from creditors,
said he’s living on an allowance he gets from his wife who
controls a A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion) family trust.  Tinkler’s wife Rebecca owns the units and manages the
Tinkler Group Family Trust whose holdings include about 200
million shares of  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , or about 19.5 percent of
the outstanding shares of the Sydney-based coal miner, Tinkler
testified in New South  Wales   Supreme Court  today. The trust has
about A$600 million of debt, he said.  “So, your wife gives you money from time to time?” Robert
Newlinds, lawyer for the liquidator of Mulsanne Resources Pty, a
former Tinkler company forced into liquidation, asked during the
examination in Sydney.  “I’m very lucky, yes,” Tinkler responded.  The electrician-turned-entrepreneur was ranked as
 Australia ’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011 after he sold his house in 2006 to help buy the
A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in Queensland. He sold the
lease a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465
million in cash and shares. He’s now struggling to meet
creditors’ demands, with several of his companies threatened
with liquidation for not paying debts and taxes.  Owns Farm  Tinkler testified today he owns no stocks, bonds or motor
vehicles, with the only asset in his name a farm that’s valued
at about A$700,000. He and his wife hold joint bank accounts
that have about A$250,000 in them and his taxable income, from
interest earned from the bank accounts, was less than A$10,000
in each of the past two years.  The trust distributions are tax-free, he said, adding he
didn’t know how much he received from the trust and couldn’t
round off an estimate even to the nearest A$100,000 or a
million.  It’s the first time the former billionaire has divulged
details of his finances, having been ordered to appear in court
to account for last year’s collapse of his  planned investment  in
Brisbane-based coal explorer Blackwood Corp.  Tinkler’s Mulsanne had agreed in May to invest A$28.4
million in a share placement in Blackwood. Mulsanne failed to
come up with the money and Blackwood forced the company into
liquidation in November in a bid to recoup the debt.  Personal Jet  Tinkler lost ownership of his personal jet and helicopter
after GE Commercial Australasia Pty pushed TGHA Aviation Pty
into receivership in November. Tinkler’s Dassault Falcon 900C
jet and AgustaWestland A109S helicopter are now up for sale.  Australia’s Deputy Commissioner of Taxation applied in
December to liquidate eight Tinkler companies including
Newcastle Jets Football Operations Pty and Newcastle Knights
Pty, Tinkler’s soccer and rugby teams, to recover tax dues.
Tinkler settled most of those cases.  Newlinds said he wanted details of Tinkler’s finances and
the trust arrangement to determine whether the debt could be
recovered in the event Tinkler was forced into bankruptcy.  Tinkler yesterday blamed the commodity trader  Noble Group
Ltd. (NOBL)  for the collapse of the Mulsanne-Blackwood deal. Noble
failed to complete an agreement to buy his 75 percent stake in a
royalty from the Middlemount coal project, valued at about A$25
million, Tinkler said.  ‘Hung Out’  “I quickly worked out that I’ve been hung out to dry,”
Tinkler said today, citing a time last year when Noble’s
Executive Director William Randall stopped taking his calls.  Stephen Brown , a Noble spokesman, declined yesterday to
comment on Tinkler’s testimony in an e-mail.  Tinkler also blamed a “vigorous media campaign against
me” for scuttling the deal.  He said he tried to raise money to pay for the Blackwood
investment, discussing the deal with Bank of America Corp.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, as well as  hedge funds  in
 Hong Kong  and  New York , and in the end wasn’t successful.  “Normal banks do not understand my business model,” he
said. “They don’t understand how I create my wealth.”  The case is In the matter of Mulsanne Resources Pty
2012/00296966. Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  