-- Iran Drops Four Places Among Indian Oil Suppliers Amid Sanctions
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-15T12:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/iran-drops-four-places-among-indian-oil-suppliers-amid-sanctions.html
Iran  slid four places to become
 India ’s seventh-largest crude supplier from April to December,
as the South Asian nation reduced imports from the Persian Gulf
state because of global sanctions.  The Middle East producer exported 9.7 million metric tons
of crude to India,  Asia ’s second-biggest energy consumer, in the
fiscal year that started in April, according to data given to
parliament by P. Lakshmi, the Indian junior oil minister. Iran
sold 7.2 percent of the Asian nation’s imports in that period,
down from 10.5 percent in the prior 12 months, the data show.  The U.S. and its allies enacted sanctions in July to
restrict Iran’s oil exports, its largest source of revenue. The
countries are trying to pressure the Persian Gulf nation to curb
its nuclear program, which they say is designed to develop an
atomic weapon. Indian refiners have struggled to get tankers for
transporting supplies from Iran, and may have to stop buying
crude from there because of difficulties in receiving insurance
cover for plants that process the oil.  Saudi Arabia , Iraq,  Venezuela ,  Kuwait , the  United Arab
Emirates , and Nigeria provided more oil than Iran, according to
the data. Iran was India’s third-biggest crude supplier in the
fiscal year to 2012, selling 18.1 million tons, according to the
data.  India, which relies on imports for 80 percent of its oil
needs, bought a total of 134 million tons of crude from April to
December last year, the government data show. Asia’s third-
largest economy took in 171.7 million tons in the year ended
March 31, 2012.  U.S. Waiver  The drop in India’s imports show that the South Asian
nation is complying with a U.S. requirement that calls for
“significantly reduced” purchases from Iran. The U.S. in
December renewed a waiver for India and eight other nations from
a law that cuts institutions off from the American banking
system if they process payments for Iranian oil. The exemption
is subject to a review every 180 days.  Indian refiners planned to reduce their purchases from Iran
by as much as 20 percent in the year starting April 1 to keep
the waiver, a Bloomberg News survey of five refinery officials
last month showed.  OPEC’s biggest oil producers, including  Iraq  and Saudi
Arabia, have assured that they have enough supplies to provide
extra crude to India if it halts imports from Iran, four people
with knowledge of the matter said March 13.  Indian refiners may cease buying Iranian crude as local
insurers refuse to cover the risks for using the oil, P.P. Upadhya, the managing director at  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , said March 8.  The refiners and the Indian government plan to discuss the
option of forming a fund to be run by the processors and
government-owned insurers to provide cover for the plants in
coming weeks, two people with knowledge of the matter said on
March 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  