-- Israeli Inflation Stays Below Target Mid-Point for Fifth Month
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-15T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/israeli-inflation-stays-below-target-mid-point-for-fifth-month.html
Israeli  inflation  remained below
the mid-point of the central bank’s target range for a fifth
month in February as domestic demand remained weak.  The inflation rate stayed at 1.5 percent, matching the
median estimate of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, the
Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics reported today. The
government’s target is 1 percent to 3 percent. In the month,
consumer prices were unchanged.  “The Bank of Israel is not facing an inflation problem,
quite the opposite,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for
central and eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at Morgan
Stanley in London. “There seems to be no apparent reason to
expect any change in the inflation outlook, given the lack of
domestic demand pressure.”  The Bank of Israel monetary policy committee, led by
Governor  Stanley Fischer , left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a second month in February at 1.75 percent, after
gradually reducing it from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to
shore up the economy amid the European debt crisis.  The Bank of Israel is likely to cut rates by at least 25
basis points “soon,” Aksoy said.  Economic  growth  slowed to 3.1 percent in 2012 from 4.6
percent the previous year, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
March 10. Excluding first-time natural-gas revenues it is
expected to shrink further in 2013, according to the central
bank. About 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product is
made up of exports, with Europe one of the largest markets.  Economists’ average 12-month  inflation expectations  have
been steady at 1.9 percent since November, according to a
central bank survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  