-- Italian Parliament Faces Gridlock, Fails to Choose Speakers
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-15T15:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/italian-parliament-faces-gridlock-fails-to-choose-speakers.html
Italian legislators, meeting for
the first time since inconclusive elections last month, failed
to select speakers for the houses of parliament in a sign of the
country’s growing political gridlock.  Both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies will hold a second
ballot today after the initial vote failed to produce a speaker
in either house. Lawmakers from the Democratic Party, which led
the winning coalition in the February election, didn’t vote for
any candidate to keep their options open for an agreemennt with
other parties.  “The blank ballots demonstrate that we are open to a
political deal,” Emanuele Fiano, a member of the Chamber of
Deputies for the PD, said in an interview.  The impasse illustrates the challenges President Giorgio Napolitano faces as he prepares to begin consultations next week
with the main parties to try to form a government. The February
vote left the PD with a majority in the lower house while former
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and comedian-turned-politician
Beppe Grillo each won a blocking majority in the Senate.  There is little chance speakers will be chosen today on the
second ballot as two-thirds of the votes are needed in the
Chamber and an absolute majority required in the Senate, which
none of the political forces can muster.  After three votes in the Chamber, the speaker can be
elected by simple majority, which the PD does have in the lower
house. The PD plans to propose Dario Franceschini, party whip in
the previous government, for the post if there isn’t a broader
deal with outside lawmakers by the fourth ballot, Fiano said.  Possible Runoff   The Senate voting procedure changes on the third ballot,
when only a majority of senators present and voting is required.
If that doesn’t produce results, a runoff is held between the
two candidates with the most votes.  Bersani has been stymied in his efforts to from an alliance
by Grillo, who has pledged to eliminate the main political
parties, rather than support them. Bersani has ruled out a deal
with Berlusconi, who is facing two possible corruption
convictions this month and is also under investigation for
paying lawmakers to sabotage the previous center-left government
that fell in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  