-- J.C. Penney Loses Caribou Coffee Cafes for Revamped Stores
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-15T20:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/j-c-penney-loses-caribou-coffee-as-partner-for-revamped-stores.html
Caribou Coffee Co. will no longer
pursue plans to open shops inside  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  stores, about
six months after Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  cited the
company as a potential partner.  The Minneapolis-based coffee seller won’t be opening stores
in J.C. Penney locations and “does not have plans to move
forward with a partnership at this time,” Caribou Chief
Executive Officer Mike Tattersfield said in an e-mailed
statement today. Johnson discussed the cafes during a September
tour of a prototype store for analysts and investors.
Tattersfield declined to say why Caribou was pulling out.  The loss of the cafes comes as Johnson struggles to
transform most of J.C. Penney’s stores into collections of
boutiques peppered with eateries, or a kind of mall within a
mall. The department store chain reported an annual sales
decline of 25 percent to $13 billion about two weeks ago. In
September it said Caribou cafes would provide a place for
customers to relax and help the coffee company expand.  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, didn’t immediately return a voicemail and e-mail seeking
comment.  Caribou Coffee, acquired by Joh. A. Benckiser Group earlier
this year for about $340 million, has put locations in other
retail stores, including Jewel-Osco, the grocery chain that
 Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  agreed to sell to Cerberus Capital Management LP
in January. Caribou also has shops in Lunds and Byerly’s grocery
stores in  Minnesota  and at Hy-Vee markets in the Midwest.  Caribou had 610 coffee shops, including 202 franchised
locations, as of Sept. 30. The chain has said it’s targeting 10
percent to 20 percent unit growth this year in cities including
Washington and Chicago.  J.C. Penney, which has 1,100 stores, gained 0.6 percent to
$15.48 at the close in  New York . The retailer has  lost  21
percent this year, compared with a 9.4 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  