-- Japan’s Energy Board Meets After Dropping Anti-Nuclear Members
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-03-15T00:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/japan-s-energy-board-meets-after-dropping-anti-nuclear-members.html
Japan ’s ruling Liberal Democratic
Party has removed most anti-nuclear researchers from a revamped
post-Fukushima energy policy advisory board to the government
that resumes discussions today.  After a landslide victory in a December election, Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe has said the previous administration’s
policy to abandon atomic power needs to be reviewed to help
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  Six of eight members that voted for phasing out nuclear
power on the board advising the previous government have been
dropped from the LDP panel. Another ten members were
reappointed, including Akio Mimura, an adviser for  Nippon Steel
& Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) , as chairman. He headed an energy
advisory board under a previous LDP government that promoted
nuclear power.  “Mr. Mimura may have a wonderful personality and good
policy ideas, but it’s wrong to let the same man who led
discussions on pre-Fukushima energy policy be in charge,” said
Tetsunari Iida, the executive director of the Institute for
Sustainable Energy Policies. Iida was one of those dropped from
the advisory board.  A request for comment or to interview Mimura was declined
by Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal’s public relations office on
March 12.  In September, the government led by the Democratic Party of
Japan approved phasing out nuclear power by the end of the 2030s
after the March quake and disaster in 2011 caused three reactor
meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Around 160,000 people
were evacuated because of radiation fallout.  New Options  Three options were considered for the country’s future
energy supply: Zero nuclear, 15 percent nuclear, and 20 percent
to 25 percent. A government poll in August found 47 percent of
citizens favored zero, with the remainder split on the other
choices.  “The LDP wants to avoid the zero nuclear scenario at all
costs and is looking for a point of compromise between 15
percent and 20 percent nuclear,” said Hiroshi Takahashi, a
research fellow at Fujitsu Research Institute.  “Nobody, not even power companies, would try to revive the
pre-Fukushima plan for boosting nuclear power’s share of
electricity to 50 percent,” said Takahashi, who was also
dropped from the advisory panel.  The government has added five new people including Issei Nishikawa, governor of Fukui Prefecture, which has 14 nuclear
reactors. Nishikawa declined a request for an interview. Hajimu
Yamana, a nuclear engineering professor at Kyoto University, was
also appointed. The number of advisory board members was cut to
15 from 25.  A call to Yamana’s office in  Osaka  seeking comment today
was unanswered.  Specialists  The people chosen have different views on not only nuclear
power, but also renewable energy and electricity system reform,
said Trade and Industry Ministry Minister Toshimitsu Motegi on
March 1. “We took into account specialities in their fields,
not whether they agree or disagree on individual issues.”  Mimura, former vice chairman of Japan’s biggest business
lobby Keidanren, made his view known at a Sept. 18 meeting of
the post-Fukushima policy group, stating that Japan should
continue using nuclear power.  The group didn’t meet again for almost two months.  The delay “made me furious,” said Hideyuki Ban, co-
director of the Citizens’ Nuclear Information Center, and also
dropped from the board. “I demanded trade and industry ministry
officials dismiss Mr. Mimura.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  