-- JinkoSolar Sees Industry Consolidation in China Ending This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T04:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/jinkosolar-sees-industry-consolidation-in-china-ending-this-year.html
China will begin this year to see
the results of a reorganization among solar-component
manufacturers prompted by a more than 20 percent drop in prices
and tighter margins, according to  JinkoSolar Holding (JKS)  Co.  “Small firms are being marginalized after seven quarters
of reshuffling while bigger ones are relatively stable,” Chen Kangping, chief executive officer of Shanghai-based JinkoSolar,
said in a March 13 interview in Beijing. “Many small solar-
energy enterprises have shut down,” Chen said.  The remarks highlight the changes sweeping the solar
industry in China, the world’s biggest supplier of panels, after
a supply glut saw some companies fail. The price of solar  panels 
has plunged 23 percent in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jiangsu Sunshine Co. (600220) , a Chinese maker of textile products
and raw material for solar panels, filed for bankruptcy at its
polysilicon unit in January after failing to cope with a decline
in prices.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , which was once the
world’s largest solar-panel maker, is working to restructure
debt as it faces the prospect of failing to make a principal
payment today on $541 million in convertible bonds.  “Solar-energy trade disputes and cuts in feed-in tariffs
are going to accelerate consolidation,” said Wang Xiaoting, a
Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “The
industry situation will become better after 2013 as oversupply
is alleviated.”  Domestic Demand  Panel producers may find it difficult to post profits this
year, though the situation should improve as the weakest
companies are driven out of business, JinkoSolar’s Chen said.  “Some companies, including JinkoSolar, will escape early
from their predicament” because they have lower debt and made
fewer bad investments, Chen said.  Domestic demand may peak in the first half, Chen said,
adding that his company’s production is running at full
capacity.  Solar installed capacity in  China  totaled 6.5 gigawatts in
2012 and is expected to increase by at least 6.2 gigawatts this
year, BNEF data show.  Non-silicon costs will drop by 5 percent to 10 percent this
year, though silicon costs will be influenced by the outcome of
trade disputes between China and foreign suppliers, Chen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  