-- JPMorgan Sees Home Prices Up 14% as BofA Touts Party
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-03-15T20:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/jpmorgan-sees-home-prices-up-14-as-bofa-touts-party.html
Ben S. Bernanke ’s efforts to revive
housing are making real estate bulls even more bullish.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  more than doubled its forecast for
U.S. home  price gains  in 2013 to 7 percent this week, and
predicts a more than 14 percent increase through 2015.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  said last week property values will jump 8 percent
this year, up from a prior estimate of 4.7 percent in a report
titled “Someone say house party?”  The two biggest U.S. banks are predicting an accelerating
rebound as homebuyers and investors rush to acquire a dwindling
supply of properties and the  Federal Reserve  pushes down
borrowing costs by buying mortgage bonds. That’s strengthening
the economy and sustaining a rally in homebuilder shares after
the stocks more than doubled since the end of 2011.  “We still think we are in the early innings of a prolonged
recovery in housing and the economy,” said Samantha McLemore, a
 money manager  for  Bill Miller ’s $1.2 billion Legg Mason Capital
Management Opportunity Trust, which has a range of  holdings  tied
to a housing rebound and has gained 20 percent this year besting
99 percent of rivals.  Home prices  rose 6.8 percent in December from the year
earlier, the biggest gain since 2006, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller home-price  index  of 20 cities. The measure is still 29
percent below the peak that year after soaring  homeowner
defaults  helped trigger the global financial crisis.  Blackstone Buying  Growth last year was driven by a lack of housing stock
coupled with rising demand from institutional investors,
including private equity firm Blackstone Group LP, which has
purchased 20,000 single-family homes to rent. The number of
homes for sale fell 5 percent to 1.74 million in January from
the year-earlier period, the fewest since December 1999,
according to the National Association of Realtors.  Housing and economic indicators are “showing resilience,”
JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  wrote in the March 13 report.
The New York-based firm estimates home prices will increase 3.9
percent next year and 3.2 percent in 2015. New-home sales in
January saw the highest increase in 20 years.  Fed Chairman Bernanke has sought to bolster the economy
with bond purchases each month. While the most recent round has
“not done much for  mortgage rates ” the “resulting reach for
yield is now firmly grounded in the housing market,” they
wrote.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate for a  30-year loan  ended the week
yesterday at 3.63 percent, a six-month high, after stronger-
than-expected employment growth drove up yields for the
 government securities  that guide home loans. While that’s up
from the record low of 3.31 percent in November, it’s down from
6.8 percent in July 2006, according to McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac .  Low  interest rates , a tight inventory of properties for
sale and record affordability are fueling accelerated home price
gains,  Michelle Meyer , a Bank of America U.S. economist, and
 Chris Flanagan  and Justin Borst, mortgage-backed securities
strategists, said in a March 7 note.  “We believe a positive feedback loop has begun, where the
rise in home prices fuels expectations of further appreciation
and easing credit conditions, which in turn stimulates
homebuying,” they said. “It is a powerful positive
relationship especially in this environment of historically low
interest rates and a Federal Reserve determined to keep policy
accommodative.”  Gains will moderate to 6.5 percent in 2014 -- revised from
a previous estimate of a 7.7 percent increase -- and 3.7 percent
in 2015, the analysts wrote.  Seriously Delinquent  One issue that’s propelled prices has been shrinking supply
from foreclosed homes. In 2012, 1.3 million liquidations
occurred, about 30 percent less than the bank expected, in part
because of loan modifications that let distressed borrowers stay
in their houses.  Foreclosures plunged 29 percent last month from a year
earlier to the lowest level since 2007 amid increased efforts by
state lawmakers and courts to delay property seizures, according
to RealtyTrac.  JPMorgan estimates that by the end of the year, 10 percent
of borrowers will be underwater, or owe more on their mortgages
than the home is worth, compared with 25 percent two years ago.
As distressed sales continue to decline and the inventory of
homes remains tight, demand for non-performing assets will
probably increase, according to the report.  Further Rally  “If home price performance this year and the ensuing years
is anything close to these predictions we’ll see a further rally
in non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities,” Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW Group
Inc., said in an interview.  So-called non-agency debt, which includes bonds backed by
subprime mortgages, returned an average of about 21 percent last
year, according to Amherst Securities Group LP.  “In a more subdued recovery we thought near-term total
rates of return could be in the mid-teens and if we see higher
numbers we could see total rates of return north of 20
percent,” Whalen said.  Homebuilders (S15HOME)  are also benefiting from the shrinking supply
of existing property on the market.  KB Home (KBH)  has surged 28
percent since December, and D.R. Horton Inc. gained 23 percent.
An 11-company gauge was little changed in  New York  trading
today, after advancing 59 percent in the past 12 months.  “As we look at construction and new-home building get back
to more normalized levels, I think the stocks can do better, and
that is certainly something that’s driven by  consumer
confidence ,” said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First
Citizens BancShares Inc., a Raleigh, North Carolina-based firm
that manages about $5.5 billion.  Substantially Improve  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has said the central bank
is waiting for the labor market to “substantially” improve
before ending its buying of $85 billion in bonds each month.  The number of people filing claims for jobless benefits
over the past four weeks dropped to the lowest level since March
2008, according to data from the Labor Department in Washington
yesterday. The February jobs report showed that hiring in
construction jumped by the most in almost six years.  “Everyone knows that housing’s kicking into gear,” said
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“They’re just underestimating the juice that it’s going to
provide to the economy,” said Zandi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 perlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 