-- JPMorgan’s Bacon Says ‘Onus is on Us’ as Bank Tarnished
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-03-15T15:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/jpmorgan-s-bacon-says-onus-is-on-us-as-bank-tarnished.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  needs to win
back public trust after losses on a derivative portfolio swelled
to more than $6.2 billion and eroded confidence in the largest
 U.S. bank , a company risk manager told lawmakers.  “This whole thing is regrettable and unacceptable,”
Ashley Bacon, acting chief risk officer of the bank, told the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations today in
Washington. “The onus of proof is on us now to demonstrate how
this can’t happen in other places, how we weathered the
financial crisis well everywhere else, and how we can make the
entire firm a safer place to the satisfaction of you, everybody
else and our regulators.”  JPMorgan is seeking to restore confidence in a company that
withstood the 2008 housing crisis better than most rivals and
then stumbled last year with losses on bets by U.K. traders. The
Senate panel released a  report  yesterday saying the New York-
based bank hid losses and dodged regulators.  “You had to figure Congress would hold JPMorgan to the
fire,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at
GMP Securities LLC in  New York , said by e-mail. The bank and
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  are “thought to be the best
in the business in managing a global bank and the risks that
come with it. So when high expectations come up short,” Wall
Street and Washington demand answers, he said. “Someone was
going to be taken to task.”  JPMorgan fell 2.1 percent to $49.95 at 11:25 a.m. in New
York. While the lender won approval yesterday to raise its
 dividend  27 percent to 38 cents a share and buy back $6 billion
in stock, as part of a review of top U.S. banks, the  Federal
Reserve  ordered the company to address weaknesses in its capital
plan and resubmit a proposal by the end of the third quarter.  ‘More Heat’  The derivative bets “caused regulators to rethink capital
needs” for banks with large trading operations, said Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC in New York, in
an interview yesterday. “Much more broadly, are we going to get
more heat on the too-big-to fail, too-big-to jail, too-big-to-
manage theme?”  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads the panel, and
 Arizona ’s  John McCain , the ranking Republican, today grilled
current and former JPMorgan executives about the loss as
lawmakers weigh further limits on banks’ trading. Yesterday’s
report said the bank initially hid losses from investors.  Ina Drew, 56, who led the chief investment office
responsible for the loss and was forced to step down last year,
said she relied on other executives to manage a complex book of
 credit derivatives  and didn’t learn of their “deceptive
conduct” until after she left the company.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  “I was, and remain, deeply disappointed and saddened to
learn of such conduct and the extent to which the London team
let me, and the company, down,” Drew said in testimony prepared
for delivery in the Senate today.  Drew was among  Wall Street ’s most powerful women until she
resigned in May four days after the initial trading loss was
disclosed. Today is her first public appearance since leaving
the New York-based bank.  JPMorgan’s efforts to hide the losses, outlined in the 301-
page report, probably will ignite debate over whether the
largest U.S. bank is too big to manage and ratchet up pressure
on Dimon to surrender his role as chairman.  The bank “mischaracterized high-risk trading as hedging,”
and withheld key information from its primary regulator,
sometimes at Dimon’s behest, Senate investigators found.
Managers manipulated risk models and pressured traders to
overvalue their positions in an effort to hide growing losses.  ‘Dodged Oversight’  “Our findings open a window into the hidden world of high-
stakes derivatives trading by big banks,” Levin said at the
hearing. “It exposes a derivatives-trading culture at JPMorgan
that piled on risk, hid losses, disregarded risk limits,
manipulated risk models, dodged oversight and misinformed the
public.”  Drew said London trading supervisors Javier Martin-Artajo
and Achilles Macris continually reassured her that the
derivatives trades were under control and that losses would
dissipate. That turned out to be false, she said.  Macris and Martin-Artajo, who no longer work for the bank,
declined to be interviewed by Senate investigators. The panel
said it couldn’t require them to cooperate because they lived
outside the U.S.  Bacon said it could have “been easy to catch this in many
ways, and regrettably, it did not happen.”  Trading oversight and management oversight “failed
completely,” he said. “I believe we have taken corrective
action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  