-- Kate Upton’s Uncle, Google’s Adam Kovacevich: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-15T13:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/kate-upton-s-uncle-google-s-adam-kovacevich-d-c-scene.html
“Bring your iPad!” said
Republican Congressman Fred Upton of  Michigan .  That was his advice to members of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, which he serves as chairman.  At a party hosted by the Internet Association last night,
he said that under his direction the committee went
“paperless” two weeks ago. He now relies on the Internet more
than ever, and he feels “naked” without his BlackBerry.  He’s also known around town for being the uncle of Sports
Illustrated cover model Kate Upton.  “She lives right down the street from me in Michigan,” he
said. “She’s got great poise.”  He and his fellow committee member George Holding, a North
Carolina Republican, came out to Capitale on K Street to
celebrate the  Internet Association , a trade organization started
last September to work for major internet companies such as
Facebook and Google.  Google was represented by Adam Kovacevich, head of
competition public policy and public affairs, and Pablo Chavez,
the company’s director of public policy.  Chavez talked with Matthew Hussey, an associate policy
chief in the Federal Communications Commission’s Office of
Engineering and Technology.  Holding said he likes scouring EBay for old books. “I’m a
savvy bidder,” he said.  The legislators were joined by Democratic Congressman
Jerrold Nadler of  New York .  IPad DJ  DJ Neekola spun tunes wirelessly from her iPad. The
cocktail of choice was the “Dial Up,” a kicky take on the Old-
Fashioned. California rolls, which someone in the crowd cracked
were “Silicon Valley” rolls, were nibbled from a table
anchored by pink orchids.  Lobbyist Heather Podesta, sporting pale-blue nail polish,
said her favorite site was Pandora: “I’m obsessed.” Verizon’s
senior vice president of federal government relations echoed her
enthusiasm for the music site, adding that he likes to work out
to its tracks.  Cary Sherman, chairman and chief executive of the  Recording
Industry Association of America , said he was a fan of Spotify.  Other guests included Jean Roehrenbeck, legislative
director for Congressman Mike Doyle, the Pennsylvania Democrat,
and Neil Fried, senior telecommunications counsel to the House
Energy and Commerce Committee.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on  art ,  Greg Evans 
and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 