-- Kenyan Shilling Pares Post-Election Rally as Business Resumes
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-15T10:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/kenyan-shilling-pares-post-election-rally-as-business-resumes.html
Kenya ’s shilling retreated, paring
the rally this week that sent the currency to its strongest in
more than four months, as companies demanded dollars on resuming
operations after the presidential election.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy dropped as
much as 0.6 percent to 85.91 per dollar and was trading 0.2
percent lower at 85.58, the weakest since March 6, by 12:05 p.m.
in the capital, Nairobi. The  exchange rate  is up 0.8 percent for
the week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Election victor Uhuru Kenyatta, who is preparing for trial
at the International Criminal Court, will be sworn in as
president on March 26, unless a petition is filed at the Supreme
Court. The party of outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , whose
dispute of the 2007 election triggered ethnic clashes that left
more than 1,100 people dead, has postponed filing a petition
challenging Kenyatta’s victory, Lands Minister James Orengo told
reporters in Nairobi today.  “The shilling gave up a bit of the earlier gains after the
peaceful elections on growing demand for dollars as businesses
resume their operations,” Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at
Nairobi-based  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said in a phone
interview.  Kenya’s economy may expand 5.5 percent to 6 percent this
year, as long as peaceful elections provide stability for
investors, according to the  International Monetary Fund  last
month.  The Central Bank of Kenya offered 15 billion shillings
($175 million) of bids for seven-day repurchase agreements and
14-day term auction deposits, an official, who asked not to be
identified in line with policy, said by phone today. The bank
uses the repos to reduce  money supply  and support the shilling.  Uganda’s currency traded unchanged at 2,640 per dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling weakened 0.1 percent to 1,625 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  