-- House Bill Would Route Keystone Pipeline Around Obama
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-03-15T19:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/keystone-pipeline-would-reroute-around-obama-under-house-bill.html
U.S. House Republicans won’t wait
for President  Barack Obama  to issue a decision on the Keystone
XL pipeline. They plan to vote by the end of May on legislation
that would sidestep the White House and offer congressional
approval to the  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  project.  House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton 
said today that the bill would be on the House floor by Memorial
Day.  The measure sponsored by Nebraska Republican Lee Terry is
being designated H.R. 3, using one of the numbers held in
reserve by Republican leadership for their top-priority bills.  “There is no reason for us to not only refine that oil,
but also to keep most of it in the U.S.,” Upton, a Michigan
Republican, told a press conference.  The project would cross six states and link the  tar sands 
in  Alberta , Canada, to Texas refineries along the Gulf Coast. It
requires a presidential permit because it crosses an
international border.  In January 2012 the Obama administration rejected a
proposed route for the pipeline after concerns were raised about
the impact of the project on an ecologically sensitive area in
 Nebraska . The route now under consideration was submitted in May
2012.  ‘Political Statement’  Earlier this month, a State Department environmental
assessment of found Keystone XL won’t worsen the risks of global
warming because Alberta’s oil sands would be developed without
the pipeline. The White House signaled today that it doesn’t
consider oil pipelines a major driver of  climate change .  “There have been thousands of miles of pipelines that have
been built while President Obama has been in office,” White
House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters today on Air Force
One as Obama traveled to deliver a speech on energy in Illinois.
“It hasn’t necessarily had a significant impact one way or the
other on addressing climate change.”  Obama is focusing efforts on lessening dependence on fossil
fuels, he said. He said the higher fuel standards for vehicles
set by the administration “has greatly increased fuel
efficiency and reduced carbon emissions.’  Representative  Henry Waxman  of California, the top Democrat
on the Energy and Commerce Committee, said the bill won’t change
that and a decision on the pipeline would ultimately be made by
Obama. The president will decide to either approve or reject the
pipeline, said Waxman, who opposes the project, and could veto
any legislation that would force his hand.  ‘‘They’re making a political statement,” Waxman said in an
interview.  Pipeline Backers  Backers of the pipeline say that Congress has the authority
to effectively deem the pipeline approved without Obama’s
action. Previously, they hit dead ends when they pushed measures
that tried to force him to make an early decision and that would
have required the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to
approve it.  Obama told Republican senators earlier this week he planned
to make a decision on the revised application by the end of the
year, said Senator  John Hoeven  of North Dakota, a sponsor of the
bill’s Senate version, S. 582, which was introduced yesterday.  “When he makes that decision, what’s it going to be,
another regulatory hurdle to jump over?” Hoeven said.  The State Department released an environmental assessment
report March 1 saying the pipeline would have little impact on
the pace of oil-sands development expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  