-- King Comments on Stimulus, BOE Remit: ITV News Interview (Text)
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-03-15T19:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/king-comments-on-stimulus-boe-remit-itv-news-interview-text-.html
The following is an unedited and
unreformatted text of the second part of an ITV News interview
with Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King . It was transcribed by
ITV and distributed by e-mail today.  The first part of the interview was broadcast yesterday.
Click here to see a transcript.  Q: Governor, I’m struck by the optimism in your discussions
about the economy. What is it that’s changed your tone?  MK: “I don’t think you should exaggerate the degree of
optimism. What I see are signs of a recovery and I think there
is a case for supporting that through additional asset
purchases. One can take different views on it and some of my
colleagues do. I do think that during the course of 2013 there
are reasons to suppose that we will start to see a recovery.”  You’ve spent most of your career at the bank. Do you have
sympathy with those who are calling for a change in the remit of
the bank, the job description, the 2% target for inflation?  “I’m not sure that there is any call for a major change in the
remit. What‘s most important is that we commit ourselves again
to a very clear target for inflation of 2%. Of course what we’ve
seen through the financial crisis is there are difficult
judgements to be made about the short run tradeoffs between
inflation and growth and I think it’s perfectly reasonable to
ask questions about how those judgements are made.  The Bank has failed to meet that inflation target for much of
the time you’ve been in charge. Is that because the remit is
wrong or the policy is wrong?  ‘‘Neither. Between 1997 and 2007 inflation was extraordinarily
low and stable and we didn’t have to write a letter [to the
Chancellor] once in that period. The global turmoil that
followed the financial crisis meant that we had some extremely
difficult choices to make. Yes, inflation has been above the
target. Question is, would it have been right to have raised
 interest rates  to bring inflation back to target sooner? My
answer is no because if you believe we should have raised
interest rates, the only thing we could have done would be to
slow down the economy even more. I don’t know anyone who thinks
the British economy has been growing too quickly in the last two
or three years and if we had adopted a tighter monetary policy
in order to bring inflation back sooner, we would have had an
even deeper recession and higher unemployment.”  Would it make more sense for the bank to have a different remit,
like the American Central Bank, where you’re asked to look at
something else like employment alongside inflation?  “No, I don’t think so. I think the important thing is we
explain why it is that we’ve looked through some of these short-
run reasons why inflation has been above target. Which has very
little to do with the state of the economy. After all look at
what is happening to wage increases. Domestically generated
inflationary pressures are very weak. Most of the sources of
inflation now are coming either from overseas or from the
administrative price increases that have resulted for example
from student tuition fees and some of the energy price changes.
None of these, to my mind, nor to my colleagues either, adds up
to a strong case to say why don’t we push the economy back into
the ground in order to offset these temporary effects. We’ve
looked through them and we said recently we would look through
them, but and I stress this, we will bring inflation back to the
2% target in the medium term.”  Inflation expectations are low in historic terms and that’s
perhaps one of your biggest achievements at the Bank. Are you
worried that achievement might be swept away by what seems to be
a growing orthodoxy that growth matters more than inflation?  “I understand why people are concerned about the very weak
growth performance of the economy. That’s a very justifiable
view. Our task is to make sure we can support the recovery while
maintaining stability of inflation expectations. We shall
monitor that extremely closely.”  Is that not changing…there are various sounds that that is too
rigid a view to take and that growth is what matters…  “I think we all want to see a faster recovery. I want to see a
faster recovery. I don’t think you can say the BOE has been
rigid. We’ve cut interest rates to zero. We’ve increased our
asset purchases to 375billion pounds, we’ve introduced the
funding for lending scheme and we’ve tolerated inflation above
target. Whatever you call that, it isn’t rigid.”  Children at school today will have no recollection of the very
high levels of inflation that we used to have and probably don’t
understand why it matters. Could you explain why they should be
as worried as you?  “Because when they use money, they want to be fairly confident
that the amount of stuff that they can buy with their money will
be the same next year or five years down the road as it is this
year. They want to have confidence in the value of money. That’s
fundamentally important.”  How fragile is it – keeping inflation low? How quickly could it
spiral?  “Well if we were to abandon our commitment to bring inflation
back to target in the medium term, if people were to believe we
had lost our commitment to low inflation then we could lose it
rather quickly, but I don’t think that’s the case today. We’re
determined to make sure that doesn’t happen. You say children
won’t remember inflation of the past, the whole point of having
an institution like the  Bank of England  is that we have an
institutional memory that will remember high inflation in the
past and make sure that no-one today will be allowed to forget
it. We will maintain the approach to low and stable inflation.”  Can you describe what life is like in an era of high inflation?
What is that is so scary about it?  “What was scary when we had higher inflation was that
businesses faced very high interest rates, people had to focus
not on the long-term future of the business but whether they
have money to meet the immediate interest payments. People’s
mortgage payments doubled in a very short period of time. That
put enormous pressure on household finances. People stopped
looking to the long-term which is what we need businesses and
families to do for our long-term prosperity and the started to
focus entirely on the short term and people got into a
competitive race of demanding higher wages because they’d seen
somebody else getting a wage increase.  We’re a long way from
that now and we certainly don’t want to go back to it.”  Is there complacency…Do you think people have forgotten?  “I don’t expect people to go around and worry all the time
about inflation. That’s our job. Our job will be to make sure we
don’t go back to that.”  How did you feel about a report when a report about the bank
said junior staff had to temper what they said to senior staff?  “Well we take that seriously so we got the heads of division to
go out and ask the junior staff. I don’t think people do that.
The BOE is an intellectual environment but its one in which
young people know they can say what they really think. We ask
the younger people. When we developed the funding for lending
scheme, some very junior members of staff played an absolutely
key role in designing that scheme.”  Unlike the OBR, you’re not going as far in publishing all the
data and assumptions behind your forecast. Why are you keeping
some of them secret?  “We’re not keeping them secret. The MPC is a group of nine
people and they make collective judgements which they take
responsibility for. You cannot expect a group of nine people to
agree on or even accept responsibility for a lot of detailed
numbers which they’re not really ever involved in. What the
Committee does is to form a big judgement about the outlook for
the growth of the economy and for inflation and that’s what they
form a judgement on collectively and that’s what we publish. I
think the idea that just publishing thousands of pages of
numbers, you increase accountability, is refuted by examples of
transparency everywhere else. What matters is that we’re open
and transparent about the big judgements that we make, and held
publicly accountable for them and we are.”  People feel that they don’t understand how you get to those
judgements and by publishing the assumptions underlining them,
you’d help them understand.  “Well that would be very misleading because we don’t reach our
judgements by poring over thousands of pages of papers or
turning the handle on a computer model and getting the answer
out. The judgements the MPC makes are exactly that, they are
judgements reached after a discussion among the nine members of
the committee and in the end people have to say I feel that the
outlook is for a modest recovery this year with downside risks,
or a different view. Those are the big judgements. It’s
completely false precision to say there is a secret set of
numbers or a computer model that’s generating numbers that
everyone else should see. That’s not the way people behave. We
form big judgements about the outlook and that’s all that
matters. Whether it’s 1.7 or 1.6 is neither here nor there. It’s
the big judgements that matter and we are very transparent about
those.”  What makes you angry?  “Well I don’t think you can afford to be angry in a job like
this. I’ve talked to my various private secretaries who I’ve
worked with over the years and I think they realise that when
you’re in a position like this, what you have to be able to do
is reach decisions quickly and you can’t do that by being angry.
So even if you feel frustrated at times, and I’m sure anyone in
any job feels frustrated from time to time…”  What’s frustrated you?  “Well, various things not least the way in which the financial
crisis occurred and the difficulty in responding to it. What’s
more important is you don’t get angry, you think your way
through the problems. I think what the BOE is there for is as an
institution which will continue indefinitely. We have an
enormously large number of very talented young people who work
for the BOE. The future of the Bank is very bright, the squad is
very talented. They will do the same as we do. We think our way
through the problems, we keep calm about it then you have to
make a decision, stick to it and implement it.”  You’re retiring soon…Are you looking forward to it?  “Yes, I am, I will have been Governor for ten years. That’s
long enough for anyone. I’m sure it’s long enough for the Bank
too. You need change. I’m looking forward to a different life.”  Beyond spending more time devoted to  Aston Villa , what are your
plans?  “I’ve many other interests but the first thing I should do is
take a gap six months, not quite a gap year maybe but certainly
a gap six months. I won’t even think what I’m going to be doing
in the future until that’s over.”  Is there anything you regret as you look back?  “So many things are happening today that my job is to focus on
the here and now and take the decisions. I won’t even think
about regrets until some considerable time from now on. You can
come back and ask me then but it certainly isn’t for today.
Today is about what’s happening to the British economy today,
how can we get a faster recovery and how can we make sure that
we will get back to the inflation target in the medium term.
That’s what I’m responsible for and that’s what I’m working
on.”  As you look back…what’s your legacy?  “I spent half my career at the bank, the first half was as an
academic. The legacy at the bank that I will feel most proud of
are the group of very talented young people who remain at the
bank. The most extraordinary set of bright young people I have
ever worked with. I feel proud of having brought them into the
bank, promoted them in the bank and I shall very sorry to leave
them but very confident that the bank is in safe hands when I’m
gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  