-- Kissinger Sees Little Hope for Mideast Peace, Arab Spring
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/kissinger-sees-little-hope-for-mideast-peace-arab-spring.html
Former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger  says there is little chance of any breakthrough in
stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, as President  Barack Obama  visits  Israel  next week on his first trip there since
taking office.  “I’m not optimistic” about reviving peace talks, in large
part because of the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood and other
Islamist parties in the region that aren’t inclined to support a
“just outcome” with Israel, Kissinger said in an interview
airing this weekend on Bloomberg TV’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff .”  The former national security adviser to President  Richard Nixon , Kissinger, 89, is an elder statesman of American foreign
policy who, among other things, negotiated the U.S. opening with
 China  in 1971 and an Israeli-Egyptian disengagement following
the 1973 Yom Kippur War. He was secretary of state in the
administrations of Nixon and President  Gerald Ford .  Kissinger said he doesn’t have a rosy view of the so-called
Arab Spring that has been widely portrayed as popular uprisings
with democratic aspirations. Most revolutions, he said, consist
of “many groups hostile to the existing government, but not
necessarily for the same reason.”  He cited the Syrian civil war as one conflict that has been
widely misunderstood. “It’s not a fight of democracy against a
dictator,” he said. “It’s a fight of various ethnic groups for
preeminence.”  Syrian Rebels  The U.S. needs to be careful about aiding the Syrian
opposition, which has elements that are affiliated with
extremist groups, he said. The Obama administration would need
to first identify groups “that are at least not hostile to us
and preferably support our principles.”  If such groups exist, “we should give them support in
order to strengthen them in the internal debate,” he said,
adding that support shouldn’t involve U.S. ground forces in
Syria.  The Obama administration has been funneling humanitarian
aid and non-lethal supplies to groups it sees as supporting
democracy in Syria, in part to bolster them against more radical
rebel factions such as the al-Nusra Front, which is affiliated
with al-Qaeda in  Iraq .  Kissinger, who has known every U.S. president since  John F.
Kennedy , said he felt “sympathy” for some of the deposed or
weakened Arab leaders “that for 30 years were American allies.
We couldn’t keep them in office, but we should, we owed them
more dignity” at the end, he said.  His skepticism about the Arab revolutions underpins his
pessimism about Israeli-Palestinian peace prospects.  Military, Islamists  “To have a meaningful Palestinian-Israeli agreement, the
Arab world has to be prepared to guarantee it and to accept
it,” Kissinger said, adding that the Muslim Brotherhood
government in Egypt doesn’t seem prepared to “accept genuine
coexistence.”  Kissinger sees a contest in Egypt between the military and
the Islamists. Those who have been sidelined include the “small
group of Cairo-based intellectuals and professionals who know
how to get people” to  Tahrir Square , the site of mass
demonstrations, “but don’t know what to do with them when they
get them there.”  While Kissinger said he doesn’t share Secretary of State
 John Kerry ’s view that there’s an opening for progress on Middle
East peace, he does agree “that an effort should be made in
order to see what is possible.”  Obama Visit  Obama this week told Arab-American leaders that he will use
his visit to Israel and  Jordan  to express U.S. support for an
independent Palestinian state, for the moderate government of
the  Palestinian Authority , and for security and political reform
in Jordan, while also underscoring the U.S. commitment to
Israeli security, according to a White House official who asked
to not be identified in discussing the president’s plans.  Obama’s visit to the region comes as the U.S. is seeking
more time to pursue diplomacy rather than military action to
curb Iran’s potential capability to make nuclear weapons. Iran’s
advances in uranium enrichment and missiles mean that Obama may
have a window of just 15 months before he faces a decision on
whether to stop the Iranian program by military means, Kissinger
said.  Asked about Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s accusation
March 10 that the U.S. is fomenting violence in  Afghanistan  to
justify keeping troops there, Kissinger said he “can understand
why Karzai made the statements he did, though there’s no excuse
for making them when the secretary of defense of the  United
States  is in the country.”  Karzai’s ‘Legitimacy’  Kissinger said Karzai may have spoken that way because, as
the U.S. withdraws forces, his government is trying to “develop
a legitimacy of its own, not dependent on the Americans.”  Kissinger said he disagrees with those who would speed the
departure of U.S. troops from Afghanistan before the end of
2014, saying “it’s as fast as you can have without the whole
thing disintegrating.”  On U.S. relations with China, Kissinger called Chinese
cyber espionage a “very serious problem” that “dominates the
discussion of many industries” affected by it.  “There is no question that cyber issues need to be
addressed by both of our countries” to find a solution, he
said.  Kissinger expressed concern about the growing tensions
between China and  Japan  over the sovereignty of some uninhabited
islands in the  East China Sea , called Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japan.  “It would be a tragedy if that dispute would escalate into
a military conflict between two countries that the United States
needs to have good relations with,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  