-- Kobe Bryant Was Fouled as NBA Says Referees Missed Call
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-15T14:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/kobe-bryant-was-fouled-as-nba-says-referees-missed-call.html
The Los Angeles Lakers’  Kobe Bryant 
was fouled on the play that caused his severely sprained ankle
in a narrow loss two days ago, the  National Basketball
Association  said.  Bryant missed an 18-foot fadeaway shot that would have tied
the game at the  Atlanta Hawks  with 3.9 seconds remaining. He
landed on the foot of defender Dahntay Jones, twisting the left
ankle, leaving Bryant out of action indefinitely and accusing
Jones of dirty play. No foul was called, and the Hawks won
96-92.  The league said last night that Jones should have drawn a
foul.  “After review at the league office, video replay confirmed
that referees missed a foul call on Jones as he challenged
Bryant’s shot and did not give him the opportunity to land
cleanly back on the floor,” the NBA said on its website.
“Bryant should have been granted two free throws.”  Bryant, 34, said the officials were responsible for
protecting shooters from such dangerous plays and that he
couldn’t get his mind past having to “wait a year to get
revenge.”  Bryant and Jones have had run-ins before. During the 2009
Western Conference finals, Jones tripped Bryant and pushed him
in the back, receiving flagrant fouls for each.  Bryant, whose 27.5 points per game are tied for second in
the NBA, said on Twitter that he slept for one hour the night
after the ankle injury while treating it. In another post he
said: “I’ve cried foul play enough Big boy pants time for me.”  Jones, in his own Twitter posts, said he didn’t try to
injure Bryant.  The Lakers, tied for eighth place in the conference with a
34-32 record, play at the  Indiana Pacers  (40-24) tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  