-- Korean Won Posts Biggest Weekly Decline in Six; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-15T07:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/korean-won-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-in-six-bonds-steady.html
South  Korea ’s won posted its
biggest weekly decline in six after the central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged yesterday and geopolitical risks
increased.  Government bonds  climbed.  Overseas investors pulled $182 million from local stocks
yesterday, the most since January, exchange data show. That took
weekly outflows to $360 million. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
this week urged his military to boost readiness against the U.S.
and said he’s confident the armed forces could set a “sea of
fire” on a South Korean island, the North’s media reported.  “The North Korean factor continues to weigh on the market
as a potential risk, keeping the won lower,” said Lee Dae Ho,
an analyst at Hyundai Futures Corp. in Seoul. “Foreign
investors’ net sales following such concerns have weakened the
currency.”  The won fell 1.8 percent to 1,110.95 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the biggest
weekly drop since Feb. 1. The currency touched a five-month low
of 1,110.61 yesterday and rose 0.2 percent today.  The  Bank of Korea  held its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate at 2.75 percent for a fifth month, a decision predicted by
12 of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Four forecast a cut of
25 basis points, after similar moves in July and October.  North Korea  Haruhiko Kuroda was confirmed today as  Bank of Japan 
governor, with Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso as his
deputies, ushering in a new central bank leadership team that
may push for additional monetary stimulus that could further
weaken the yen, threatening Korean exports.  In the near term the won is likely to be under some
pressure, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note today. “Risks include
political concerns related to  North Korea , potential for further
weakening of the Japanese yen, and worries that monetary
tightening in China will cause a slowdown in Korea’s biggest
export market.”  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 9.17 percent.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due December 2015
declined two basis points to 2.61 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. The yield dropped five basis points
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  