-- N.Y. Synagogue Terror Plotter Ferhani Gets 10-Year Term
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-15T21:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/n-y-synagogue-terror-sting-plotter-gets-10-year-term.html
A  New York  man and Algerian native
was sentenced to 10 years in prison after being arrested in a
local sting operation for plotting to attack synagogues and
churches in Manhattan.  Ahmed Ferhani, 28, pleaded guilty Dec. 4 before New York
Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus to 10 counts, marking the
first conviction under state terrorism laws passed shortly after
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The federal government generally
takes the lead in terror probes and had declined to participate
in another case brought under the same state law, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Ferhani claimed he was entrapped by undercover detectives
in a probe conducted by the  New York City Police Department  and
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. In addition to
his prison term, he was sentenced today to five years of
supervision.  “This defendant was convicted and sentenced under anti-
terrorism laws that enabled local police and prosecutors to
protect our communities form terrorist threats,” Vance said in
a statement. “Violent plots like Ahmed Ferhani’s endanger all
 New Yorkers . Fortunately, as a result of the collaboration
between state prosecutors and local police, we prevented him
from carrying out his violent plan against our city.”  Undercover Operation  Ferhani was arrested in May 2011 with Mohamed Mamdouh, 22,
a Moroccan immigrant, and accused of conspiring to bomb
synagogues and churches. They were apprehended following an
eight-month undercover operation after buying two Browning semi-
automatic pistols, a Smith & Wesson revolver, ammunition and an
inert grenade, police said.  Ferhani and Mamdouh pleaded not guilty in June 2011 to a
grand jury indictment. The grand jury declined to indict them on
a more serious conspiracy count that they were charged with
after their arrest, one that would have carried a sentence of
life in prison. Mamdouh’s next court appearance is March 29.  Ferhani said in a statement read in court during his plea
hearing that he and Mamdouh developed a plan to attack and
damage a synagogue in  Manhattan  or elsewhere using explosives
for the purpose of “intimidating and coercing the Jewish
population of New York City.”  Detective ‘Ilter’  Ferhani said he met a fellow Muslim in October 2010 named
“Ilter,” who turned out to be an undercover detective, and
talked about his anger toward Jews because of what he said was
their “mistreatment of Muslims around the world.”  Mamdouh, Ferhani and the detective agreed to purchase three
loaded guns and a grenade, and traveled into Manhattan from the
borough of Queens on May 11, 2011, to buy the weapons from a
dealer, Ferhani said. The gun dealer was actually another
undercover detective.  Obus had agreed to sentence Ferhani to 10 years in prison
and five years of post-release supervision pending a
presentencing report. Ferhani could have faced as long as 25
years in prison if convicted at trial of the most serious
charge.  “Ferhani posed a real threat to New York’s Jewish
community, eagerly purchasing a hand grenade, two guns and 150
rounds of ammunition from an undercover officer as part of
Ferhani’s stated intention to attack and then ‘blow up a
synagogue in Manhattan, and take out the whole entire
building,’”  New York City  Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly
said in a statement.  Serious Charge  Prosecutors had asked Obus to impose a 14-year prison term,
citing the seriousness of the alleged offenses and his criminal
history. Assistant District Attorney Gary J. Galperin said the
sentence was necessary “to send a strong message of general
deterrence.”  “This defendant walked far across the bridge of and to
terrorism,” Galperin said at today’s sentencing hearing. “The
bridge is crossed, so this defendant must stand and watch it
burn.”  Defense lawyers have argued that Ferhani was entrapped by
police and that he wanted the weapons so he could resell them.
His attorney, Lamis Deek, said during today’s hearing that
Ferhani had recently been released from prison when he met the
undercover officer and was “desperate” due to a lack of income
and a threat of foreclosure on his home.  “Mr. Ferhani is not a violent person and therefore is not
what he is made out to be by prosecutors,” Deek said.  ‘Humiliated, Attacked’  Ferhani, who came to the U.S. with his parents and two
siblings in 1995, will probably be deported after his sentence
ends, Obus said at the plea hearing in December. He apologized
to his family in court, saying they were “humiliated, attacked
and harassed on a daily basis” over the past two years.  While the government has tried to portray him in the
“worst light,” “that is far from who I am,” Ferhani said.  “My goals and dreams have only been postponed,” Ferhani
said during today’s hearing, dressed in an orange Department of
Corrections jumpsuit. “I will use this time to strengthen my
mind and character. My spirit has not been broken and never will
be.”  Obus said he considered Ferhani’s personal background and
his willingness to accept responsibility for his actions in
determining his sentence.  “The idea of agreeing to the kind of things you agreed to,
that would not occur to almost anybody,” Obus said.  ‘Mental Disorder’  A presentence report prepared by a forensic psychologist
found that Ferhani suffers from “a serious mental disorder from
excessive exposure to physical and sexual trauma and stimuli in
his early childhood, secondary behavioral difficulties
throughout the remainder of his childhood and his teens, and
consequent drug abuse throughout his teens.”  Informants were key to arrests in about 62 percent of the
50 most serious alleged terrorist plots between Sept. 11 and
2010, the Center on Law and Security at the New York University
law school has said.  The entrapment defense was raised in about 28 percent of
those cases, including that of a man convicted of plotting to
bomb a subway station in Manhattan before the 2004  Republican
National Convention .  In 2011, New York prosecutors charged a Manhattan man and
alleged al-Qaeda sympathizer with plotting to bomb government
offices and police vehicles in the metropolitan area as part of
an effort to kill federal employees and military personnel.  Jose Pimentel, who was later indicted, was under police
surveillance for more than a year. He was allegedly motivated in
part by the federal government’s assassination of a U.S.
citizen, Anwar al-Awlaki, who was affiliated with al-Qaeda, and
whose online magazine, “Inspire,” published bomb-making
instructions.  Al-Awlaki Killing  An unemployed resident of Washington Heights and a native
of the  Dominican Republic , Pimentel’s arrest followed by almost
two months Kelly’s statement that authorities were on alert for
revenge attacks following al-Awlaki’s killing in a drone strike
in Yemen. The cleric had followers in the U.S., including in New
York, Kelly said at the time.  New York police repeatedly approached the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation to have them take part in the case, a person
familiar with the matter said. The FBI didn’t participate due to
the possibility of entrapment tied to a police informant, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public.  Pimentel is scheduled to return to court on April 23.  The case is New York v. Ferhani, 2461/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  