-- Nadal Beats Federer on Hard Court in Earliest Matchup Since 2004
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-15T05:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/nadal-beats-federer-on-hard-court-in-earliest-matchup-since-2004.html
Rafael Nadal  beat defending
champion  Roger Federer  in straight sets in the BNP Paribas Open
quarterfinals, the pair’s earliest matchup at a tennis
tournament since beginning their rivalry nine years ago.  Nadal, the world No. 5 from  Spain , beat the second-ranked
Federer 6-4, 6-2 last night in Indian Wells,  California , to lift
his career record against the Swiss to 19-10. The victory also
tied their meetings on hard courts at 6-6.  Since returning from a seven-month layoff because of a knee
injury, Nadal has compiled a 15-1 record, including clay-court
titles in Sao Paulo and Acapulco and finishing runner-up at his
comeback event in Vina del Mar, Chile.  Last night’s encounter was the first in a year between
Nadal and the 31-year-old Federer, who hold 28 Grand Slam
singles titles between them. They  first met  in the third round
of the Miami Masters in 2004.  While Nadal is seeing how his knees respond to the rigors
of hard-court play for the first time, Federer also has had to
nurse his way through the tournament after tweaking his back in
a third-round victory against Ivan Dodig of Croatia.  Nadal, playing his first hard-court event in nearly 12
months, secured the lone break of the first set in the seventh
game with a cross-court backhand pass. The Mallorcan broke twice
to open a 3-0 lead in the second set and broke again for a 5-2
lead before closing out the victory in 84 minutes.  Nadal, 26, will face Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic 
tomorrow for a place in the final as he seeks his third title in
Indian Wells. A year ago, Federer beat Nadal in the semifinals
on his way to a fourth victory at the tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  