-- Naira Snaps Five-Day Decline as Central Bank Said to Intervene
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-03-15T15:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/naira-snaps-five-day-decline-as-central-bank-said-to-intervene.html
Nigeria ’s naira rose, halting a
five-day decline, as the central bank was said to have sold
dollars directly to the market outside of its regular currency
auctions.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer rose as much
as 0.9 percent and traded 0.6 percent stronger at 158.65 per
dollar by 3:06 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, its
biggest gain on a closing basis since Oct. 4. The naira has
dropped 1.5 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There was intervention from the central bank,” Tega Adeda, a foreign-exchange trader at  Stanbic IBTC Holding Co. (STANBIC) ,
said by phone from Lagos, without specifying the amount sold.
“There was a lot of corporate demand” and the regulator is
trying to stabilize the market, he said. Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a
spokesman for the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria , didn’t
answer four calls made to his mobile phones seeking comment.  The bank reduced  dollar sales  to lenders by 6 percent this
week to $360 million. The regulator uses the twice-a-week
auctions to stabilize the naira as costs of importing refined
fuel, which accounts for 70 percent of the local gasoline
market, boosts dollar demand and puts pressure on the currency,
according to the central bank.  At the auctions, “demand appeared to have been higher,”
Ridle Markus and  Dumisani Ngwenya , Africa strategists at
Barclays Plc’s Absa Capital in Johannesburg, wrote in a note to
clients today. Yet, “with significantly improved external
buffers, ongoing tight monetary policy and continued oil inflows
amid relatively stable production and oil prices, we expect the
naira to remain supported in the short term.”  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold its policy rate at 12 percent for a ninth
consecutive meeting on March 18 and 19, according to eight
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The central bank held the rate at the record level on Jan.
21 to control consumer prices and maintain the naira’s level.
Inflation eased to 9 percent in January from 12 percent in
December, the statistics bureau said last month.  Borrowing costs on the country’s 16.39 percent domestic
bonds due January 2022 rose nine basis points to 11.27 percent,
according to yesterday’s data compiled on the  Financial Markets
Dealers Association  website. Yields on the nation’s $500 million
of Eurobonds due January 2021 fell two basis points to 4.204
percent.  Ghana ’s cedi weakened for a fourth day, sliding 0.2 percent
to 1.9355 per dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  