-- National Bank Falls as Investor Faces Hurdles: Athens Mover
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2013-03-15T12:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/national-bank-falls-as-investor-faces-hurdles-athens-mover.html
National Bank of Greece SA , the
country’s biggest lender, extended this week’s slide after
saying an investor’s interest in covering part of NBG Group’s
recapitalization needs is facing hurdles.  National Bank  dropped  as much as 4.9 percent and was down
1.9 percent to 75.9 euro cents at 1:47 p.m. in Athens. That took
the stock’s slide in the past four days to 8.1 percent. The
shares have dropped 41 percent since the start of the year,
giving it a market value of 931 million euros ($1.22 billion).  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ’s interest in covering as
much as 1.5 billion euros of the group’s capital needs
“remained at an early stage, given the fact that it required
certain changes in the existing legal framework for
recapitalization of systemic banks which, in any case, lie
beyond the competence of NBG,” according to an Athens bourse
filing today.  Greece ’s four biggest lenders need to raise 27.5 billion
euros after suffering losses in the country’s sovereign debt
restructuring last year, the largest in history. National Bank
and  Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , which will form NBG Group following
Eurobank shareholders’ acceptance of an acquisition offer, need
a total of 15.6 billion euros, according to a Bank of Greece
report released in December.  “The fact that Fairfax’s interest remained just an
interest and didn’t progress could be adding pressure to the
stock today,” Euroxx Securities analyst Maria Kanellopoulou
said by phone. When an investor looks at covering almost 10
percent of total capital needs and the process can’t move
forward “clearly it’s negative,” she said.  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras reiterated earlier
this week that the terms of a 50 billion-euro recapitalization
plan, to be completed by the end of April, will follow the
existing legal framework.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  