-- New Mexico’s Martinez Fights Immigrant Driver’s Licenses
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-03-15T03:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/new-mexico-s-martinez-fights-immigrant-driver-s-licenses.html
New Mexico Governor  Susana Martinez , a Republican selected by national party leaders to
court Hispanics, is on the verge of losing a high-profile fight
to stop illegal immigrants from getting driver’s licenses in her
state.  Her fourth attempt to repeal a 2003 law granting the
licenses died in the Legislature and efforts to revive it have
failed, with just two days left before the end of the session.
Only two other states, Washington and  Utah , allow similar
privileges.  Illinois  will begin issuing temporary licenses later
this year as similar proposals advance in other states.  “I don’t give up,” Martinez, 53, said in an interview at
the state capitol, the Roundhouse, where Democrats who control
both houses of the Legislature have thwarted her attempts to
deliver on a major campaign promise. “What I’ll keep doing is
making sure the public is well aware and informed of who is
blocking this,” she said.  The driver’s license fight has been an issue in  New Mexico 
politics since Martinez ran in 2010. At the same time, the
nation’s first Latina governor has emerged as a key voice for
Republicans nationally calling for a more inclusive tone on
immigration and better recruitment of minority candidates.  In January, Martinez was named honorary co-chairman along
with Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval of the Republican State
Leadership Committee’s  Future Majority Caucus  to recruit
minority candidates.  Wedge Issue  In New Mexico, the the debate over driver’s licenses has
become a wedge issue, said  Gabriel Sanchez , associate professor
of political science at the University of New Mexico. While
Martinez came out against  Arizona ’s 2010 law cracking down on
illegal residents, one of her first acts as governor in 2011 was
an executive order directing state police to inquire about the
immigration status of those they arrest.  “A lot of people characterize what she says on the
national scene as being contradictory,” said Sanchez, who is
also director of research for the polling firm  Latino Decisions .
For Republicans, “it reflects the struggle they have to send a
more welcoming message to Latino voters but not really doing
that with public policy,” he said.  Martinez, a former  district attorney , said the license
issue is about public safety, not immigration.  New Mexico has become a destination for criminals and
undocumented immigrants in other states seeking fraudulent
identification, she said. Her office has cataloged more than a
dozen cases of fraud rings in recent years providing false
residency documents for immigrants.  Public Safety  Martinez warns that drug cartel and gang members could
obtain driver’s licenses in her state and then move more freely
throughout the U.S. What New Mexico does affects other states,
including several that changed laws to deny licenses to
undocumented residents after the Sept. 11 attacks, she said.  “They are given a driver’s license from New Mexico, and
they can then trade that New Mexico driver’s license for a
driver’s license from any other state that never intended to
give driver’s licenses to illegal immigrants,” she said. “We
don’t want people to be attracted to New Mexico in order to
commit criminal acts here.”  More than 100,000 driver’s licenses have been issued in New
Mexico to immigrants since the law passed in 2003, according to
the state Taxation and Revenue Department.  ‘Fringe’ Democrats  Martinez blames “fringe” Democrats for blocking
compromise on the issue during the three regular sessions and
one special session since she took office. A measure this year
would have allowed temporary licenses for immigrants brought to
the U.S. illegally as children, who qualify for a federal
deferred-action program announced in June by President  Barack Obama  that blocks deportation. Those young immigrants would
qualify for regular licenses even without the 2003 law,
opponents of the repeal said.  Most states allow deferred-action recipients to get
licenses, according to the Los Angeles-based  National
Immigration Law Center . Nebraska and Arizona don’t.  North
Carolina  has said it will issue specially marked licenses for
young immigrants in the program.  Martinez has rejected changes to her state’s license
program that would clamp down on fraud while still allowing
undocumented residents to drive, said Marcela Diaz, executive
director of  Somos Un Pueblo Unido , an immigrants’ rights group
in  Santa Fe  that advocated for the 2003 law.  “She is at the national level portraying herself as the
person who can reach out to Latinos and work on policy to
integrate Latinos,” Diaz said. “We have not seen that play out
in our state. What we’ve seen is extremism and relentlessness.”  Licensing immigrants makes roadways safer by allowing more
drivers to be tested and insured, and it helps immigrants who
will live in the state anyway emerge from the shadows, she said.  Illinois Law  In Illinois, Governor  Pat Quinn  and Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , both Democrats, and other supporters lauded a new state
law on immigrant driver’s licenses, signed in January, as a step
toward improving traffic safety.  “Despite the stalemate on immigration reform in Washington
D.C., Illinois is moving forward,” Quinn said in  a statement .
“This common-sense law will help everybody, regardless of their
background, learn the rules of the road, pass a driving test and
get insurance. As a result, our roads will be safer, we will
create more access to job opportunities and our economic growth
will be strengthened.”  Connecticut ,  Maryland  and other states have similar bills
advancing, said Tanya Broder, senior attorney at the National
Immigration Law Center.  20,000 Miles  For Javier Dominguez, 42, who came to the U.S. from the
Mexican state of Chihuahua 22 years ago, his New Mexico driver’s
license allows him to keep a good job and provide for his three
children, two of whom are U.S. citizens. He commutes from his
home in Farmington to work as a foreman in Colorado oil fields,
logging more than 20,000 miles on the road in the last six
months, he said.  “It’s part of our life, it is a necessity,” Dominguez
said. He said it also makes undocumented residents accountable
on the roads and to  law enforcement . “Now we exist. Without a
driver’s license, it is like we don’t exist.”  The state shouldn’t reward those who break the law with
driving privileges, said state Senator Lee Cotter, a freshman
Republican from  Las Cruces  who supports Martinez’s effort to
repeal the law.  “We are giving the wrong incentives,” Cotter said.  Martinez cites polls that show most New Mexicans, including
Latinos, want the license law repealed. Sanchez, of Latino
Decisions, said other polls show most voters and most Latinos
prefer a system to crack down on fraud that still allows
undocumented residents to drive legally.  Immigrants Welcome  Martinez said she doesn’t think her crusade in New Mexico,
where polls show she remains popular, will taint her efforts to
ingratiate Republicans with Latino voters nationwide. Hers is a
party that welcomes immigrants and their contributions, she
said.  The governor said she’ll work to recruit minority
candidates because it’s important for Republicans to look like
the populations they represent.  “The tone has to change,” Martinez said. “It has to be
inclusive of them. And the tone has to change to make sure they
are part of the solution. And we cannot continue to be
divisive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Santa Fe at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  