-- New York Times Reorganizes Staff Into Three New Groups
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-03-15T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/new-york-times-reorganizes-staff-to-promote-online-operations.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , reshuffling its
staff after the arrival of Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson 
last year, will create three new groups in an effort to
streamline the company and promote its online operations.  The company will now have groups devoted to digital, print
and advertising, according to a memo to staff. The changes also
will eliminate the barrier between the  New York  Times Media
Group and the company’s corporate operations. Roland A. Caputo,
who was chief financial officer of the Media Group, will now
focus on the print operations. Jim Follo, the corporate-level
CFO, will remain in that role.  The shakeup follows an effort to refocus the company on its
main New York Times brand. Last month, the publisher said it
 would sell  the Boston Globe and related newspapers amid a slump
in print advertising. The company has already sold its About.com
informational website and a regional-newspaper business over the
past year and a half. It’s also rebranding its International
Herald Tribune newspaper as the International New York Times.  The restructuring, which will take place at the end of
March, was designed to “result in faster decision making,
clearer lines of responsibility and greater accountability,”
Thompson and Chairman Arthur Sulzberger said in the memo.  Finance Overlap  With fewer peripheral media brands, Times Co. has  less need 
for a separate CFO to oversee those operations. The latest
changes also put more emphasis on digital content, which the
company sees as its savior during a time of slumping print
advertising. Its online subscription program, started in 2011,
now has more than 640,000 paying subscribers, bringing in a new
source of revenue.  Denise Warren, who had been Times Co.’s chief advertising
officer, will now lead the digital-products group. The New York-
based company will look for a new person to lead the advertising
department. David Perpich, a member of the Ochs-Sulzberger
family that controls Times Co., will be general manager of new
digital products within Warren’s group.  The company also announced the appointment of Tom Bodkin as
chief creative officer, a new position.  Times Co. shares  fell less than 1 percent to $9.96 at the
close in New York. The stock has risen 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  