-- New Oriental Soars After Ambow BuyoutBid: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-17T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/new-oriental-soars-after-ambow-buyoutbid-china-overnight.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  rose the most since July in  New York  as a buyout
offer for Chinese tutoring firm Ambow Education Holding Ltd.
fueled speculation the bigger company may also be targeted.  Ambow soared a record 53 percent March 15 after Baring
Private Equity  Asia  Ltd. proposed acquiring the Beijing-based
provider’s stock at a premium. New Oriental,  China ’s biggest
private education provider, surged 8.4 percent after equity
research firm 86Research Ltd. said the company is “very
likely” a buyout candidate. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN) 
declined 3.4 percent last week, the most since Feb. 8.  At least 19 Chinese companies listed in the U.S. went
private from April 2010, a Roth Capital Partners report dated
Nov. 5 showed, as increased scrutiny from investors and
regulators over accounting practices depressed valuations.
Companies on the China-US gauge of the most liquid Chinese
stocks in New York traded at 13 times estimated earnings March
15, the  cheapest level  in 2013. New Oriental has slumped 43
percent in the past year, and  Ambow (AMBO)  lost 79 percent.  “New Oriental has a far better brand than Ambow and the
weakness in share price makes its risk-reward attractive to
private-equity investors,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages about $700 million
of investments, including Chinese stocks, said by phone March 15
from Lisle,  Illinois . “If someone bought Ambow, investors may
assume others are looking at peers in the space.”  American depositary receipts of New Oriental climbed to a
three-week high of $16.02 on March 15 in the steepest rally
since July 20. Ambow rose to $1.55, jumping the most since its
U.S. initial public offering in August 2010.  Privatization Theme  Ambow reported total cash of about $52 million at the end
of March 2012, according to its latest  financial statement ,
while New Oriental had $282 million as of November, the Beijing-
based company’s Jan. 29 earnings release showed.  The move to go private will continue to be a theme among
Chinese U.S.-listed companies, 86Research analysts led by C Ming Zhao wrote in the note. Stocks including  Focus Media Holding
Ltd. (FMCN) , the subject of what will be China’s biggest leveraged
buyout, and  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  have faced scrutiny
from short sellers including Muddy Waters LLC and the Securities
and Exchanges Commission is investigating potential fraud by
nine unnamed companies.  Baring’s Asia Private Equity Fund V LP offered to purchase
Ambow for $1.46 per ADR, a 44.5 percent premium over the $1.01
closing price March 14, according to regulatory filings dated
March 15. Baring said that it’s able to finance the transaction
with its own equity capital.  Carson Block  Ambow, which hasn’t reported earnings since July, “is
facing difficult challenges in the current market that we
believe can be better addressed as a private company,” Baring
said in the filing.  New Oriental has lost 28 percent since saying July 17 that
the SEC was investigating its accounting practices.  Muddy
Waters , a research firm founded by short seller  Carson Block ,
followed with a report July 18 questioning the ownership of some
of New Oriental’s schools and alleging that the company may have
inflated its financial statements.  The company had 744 schools and learning centers in China
at the end of November, from 527 a year earlier, according to
the January report.  New Oriental’s media manager Sisi Zhao couldn’t be reached
outside business hours in Beijing. An e-mail to her wasn’t
immediately returned on March 15.  Rising Volatility  The cost of protecting against losses in Chinese stocks
relative to U.S. equities rose to a one-year high last week on
concern governmental measures to curb property price gains will
threaten the recovery in Asia’s biggest economy.  The AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index, derived from
options on companies listed in  Hong Kong , climbed to 16.7 March
13, 48 percent above the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index and the biggest gap since March 2012. The
premium has widened from as low as 7 percent Feb. 28. Both the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  and the Bloomberg China-US
gauge touched three-month lows last week.  China’s legislature named Xi Jinping the nation’s new
President and Li Keqiang premier last week at its annual
meeting. While the nation emerged from a seven-quarter slowdown
at the end of 2012, the new leaders face manufacturing expanding
at the slowest pace in five months and quickening inflation. The
central government tightened housing market restrictions March 1
to curb rising prices.  BYD Tumbles  “You haven’t had much policy commentary coming out of the
new regime in China, and we only had one decent quarter and
there was some softening in January and February figures,” Mark Luschini, the chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages $55 billion in assets including Chinese
equities, said in a telephone interview from Philadelphia March
15.  BYD Co. (BYDDY) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , sank 9.9 percent to $6.04 in
U.S. over-the-counter trading March 15, the lowest close since
Jan. 7.  The Shenzhen-based company, China’s biggest maker of
electric vehicles, plans to issue new stock valued at as much as
a 20 percent stake, two people familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the proposal hasn’t been
made public.  Shareholders don’t like additional offerings, which dilute
the value of their investment, according to Joe Phillippi,
principal of consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. and a former equity
analyst for UBS Warburg Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  