-- Nickel Financing Seen by Macquarie ‘Hoovering Up’ Supplies
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-15T16:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/nickel-financing-deals-seen-by-macquarie-hoovering-up-stocks.html
Financing accords involving nickel
are helping to absorb a glut of the metal used in stainless
steel and supporting prices, according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   While $15,000 a metric ton should represent a floor this
year based on fundamentals, prices are unlikely to fall below
$16,000 because of the extent of financing of stockpiles, said
 Jim Lennon , head of commodities research at Macquarie in  London .
Nickel for delivery in three months fell 1.7 percent to $16,935
at 4:53 p.m. on the London Metal Exchange.  Prices slid 8.8 percent last year, the most among the six
main metals traded on the LME. Supply exceeded demand by 87,000
tons in 2012, according to Barclays Plc. Stockpiles of nickel
tracked by the LME reached the highest level since 2010
yesterday. Financing arrangements may be tying up as much as 30
percent of inventories, Societe Generale SA estimates.  “The surplus is being hoovered up by the financial
community,” Lennon said in a phone interview on March 13.
“Financing of nickel is placing a little bit of a floor for
nickel prices. There seems to be now a little bit of equilibrium
developing around the $16,000 to $17,000 range, simply because
material is being siphoned off by the financial community.”  Market Contango  Financing transactions typically involve a simultaneous
purchase of metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take
advantage of a market in contango, when later-dated contracts
cost more than those with nearer dates. The contango’s size
influences profitability, along with borrowing and storage
costs. Immediate-delivery nickel traded at a discount of $67.50
a ton to three-month metal on the LME today.  Financing nickel may bring a 1.5 percent to 2 percent risk-
free return, according to Macquarie. In  China , high-value
product nickel can be obtained with a letter of credit and used
as collateral against a yuan-denominated loan, Lennon said. Most
of the nickel surplus is accumulated in China and in LME-
monitored warehouses, according to Macquarie.  Nickel  stockpiles  tracked by the LME were little changed
today at 161,544 tons, exchange figures showed. Inventories
climbed 15 percent this year. Orders to withdraw metal from LME
warehouses, or canceled warrants, jumped 9.3 percent yesterday
to 32,226 tons, the highest since at least 1997, on bookings in
Rotterdam. Nickel prices gained as much as 1.8 percent yesterday
to a three-week high.  ‘Lackluster’ Demand  “The cancellations have yet to translate into steady
outflows,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
London, said in a report yesterday. “As far as physical premia
are concerned, the rally in prices has tended to see premia
weaken, suggesting that warrant cancellations aside, real demand
remains rather lackluster.”  Nickel plates for immediate delivery on the LME were
offered at a premium of $62.50 a ton in  Europe , the lowest
surcharge since at least 2005, Metal Bulletin data showed. Some
leading stainless-steel producers are reducing inventories
rather than producing more metal and have less need to buy
nickel, Macquarie’s Lennon said.  Refined-nickel production will rise 4.9 percent this year,
outpacing usage by 81,000 tons, Barclays estimates. About 65
percent of the metal is used in stainless steel. Demand for
stainless steel in China is “surprising on the upside,”
helping to absorb some nickel, Lennon said.  “Chinese stainless-steel production has been a lot
stronger than expected, so the demand for nickel has also been
pretty strong for China,” he said. “But that won’t be enough
to push the market into balance or deficit. There is a
substantial surplus in the market this year and next year, in
our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  