-- North Dakota Passes Earliest U.S. Abortion Limit
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-03-15T20:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/north-dakota-poised-to-set-earliest-u-s-abortion-limit.html
North Dakota lawmakers voted to ban
abortions as early as six weeks into a pregnancy, the narrowest
window of any U.S. state, and to become the first to bar
terminations sought because of genetic abnormalities.  The Republican-led state Senate approved the measures today
in Bismarck. They now go to Republican Governor Jack Dalrymple
for his signature. Abortion-rights supporters decried the bills
as extreme, dangerous and unconstitutional and urged a veto.  House Bill  1456  would make it a felony for a doctor to
perform a nonemergency abortion after a fetal heartbeat can be
detected, which can be as early as five or six weeks. It passed
26-17. House Bill  1305  would prohibit abortions sought because a
fetus has been or could be diagnosed with any genetically
inherited defect, disease or disorder without exception for
those that are fatal. It passed 28-15.  “We all know the significance of a heartbeat,” Senator
Spencer Berry, a Fargo Republican and a doctor, said as he
introduced the bill for floor debate. “It is the universally
accepted biological proof of life.”  State Representative Bette Grande of Fargo, who co-
sponsored the bills, said she expects Dalrymple to sign them.
The governor’s signature would make  North Dakota  the latest
state to test how far legislators can go in limiting when and
how women can terminate pregnancies. It would also set a record.  Arkansas Precedent  Until last week, lawmakers had mostly sought to ban
abortions only after the 20th week of pregnancy, around the time
women commonly receive ultrasound examinations to screen for
fetal anomalies. Arkansas legislators broke that mold March 6
when they overrode Democratic Governor Mike Beebe’s veto to pass
a near-ban from the 12th week of pregnancy onward.  At six weeks, the fetus is typically smaller in size than a
dime, according to the  Mayo Clinic , and is before many women
know they’re pregnant. North Dakota’s time-limit bill makes an
exception when a medical emergency necessitates an abortion.  The Center for Reproductive Rights, which is challenging in
court a related law on behalf of the state’s sole abortion
clinic, said the heartbeat ban wouldn’t withstand a court test
because it contravenes legal precedent.  ‘Frontal Assault’  “The passage of this law is nothing short of a frontal
assault on the U.S. Constitution, 40 years of  Supreme Court 
precedent, and the health and fundamental rights of women,”
Nancy Northup, president and chief executive officer of the New
York-based center, said in a statement. “This will not stand.”  “North Dakota politicians are now leading what appears to
be a nationwide competition among anti-choice extremists to see
who can do the most to strip women of their dignity and autonomy
and endanger their lives,” Northrup said.  Women obtained 1,247 abortions in North Dakota in 2011,
according to the state health department. Most, 87 percent,
weren’t married and 57 percent already had at least one child.  Grande, in Fargo, said she’d be happy if her legislation
led to a challenge of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision
legalizing abortion. That 1973 ruling granted women the right to
terminate a pregnancy until a fetus reaches viability, generally
recognized to be around 24 weeks.  Personhood Bill  The genetic abnormality ban would make North Dakota the
first with such a law, said Elizabeth Nash, states issues
manager at the Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive health
researcher in New York. The law would also bar abortions sought
because of fetal gender, which  Oklahoma ,  Pennsylvania  and
 Arizona  already prohibit, Nash said.  State Senator John M. Warner, a Democrat from Ryder, said
his daughter terminated a pregnancy about eight years ago in
consultation with her priest after the fetus’s brain was
discovered to be growing outside of its cranium. Doctors had
told her it would die within minutes of delivery, Warner said.  He said he couldn’t think of “anything more cruel” than
to force a woman to carry a doomed pregnancy to delivery, only
to then watch the baby die.  The sex-selection ban was unnecessary because no one has
ever sought an abortion in the state based on fetal gender, said
state Senator Carolyn C. Nelson, a Fargo Democrat.  No senator spoke against the heartbeat bill during the
floor debate.  Lawmakers in North Dakota are also weighing a so-called
personhood bill that would declare that life begins at
conception. In addition to banning all abortions, the measure
might bar some forms of contraception and in-vitro
fertilization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  