-- Norway Tariff Cuts to Lower Income by $7 Billion, Funds Say
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-03-15T16:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/norway-gas-tariff-cuts-to-lower-income-by-7-billion-funds-say.html
Funds that have invested $5.6
billion in Norway’s gas pipelines said a government plan to cut
their transportation fees by 90 percent would lower income by
almost 40 billion kroner ($7 billion).  Two of the investors, who control 32 percent of Norway’s
pipeline system and are owned by Canadian pension funds,  Abu
Dhabi ’s sovereign wealth fund and  Allianz SE (ALV) , said in a letter
to the Petroleum and Energy Ministry that the Jan. 15 proposal
would lower returns to 4 percent, below an expected minimum
level of 7 percent.  “The proposal undermines Norway’s reputation as a stable
and predictable country for investments,” Solveig Gas Norway AS
and Silex Gas Norway AS said in the letter. “The proposal
represents an unauthorized intervention in the infrastructure
owners’ legally protected rights and expectations.”  Solveig, Silex and two other investors, Infragas Norge AS
and Njord Gas Infrastructure AS, last month escalated their
fight against the plan by pleading with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg to intervene. All the hearing letters were made
public today by the government.  Norway  has argued the tariff cuts would make more gas
discoveries profitable and boost exploration and recovery rates.
Higher-than-expected returns based on past and current contracts
will help preserve “reasonable returns” for investors even as
tariffs are cut by as much as 90 percent on new gas volumes
booked after May 1, it has said.  Njord Facts  Njord said in a letter that the “unjustifiable fact” that
the proposal would shift about 40 billion kroner in net present
value from Gassled owners to gas shippers, “many of which
recently sold their Gassled stakes, shows the unreasonableness
of the proposal.”  The four companies own 44 percent of the gas pipe network,
buying stakes in 2010 and 2011 for about 32 billion kroner from
producers such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Total
SA. Norway is western  Europe ’s largest gas producer and owns 67
percent of Statoil.  Solveig is owned by the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment
Board, Allianz Capital Partners, a subsidiary of Allianz SE, and
Infinity Investments SA, a unit of the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority. Infragas is a unit of Canada’s Public Sector Pension
Investment Board while Silex is owned by Allianz. Njord is a
subsidiary of UBS International Infrastructure Fund and CDC
Infrastructure SA.  Downgrade Review  Standard & Poor’s placed Solveig and Njord on negative
watch in January. Solveig in February was put on a review for a
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.  The funds that own Solveig, Silex and Njord won’t approve
further investments in Norway’s gas infrastructure if the
government proceeds with the cut, the companies said in their
hearing letters.  In addition to “significantly weakening the economic
outlook for Gassled’ owners,” the plan could have negative
consequences for financial markets, infrastructure projects and
other parts of the Norwegian economy, said Norway’s own pension
fund, Folketrygdfondet, also commenting in a letter.  The fund, which bought bonds from Njord in 2011, said it
would reconsider investing in infrastructure projects in light
of the heightened risk implied by Norway’s tariff-cut plan.  “If other investors, and international rating companies,
draw similar conclusions, the proposed tariff changes may have
negative externalities for other parts of the Norwegian
economy,” the fund said. “New infrastructure projects should
then be expected to face significantly higher borrowing costs,
which would rule out market financing of such projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  