-- NYU Faculty Votes No Confidence in Sexton Over Expansion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/nyu-faculty-votes-no-confidence-in-sexton-over-expansion.html
Professors in  New York  University’s
largest school passed a vote of no-confidence in President John Sexton, saying he failed to consult with them on the school’s
expansion.  The Faculty of Arts & Science voted 52 percent for and 39
percent against the no-confidence question, the Faculty Senators
Council Caucus said late yesterday in a statement. Eight percent
abstained. The result is non-binding and the NYU’s board of
trustees said after the vote that it “unanimously and strongly
supports” Sexton. Even so, the board said it will start “a
conversation” on the best ways to move forward.  “We’re not a corporation and we’re being run like a
corporation,” history professor Mary Nolan said before the
results were revealed. “It’s this kind of very closed
leadership on top that seems to go against what a top research
university with a strong liberal arts complexion should be
about.”  Sexton has been at the helm since 2002. While he has raised
the profile of the school, overseeing a record $3 billion in
fundraising, he alienated faculty and angered locals with an
ambitious expansion called NYU 2031 that would add at least 2
million square feet in and around the Greenwich Village campus.
The $6 billion plan approved by the city last year is opposed by
dozens of university departments and divisions and has sparked
lawsuits from community residents and faculty.  ‘Ultimate Authority’  Sexton, who previously led the university’s law school,
also spearheaded a global expansion, opening campuses and study
centers in the  Middle East ,  Europe ,  Asia  and  South America .
Separately, NYU was criticized after it was revealed that U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Jacob Lew  got a $685,000 bonus when he
resigned as executive vice president for operations in 2006, and
also had $1.5 million in housing loans from the university.  “While we cannot and will not compromise the ultimate
authority of the duly constituted Board of Trustees in the
governance of the university, we agree with President Sexton
that the voice of the faculty in shaping the university must be
heard and play a significant role,” Chairman  Martin Lipton  said
in the board’s statement yesterday. Lipton and the board’s vice
chairmen will hold discussions with members of the NYU community
during the next two months about incorporating input from the
faculty and other university groups, according to the statement.  “Faculty must be at the center of the academic endeavor
and involved in the decision-making,” Sexton himself said in
the statement.  Faculty Impact  The electronic ballots were sent out to 682 professors, who
voted over five days ending yesterday at 6 p.m. New York time,
said Jim Uleman, a psychology professor who is chairman of the
faculty’s Senate Caucus. Of those eligible to vote, 83 percent
cast ballots, the caucus said.  Faculty backing can have a significant impact on the
ability of a university president to lead.  Lawrence Summers 
stepped down as president of  Harvard University  in 2006 after
losing a faculty no-confidence vote. Support from students and
professors helped University of Virginia President  Teresa Sullivan  regain her job in August, just weeks after she had been
forced to resign by the Board of Visitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  