-- Loans for Nine Projects Considered by U.S. After Solyndra
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-15T20:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/loans-for-nine-projects-considered-by-u-s-after-solyndra.html
The U.S. Energy Department is
reviewing nine applications from companies seeking $4.8 billion
in clean-energy loan guarantees, the first since the collapse of
Solyndra LLC unleashed an avalanche of Republican criticism.  A Government Accountability Office report today showed
applications for eight energy-efficiency and renewable-energy
projects valued at $2 billion and a coal gasification plant that
can capture carbon-dioxide emissions for $2.8 billion.  The department hasn’t issued a loan or loan guarantee since
September 2011 when its authority under a  stimulus-financed
program expired. Loan guarantees were criticized by Republican
lawmakers after Solyndra, a solar-panel maker in  California ,
went bankrupt two years after winning a $535 million U.S.
guarantee.  The loan program under which Solyndra won its backing
delivered a total of $16 billion to 28 companies as part of the
2009 economic stimulus.  Separately, Congress appropriated $170 million in April
2011 to support a new round of guarantees to cutting-edge
projects through guarantees.  Of the pending energy-efficiency and renewable-energy
initiatives, two are biomass, one is solar generation, three are
solar manufacturing and two are wind generation, according to
the GAO, which doesn’t identify any of the projects.  The Energy Department declined to give GAO, Congress’s
investigative arm, an estimate as to when the projects would
gain U.S. backing. Some applicants told auditors that they
expected to have the guarantees within the next six months.  The Energy Department has issued a conditional commitment
for an $8.3 billion loan guarantee to  Southern Co. (SO)  for the
construction of the Vogtle nuclear-power plant in  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  