-- Obama’s Economist Expects Housing ‘Tailwind’ to Economy
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-15T22:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/obama-s-budget-preview-says-job-creation-is-top-priority.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
economist said he expects a “tailwind” from housing
construction to help propel economic growth this year.  Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, also said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today that a shift by congressional Republican leaders to de-
emphasize the threat of a U.S. debt default has helped support
the surge in U.S. stocks, letting investors focus on an
improving economy.  “Some of the extreme risk which I think was affecting
financial markets, weighing on investors, has been removed,”
Krueger said, citing a congressional vote to extend the U.S.
legal debt ceiling until later in the year. That has ratcheted
down the threat of a default, he said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  has climbed 9.4 percent so
far this year, approaching a record, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  hit new highs in nine of the past 10 days.  Krueger said he expected U.S. economic growth in the range
of 2 percent to 3 percent this year. Housing may contribute
between 0.4 and 0.5 percentage points of that growth, he said.  “Housing looks like it will be a tailwind, the wind at our
back as opposed to a wind in our face,” Krueger said.  Still, he warned that a protracted standoff between Obama
and Republican congressional leaders that continues the
sequestration’s automatic spending cuts would cut economic
growth by 0.6 percentage points. That would place growth at the
bottom of the range he expects, he said.  Jobs Risk  The  Congressional Budget Office  projects the economy would
lose 750,000 jobs this year if the automatic spending cuts stay
in effect through the Sept. 30 end of the federal fiscal year.  Obama, in his annual economic message to Congress released
earlier in the day, said the “top priority” of his second term
is  job creation , fueled by an effort to make the U.S. a magnet
for manufacturing.  “After years of grueling recession, our businesses have
created over six million jobs,” Obama said in the Economic
Report of the President. The economy is adding jobs, he said,
yet too many can’t find full-time employment.  “Our top priority must be to do everything we can to grow
our economy and create good, middle-class jobs,” he said.  Delayed Forecast  The annual report typically offers a menu of economic
growth forecasts for the current year and next, as well as the
outlook for the  unemployment rate  and inflation. Those weren’t
included today, delayed until Obama presents his fiscal 2014
budget proposal to Congress the week of April 8.  Instead, Obama previewed some of the priorities that will
drive his budget. The report outlines plans for manufacturing
hubs designed to foster technology jobs and says the  tax code 
needs to be rewritten to make the U.S. more competitive in
global markets. He will ask Congress to spend more on research
and technology, as well as education and public works projects,
such as roads and bridges. There were no details.  “These steps will help entrepreneurs and small business
owners expand and create new jobs,” Obama said.  In a conference call with reporters before the Bloomberg
Television interview, Krueger said the country is recovering
“from the worst recession since the Great Depression,” with
the economy expanding for 14 straight quarters and the addition
of almost 6.4 million jobs over the last 36 months.  ‘Right Direction’  “This is moving in the right direction, except it’s not
enough,” Krueger said. The White House chief economist said
“we have to be worried that misguided fiscal policy can cause
some slippage in this progress.”  That was a reference to across-the-board budget cuts that
started taking effect March 1 after the administration and
congressional Republicans couldn’t agree on a deal to shrink the
deficit.  The report only cited private forecasts that predict that
the economy would grow about 2.4 percent this year.  The recovery is gaining traction, Krueger has said, even as
the White House and Republicans in Congress are in a standoff
over spending cuts, deficit reduction, revamping social programs
and updating the U.S. tax code.  Earlier this week, House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, proposed a budget that he said
would eliminate the  federal deficit  within 10 years, making cuts
in domestic spending that the White House said were
unacceptable.  Obama Comments  “We can’t just cut our way to prosperity,” Obama said in
his message to Congress. He said he opposed “harsh and
arbitrary cuts” affecting the military, education and energy.
“That’s not how you grow the economy.”  Gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, revised figures from the Commerce Department
showed Feb. 28. Growth in the economy was limited by a 22
percent reduction in military spending, on an annual basis, the
biggest drop since 1972.  Krueger said the report also highlights the effect
demographic changes will have on the economy, including an
acceleration of growth in Americans age 65 and older over the
next three decades, and the implications for higher government
costs in Medicare and Social Security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  