-- Obama to Press Congress for $2 Billion Clean-Energy Fund
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-03-15T19:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/obama-to-press-congress-for-2-billion-clean-energy-fund.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Congress to create a $2 billion clean-energy research fund with
fees paid by oil and gas producers to help lower U.S. dependence
on oil.  Speaking in front of a display of high-efficiency
automobiles at the Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont,
Illinois, Obama said the U.S. risks falling behind countries
such as China, Germany and  Japan  that are increasing spending to
find ways to cut energy use and explore alternatives to fossil
fuels.  “We can’t afford to miss these opportunities while the
rest of the world races forward,” he said.  Obama issued the challenge to Congress at one of the Energy
Department’s largest labs for scientific and engineering
research. The so-called Energy Security Trust would be funded
over 10 years from government fees on offshore oil and gas
drilling, according to a White House fact sheet.  The trust would provide reliable funding for research
focused on transportation alternatives.  “Few areas hold more promise for creating good jobs and
growing our economy than how we use American energy,” Obama
said.  Funding Trust  The plan, which Obama described last month in the  State of
the Union  address, wouldn’t open new offshore areas to drilling.
Revenue for the trust would come from accelerating permit
approvals for oil and gas producers, which would increase
production and boost receipts from royalties, lease sales and
bonus bids.  Congress has weighed similar proposals in the past. In
2009, Republicans led by now House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio ,
introduced an energy bill that would have directed money from
oil and gas lease sales to pay for clean-energy programs as a
counter to climate-change legislation backed by Democrats.  Another plan, offered by Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski, the
top Republican on the Energy Committee, would generate revenue
from drilling on lands that are now off limits, such as the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in  Alaska . A White House
official who briefed reporters yesterday said Obama’s proposal
wouldn’t open the refuge to exploration.  Basic Research  The energy fund would be dedicated to basic research that
the private sector is typically reluctant to take on, the
official said. The groundwork for hydraulic fracturing, a
drilling technique that has revolutionized oil and gas
production, was laid decades ago by government-funded research,
the official said.  While the trust will focus on transportation, it will
support research into a variety of fuels and technologies, the
official said.  Obama said the trust would provide a public pipeline for
research, because some ideas are too risky for private
enterprise.  “The private sector on its own won’t invest in this
research because it’s too expensive, it’s too risky, they can’t
afford it,” he said. “So we’ve got to support it, and we’ll
all benefit from it.”  After posting what some critics said were mixed results on
environmental issues in his first term, the president energized
environmental groups with a pledge in his inaugural address this
year to “respond to the threat of climate change.” The energy
fund would build on administration accomplishments that have
reduced oil imports and lowered greenhouse-gas emissions, the
White House official said.  Energy development and mineral mining on U.S. lands and
offshore raised about $12 billion for state and federal
governments in fiscal year 2012, according to the Office of
Natural Resources Revenue, a division of the Interior
Department. That was about $1 billion more than the previous
year as advances such as hydraulic fracturing are giving oil and
gas producers more access to reserves trapped in shale-rock
formations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in Lemont,  Illinois  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  