-- Obama Said to Weigh DeMarco Replacements as Fannie Mae Regulator
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-03-15T21:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/obama-said-to-weigh-demarco-replacements-as-fannie-mae-regulator.html
President  Barack Obama  is getting
closer to nominating a replacement for Edward J. DeMarco, the
acting regulator of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , according to
three people familiar with the discussions.  U.S. Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat, is
a candidate to be director of the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , according to one of the people, who requested anonymity
because the nomination hasn’t been decided.  Phyllis Caldwell , a
former Treasury Department official, is also being considered,
according to the other two people. Michael Stegman, Treasury’s
housing adviser, is also a candidate.  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, had no comment.  DeMarco, 52, is a career government employee who has served
as FHFA acting director since 2009. He has been criticized by
housing advocates and Democratic lawmakers for refusing to let
the two U.S.-owned companies cut debt for borrowers whose
mortgages exceed the value of their homes.  At the same time, he has earned praise from Republican
lawmakers for his focus on improving the bottom line at the two
companies, which were taken into federal conservatorship in 2008
after loan losses pushed them to the brink of bankruptcy.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac returned to profitability last
year after drawing almost $190 billion in aid from Treasury to
stay afloat. The companies package mortgages into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  An FHFA nominee would need to be confirmed by the U.S.
Senate. Joseph A. Smith, the former North Carolina bank
regulator who was nominated by Obama in 2010, withdrew his name
after it became clear he wouldn’t get Republican support needed
to reach the 60-vote threshold for bringing the matter to the
floor for a consideration by the 100-member Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  