-- Obama Told House Democrats to Look at Entitlement Changes
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/obama-told-house-democrats-to-look-at-entitlement-changes.html
President  Barack Obama  told House
Democrats this week that it’s better to make changes to
entitlement programs when a Democrat is in office rather than
risk doing so under a Republican chief executive, according to
two lawmakers who attended.  Obama urged House Democrats at the Capitol March 14 to
consider changes to Medicare and  Social Security  to make those
programs more “sustainable” in the long run as part of a
broader accord on deficit reduction, Democratic Representatives
Robert Andrews of  New Jersey  and  Peter Welch  of  Vermont  said in
separate interviews.  “He certainly made that point; if there are going to be
entitlement reforms it is better to do it with a Democratic
president in office,” Andrews said. Welch said Obama “was just
really being practical about this.”  The president said that “those of us who care about Social
Security and Medicare have to be the ones absolutely engaged in
making sure that they are sustainable and the Democrats are
committed to it, and he’s a Democratic president who is
committed to it,” Welch said.  The president’s messaging to his party was part of his
effort to strike a deficit-reduction deal with Republicans -- an
agreement that has eluded Obama so far. Obama this week also met
separately with Senate Democrats and Republicans, and the House
Republican conference.  Political Dimension  House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican, said he supports Obama’s effort to bring lawmakers
together “to actually get reforms” in Medicare and Social
Security, and now is the time to do that.  “I would take the politics out of it,” McCarthy said
yesterday when asked about Obama’s comments. “The longer you
wait, the fewer options you have, and the sooner it goes
bankrupt. It’s not about who’s in office.”  The president in the closed-door meeting with House
Democrats said because Democrats created these entitlement
programs they should overhaul them to protect their future,
according to a person in the room during the meeting who asked
not to be identified to describe the discussion. If Democrats
accept a deal, it could help Obama sell other parts of his
 deficit-reduction  plan -- such as revenue -- to Republicans.  Deficit Reduction  Andrews said Obama’s message was focused on  deficit 
reduction.  “He laid out the case for an agreement on the deficit, a
long-term agreement that he believes would grow the economy,
which he believes would then help the country in a very
significant way,” Andrews said. “He clearly is very focused on
trying to achieve a deficit agreement that gets us out of these
every-six month crises.”  Democrats should “take appropriate action when we have
people whose goal is to save the program and make it secure and
solvent for the future, as opposed to folks whose view is that
cutting the benefits and cutting the program is the way
forward,” Welch said. The 2014 budget proposal put forth by
House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, would
do that, Welch said.  As in previous years, the centerpiece of Ryan’s budget plan
is a proposal to revamp Medicare by giving people now younger
than 55 fixed sums with which to buy either private insurance or
to use in Medicare. Either way, their benefits would be capped
under his plan, which would be a significant shift in how the
currently open-ended program operates.  ‘Hold Hostage’  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said Obama
is “going to hold hostage” needed changes to entitlements by
insisting on tax increases as part of an agreement.  “It’s not going to get us very far,” Boehner told
reporters after House Republicans’ March 13 meeting with Obama.  Administration officials said Obama is working to build
trust on both sides so that Republicans can back off their
insistence on no new revenues and Democrats can accept cuts to
Medicare and other programs.  Resistance from rank-and-file Democrats to changes in
entitlement programs -- including chained CPI, a change to the
formula for calculating cost-of-living adjustments to Social
Security benefits -- continues to be a challenge, Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois told reporters March 14.  ‘A Reality’  “It’s a tough one, and there will be some Democratic
senators who will never, ever consider a change in CPI,” said
Durbin, the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat. “That’s a
reality.”  Still, Durbin said he would continue to advocate for such
proposals “as one of the elements toward long-term solvency in
Social Security,” as long as changes to Social Security are
crafted so they don’t hurt the most vulnerable recipients.  Obama’s visits to  Capitol Hill  this week were designed to
get members of his own party, as well as Republicans, “into the
grand-bargain context,” Durbin said.  Obama told Senate Democrats March 12 that they should be
open to changes in entitlement programs to achieve a long-term
budget deal. Iowa Senator  Tom Harkin  said Obama rebuffed his
demand, joined by Vermont Senator  Bernie Sanders , for an
assurance that Medicare and Social Security benefits would be
untouched in any “grand bargain” agreement.  West Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin  said he liked that Obama
“is taking a very pragmatic approach” to entitlements.  “We’re not going to be, as Democrats, changing our core
values on Medicare or Social Security,” Manchin said. “But
with that, running more efficiently, looking at things that do
make sense, I think he’s looking at that.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  