-- Old Mutual Hires Fund Manager Richard Buxton From Schroders
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-03-15T10:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/old-mutual-hires-fund-manager-richard-buxton-from-schroders.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , Africa’s biggest
insurer, said  Schroders Plc’s (SDR)   Richard Buxton  will join as head
of U.K. equities.  Buxton, who held the same post at Schroders, will report to
Julian Ide, chief executive officer of Old Mutual Global
Investors, the London-based insurer said in a  statement  today.
He and his colleague Errol Francis will both leave Schroders,
the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded money manager, on June 14.  Buxton, who runs the 3.7 billion-pound ($5.6 billion)
Schroder U.K. Alpha Plus fund, is known for criticizing some of
the biggest corporate takeovers, such as Glencore International
Plc’s acquisition of Xstrata Plc. In May, he warned U.K.
lawmakers against selling the government’s stakes in  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to sovereign
wealth funds at preferential rates.  His Alpha Plus fund has returned 8.9 percent over the past
five years, beating 88 percent of its peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Buxton will continue to run a 160 million-pound
pool he managed on behalf of Old Mutual while at Schroders. The
Old Mutual Equity 3 Fund will be renamed the Old Mutual U.K.
Alpha Fund, subject to regulatory approval.  He joins Old Mutual about a year after the firm merged its
two U.K. fund-management units to expand in Britain, where the
government is encouraging its ageing population save more for
retirement privately. Though based in London, Old Mutual gets
only a fifth of its revenue from the U.K., with the bulk coming
from South Africa.  The  fund manager  joined Schroders in 2001 and has been head
of equities since 2003. He previously worked at Baring Asset
Management and Brown Shipley Asset Management. He studied
English Literature at  Lady Margaret Hall  at Oxford University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  