-- Opel Workers Approve Pay Freeze as Ford Settles Genk Plan
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-03-15T15:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/opel-workers-agree-to-two-year-wage-freeze-to-keep-jobs.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , the two biggest U.S. carmakers, won employees’ approval in
 Europe  for labor-cost cut plans to restore earnings in the
region in response to a recession that’s reducing vehicle sales.  Manufacturing workers at Ford’s plant in Genk,  Belgium , and
its suppliers will end walkouts after agreeing to severance
packages of as much as 2 1/2 years of pay when the factory shuts
in 2014, the company said today in a statement. A pay freeze at
GM’s Opel brand in  Germany  received the backing of employees at
three of the unit’s five plants, the  IG Metall  union said
separately.  Industrywide European car sales are set to fall a sixth
consecutive year in 2013 after reaching a 17-year low in 2012 as
a sovereign-debt crisis grips the region. The 4,300 positions
that Ford is cutting at Genk are part of a combined 30,000-job
reduction outlined since mid-2012 by auto manufacturers such as
PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Renault SA (RNO)  and Opel.  “We are pleased to have reached a social plan agreement
that was accepted by the unions and approved by the hourly
employees at Genk,” Philippe Verbeeck, operations manager for
Ford at the plant, said in the statement. “We fully recognize
that this has been a difficult time for everyone at the Ford
Genk plant, our suppliers and the local community.”  Genk Halted  Production at the Belgian factory has been halted by labor
disputes, including strikes by workers at component makers,
since Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford announced plans in October
to shutter the site and and two plants in the U.K. The carmaker
plans on March 18 to restart assembly lines at Genk, which
produces the Mondeo mid-size car, S-Max wagon and Galaxy
minivan. Talks with salaried employees on their severance terms
are continuing, Ford said.  Opel workers at the GM division’s plants in Ruesselsheim,
Kaiserslautern and Dudenhofen voted with majorities exceeding 83
percent to keep pay at current levels through 2015 in exchange
for securing their jobs. Workers in Eisenach will vote in the
coming days, while negotiations at the plant in Bochum, where
vehicle production is scheduled to end in 2016, are continuing,
IG Metall said.  “A negative vote, or a lack of a resolution in Bochum,
doesn’t mean that the contract can’t be implemented at the other
sites,” IG Metall district leader Armin Schild said in the
statement.  GM Europe , which includes Ruesselsheim-based Opel and the
Luton, England-based Vauxhall brand, has lost $18 billion since
1999, including a $1.8 billion deficit last year. Ford lost $1.5
billion in Europe in 2012, and expects the figure to widen to $2
billion this year.  Bochum’s Conversion  Opel has laid out plans to convert the plant in Bochum to a
parts-production and logistics operation, which would secure
1,200 of the more than 3,000 jobs at the site. Rainer Einenkel,
head of the plant’s works council, said on March 1 that he
didn’t support the broader labor agreement with Opel management.  GM Europe has a target of improving earnings this year,
helped by new models such as the Mokka compact sport-utility
vehicle and Adam city car, and aims to break even by 2015. Opel,
led by former  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  manager Karl-Thomas Neumann since
the beginning of this month, will refrain from mass firings to
reduce the 20,000-employee workforce in Germany under the pay-
freeze agreement.  Steve Girsky, the GM vice chairman in charge of European
operations on an interim basis until Neumann took over,
threatened in January to close the Bochum assembly plant by the
beginning of 2015 if the Opel employees didn’t agree to
concessions. Girsky has said repeatedly that Detroit-based GM
supports Opel’s turnaround plan.  Renault,  France ’s second-biggest auto manufacturer, agreed
with labor leaders on March 13 on cutting its domestic workforce
by 17 percent and freezing pay in exchange for a pledge not to
close plants for three years. Larger Paris-based competitor
 Peugeot (UG)  is also seeking a 17 percent reduction in jobs at its
French plants, including 3,000 posts that disappearing when it
closes a factory in Aulnay in late 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Hanover, Germany at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  