-- Oppenheimer Sues Canadian Imperial, Claims Deal Breached
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-15T21:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/oppenheimer-sues-canadian-imperial-claims-deal-breached.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ,
the country’s fifth-largest lender, was sued by  Oppenheimer
Holdings Inc. (OPY)  over Oppenheimer’s purchase of CIBC’s investment
banking businesses.  Oppenheimer claims CIBC failed to honor an agreement to
support the leveraged-finance business by making $2 billion in
capital available to it. Oppenheimer incurred $176 million in
losses, it said today in a state court complaint in  Manhattan .  “CIBC abandoned what was now Oppenheimer’s leveraged-
finance business, which as a direct result suffered catastrophic
declines in committed transactions, revenues and ongoing
relationships as well as lending volumes,” Oppenheimer said.  CIBC, based in Toronto, agreed in November 2007 to sell the
bulk of its New York-based investment bank to Oppenheimer as
part of a move by Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey to
“de-risk” the bank after taking writedowns tied to structured
credit.  CIBC recorded more than C$10 billion ($9.81 billion) in
pretax debt writedowns from 2007 to 2009, the most of any
Canadian lender during the financial crisis.  “We believe this claim is completely without merit and
plan to vigorously defend ourselves against this suit,” Sharon Mathers, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mail.  Provide Financing  Under the agreement, CIBC agreed to provide financing to
Oppenheimer’s investment banking clients of as much as $1.5
billion, and as much as $2 billion in some circumstances,
according to the complaint.  CIBC imposed more-stringent underwriting standards on loans
brought to the lender by Oppenheimer than before the sale and
repeatedly refused to approve creditworthy loan applications,
New York-based Oppenheimer said.  “The volume of loans closed by Oppenheimer’s leveraged
finance division plummeted, as did the revenues of the
investment bank,” it said.  The case is Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. v. Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, 650936-2013,  New York  state  Supreme Court , New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  