-- Oprah Told to Trim Canada TV Food and Beauty by Watchdog
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-15T19:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/oprah-channel-told-to-trim-food-and-beauty-by-canada-tv-watchdog.html
Canada ’s television regulator said
 Oprah Winfrey ’s OWN channel is breaking the terms of its
broadcast license by focusing too heavily on food, fitness and
beauty while neglecting educational programming.  The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission ordered the channel in a ruling today to immediately
comply with the terms of its broadcasting agreement and submit
to monitoring and reporting conditions or possibly face the loss
of its license. OWN is  aired  locally by Toronto-based  Corus
Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B)   Winfrey, chief executive officer of Oprah Winfrey Network,
is  scheduled  to appear at Ottawa’s Scotiabank Place on April 10.
“An Evening with Oprah Winfrey” promises to show attendees how
to reach their full potential. The dispute with Canada’s
broadcast regulator began after Corus re-branded a channel to
OWN programming in 2011.  Corus is pleased with the decision that allows it to
continue to operate OWN and will work within the CRTC’s
guidelines, spokesman Owen McCorquodale said in an e-mail
statement. Nicole Nichols, a spokeswoman for OWN in  Los Angeles ,
referred calls seeking comment to Corus.  OWN’s license calls for programming that “provides formal
and informal educational programming and learning opportunities
that generally focus on adult education,” the CRTC  ruling  said.
Instead, “a disproportionate amount of OWN’s schedule is still
composed of ‘life-enhancing’ programming, with the result of an
insufficient representation of basic, skills-related and credit-
based programming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  