-- Morgan Stanley Can Be Sued by Hong Leong Over Misselling
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-03-15T02:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/morgan-stanley-can-be-sued-by-hong-leong-over-misselling.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can be sued by
 Singapore ’s Hong Leong Finance Ltd. in a New York court over
claims it deceptively sold instruments designed to fail.  Morgan Stanley’s request to stop Hong Leong from a lawsuit
in the U.S. was rejected by Singapore High Court judge Belinda Ang, the Singapore-based company said in papers filed yesterday
in federal court in  Manhattan . Ang in November granted an
interim order preventing Hong Leong from suing Morgan Stanley.  The New York-based investment bank is appealing the
decision, it said in a filing yesterday.  Nick Footitt , a Morgan
Stanley spokesman in Hong Kong, declined to comment today.  The ruling means a complaint that Hong Leong filed in
August in U.S. federal court can proceed. Morgan Stanley sold
so-called Pinnacle notes as relatively safe while rigging them
to fail for its own benefit, Hong Leong said. The Singapore firm
entered into a distribution agreement with Morgan Stanley to
sell about $72.4 million of the notes.  Hong Leong was required to compensate customers for at
least $32 million in losses when the notes failed, according to
the August filing.  Morgan Stanley issued the debt through a special-purpose
entity it controlled called Pinnacle Performance Ltd., according
to the complaint. The investment bank was also positioned to
profit when the notes failed because it had entered into swap
transactions with other noteholders through another affiliated
entity, Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc., Hong Leong said.  The Business Times newspaper in Singapore reported the
judge’s decision today.  The case is  Hong Leong Finance Ltd. (HLF)  v. Pinnacle Performance
Ltd., 12-cv-6010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  