-- Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Must Face Allstate Mortgage Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/morgan-stanley-deutsche-must-face-allstate-mortgage-suit.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit lost a bid to
dismiss lawsuits by Allstate Insurance Co. over losses on about
$457 million in mortgage bonds.  Allstate sued the companies in 2011, claiming loans backing
the securities were riskier than promised. New York State
Justice Eileen Bransten said in decisions filed yesterday that
the lawsuits could proceed while dismissing some claims.  In the case against Morgan Stanley, Bransten rejected an
argument that the lender is shielded from liability because
offering materials disclosed that representations about the
loans were based on information from originators.  “Defendants may be liable for drafting and distributing
statements they knew to be false, regardless of who they credit
as the source of the information,” the judge said.  “Allstate is pleased the court rejected defendants’
motions to dismiss our fraud claims,” Maryellen Thielen, a
spokeswoman for the insurer, said in a statement. “The court
recognized that the claims are amply supported by the law and
the facts. We look forward to proving our case in discovery and
at trial.”  The company “will consider all options” on the dismissed
claims, she said.  Morgan Stanley spokesman Mark Lake,  Renee Calabro , a
spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, and Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman
for Bank of America, declined to comment about the decision.  The cases are Allstate Insurance Co. v. Ace Securities
Corp, 650431-2011, Allstate Insurance Co. v. Morgan Stanley
651840-2011, and Allstate Insurance Co. v. Merrill Lynch & Co.,
650559-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net 
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 