-- Horse-Slaughter Plant’s Lawyer Says Opening Three Weeks Away
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-15T19:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/horse-slaughter-plant-s-lawyer-says-opening-three-weeks-away.html
The lawyer for a  New Mexico  meat
plant that wants to be the first to slaughter horses in the U.S.
since 2007 says the facility may be operational in three weeks.  “We’re getting ready to go,” A. Blair Dunn, attorney for
Valley Meat Co. in Roswell, New Mexico, said today in a phone
interview. The plant may eventually have about 100 employees
processing as many as 100 horses a day for export, he said.  The company is one of several that have applied to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to slaughter horses, a practice that
ended in 2007 after Congress defunded government inspections at
the facilities. That measure lapsed in 2011.  The USDA, which would regulate the plant, didn’t
immediately comment on the lawyer’s assertion. The agency this
month said that once the company meets technical requirements
and inspector training has taken place, “the department will
legally have no choice but to go forward with inspections.”  Four lawmakers this week introduced legislation that would
ban horse-killing for human consumption in the U.S. and prohibit
transporting the animals outside the country for slaughter. The
USDA this month said it encouraged Congress to reinstate the ban
on funding inspections.  The legislation was sponsored by Senators Mary Landrieu,
Democrat of  Louisiana , and Lindsay Graham, Republican of  South
Carolina , along with Representatives Patrick Meehan, Republican
of Pennsylvania, and  Jan Schakowsky , Democrat of  Illinois .  European Co-Mingling  Supermarkets in Europe in recent weeks have pulled from
their shelves products such as frozen burgers and lasagna after
they were found to contain horse meat without proper labeling.
Companies involved include  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Tesco PLC. (TSCO)   The prospect of revived horse slaughter in the U.S. has
raised similar concern about co-mingling, even as producers say
a potential equine-processing industry would be separate from
the much larger beef, pork and poultry markets.  Valley Meat has been accused by the animal-welfare group
 Front Range Equine Rescue  of allowing unsanitary conditions at
the proposed horse-slaughter facility when it previously
processed cattle. The organization said government documents it
obtained include allegations of maggot-infested piles of
decaying animals as high as 15 feet on the property. The plant,
through Dunn, has denied the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  