-- Mortgage Lender Alleges Breach of Contract by ANZ and Columbus
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-15T10:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/mortgage-lender-alleges-breach-of-contract-by-anz-and-columbus.html
Pioneer Mortgage Services Pty, a
Queensland-based lender, sued  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and Columbus Capital Pty, alleging breach of contract
regarding a portfolio of mortgages.  Pioneer accused the two of going against the terms of
agreements relating to mortgages that Columbus Capital bought
from ANZ, the nation’s third-largest bank, last year. The loans
in the portfolio were provided to homeowners under different
brands, including Pioneer’s, and were used as collateral for a
A$500 million ($519 million) sale of residential mortgage-backed
securities this month.  Pioneer is claiming damages for losses suffered as a result
of the alleged breach, according to court-stamped copies of
filings obtained by  Bloomberg News . It’s also challenging ANZ’s
ability to transfer its rights and obligations under the
mortgage origination and management deed, the filings show.  Australian mortgage demand has steadily  declined  since the
global credit crunch which was deepened by the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, spurring competition
among lenders. The nation’s homeowners are among the world’s
most reliable at repaying their loans, and arrears are expected
to remain low this year, according to a Mortgage and Housing
Outlook published by Fitch Ratings in January.  Origin Takeover  Loans to  purchase houses  increased at an annual rate of 4.4
percent in January, from a 12 percent pace five years earlier,
central bank data show.  Columbus Capital bought the mortgage distribution business
known as Origin Mortgage Management Services from ANZ in
September.  Origin Mortgage Management funds approximately A$2.2
billion of home loans via a network of mortgage managers which
originate and manage the loans under their own brands, ANZ said
in a press release at the time of the acquisition. ANZ agreed to
provide transitional services to Columbus Capital for as long as
a year after the sale was completed, the bank said in the
statement.  “We will defend our rights in this matter,” Andrew
Chepul,  executive director  at Columbus Capital, said in an e-
mailed response to a request for comment today.  Paul Edwards , a Melbourne-based spokesman at ANZ, declined
to comment on the case when contacted on his mobile phone today.  Columbus Capital priced A$454 million of the securities in
its RMBS offering at 120 basis points more than the bank bill
swap rate on March 4, its first issuance in almost five years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overseas investors bought 46
percent of the notes, a person familiar with the matter said at
the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  