-- House Republicans Question FDA on Mobile Medical Software: Taxes
-- B y   A l e x   R u o f f
-- 2013-03-15T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/house-republicans-question-fda-on-mobile-medical-software-taxes.html
Republicans in Congress are probing
whether the president’s health-care overhaul will mean higher
taxes for companies that sell mobile medical applications.  A House committee decided to hold three days of hearings
next week on rules for these products, including the impact of
Food and Drug Administration oversight of the industry and the
potential for  new taxes , Bloomberg BNA reported.  Companies and lawmakers say questions about how the FDA
would regulate apps may hold back growth in the market at a time
when software developers are writing code to track sugar levels
for diabetics on the fly or to transmit data from a patient’s
heart monitor to a doctor. They expressed concern about whether
mobile devices like smartphones with regulated apps on them
would be regulated as medical devices, and if so, whether they
would be subject to a tax under the Affordable Care Act.  “Most Americans have no idea that their smartphone, tablet
or the mobile apps that have become part of their daily lives
could be subject to added red tape or a new tax under
Obamacare,” Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican
who runs the Energy and Commerce committee, said in a statement.  The FDA in 2011 issued a draft guidance document outlining
a proposal to oversee mobile medical applications that were used
as an accessory to a medical device or that turned a mobile
device like a handset into a medical device.  The hearings come in the wake of a March 1 letter to FDA
Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg by leaders of the committee,
asking when guidance on the rules would come, whether FDA has
considered the tax consequences for device makers, and specifics
on mobile medical apps that have already sought FDA approval.  Seeking Predictability  Health technology developers and vendors are eager to see
if the hearings will provide some insight into when and how FDA
will issue final guidance, officials told Bloomberg BNA.
Software developers and mobile health product vendors are
uncertain how future regulations would affect their industry,
said Kim Tyrrell-Knott, an attorney with Epstein Becker & Green
PC and counsel for the mHealth Regulatory Coalition.  For example, developers and vendors don’t know if phones or
other mobile devices using these applications will be considered
“accessories” to medical devices and therefore subject to FDA
regulation, she said.  “From an industry perspective, we’re definitely eager to
know when the final guidance will come out,” Tyrrell-Knott
said. “Folks need that predictability.”  Ryan Minarovich, chief executive officer of Tenzing Group,
a  Santa Clara , California-based company that provides product-
specific educational reports to health technology developers on
the impact of FDA regulations, said mobile application vendors
are discounting the future cost of these regulations in the
tools they are developing today.  Deferred Investment  This deferral of investment shows the hesitation many
companies have in creating medical applications with unclear
regulatory futures, he said.  “A lot of startups are focusing on the immediate and
negating a potential future investment, focusing on product
development with an eye on FDA regulations,” Minarovich said.  The hearings will begin with a March 19  Communications and
Technology Subcommittee  hearing on how FDA regulations and taxes
could affect the mobile applications industry.  On March 20, the Health Subcommittee will discuss how
technological advancements benefit patients and “ways to
promote innovations.” On March 21, the Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee will hear directly from FDA and the
 Department of Health  and Human Services on their plans for
regulating mobile health applications.  Hearing witnesses have not yet been announced.  The FDA hasn’t determined who will represent the agency in
the hearings, spokeswoman Synim Rivers said. The FDA has yet to
respond to the March 1 letter, and Rivers said the agency will
respond directly to the members.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  