-- Paraguay Set to Grow 10% on Doubling of Soybean Exports
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/paraguay-set-to-grow-10-on-doubling-of-soybean-exports.html
Paraguay will more than double
soybean exports this year as farms recover from drought,
spurring the fastest economic growth in  Latin America , Finance
Minister Manuel Ferreira said.  Output in  South America ’s third-largest soybean producer
will be as high as 9 million metric tons, compared with about 4
million tons last year, Ferreira said in an interview in Panama
City, where he is attending the annual meetings of the Inter-
American Development Bank.  Corn and wheat will boost the country’s total grain crop to
14 million tons, spurring a 10 percent rise in gross domestic
product, reversing a 1.1 percent contraction last year, Ferreira
said. Soybean accounts for 12 percent of the landlocked nation’s
GDP. Paraguay aims to boost grain production to 20 million tons
by 2020 as farmers use government loans to install irrigation
systems and expand growing areas, he said.  “We’re very vulnerable to changing weather so we’re trying
to stabilize the  agriculture sector  through better management of
water resources,” he said. “We can irrigate a large part of
the production. There is a lot of room to grow in agriculture.”  Paraguayan farmers plan to sow 1.5 million hectares of
maize annually by 2015, boosting output to 7.5 million tons from
an estimated 3 million metric tons this year.  Increased grain exports have helped spur a 5.2 percent gain
in the guarani this year, the best performance among 21 Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rising Yields  Yields on the country’s dollar bonds maturing in 2023 have
risen 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 4.62 percent
since being sold on Jan. 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Paraguay , a member of the Mercosur trade bloc with
Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, will tap demand for high-yield,
local-currency debt later this year with the sale of as much as
$400 million in guarani-denominated bonds, Ferreira said. The
first tranche may be offered next month.  The government is in talks with foreign banks including
Citigroup Inc. to create global depositary notes linked to the
bonds, he said. The notes resemble the stock market’s American
Depositary Receipts and let foreigners buy local securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 