-- Pescanova at Risk of Losing Investors as Board Dispute Surfaces
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-15T17:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/pescanova-at-risk-of-losing-investors-as-board-dispute-surfaces.html
Pescanova SA (PVA) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest fish processor, is facing a hurdle from two shareholders
as it tries to continue with a debt restructuring policy amid an
investigation by regulators.  Board directors Jose Carceller, the brother of the chairman
of Spanish brewer Damm, and Francois Tesch, who represents
 Luxempart SA (LXMP) , didn’t back the company’s plan to restructure
debt, they said in a statement today. Pontevedra, northern
Spain-based Pescanova said the board unanimously agreed
yesterday to continue debt talks.  Damm and Luxempart hold 6.18 percent and 5.84 percent of
Pescanova, respectively, according to regulatory filings.
Pescanova Chairman Manuel Fernandez de Sousa-Faro holds about
14 percent.  “We don’t question Pescanova’s chairman, but we feel the
strategy of the company isn’t the most appropriate in order to
solve the company’s problems, and Damm isn’t guilty of that
situation,” Izaskun Martinez, a Barcelona-based spokeswoman for
Damm, said in a telephone interview today.  Pescanova’s board approved a plan last night for
“restructuring of its financial policy,” and said it analyzed
with auditors some discrepancies involving debt. The company
said production is operating normally in Spain and abroad.  On March 12, the company said it saw discrepancies between
its accounting and banking debt figures that could be
“significant.” Consultant BDO Auditores will help evaluate the
matter as soon as possible, it said.  Meeting Request  “We requested an extraordinary board meeting along with
other board members because we needed information that shed some
light on what was really going on,” Damm spokeswoman Martinez
said. “We are both surprised and concerned that the company
isn’t transparent and it communicates with board members and
investors only through regulatory statements.”  The company’s  160 million euros ($209 million) of 8.75
percent convertible bonds due 2019 were quoted at 36 cents on
the euro by KNG Securities LLP in  London , a 10-cent decline from
levels on March 4. Its two other convertible securities, due
2017 and 2015, were at similar levels, KNG said.  “Investors have lost trust in the company and it’s going
to take a long time for them to come back,” said Arancha Pineiro, a Madrid-based analyst at Ahorro Corp. Financiera in
Madrid. “When you look at the stock you can tell how unhappy
investors are. We can only wait and see what happens as the
company is very opaque.”  Share Suspension  Pescanova  shares  remain suspended by stock market regulator
CNMV. The stock lost 58 percent this year before trading was
halted March 12.  The regulator said March 11 it will investigate Pescanova
to determine whether there are signs of improper trading by the
company, its management or third parties. CNMV has requested
that the company submit earnings for the second half of 2012 as
soon as possible as well as additional information including on
assets and debt, it said.  Representatives of Luxempart and Pescanova couldn’t
immediately be reached by phone.  Pescanova, which has about 10,000 employees and a presence
in more than 20 countries, counts more than 100 vessels and
almost 50 fish-farming plants among its assets, according to the
company’s Website.  Pescanova’s estimated debt at group level is 2.5 billion
euros, Expansion reported March 13, citing Bank of Spain data.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  