-- PGE Leads Utilities Up on Investment Plans Review: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-03-15T10:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/pge-leads-utilities-up-on-investment-plans-review-warsaw-mover.html
PGE SA (PGE)  led gains among utilities in
Warsaw trading on speculation Poland’s biggest electricity
producer will scrap its 11.6 billion-zloty ($3.6 billion) hard
coal-fired project to focus on more profitable investments.  PGE added 1.8 percent to 18.03 zloty at 11:54 a.m. in
Warsaw, extending yesterday’s 4.2 percent gain.  Tauron Polska
Energia SA (TPE) , the second-largest producer, rose 1.1 percent,  Enea
SA (ENA)  increased 0.6 percent and PAK SA, controlled by billionaire
Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, gained 1 percent on speculation that
canceling PGE’s expansion of the Opole plant, the industry’s
biggest project, will help power prices rebound from a record.  PGE, whose Opole project was delayed on protests from a
environmental group, is reviewing investment projects to adjust
to changing market conditions and “better use of capital, the
Warsaw-based company said yesterday after posting a 34 percent
drop in 2012 profit. Lignite-fired power plants are ‘‘best
positioned’’ to keep higher profitability, the state-controlled
company said in a presentation on its website.  ‘‘There’s a much bigger chance now that there won’t be
overcapacity in 2018,” when the Opole plant was set to start,
and “electricity prices will rebound,” Maciej Hebda, head of
research at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Warsaw, said by
phone today.  Lignite Plants  PGE Chief Executive Officer Krzysztof Kilian yesterday
declined to comment on whether the company will proceed with its
plan to expand its Opole plant to add 1,800-megawatt of
capacity. It signed an agreement with building companies Rafako
SA, Polimex-Mostostal SA and Mostostal Warszawa SA for the plant
a year ago.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk said this week Poland will press
the European Union for “more understanding” of lignite’s
importance in meeting domestic energy needs.  “The prime minister’s comments suggest a new approach to
power investments. This looks like a more market-focused
approach,” Hebda said.  The slowing economy pushed Polish prices down 16 percent
last year, the most among any country in the EU, while power
demand fell for the first time in three years, according to the
country’s transmission grid.  Polish output  from more expensive
hard coal-fired plants declined 7 percent in 2012, while
lignite-fired units produced 3.7 percent of energy more,
according to the national grid operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  