-- Picasso Sells: Kanye West, Lauder View $5.4 Billion Fair
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-03-15T17:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/picasso-sells-kanye-west-lauder-view-5-4-billion-fair.html
A Picasso painting was among early
sales as Ronald Lauder, Kanye West and Sheikh Saud al Thani were
among VIPs browsing the world’s biggest art and antiques fair.  The U.S. businessman, musician and Qatari prince were in
the Netherlands to see 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of museum-
quality artworks and jewelry. Pablo Picasso’s 1964 oil-on-canvas
“Homme au Chapeau” was bought by a European collector for $8
million from the New York-based dealer Christophe van de Weghe,
one of 265 exhibitors at the European Fine  Art Fair , Tefaf.  The 10-day annual event in a conference center on the
outskirts of Maastricht displays items ranging from antiquity to
the 21st century. The fair, facing competition from last year’s
inaugural Frieze Masters in London, has updated its design.
Visitors observed that participating dealers have made an extra
effort to show exceptional pieces -- with prices to match.  “The quality is very strong this year,” the London-based
art adviser  Joe Friedman  said in an interview. “The price
levels are quite high, which reflects the confidence of the
dealers who have bought things from auctions and of the private
collectors who are selling works with them on consignment.”  Scott Schaefer, senior curator of paintings at the  J. Paul
Getty Museum , was spotted at the preview, along with curators
from the Louvre, Frick and Huntington museums, and the Chateau
de Versailles.  “I like the vibe,” said West, pointing to an 18th-century
Tibetan painting of a multi-armed deity on the booth of London-
based  Rossi & Rossi .  Private Collection  The dealer is also showing an 11-headed painted and gilded
Avalokiteshvara, dating from about 1400, that has been kept in a
European private collection for more than 40 years. Priced at 6
million euros, it had yet to find a buyer during the early hours
of the fair.  Montreal-based  Landau Fine Art  is quoting $25 million for
the 1915 Modigliani painting “Bride and Groom.”  New York-dealer  Otto Naumann  is asking $14 million for a
recently discovered Velasquez head-and-shoulders portrait of a
bearded man. A 16th-century Jan Mostaert painting, “Landscape
With an Episode From the Conquest of America,” is thought to be
one of the earliest depictions of the New World and has the same
price tag from London-based dealer  Dickinson .  Naumann sold the 1681  Carlo Maratta  altarpiece “The Birth
of the Virgin,” tagged at $5 million, to a U.S. collector. He
wouldn’t divulge the final purchase price. London-based  John
Mitchell Fine Paintings  sold the late-16th-century “The Choice
between Young and Old” by the Dutch Mannerist artist  Cornelis
van Haarlem  for $500,000 to another U.S collector.  Isis Sculpture  Daniel Katz, also from  London , is asking 7 million pounds
for an Egyptian stone sculpture of the goddess Isis that he
bought for 3.7 million pounds at Christie’s International,
London, in October. The price was a record for an ancient
Egyptian work of art sold at auction.  Katz sold a 19th-century  Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux  marble
sculpture of Daphnis and Chloe to an undisclosed U.S. museum for
$3 million.  The  Mauritshuis  of the Hague was also among museum buyers,
paying 750,000 pounds for the 1592 Paul Bril painting on copper,
“Saint Jerome Praying in a Rocky Landscape,” priced at about 1
million pounds from London-based Johnny Van Haeften. The dealer
acquired the painting for 505,250 pounds at Christie’s in
December.  Van Haeften also sold the early 17-century  Jacob Jordaens 
canvas “The Meeting of Odysseus and Nausicaa,” priced at $6.5
million. He paid 2.1 million pounds for it last year.  Price Negotiation  “The Old Master galleries will do deals,” said Philip Hoffman, director of the London-based  Fine Art Fund . “Some of
the starting prices are high this year and made me slightly
gulp. It’s a matter of negotiation.”  While the core of Tefaf remains, as always, Old Masters,
the fair bolstered its modern and contemporary section by
welcoming back  Gagosian , the world’s biggest commercial gallery
network, which last exhibited in 2006.  The New York-based dealership never discusses sales or
prices. Its small 2012 Howard Hodgkin painting, “Trompe
l’oeil” was identified by dealers as attracting an early red
dot.  Works of that size by the veteran British painter are
currently valued at about $400,000, dealers said.  Belgium-based  Axel Vervoordt  was among the exhibitors
reporting strong early sales. The dealer, who shows his eclectic
stock in a castle near Antwerp, sold the black-and-red 1961
abstract “Chizosei Shomenko” by the Japanese painter Kazuo
Shiraga to a Swiss collector for 1.2 million euros.  Venus Torso  Shiraga is a member of the postwar Gutai group, the subject
of a show at the Guggenheim Museum in New York. Another Swiss
collector paid 1.7 million euros for ancient Greek marble torso
of Venus.  Other exhibitors said buyers were more cautious at the
preview than in previous years and collectors were balking at
price levels that had been raised by record auction results and
the ambitious expectations of private sellers.  “Life is difficult at the moment for people,” said the
Brussels-based Asian art specialist Gisele Croes, who is
offering for sale museum-quality early Chinese bronzes.  “The market is still rebuilding,” Friedman said. “Before
the downturn, it was a frenzy. If you stopped to think about a
piece it was too late. Now buyers are taking their time.”  The international art market contracted by 7 percent in
2012, according to a report published at Tefaf today.  Combined auction and dealer sales declined to 43 billion
euros from 46.4 billion euros in the previous year, according to
the European Fine Art Foundation. The market is just below the
level it was in 2006, it said.  Sales in the Chinese art market, the world’s biggest in
2011, declined 24 percent to 10.6 billion euros in 2012. The
U.S. regained its premier position with sales of 14.2 billion
euros, a five percent increase. Sales in the European Union fell
3 percent to 15.8 billion euros.  Muse highlights include New York and London  weekend guides ,
 Lewis Lapham  on history and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Maastricht, the Netherlands, at
 sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 