-- Pinnacle Foods Files to Raise Up to $580 Million in IPO
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-15T15:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/pinnacle-foods-files-to-raise-as-much-as-580-million-in-ipo.html
Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF) , the Blackstone
Group LP-owned maker of Hungry-Man dinners and Birds Eye frozen
vegetables, filed to raise as much as $580 million in a U.S.
initial public offering.  About 29 million shares will be offered at $18 to $20 each,
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company said in a regulatory
filing today. The amount is equivalent to a 26 percent stake,
the filing shows.  Pinnacle, led by Chief Executive Officer Robert Gamgort, is
selling shares after last year delaying an IPO because of
slumping consumer sentiment, people familiar with the situation
said at the time. Rivals including ConAgra Foods Inc. have
boosted profit by raising prices and increasing marketing.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital last month agreed to buy H.J. Heinz Co. for
about $23 billion in the largest deal ever in the food industry.
The iconic Pittsburgh-based ketchup maker has boosted sales in
 emerging markets  led by  Latin America , Indonesia and China.  Blackstone bought Pinnacle for $2.2 billion about six years
ago and later combined the company with Birds Eye Foods Inc.
with a $1.3 billion acquisition. Blackstone isn’t offering
shares in the sale.  Pinnacle, which generated about $2.5 billion in sales last
year, would have a market value of about $2.1 billion at the
midpoint of the IPO range. The value at midpoint is about 0.9
times sales in the 12 months ended Dec. 30 and 7.6 times
earnings before interest and taxes in the period. The shares are
scheduled to price March 27, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp. are leading the
offering for the company, which plans to list on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol PF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  