-- Pope Blessing for Rome as Tourism Gains May Ease Recession
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-15T12:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/pope-blessing-for-rome-as-tourism-gains-may-ease-recession.html
The election of Pope Francis may be
a blessing for recession-hit Rome as pilgrims and curious
visitors flock to the eternal city to pray and catch a glimpse
of the new pontiff.  Since the surprise announcement of Benedict XVI’s
resignation, visitors to the Italian capital have provided an
unanticipated boost in the low season for tourists, and more may
arrive for the new Pope’s inauguration mass next week and Easter
celebrations. More than 1 million people are expected to attend
the inauguration, Giuseppe Pecoraro, prefect of Rome, said
today, according to  news agency  Ansa.  “We expect a 10 percent additional presence this month,”
Giuseppe Roscioli, head of the Rome division of the hoteliers
association Federalberghi, said in a phone interview.  The Pope’s election and installment may bring as much as 55
million euros ($71 million) in additional revenue to the
capital’s economy in March, Roscioli said. The amount includes
hotels, restaurants and museums and may prompt an increase of
about 10 percent in temporary hotel hirings at a time when the
country’s unemployment rate is at its highest in more than 20
years, he said.  Foreign Tourists  Pope Francis, formerly  Argentina ’s Cardinal Jorge
Bergoglio, is the first South American to lead the Catholic
Church and the first non-European pontiff in more than 1,200
years. His selection has raised hope in the tourist trade that
he will attract foreign tourists and reverse a decline in
visitors during the reign of his predecessor, whose final year
as pontiff coincided with  Italy ’s fourth recession since 2001.  The pontiff, a Jesuit who has dedicated himself to issues
of poverty, isn’t exactly helping the tourism cause. He urged
the clergy and faithful in Argentina not to travel to Rome for
the inauguration and instead donate funds to charities to help
the poor, according to a letter by the apostolic nuncio in
Argentina published on Affari Italiani’s website and sent to the
country’s dioceses on the Holy See’s behalf.  “Instead of coming to Rome for the beginning of his
pontificate on March 19, he would like them to continue with
their much appreciated spiritual closeness, accompanying it with
a gesture of charity to the neediest,” the letter said citing
the Pope’s request.  Tourist Number  Last year tourists  brought  around 7.3 billion euros to
Rome, according to the Lazio tourism authority. The number of
tourists visiting Italy in 2012 was little changed from the
previous year at almost 77 million, according to a  Bank of Italy 
 report  released March 11.  “With a pope coming from another continent, it takes more
time” for visitors from his home country to organize trips to
Rome, and flows of tourists from  South America  may increase only
later this year, said Antonio Gazzellone, who manages tourism
for the Rome Municipality.  Francis will meet with Vatican journalists tomorrow and on
the following day hold his first angelus, when the pontiff
offers a prayer to the faithful from his window over St. Peter’s
Square.  “We are probably going to extend our stay in Rome,” to
see the Pope’s public appearance, said Marianne Demanzana 36,
traveling with a fellow Philippine from Dubai where they both
work as accountants. “We have already checked out and hopefully
we’ll find another room for the next few days,” she said,
adding that she would be happy to pay more if the hotel applies
a higher rate for the extra days.  Room Prices  Some room prices more than doubled during the conclave,
with  increases  of from 8 percent in bed-and-breakfast
accommodations to 125 percent for some four-star hotels,
consumer group Federconsumatori said March 11.  “It appears that behind the inflated prices is the will to
speculate” and take unfair advantage of the papal event, the
consumer lobby said. The average price for a hotel room March 16
is 164 euros, making  Rome  the most expensive Italian city, hotel
search engine Trivago said in a statement yesterday.  Rossana Incorati, who runs a bed-and-breakfast near St.
Peter’s, said she only raised prices by 10 euros as in high
season. “Still, those who try to take advantage of the
situation are always around the corner,” Incorati said.  Religious Tourism  While religious tourism is important for Rome, it may not
change much because pilgrims’ inclination to spend is limited.  “They tend to stay in religious accommodations, do picnic
lunches and may buy the souvenir and the image of the new
pope,” Gazzellone said. “They certainly don’t go to  Louis
Vuitton  for shopping.”  Italy’s economy contracted 2.4 percent last year as Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity drive to contain the public
deficit pushed the country deeper into recession. Gross domestic
product may shrink 1.8 percent this year according to  Fitch
Ratings , which downgraded the nation last week.  A pope coming from “the ends of the earth,” as Francis
described himself when he first addressed St. Peter’s crowd
after his election on March 13, may give a boost to tourism and
“have a positive impact on the rest of the economy at a time
this is really needed,” hotel lobby head Roscioli said.
“Despite being a world-famous tourist spot by definition, Rome
still needs that and the current media coverage is as effective
as an expensive 24 hour advertising campaign on all the world
media.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  