-- Portugal Forecasts Deeper GDP Contraction, Wider Deficits
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-03-15T16:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/portugal-forecasts-deeper-gdp-contraction-wider-deficits.html
Portugal ’s government forecasts the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year as the so-called troika gave its blessing to wider targets
for the country’s budget deficit.  The government targets a deficit equivalent to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below
the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2015, when it aims for a
2.5 percent gap, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said. GDP will
contract 2.3 percent this year before growing 0.6 percent next
year. The jobless rate will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and
18.5 percent in 2014.  “The recession is serious and  unemployment  is worrying,”
Gaspar told journalists in Lisbon today. “It was a difficult
and long review.” The new targets, contained in the seventh
review of the country’s bailout program that began on Feb. 25,
still require approval from EU finance ministers, he said.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and lower demand from European trading partners as
he raises taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($102
billion) aid plan from the EU and the  International Monetary
Fund . Portugal was given more time in September to narrow its
budget gap after  tax revenue  missed forecasts.  GDP contracted for a ninth straight quarter in the three
months through December as exports dropped with the euro area’s
deepening recession, and Portugal’s jobless rate rose to a euro-
era record of 16.9 percent.  Spending Cuts  Portugal previously forecast GDP would shrink 1 percent
this year before expanding 0.8 percent next year, and predicted
joblessness of 16.4 percent in 2013. It earlier had a deficit
target of 4.5 percent for this year and 2.5 percent for 2014.
The government planned to cut spending by 4 billion euros
through 2014, when it forecast debt would peak at 122.3 percent
of GDP.  The government now plans to carry out those cuts in the
three years through 2015 and forecasts debt reach 123.7 percent
of GDP in 2014, said Carlos Moedas, the secretary of state to
the prime minister. The sale of postal operator CTT-Correios de
Portugal will begin in the second quarter and the sales of rail
freight company CP Carga and carrier TAP SGPS SA will start by
the end of the year.  The shortfall as measured for the EU’s excessive deficit
procedure may have been equivalent to 6.6 percent of GDP in 2012
due to one-time items and the view of the EU’s statistics office
that revenue from the sale of airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de
Portugal SA can’t be used to calculate the gap, Gaspar said. The
2012 deficit was 4.9 percent according to the measurement used
in the bailout program.  More Time  “The end-2012 fiscal deficit target was met,” the IMF
said today in a joint statement with the European Commission and
the  European Central Bank . “The weaker growth prospects require
an adjustment of the fiscal deficit path.”  The commission will propose to EU governments an extension
to 2015 of the deadline for the correction of Portugal’s
excessive deficit, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said in a statement today.  EU finance ministers may next month commit to giving
Ireland and Portugal more time to repay bailout loans, Rehn said
on March 4. Both countries received loans from two different
programs: the EU-wide European Financial Stabilization Mechanism
and the euro-area’s temporary firewall, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  ‘Best Prospects’  “Continued strong program implementation and the envisaged
adjustment of the maturities of EFSF and EFSM loans to smooth
the debt redemption profile will support the government’s return
to full market financing during 2013,” the EU, the ECB and the
IMF said today. Portugal on Jan. 23 sold 2.5 billion euros of
five-year notes through banks, its first offering of bonds since
requesting a bailout in April 2011.  Gaspar said conditions are favorable for the sale of more
securities. “Conditions seem propitious for the possibility of
issuing bonds in the next few weeks,” he said. “At this moment
we have the best prospects for accessing bond markets that we
have had in the context of this program.”  The difference in yield that investors demand to hold
Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds has narrowed to
4.48 percentage points from 16 percentage points on Jan. 31,
2012. In January 2012,  Standard & Poor’s  followed  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service in cutting Portugal’s credit
rating to non-investment grade.  The seventh review may conclude in May, allowing for the
disbursement of 2 billion euros from Portugal’s rescue package,
according to the statement on the IMF’s website. The next review
is due to take place in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  