-- Pound Strengthens as King Says BOE Isn’t Seeking Weaker Currency
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-15T16:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/pound-climbs-for-third-day-versus-dollar-on-boe-king-s-comments.html
The pound advanced for a third day
against the dollar after  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said policy makers aren’t trying to talk it down, damping
speculation they are seeking a weaker sterling to spur growth.  Sterling headed for its biggest weekly gain in a month
versus the euro after King said in an interview with ITV News
yesterday that “markets determine the level of  exchange rate ,
not us.” A gauge of U.K. inflation expectations fell as the
central bank’s Chief Economist Spencer Dale today defended its
emphasis on maintaining price stability. U.K. 10-year government
bonds fell, paring a weekly advance.  “King had no choice when put on the spot to clarify that
they take their mandate very seriously,” said  Neil Mellor , a
foreign-exchange strategist at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in
 London . “It all comes down to a market that has become totally
hooked on what central bankers have to say. Sterling could be in
for a test of the $1.52 level.”  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.5133 at 4:27 p.m. London
time after climbing to $1.5177, the highest since March 5. The
currency last traded at $1.52 on Feb. 28. Sterling weakened 0.1
percent to 86.35 pence per euro, still set for a 0.9 percent
gain this week, the biggest increase since the period ended
Feb. 8.  “We’re certainly not looking to push sterling down,” King
told ITV, according to a transcript of his remarks. He also said
an economic recovery is “in sight” said sterling was “broadly
stable” and “at the same level we were after the impact of the
financial crisis.”  Sterling has gained 0.8 percent this week, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 0.2
percent and the dollar dropped 0.7 percent.  BOE Minutes  The pound has slumped 3.6 percent against the dollar since
the start of last month. In that time, minutes of the central
bank’s February decision showed King and two other policy makers
were defeated in a push for more stimulus and Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating.  “The pound has seen a sizeable bounce above $1.51, which
we suspect has been primarily driven by the market’s
overextended short positioning,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
 Steven Saywell  in London wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.
“Pound-dollar has already broken above the $1.5153 resistance
level noted by our technical analyst, with the $1.5218 to
provide next resistance.”  Resistance is an area on a price graph where technical
analysts anticipate sell orders to be clustered.  Bond Purchases  Dale’s comments in a speech in London today come before
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  presents his annual
budget on March 20, when he may rethink the Bank of England’s
remit. The chief economist said that while it is right that
inflation targeting “should be questioned and challenged,”
policy makers must take account of the potential economic costs
of letting price rises get out of control.  “The argument that monetary policy can be used to expand
demand with little or no implications for inflation challenges
the consensus” that the best contribution of policy makers is
to deliver  price stability , Dale said. “We should be nervous
about how quickly we overturn that consensus.”  The 10-year gilt yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.93 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 rose 0.25, or 2.50 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 98.42. The yield has dropped 13 basis
points this week.  The U.K. 10-year  break-even rate , an index of inflation
expectations that measures the yield difference between gilts
and index-linked securities, fell for a second day. It slipped
three basis points to 3.27 percent, after rising to 3.37
percent, the highest since September 2008 yesterday.  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped 0.6 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  