-- Quebec Sees Spring Decision on New Mining Royalties
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-15T18:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/quebec-minister-sees-new-mining-royalties-law-this-spring-.html
Quebec  Natural Resources Minister
Martine Ouellet, who is looking for ways to raise more revenue
from the  mining industry , said her government will probably
decide whether to increase royalties in the next few months.  “We want to take a decision relatively soon, I would say
in the spring of 2013,” Ouellet told reporters today at a
conference on royalties in Montreal. ‘Mines are continuing to
operate and there are investors who wish to invest in Quebec and
who want to know the fiscal environment.’’  Quebec accounts for about 1 percent of global gold output.
Its 23 active mines make it the fourth-biggest mineral producer
in Canada, after Ontario, Saskatchewan and British Columbia.
Mining executives have told Ouellet’s government that an
increase in royalties would mean higher unemployment.  Ouellet says the province is considering a “mixed” regime
that would comprise two types of levies: a 5 percent royalty on
gross output and an as yet undefined tax on gross mining profits
that exceed a certain level.  Mining companies operating in  Canada ’s second most populous
province already pay a 16 percent provincial tax on profits.
Mining royalties brought in C$351 million ($344 million) in 2011
on gross output of about C$7.3 billion, according to Quebec
government figures.  Mining investment in Quebec will probably drop 16 percent
to C$4.1 billion in 2013, government data also show. Last year’s
C$4.8 billion total was the highest since at least 2000.  “We are convinced that it is possible to increase
royalties in Quebec while preserving a stable and competitive
climate for investors,” Ouellet said.  “We want to increase royalties, we want a guaranteed
minimum revenue and we create a better distribution of wealth,”
she said. “We are very open-minded on the different means of
achieving this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  