-- Treasuries Gain for First Time in Three Days as Confidence Drops
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-15T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/treasuries-gain-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-confidence-drops.html
Treasuries rose, dropping 10-year
yields below 2 percent for the first time in six days, after an
unexpected decline in a gauge of U.S.  consumer confidence  cast
doubt over the strength of the economic recovery.  Prices on the benchmark note increased for the first time
in three days and yields snapped the longest streak above 2
percent in almost a year. The Treasury Department asked bond
dealers today for information about positions in 10-year notes
after a shortage of the securities developed in the repurchase-
agreement market this month. Data showed  China  increased its
holdings of Treasuries in January by the most since 2011.  “The confidence data is not good,” said Tom Simons, an
economist in  New York  at Jefferies LLC, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “If you looked at
all the data this week, you would think that the economy was
picking up a bit of momentum. There’s been one direction of
data, and this is the first move in the other direction.”  Benchmark 10-year yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yields, which last
held above 2 percent for five days on a closing basis in April
2012, declined five basis points this week. They reached 2.08
percent on March 8, the highest level since April 5.  The price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023
rose 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 3/32.  Trading  volume  fell for the first time in four days,
declining 18 percent to $258 billion, according to ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . Average
daily volume for the past year is $248 billion.  Confidence Drops  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 sentiment index  for March fell to 71.8, the lowest level since
December 2011, from 77.6 in February. The gauge was projected to
increase to 78, according to the median estimate of 67
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Treasury asked for information about positions in the
benchmark 10-year, with a threshold of $2 billion, as of March
11. The on-the-run, or most actively traded 10-year note, came
into short supply in the repo market that investors pay interest
on cash lent to borrow the debt, resulting in negative repo
rates. The Treasury sold an additional $21 billion of the notes
on March 13.  Lowest Rate  The repo rate on the benchmark 10-year note closed with the
lowest repo rate for all specific securities, at negative 2.95
percent on March 13, according to data from ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The repo rate for the note
opened yesterday at negative 2.8 percent and closed today at
0.02 percent. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate opened today at 0.25 percent.  Traders often short, or sell securities they’ve borrowed in
the repo market ahead of a Treasury sale of new debt of similar
maturity, to profit if prices of the notes fall after the
auction. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those
loans, represented by a positive repo rate.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate, which is in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral. Those in
highest demand have lower rates and are called “special.”  Futures traders bet 10-year notes will fall. Hedge-fund
managers and other large speculators reversed from a net-long
position to a net-short position in 10-year note futures in the
week ending March 12, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data.  Positions Reversed  Speculative  short positions , or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 57,346 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade.  Last week, traders were net-long 76,818
contracts.  Reports earlier this week showed U.S. retail sales climbed
more than forecast and initial claims for jobless benefits
unexpectedly fell. Ten- and 30-year yields reached 11-month
highs on March 8 after the Labor Department said U.S. employers
added 236,000 jobs last month, beating a forecast of 165,000.  “Treasuries are firmer amid an equity sell-off and the
weak consumer data,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees
$2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union in New York. “Even with generally positive
economic data, the back end has been surprisingly firm.”  Bonds rose today even after Fed data showed U.S. industrial
production grew 0.7 percent in February, beating a forecast for
a 0.4 percent gain, after a 0.1 decline the previous month.  Consumer Prices  A separate report showed the cost of living rose in
February due to a jump in gasoline prices. The consumer-price
index rose 0.7 percent, the Labor Department reported, with the
biggest jump in gasoline prices in more than three years
accounting for three-quarters of the advance.  A retreat in fuel expenses this month signaled inflation
will hover around the Fed’s goal, giving the central bank more
room to continue steps to spur growth and curb unemployment.  Treasury securities due in a decade or more are at the
cheapest levels since 2011 relative to global peers with
comparable maturities, according to the Bank of America indexes.
Yields on Treasuries were 54 basis points higher than those in
an index of other sovereign debt yesterday, the data showed. It
was the most since August 2011.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
wrote on Twitter that he still likes five- to 10-year
Treasuries.  “Seasonal economic stats should slow about now,” Gross
wrote in the posting.  Foreign Holdings  China, the largest foreign lender to the U.S., increased
its holdings in Treasuries in January by $44.1 billion, or 3.6
percent, the biggest boost since June 2011, the Treasury
Department reported. The country owns $1.2645 trillion of the
debt, the most since September 2011. As of January, China held
11.4 percent of outstanding marketable U.S. government debt.  Japan , the second-biggest foreign lender, raised its
holdings of U.S. government debt by $4 billion to $1.1152
trillion, the first increase since October. Japan holds 10
percent of outstanding Treasury debt.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries rose to $5.6165 trillion in
January, a 0.8 percent increase from the previous month, the
biggest since October. Foreign investors held 50.5 percent of
the $11.1 trillion in  U.S. debt  outstanding then.  The Fed remains the  largest holder  of Treasuries, with a
total of $1.767 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  