-- Renault CEO Ghosn Sees Need to End Austerity Measures in Europe
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-15T11:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/renault-ceo-ghosn-sees-need-to-end-austerity-measures-in-europe.html
Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, sees the need to end austerity measures in Europe to
stimulate demand as the region’s car market is set to fall for a
sixth straight year.  “There is no debate that at some point, there will be need
for economic policies to stimulate Europe,” Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said at news conference in Cascais, in the
outskirts of Lisbon. “But I’m not expecting it in the medium
term, over the next three years.”  The euro area’s economy will shrink in back-to-back years
for the first time in 2013, driving unemployment higher as
governments, consumers and companies curb spending, the European
Commission said on Feb. 22. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation region will fall 0.3 percent this year, compared with a
November prediction of 0.1 percent growth.  Ghosn’s remarks echo comments made last week by  Fiat SpA (F) 
CEO  Sergio Marchionne , who also chairs Europe’s ACEA car lobby.
Renault and Fiat have seen their sales plummet more than the
average last year on the continent, as both carmakers are more
exposed to southern European countries such as  Spain  and Italy,
where governments have implemented severe cuts, undermining
demand for new vehicles.  The region’s car sales in January fell to the lowest for
that month since records began in 1990, with Spain’s market,
once the region’s fifth-biggest, now lagging behind  Belgium ,
even as Spain has four times as many people.  Scrapping Incentives  One way to mitigate the falling demand for new cars may be
adopt scrapping incentives, a measure Ghosn supports. The
incentive isn’t backed by all carmakers and governments in
Europe. Spain reintroduced incentives last month to spur auto
sales in the country.  ’’You need to anticipate demand when you need it,’’ Ghosn
said. “Look at what central banks are doing today; they’re
swamping markets with liquidity. But these liquidities, they
will take them back later on. That’s how you deal with crises.”  French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said on March 3
he favors car-scrapping incentives to revive the auto market and
push people to buy more fuel-efficient models, as opposed to a
proposal being discussed to raise taxes on  diesel fuel . The
government isn’t likely to make any decision on the matter this
year, he said on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  