-- RenCap Raises Salaries as Much as 10% to Retain Staff
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-15T15:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/rencap-raises-salaries-as-much-as-10-to-retain-staff.html
Renaissance Capital , the investment
bank controlled by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , is
raising salaries by as much as 10 percent after cutting costs
and reducing its staff by half last year.  All candidates for promotion this year will receive a 10
percent increase, according to co-chief executive officers Igor Vayn and John Hyman. There will be a 7 percent raise for those
with annual salaries up to $49,999, and a 5 percent increase on
salaries between $50,000 and $180,000, the pair wrote in an e-
mailed statement today. Between 75 and 80 percent of the firm’s
employees in the Moscow headquarters as well as offices such as
Johannesburg,  New York  and London will get raises.  “Management of the firm has undertaken a thorough and
comprehensive compensation review to ensure the firm
consistently rewards and protects its most important asset, the
people,” Vayn and Hyman said.  Prokhorov, who bought almost 50 percent of RenCap for $500
million four years ago, is in the process of gaining total
control after rebuffing founder  Stephen Jennings ’s request for
more funding amid losses. RenCap was Russia’s biggest organizer
of equity sales as recently as 2010, before state-owned
companies pushed into  investment banking .  The company is selling stakes in African banks and assets
in forestry, infrastructure and land in Russia and Ukraine to
focus on investment banking.  RenCap will conduct a review of its compensation structure
based on its first-half earnings this year, the CEOs said. The
company plans to “create a culture where compensation for
directors and managing directors is tied to financial
performance,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  