-- Repsol May Consider Shale Asset Swap as YPF Compensation
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-03-15T17:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/repsol-may-consider-shale-asset-swap-as-ypf-compensation-2-.html
Repsol SA (REP)  said it may consider
shale assets as part of compensation for the expropriation of
its stake in  YPF SA (YPFD)  after an agreement on the amount to be paid
is reached with Argentina.  “It is something we might consider once the amount of
compensation is fixed,” said Miguel Klingenberg, Repsol’s
deputy legal counsel, in a phone interview from Washington.  Spain’s Repsol is suing oil companies involved in shale
projects with YPF, its former unit that was nationalized by
Argentina in April. The expropriation of YPF occurred three
months after Argentina’s biggest oil company announced
discoveries in Vaca Muerta, which is estimated to hold at least
23 billion barrels of oil equivalent. YPF has signed preliminary
accords with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S. oil
producer, and Bridas Corp., and is seeking more partners to help
it develop shale in southern Argentina.  A shale swap would benefit Repsol “because currently
Repsol’s shares do not account for YPF’s compensation,” said
Alejandro Demichelis, a London-based analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas. “The only issue is how can Repsol justify a large
investment in Argentina once again? The company would have to
give a very good explanation on how the project would be
financed.”  Willingness to Negotiate?  Argentina and Repsol haven’t yet had compensation talks,
Klingenberg said. Repsol, based in Madrid, hasn’t determined how
much compensation it wants for its 51 percent stake in Buenos
Aires-based YPF, he said, adding Argentina has never shown any
willingness to negotiate.  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman in Buenos Aires,
declined to comment in an e-mail. Axel Kicillof’s spokeswoman
Jessica Rey declined to comment in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires if Argentina and Repsol have had negotiations.
Kicillof, Argentina’s deputy economy minister, oversees the
country’s energy policies.  “Any agreement between Repsol and the Argentine government
will be taken extremely well by the market for many reasons,”
Jim Harper, director of corporate research at BCP Securities
LLC, said in a telephone interview from London. “It would
eliminate legal risks not only for YPF but also for Chevron,
Bridas and all the other companies Repsol is suing.”  On April 17, the day after YPF’s nationalization, Repsol
Chairman Antonio Brufau said the company sought $10.5 billion in
compensation.  Brufau gave the figure based on the valuation methodology
contained in YPF’s bylaws, which were written by the government
that privatized the company in the 1990s, said Kristian Rix, a
Repsol spokesman, in a phone interview from Madrid today.  “That figure isn’t necessarily the one to be sought now,”
he said.  ‘Confiscation’ Solution  Repsol remains open to discussing a solution for the
“confiscation,” while it will continue trying to determine an
amount that will include values of stock and damages,
Klingenberg said. Repsol will continue its legal actions until
negotiations begin, Klingenberg said.  “Sooner or later, the pressure of the international
community and the deterioration of internal economics will
oblige them to change,” he said.  YPF  American depositary receipts  fell 1.4 percent to $15.35
at 1 p.m. in New York, after earlier sliding as much as 2.8
percent to $15.12. The stock has dropped 45 percent in the past
year. Repsol fell 1.2 percent to $17.16 at the close in Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  