-- Republican Senator Portman Now Backs Same-Sex Marriage
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2013-03-15T14:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/republican-senator-portman-now-backs-same-sex-marriage.html
Republican Senator  Rob Portman  of
Ohio, who was on Mitt Romney’s short list as a potential vice
presidential nominee in 2012, has reversed his long-held
position opposing same-sex marriage, he wrote in a column
published today in the Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch.  “I have come to believe that if two people are prepared to
make a lifetime commitment to love and care for each other in
good times and in bad, the government shouldn’t deny them the
opportunity to get married,” Portman wrote.  Two years ago, he said, his son Will, then a freshman at
 Yale University , told Portman and his wife, Jane, that he was
gay.  “I wrestled with how to reconcile my Christian faith with
my desire for Will to have the same opportunities to pursue
happiness and fulfillment as his brother and sister,” Portman
wrote. “Ultimately, it came down to the Bible’s overarching
themes of love and compassion and my belief that we are all
children of God.”  As a U.S. House member, Portman voted for the Defense of
Marriage Act -- the 1996 law that defines marriage as solely
between a man and a woman -- and a 1999 bill to prohibit same-
sex couples in the  District of Columbia  from adopting. He also
supported the idea of a constitutional amendment that would ban
 same-sex marriages .  Michigan Protest  In 2011, his opposition to gay rights led to a protest by a
group of graduates of the  University of Michigan  law school who
walked out of his commencement address after circulating a
petition that his invitation to speak be withdrawn because of
his views. He told  CNN  in an interview broadcast this morning
that at that time he knew his son was gay.  In an interview with the Columbus paper, Portman said he
sought advice last weekend from former Vice President  Dick Cheney , whose daughter Mary is gay. “Do the right thing. Follow
your heart,’” he said Cheney told him.  In a Twitter message today, Will Portman wrote “Especially
proud of my dad today” and included a link to the Columbus
Dispatch column.  Portman told CNN that even though he has known about his
son’s sexual orientation for two years, he was making the
announcement now for two reasons: He has only recently gotten
comfortable with his decision to shift his position, and he knew
he would probably be asked about his opinion on two cases
related to same-sex marriage that are being argued before the
 Supreme Court  at the end of the month.  “I thought it was the right time to let folks know where I
stand so there’s no confusion, so I would be clear about it,”
he said.  He also said that Romney’s staff was aware of his son’s
sexual orientation when he was being considered as the former
Massachusetts governor’s running mate and that he was told it
played no consideration in him being passed over as the nominee
in favor of Wisconsin Republican Representative  Paul Ryan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  