-- Romania’s Currency Heads for Biggest Weekly Decline Since July
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-15T15:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/romania-s-currency-heads-for-biggest-weekly-decline-since-july.html
Romania ’s leu headed for its
biggest weekly slide since July the central bank increased the
funds available to lenders and companies bought more euros.  The leu has pared this year’s advance since the Banca
Nationala a Romaniei scrapped a cap on the size of its weekly
repo auctions last week and continued with its policy of lending
to commercial banks without limits on March 11. Bond yields fell
to  the lowest on record  at an auction yesterday, spurred by
extra funding.  The leu was little changed at 4.3933 per euro at 5:10 p.m.
in Bucharest, taking this week’s decline to 0.9 percent, the
most since July 20. The currency has gained 1.3 percent this
year. Yields plunged at an auction of two-year bonds yesterday
to 5.18 percent from 5.83 percent on Feb. 11.  “The leu depreciated on corporate flows and some local
bond investors taking profit on their positions following the
very strong rally,” Dan Bucsa, a London-based economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said in an e-mail today. “It is true that leu
rates fell abruptly after the repo cap was scrapped, but they
were artificially high when the liquidity supply was limited.”  The central bank lent 2.3 billion lei to eight commercial
banks at a repo auction this week. It provided 7.3 billion lei
at last week’s auction.  Increased bank funding pushed Romania’s interbank offered
rate, known as ROBOR, to a three-week low of 1.5 percent, below
the central bank’s main interest rate of 5.25 percent.  JPMorgan Indexes  The Finance Ministry raised 500 million lei in a March 7
reopening of January 2016 bonds, the only auction this month of
notes added to JPMorgan & Chase & Co.’s benchmark  emerging-
market debt index . The average yield fell to 5.49 percent from
5.73 percent at a Feb. 14 sale.  JPMorgan is set to include three leu-denominated fixed
income securities in its  GBI-EM index  over three months starting
March 1. Extra demand for the country’s debt stemming from the
index inclusion will be limited as investors have already
boosted their holdings by $3.5 billion through January, the U.S.
bank said on March 5.  “Lower leu rates support the leu bonds rally and also
cheapen the cost of hedging for investors who prefer to hedge
their foreign exchange risk,” according to Bucsa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  