-- Romania Leu Set for Biggest Weekly Slump Since July on Repo Jump
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-15T12:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/romania-leu-set-for-biggest-weekly-slump-since-july-on-repo-jump.html
Romania’s leu headed for its
biggest weekly decline against the euro since July as the
central bank increased funds available to commercial banks.  The leu has pared this year’s advance since the Banca
Nationala a Romaniei scrapped a cap on the size of its weekly
repo auctions last week and continued with its policy of lending
to commercial banks without limits on March 11. Bond yields fell
to  the lowest on record  at an auction yesterday, spurred by
extra funding.  The leu climbed was little changed at 4.3916 per euro at
2:25 p.m. in Bucharest, taking this week’s decline to 0.8
percent, the most since July 20. The currency has gained 1.3
percent this year. Yields plunged at an auction of two-year
bonds yesterday to 5.18 percent from 5.83 percent on Feb. 11.  “We see easing liquidity conditions along with the limited
supply of debt instruments as the factors behind the
surprisingly rapid decrease in yields,” Ana-Maria Morarescu, a
Bucharest-based analyst at Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA, wrote in
a research note today. “There were no signs of non-resident
interest in leu, neither on the foreign exchange market nor on
the money market.”  The central bank lent 2.3 billion lei to eight commercial
banks at a repo auction this week. It provided 7.3 billion lei
at last week’s auction.  Increased bank funding pushed  Romania ’s interbank offered
rate, known as ROBOR, to a three-week low of 1.5 percent, below
the central bank’s main interest rate of 5.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  