-- Rosetta Buys Permian Land From Comstock for $768 Million
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-03-15T20:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/rosetta-buys-permian-land-from-comstock-for-768-million.html
Rosetta Resources Inc. (ROSE) , the oil and
natural gas producer spun off from  Calpine Corp. (CPN) , agreed to buy
53,306 net acres in West Texas from  Comstock Resources Inc. (CRK)  for
$768 million, marking its entrance into the Permian Basin.  The cash acquisition includes an area that may hold the
equivalent of 145 million barrels of oil and currently produces
about 3,300 barrels a day, Houston-based Rosetta said in a
statement today. Comstock, based in Frisco, Texas, will use
proceeds to reduce debt and double drilling rigs in the Eagle
Ford shale formation of South Texas this year.  Permian Basin  production  rose 12 percent in the five years
ending in 2011 as oil drillers used technology developed for
extracting gas from dense shale rock, according to the Railroad
Commission of  Texas . Drilling permits issued for the region have
more than doubled since 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  “This transaction provides entry into the prolific Permian
Basin with both existing production and strong growth potential
in proven delineated areas as well as prospective exploration
targets on undeveloped acreage,” Jim Craddock, chairman and
chief executive officer of Houston-based Rosetta, said in
today’s statement.  Comstock gained 13 percent to $18 at the close in New York,
the biggest increase since December 2011. Rosetta fell 2 cents
to $49.98.  Crude Output  “Comstock acquired this acreage in December 2011 for just
$333 million, providing a very impressive return in just 15
months,” Daniel Katzenberg, a New York-based analyst for
Oppenheimer & Co. wrote today in a note to clients. “This
announcement significantly improves its balance sheet and
financial flexibility.”  Oppenheimer rates Comstock at outperform, equivalent to a
buy.  Current output from the acreage is more than 73 percent
crude, Rosetta said. Oil, which sells at a premium to gas in
North American markets, accounted for 26 percent of Rosetta’s
2012 production, up from 4.7 percent three years earlier,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Rosetta has $700 million of committed financing for the
deal.  Comstock will boost spending on Eagle Ford drilling to $312
million this year, increasing the number of its drilling rigs in
south Texas to six from three.  The transaction has a Jan. 1 effective date and is expected
to close about May 15, the companies said. RBC Richardson Barr
advised Rosetta and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  advised Comstock on
the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  