-- Rotech Healthcare Says It Will Restructure in Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-15T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/rotech-healthcare-says-it-will-restructure-in-bankruptcy.html
Rotech Healthcare Inc. (ROHI) , a provider
of home respiratory products, said it will file to restructure
through a pre-arranged plan under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code .  “This is a game-changer for Rotech that we believe will
allow us to grow and thrive,” Steven Alsene, chief executive
officer of Rotech, said in an interview today. The Orlando-based
company said it expects to file the consensual plan and
petitions in the coming weeks.  Under the contemplated restructuring, Rotech’s $290 million
in 10.5 percent second-lien notes due in 2018 would be converted
to equity; holders of a $23.5 million  term loan  would be paid in
full and the $230 million of 10.75 percent first-lien notes
would be amended and the maturity potentially extended, Rotech
said today in a statement.  Orlando-based Rotech’s predecessor company also filed for
Chapter 11 protection in 2000, along with its then-parent,
Integrated Health Services, and was spun-off in 2002 as a
separate entity, it said at the time.  The company provides home-based equipment to help people
with breathing disorders including Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease (COPD). The company has about 420 operating centers in
49 states.  Pricing Pressure  In a Feb. 26 report,  Standard & Poor’s  said Rotech was
facing “pricing pressures,” with three-fifths of its revenues
paid by Medicare and other government programs.  “It’s been rough on our industry for a solid 7 years,”
Alsene said. “When the company was spun off with this debt, it
was an acceptable level of debt, but then three years later the
cuts started coming fast and furious and they haven’t stopped
really.”  Rotech is the second U.S. home health care provider to seek
bankruptcy court protection in a month.  Liberty Medical Supply Inc. and affiliates that provide
products and services for people with diabetes and other
ailments filed Chapter 11 papers in Wilmington,  Delaware , Feb.
15. The  Port St. Lucie , Florida-based company cited assets and
debt of as much as $500 million each. Liberty blamed tax and
Medicare payment woes for the failure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  