-- Trucking Industry Says Fatigue Rule Based on Bad Data
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-15T17:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/trucking-industry-says-fatigue-rule-based-on-bad-data.html
The largest U.S. trucking group
asked federal appeals judges to throw out limits on driving time
that would cost the industry $470 million a year, arguing the
Obama administration exaggerated data on fatigue-caused crashes.  American Trucking Associations Inc., during arguments today
in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington , accused the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration of using research that
favored the agency’s preferred outcome while setting driver-
fatigue rules that it claims would add substantial costs without
any safety benefits.  “They inflated the benefits of the new rule by using out-
of-date crash information,” Erika Jones, a lawyer for the
trucking association, said.  The rules, set to take effect July 1, will reduce
flexibility and may undermine safety by forcing drivers onto the
road during rush hour, according to the trucking association,
based in Arlington, Virginia. Jones argued today that limits on
early morning driving will cause delays in deliveries of
perishable foods to restaurants and grocers.  Safety advocates, who also made arguments to the judges
today, said the measures aren’t restrictive enough.  The three judges considering the case asked few questions
during the 80-minute argument. One judge signaled he might vote
to uphold the regulations.  ‘Light Hands’  “We’re not here to measure policy -- good or bad.” U.S.
Circuit Judge  Thomas Griffith  said to Jones. The court should
have “very light hands on this to make sure what the agency
came up with is not irrational,” he said.  Griffith, a President George W. Bush appointee, said that
it was beyond his capacity to decide which scientific expert to
believe. The other two on the panel are U.S. Circuit judges
 Janice Rogers Brown  and A. Raymond Randolph.  While the final rule  maintained an 11-hour limit  on
truckers’ driving day, instead of shortening it to 10 hours as
proposed, the industry objects to a requirement of a 34-hour
rest period each week that would require drivers to be off two
consecutive nights.  The original proposal by the agency required two 12 a.m. to
6 a.m. rest periods during the restart. Groups such as  Advocates
for Highway and Auto Safety  had argued that loopholes in
previous rules let drivers average 82 hours of work in seven
days when they were supposed to be limited to 60 hours.  Previous Lawsuits  Today’s argument is the third time in 10 years that the
appeals court has considered challenges to fatigue rules. The
government was sued in 2003, 2006 and 2009 for allowing 11-hour
driving shifts. The third lawsuit was settled with an agreement
that the agency would redo the regulation.  There were 3,675 truck-related fatalities in 2010, up
8.7 percent from 3,380 in 2009, according to data from the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . As recently as
2006, there were 5,027 fatalities. About 80,000 people were
injured in 2010 in crashes involving large trucks.  “These are largely simple scientific disputes,” Jonathan
Levy, a lawyer for the  Justice Department , said. “I don’t think
it’s the court’s duty to weigh in on that kind of dispute.”  Levy pointed to the fact that the rules were being
challenged as both too restrictive and too lenient as being
proof that the agency’s work was largely scientific. The
Transportation Department said the benefits of the rule are
about $630 million.  Driver Fatigue  In creating the new rule, the agency said 13 percent of the
truck-related crashes were caused by fatigue. The trucking
association says that percentage takes into account “whenever
truck driver fatigue is present at the time of a crash” and not
whether driver fatigue caused the crash. Under current
regulations, only about 2 percent of large truck crashes are
caused by driver fatigue, the association argued.  The agency said the industry based its figure on a study
that only considered accidents where there were fatalities.  The case is American Trucking Associations Inc. v. FMCSA,
12-01092, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  