-- Russia Central Bank’s GDP View Dims as Rates Kept on Hold
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-15T13:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/russia-holds-rates-for-sixth-month-after-spike-in-inflation-1-.html
Russia’s central bank signaled a
more pessimistic stance on growth as it left borrowing costs
unchanged for a sixth month as President  Vladimir Putin ’s
economic aide prepares to take over monetary policy in June.  Moscow-based Bank Rossii held the refinancing rate at 8.25
percent, according to a statement on its website today, matching
the forecasts of all 28 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
overnight and one-week repurchase rates used to provide banks
with cash were kept at 5.5 percent, while the overnight deposit
rate stayed at 4.5 percent.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is leading a charge
against inflation, which has surged to the fastest pace in 18
months, resisting government pressure to stimulate a flagging
economy. While policy makers said current market rates are
acceptable, today’s statement dropped wording that Russian
growth is near potential and removed a phrase calling risks
posed by tighter monetary policy “insignificant.”  “The wording in the statement is what drew most
interest,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for  Russia  at VTB
Capital, said by phone. “They moved toward a softer position on
inflation and economic growth, which brings us closer to a
possible reduction in rates.”  Ruble Boost  The ruble pared declines against the central bank’s target
dollar-euro basket after the decision, trading down 0.1 percent
at 34.8880 as of 4:18 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index kept
gains, trading up 0.6 percent.  While Russia’s economy is growing at the weakest pace since
a recovery began in 2010, inflation has gathered speed, stoked
by a bad harvest and higher excise taxes and transport costs.  Gross domestic product increased 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in January, compared with 2.4 percent in December, less
than Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s 5 percent long-term growth
goal. Consumer prices rose 7.3 percent in February, quickening
from 7.1 percent in January and 6.6 percent in December.  While sentiment indicators, lending and labor-market
conditions continue to support economic expansion, retail sales
have slowed, investment growth remains weak and industrial
output has declined, according to today’s statement. Inflation
will exceed the central bank’s target range of 5 percent to 6
percent until the second half of the year, policy makers said.  ‘Appropriate’ Rates  “Considering current domestic and external trends, the
level of market interest rates is seen as appropriate to achieve
a balance of the main macroeconomic risks,” the bank said,
without giving a time horizon like it has in the past.  Price growth will remain policy makers’ focus, according to
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist for Russia at Barclays
Plc’s investment-banking unit in Moscow.  “The central bank continues to stress that inflation
remaining higher than target may increase inflationary
expectations, which play an important role in Russia,” he said
by phone.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey predict a quarter-point
reduction in the refinancing rate in the second quarter and
another in the fourth. Ignatiev said Feb. 15 that he “hopes”
inflation will start to decelerate in the coming months, with
slower price growth making rate cuts “possible.”  Looser Policy?  Putin, who said this month that all state institutions
should be steered toward promoting growth, nominated ally Elvira Nabiullina, a former Economy Minister, to take over in the
summer from Ignatiev, who’ll stay on as an adviser.  Her appointment has triggered speculation that monetary
policy will be loosened after officials including Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  sought lower borrowing costs to revive
growth in what First Deputy Premier  Igor Shuvalov  called a
“huge argument” between the government and policy makers.  “The central bank has extended its discussion of an
ongoing slowdown in the economy and has not mentioned that it is
close to potential,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief Russia
economist at  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said by e-
mail. “The statement is consistent with our expectations that
the bank will start cutting rates as soon as inflation starts
slowing in year-on-year terms, which we expect in May-June.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  