-- Jeb Bush Says Republicans Often Seen as ‘Anti Everything’
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-16T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/ryan-questions-economic-recovery-warns-of-growing-debt.html
Former Florida Governor  Jeb Bush 
urged the Republican Party to adopt a more positive message and
become more inclusive, though he offered few specifics on his
signature issue of immigration.  Mentioned as a potential 2016 Republican presidential
contender, Bush told the Conservative Political Action
Conference in Oxon Hill,  Maryland , yesterday that the party is
viewed as unwelcoming by many voters.  “We’re associated with being ‘anti’ everything,” he said
at the event sponsored by the Washington-based  American
Conservative Union , which advocates less  government spending .  “Way too many people believe Republicans are anti-
immigrant, anti-woman, anti-science, anti-gay, anti-worker,”
Bush said. “Many voters are simply unwilling to choose our
candidates, even though they share our core beliefs, because
those voters feel unloved, unwanted and unwelcome.”  Bush, the brother and son of former presidents, is a
leading voice in his party, especially on immigration and
Hispanic politics. He spoke at CPAC as Republicans work to
reshape their brand and become more competitive after failing
last year to deny Democratic President  Barack Obama  a second
term and falling short of winning control of the  U.S. Senate .  In his speech, Bush told activists they must move beyond
“divisive and extraneous issues that currently define the
public debate.”  ‘Limited Appeal’  “Never again can the  Republican Party  simply write off
entire segments of our society because we assume our principles
have limited appeal,” he said, a remark that could be viewed as
a swipe at the 2012 Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney . “They have broad appeal. We need to be larger than
that.”  Romney was hurt during last year’s campaign when, in a
video recording at a fundraiser for him, he told donors that 47
percent of voters view themselves as victims who are dependent
on government help and would never vote for him.  Bush, 60, largely steered clear of offering details about
his vision for revamping the U.S. immigration system. His
appearance came as questions have been raised about conflicting
statements he has made on immigration, an issue closely watched
by CPAC attendees.  Bush proposes in a new book that many of the 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. be offered “permanent legal
resident status” instead of citizenship. That’s counter to his
past position, as well as that of a bipartisan group of senators
-- including Florida Republican Marco Rubio -- studying
legislation that would allow a pathway to citizenship.  Immigration Stance  Last week, Bush clarified his position by saying he’s open
to allowing undocumented immigrants a route to citizenship, so
long as it is done in a way that doesn’t penalize those who have
followed the rules. He told the CPAC gathering that Congress
must get “immigration right -- and I hope and pray that that’s
the case this year.”  Amid technological and manufacturing improvements, Bush
said the U.S. is poised for “our nation’s greatest century,”
while also saying there’s a “very dark cloud” on the horizon.  “All of these advantages are at risk if the federal
government continues on its arc of irresponsibility,” he said.
“Our federal spending addiction and a lackluster system of
public education are the two greatest impediments to achieving
our potential in this century.”  Bush said Democrats have “channeled” anger and
frustration about the economy’s struggles to attack success.  ‘Short-Sighted’  “This is enormously short-sighted because in a fair
capitalist system, financial success should be the by-product of
innovation and achievement, and without innovation and
achievement we no longer move forward as a nation,” he said.  His speech drew a standing ovation at the end.  Bush, whose father  George H.W. Bush  and brother  George W. Bush  held the White House, highlighted the importance to the
party of winning the presidency as he noted that Republicans now
control 30 governorships.  “All of our successes at the state level, and all of the
work being done in the private sector that’s incredible, can be
undone if we continue to lose presidential elections,” he said.
“We’ll forfeit our ability to chart a better future for our
republic. This would be tragic in every sense of the word.”  Earlier yesterday, Romney gave an emotional thank you as he
struck a positive tone for his party in his first public speech
since losing in November to Obama.  As he recalled some of the people he met on the campaign
trail, Romney told those at the conference that they shouldn’t
be pessimistic amid talk of the party’s demographic challenges.  ‘My Mistakes’  “We’ve lost races before, in the past, but those setbacks
prepared us for larger victories,” he said. “It’s up to us to
make sure that we learn from our mistakes -- and my mistakes --
and that we take advantage of that learning to make sure that we
take back the nation.”  Romney’s speech was warmly received by CPAC attendees, who
gave the former Massachusetts governor several standing
ovations.  “We have not lost our way,” Romney said. “Our nation is
full of aspirations and hungry for new solutions.”  Romney, 66, pointed to Republicans currently holding
governorships, including some who weren’t invited to the event
such as New Jersey’s  Chris Christie , as being models for the
party as it moves forward.  “I would urge us all to learn lessons that come from some
of our greatest success stories, and that’s 30 Republican
governors across the country,” Romney said. “These governors
have shown that they’re able to reach across the aisle, offer
innovative solutions and that they are willing to take the
heat.”  Christie Snubbed  Christie, 50, and several other Republican governors were
excluded from the conference after they announced they’d seek
federal money under Obama’s health-care law to expand Medicaid,
an insurance program for the poor.  Romney seemed to make clear that he had no intention of
running again for president.  “I’m sorry I won’t be your president,” he said. “But I
will be your co-worker and I’ll work shoulder-to-shoulder
alongside of you.”  Other potential presidential candidates who have addressed
the conference include Rubio, Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal ,
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania, Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  and Representative
 Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , Romney’s vice presidential running mate.
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  is scheduled to speak today, the
last of the three-day meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Oxon Hill, Maryland, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  