-- Scene Last Night: Eric Schmidt, Jonathan Gray, Spike Lee
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-15T12:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/scene-last-night-eric-schmidt-jonathan-gray-spike-lee.html
“Two laps around the room, no more
than one glass of wine,” said art dealer Larry Gagosian last
night at the  New York Observer ’s 25th anniversary party.  “Show up, and I don’t mean just physically,” said
Deborra-Lee Furness, an actress, director and producer, and wife
of Hugh Jackman, in between huddles with Katie Couric and
interior designer Kelly Behun Sugarman. “You never know what
can happen.”  The crowd packed into the Four Seasons Pool Room presented
ample social opportunity, with actress  Katie Holmes  in one
corner,  Eric Schmidt , executive chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , in
another. There was artist Chuck Close and Observer writer George
Gurley.  Living this New York moment required strategy.  “Wear a great dress, so everyone stops to talk to you,”
said clothing designer Stacey Bendet.  “We’re staying in one place, so everyone sees us,” said
Broadway producer Jordan Roth.  “You say hi, you lie, and you move on,” said Peter Davis,
editor of the Observer’s Scene magazine.  Many guests were included in the newspaper’s list of the
“100 most influential New Yorkers” published this week.  “I’m just a boy from Jersey,” said Newark Mayor Cory A. Booker of making the list.  Spike Lee, also on the list, sat on the ledge of the pool
in a puffy Moncler jacket, talking into the din.  “The secret to a party like this is finding a spot near
the food and drink,” Lee said.  Smoked Duck  Ronald O. Perelman, chairman of MacAndrews & Forbes
Holdings Inc., was with daughter Samantha, a student at Columbia
Business School. They passed by the buffet offering smoked duck,
turkey and bass.  Wendi Deng Murdoch made her entrance in a Rodarte dress
without her husband,  Rupert Murdoch , chairman of  News Corp. (NWSA) 
“He’s ice skating with the kids in Central Park,” she said.
“He’ll be here soon.” He made it.  Miss Universe China 2011, Luo Zilin, who is competing on
Oxygen Media’s “The Face,” spoke with Tom Hooper, the director
of “Les Miserables.”  “The joy of tonight is that I’m not ’working it’ at all,”
said Hooper. “I’m here to have fun.”  Jonathan Gray , global head of real estate at  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , and one of the Observer’s “25 to watch,” arrived
early enough to have a clear path to Jared Kushner, the
newspaper’s owner.  Naive Kid  In remarks delivered on the steps of the Pool Room, Kushner
said he was a “25-year-old naive kid” when he bought the
publication seven years ago. Since then revenue has tripled, he
added.  Near the anniversary cake, Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, talked with filmmaker  Harvey Weinstein .  “The secret to working a party like this? Make sure you
greet your hosts,” Weinstein said.  “Stay the whole time,” Trump added.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Scott Reyburn on  art ,  Greg Evans 
and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  