-- Senate JPMorgan Report Gives SEC Road Map for Potential Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/senate-jpmorgan-report-gives-sec-road-map-for-potential-lawsuit.html
The U.S. Senate probe into  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  did more than conclude the bank hid the full damage
of last year’s trading losses from investors and regulators. It
also delivered 900 pages of  evidence  that could help the
Securities and Exchange Commission make the case that bank
executives broke the law.  Former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said last year that her
agency was investigating whether JPMorgan adequately disclosed
the losses on a derivatives portfolio that eventually swelled to
more than $6.2 billion.  The case may become an early test for SEC chairman nominee
Mary Jo White, a former prosecutor picked to help the agency
shed a reputation for failing to prosecute Wall Street
wrongdoing. White may have to avoid personal involvement in the
case because her law firm has represented JPMorgan.  SEC officials weighing charges of improper disclosures will
be able to draw on the 300-page  report  by the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations released on March 14, as well as
over 90,000 e-mails and other documents, 200 transcribed
telephone calls and 25 interviews with bank officials compiled
by the committee.  “The report puts tremendous pressure on the SEC to address
the responsibilities of JPMorgan and its top officers for what
is happening in the trenches,” Robert W. Hillman, a securities
law professor at the  University of California  at Davis School of
Law, said in an e-mail. “This gives the SEC a chance to respond
to the many questions that have been raised as to whether the
agency can be an effective regulator or will continue to be a
potted plant.”  Billions Lost  Senate investigators found that JPMorgan’s portfolio of
 credit derivatives  began to lose money in the first quarter of
2012 while tripling over the three-month period to a net
notional value of $157 billion. The positions were so large they
swayed international credit markets and earned the U.K.-based
trader the nickname ‘London Whale.’  The portfolio lost $415 million on a single day three days
before JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told
investors on an April earnings call that stories about the
losses were a “tempest in a teapot,” according to the Senate
findings.  The bank’s communications and securities filings about the
trades “were incomplete, contained numerous inaccuracies, and
misinformed investors, regulators and the public” about the
losses,’’ said Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and the
subcommittee’s chairman.  Investor Information  The SEC enforces laws that require public companies to tell
investors about information that affects a person’s willingness
to buy, sell or hold securities. Courts have held that such
material information includes information about earnings
estimates or events likely to change the company’s share price,
the Senate report says.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment about the
regulator’s investigation.  The Senate report accused bank officials of taking actions
to lower loss estimates as well as improperly changing risk
models that gauge potential losses.  John Coffee , a securities
law professor at  Columbia University , said the report could
provide a road map for prosecuting bank officials over such
failures and said he expects the bank to settle a case soon with
the SEC. Mark Kornblau, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  “The SEC can say, in doing those things without full
disclosure, you misled investors,” Coffee said in a phone
interview. “That would be the natural conclusion.”  ‘Fully Transparent’  Levin also faulted Douglas L. Braunstein, then the bank’s
chief financial officer, for saying on the earnings call that
the bank was “very comfortable with our positions as they are
held today, and I would add that all of those positions are
fully transparent to the regulators.”  “You give this very glowing call,” Levin said at a Senate
hearing. “You thought it was a balanced presentation? Not
disclosing that it was losing money? Not disclosing that it
violated all five risk limits regularly, in some cases for
months?”  Braunstein said he made his “best, good-faith effort” to
disclose the portfolio’s losses to investors.  The subcommittee’s report also raised questions about
whether JPMorgan’s disclosures accurately described the
involvement of risk managers and bank regulators, the nature of
the London unit’s trades as a hedge and whether they would be
allowed under the Volcker rule banning proprietary trading by
federally-insured banks.  White Recusal  The SEC, which began its investigation under Schapiro,
could have a new chairman as soon as next week. The Senate
Banking Committee has scheduled a vote on White’s nomination for
March 19; she would next need to be approved by a vote of the
full Senate.  White could have to recuse herself from any commission
action on an enforcement case against JPMorgan. She has pledged
to abstain for one year from any SEC matter that involves a
former client of her  law firm , Debevoise & Plimpton LLP. White
listed JPMorgan as a Debevoise client on her financial
disclosure form last month.  Jacob S. Frenkel, a securities lawyer and former SEC
enforcement attorney, said the SEC’s investigation would
probably focus on the “accuracy and timeliness of disclosures
and possible omissions.” The Senate’s findings may be useful as
a “road map, but not as gospel” as the SEC combs through the
bank’s justification for its disclosures, he said.  Public Pressure  If there is a violation, the SEC “is well positioned and
capable of bringing a case,” Frenkel said in a phone interview.
“If there is no violation, then it should not respond to
congressional or public pressure and simply do so for the sake
of extracting a settlement.”  Senate investigative reports have sometimes foreshadowed
lawsuits by regulators and prosecutors.  In July the subcommittee issued a report detailing a decade
of lax controls against  money laundering  and terrorist financing
at HSBC Holdings Plc. In December, the bank agreed to pay $1.92
billion to settle the Department of Justice’s claims that it
laundered funds of sanctions nations including Iran and  Sudan .  The SEC isn’t the only regulator that could seek to
penalize JPMorgan over its disclosures.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which
oversees JPMorgan because it is a  bank holding company , last
month ordered JPMorgan to strengthen its risk and auditing
controls in connection with the botched derivatives trades.
 Thomas Curry , the OCC’s chief, told Levin’s subcommittee that
his agency could take further action based on the Senate
findings.  “We will continue to investigate this matter,” Curry
said. “Be assured that I will not hesitate to take additional
action if warranted in response to any new information we learn
from the report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  