-- Siemens Can’t List Osram in April as Registration Is Blocked
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-15T10:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/siemens-unable-to-list-osram-unit-in-april-after-legal-action.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  won’t be able to list
shares of its underperforming Osram lighting unit in April as
some shareholders filed a motion against the legal registration
of the spinoff.  The move will block the listing for now,  Europe ’s biggest
engineering company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Siemens, based in Munich, said earlier this year it wants to
exit the business as quickly as possible, without giving a
specific timeframe.  About 98 percent of Shareholders approved the spinoff of
Osram in January after the company canceled a plan for an
initial public offering of the business last year after
realizing that investments to keep pace in the lighting market
would be too great to shoulder. Siemens investors will receive
one Osram share for every 10 shares they own.  Siemens said today it considers the action to be without
merit and will “rigorously” drive the planned exit.  “By an overwhelming majority of over 98 percent, Siemens’
shareholders gave us a clear mandate at the AGM: to list Osram
on the stock exchange via a spinoff,” Chief Financial Officer
Joe Kaeser said. “In the interest of our shareholders, we will
carry out this mandate diligently and reliably.”  Weeding Out   Siemens, whose shares last year returned only one third of
the German DAX benchmark index’s advance, also earmarked units
such as airport luggage systems, mail automation and water
technology for disposal as it’s combing through its portfolio to
weed out laggards. The company in January said that units making
trains and low-voltage gear also fell short of their potential
in the most recent quarter.  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher , on his
second five-year term, has come under pressure to boost
profitability and refocus the company after some deals that he
supervised soured, and a push into more environmentally friendly
energy generation led to spiraling costs. Siemens’ profitability
has trailed that at competitors General Electric Co. and  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  for six consecutive quarters, according to Bloomberg data.  Today the stock dropped 0.1 percent to 83.84 euros as of
11:04 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 74 billion euros
($96 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  