-- Sigourney Weaver Kills on Broadway; Bette Davis: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/sigourney-weaver-kills-on-broadway-bette-davis-review.html
When Christopher Durang’s “Vanya
and Sonia and Masha and Spike” opened off-Broadway in November,
I called this seriously silly play the funniest show in town,
yet one with an emotional kick that lifted it to a more rarefied
plane.  Happily, the show has re-opened on Broadway with its cast
(the headliners are Sigourney Weaver and David Hyde Pierce), its
bucolic Bucks County setting (David Korins) and its laughs
intact. It’s even better on second viewing, a rare thing for a
comedy.  Weaver plays Masha, a movie star not unlike Sigourney
Weaver, who returns to the country home where her unfocused gay
brother Vanya (Hyde Pierce) and terminally disappointed sister
Sonia (Kristine Nielsen) sleepwalk through lives of, you know,
Chekhovian torpor.  Masha has brought her vacant young lover Spike. Goosing the
mix is the housekeeper, Cassandra, endowed with about 50 percent
of her Greek namesake’s prognosticating abilities, and Nina, the
lovely next door neighbor who catches Spike’s eye.  Each of the six characters gets a chance to shine in
Nicholas Martin’s sparkling production, including Billy
Magnussen as the physically gifted Spike, Genevieve Angelson as
the clueless ingenue Nina and, especially, Shalita Grant as the
indomitably self-confident Cassandra.  Through June 30 at the Golden Theatre. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ****1/2  ‘Lying Lesson’  A dark and stormy night, a cottage in the middle of nowhere
and Bette Davis with a chef’s knife. Sounds like a movie, right?  Craig Lucas’s “The Lying Lesson” imagines the aging movie
star in 1981, coming to take possession of a summer house in
Maine. She arrives in the middle of the night and is soon joined
by the caretaker, Minnie Bodine, who is neither as small nor as
vague as her name suggests.  Few playwrights are as maddeningly inconsistent as Lucas,
whose peaks include “Prelude to a Kiss” and “Reckless,” and
whose valleys include the more recent “The Singing Forest.”  “The Lying Lesson” falls toward the peak side, especially
under Pam Mackinnon’s expert direction, as Bette (Carol Kane)
and Minnie (Mickey Sumner) negotiate a relationship built on
crumbling trust, mutual need and lots of film in-jokes.  Bette’s Eyes  Kane has the eyes, of course, as well as the glower, the
expansive gesticulations and the ability to play self-adulation
without tottering over into camp.  Sumner is the show’s revelation, however. A daughter of
Sting and Trudie Styler, she plays the Down East country girl
with a perfectly convincing mix of willfulness and
vulnerability. She and Kane make “The Lying Lesson” an
entertaining guessing game of who’s the teacher and who the
student.  Through March 31 at the Atlantic Theater Company, 336 W.
20th St., Chelsea. Information: +1-212-279-4200;
 http://www.ticketcentral.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 