-- SocGen Joins Banks Starting Electronic Structured Note Platforms
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-15T07:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/socgen-joins-banks-starting-electronic-structured-note-platforms.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  is starting an
electronic platform to sell structured notes, joining  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and at least five other banks in providing
technology they say will cut costs by as much as 95 percent.  France ’s second-biggest lender will offer its Alpha
platform to more structured note clients from next month,
allowing wealth managers such as private banks to customize
securities they’re buying on behalf of clients. Credit Suisse
introduced a similar service last month, which allows users to
choose everything from the size of the note to the currency it’s
issued in.  “Banks are focusing on being the most efficient provider
of the highest-quality products at the lowest cost,” said Johan
Groothaert, the global head of investment products and platforms
at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in  London . Fully automated platforms, which reduce the
number of staff needed for structuring and issuing notes, can
save banks as much as 95 percent in structuring deals, he said.  Structured notes are bonds packaged with derivatives, such
as options, that are customized for individual investors. Banks
are trying to make it faster and cheaper to issue the debt,
while allowing buyers in the $1.4 trillion market to tailor the
securities according to their needs.  Lower Costs  The cost of issuing a structured note through Zurich-based
UBS’s Equity Investor platform, which has more than 8,000
customers, is as low as $175 per offering, said Groothaert. That
compares with the $3,000 to $20,000 cost of issuing structured
notes through a traditional medium-term note program, he said.  A typical MTN transaction involves a salesman coordinating
with his bank’s MTN desk and derivatives team to get quotations
on how much to charge a client for the various components of a
note. Lawyers also have to create a term sheet for the note.  On an automated platform, the salesmen and lawyers
typically aren’t needed, said Groothaert. The user specifies the
features of the note using a software program and the final term
sheet is drawn up from a template, he said.  Lower costs make it easier to issue smaller notes, said
Daniel Sandmeier, the head of structured products marketing and
distribution at Credit Suisse in Zurich.  “Fully automated platforms today allow issuers to offer
structured notes starting from investment amounts as low as
$20,000,” Sandmeier said. Previously, banks would require a
minimum issuance size of more than $1 million, he said.  Morgan Stanley  New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  said they
introduced similar technology in the last 10 months.  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  also have electronic
platforms for creating structured notes.  The banks’ software should work well with established
structures such as reverse convertibles that have a size of
$50,000 to $15 million, said Christian Kronseder, the senior
director of sales and public distribution for  Switzerland  at RBS
in Zurich. More complex securities may require more interaction
with an issuer’s sales staff and traders, he said.  Such electronic platforms make sense considering the
maturity of the market, where many structures are standardized
said Cyrille Peponnet, the head of e-business structured
products at Paris-based BNP Paribas.  “Many products are commoditized and well understood by
advisers and investors,” he said.  The platforms help private banks, asset managers and retail
banks sell the products they create to wealthy individuals. Most
of the banks don’t charge, though platform users may add fees to
the bills they present to clients, said Groothaert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  