-- Spain Debt Jumps Less Than Forecast as Crisis Weakens
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-15T11:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/spain-debt-jumps-less-than-forecast-as-crisis-weakens.html
Spain ’s 2012  public sector debt 
rose less than forecast by the European Commission, lending
support to Premier Mariano Rajoy’s view that the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy is past the worst of a six-year  slump .  Borrowings rose 20 percent to 884.4 billion euros ($1.15
trillion) at the end of December from 736.5 billion euros a year
earlier, according to the Madrid-based central bank’s estimate.
That represents 84.1 percent of gross domestic product, up from
69.3 percent a year earlier and 77.3 percent in the third
quarter. It is less than the commission’s forecast of 88.4
percent.  “This is another positive surprise after the deficit
numbers,” said London-based senior economist at Berenberg Bank
Christian Schulz in a telephone interview. “We may see
revisions, but the key point is that progress is showing up in
data, not only on competitiveness and exports, but also on the
fiscal side.”  Rajoy is trying to persuade investors and euro zone peers
he can foster a recovery in the second half this year after
overshooting his  budget-deficit  target by more than 50 percent
in 2012. The EU last month predicted Spain’s contraction will be
almost three times the government’s 0.5 percent forecast.  No ‘Negative Surprises’  “Unlike last year, we’re not getting negative surprises
and that should improve confidence and ultimately drive down
borrowing costs for the government as well as the rest of the
economy,” Schulz said.  A political stalemate in  Italy  hasn’t dented a rally in
Spanish bonds, supported by Rajoy’s claim the budget gap fell to
6.7 percent last year, excluding bank aid, from 9 percent in
2011. That is less than an EU forecast of 7 percent. The yield
on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bonds  fell one basis point to 4.85
percent at 12:02 p.m. in  Madrid , compared with a euro-era high
of 7.75 percent in July. The spread with similar German
maturities was at 339 basis points.  European stocks declined from a 4 1/2-year high after EU
leaders meeting in Brussels loosened the shackles on national
budgets as the euro-area recession deepens and before the single
currency’s finance ministers gather at 5:00 p.m. today to deal
with an aid package for Cyprus.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 297.79 at
11:23 a.m. in  London . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  extended
the longest rally since 1996 yesterday. Futures on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index advanced 0.5 percent.  Biggest Challenge  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said
restarting the euro-region economy is his biggest challenge in
2013 after stabilizing the bloc’s financial system last year by
pledging to defend the euro. Output from the 17-nation currency
union will shrink by 0.3 percent this year, the EU forecasts.  Spain’s debt load will beat the euro-area average for the
first time in the currency’s history this year and top 100
percent of output in 2014, the commission says. Rated one to two
steps above junk by three rating companies amid a sixth year of
 slump , Spain has so far avoided a full bailout helped by ECB
support.  Indicators suggest activity may be improving after the
recession deepened in the last quarter. The rise in jobless
claims slowed in February, while industrial output declined less
than expected in January. Data released today showed labor costs
dropped 3.2 percent in the last quarter, the most since the
start of the series in 2000. That has helped boost exports to
the highest level on record last year.  Bank Aid  The central government last year accounted for most of the
debt after it sought European aid for Spanish banks and
backstopped the nation’s municipalities as well as its tax-
funded pensions and jobless-benefit systems.  European aid for banks represents 3.9 percent of GDP, the
Bank of Spain said. Debt and loans to bailout out the regions
and municipalities contributed to the nation’s debt for 4.1
percent of GDP, including funding to help pay public suppliers
and redeem bonds, it said.  “Pressure is likely to build,” London-based Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts wrote in a note today. “We are
still in the dark over how Spain will reduce its budget deficit
to affordable levels over the next few years.”  Elsewhere in  Europe , the euro-area inflation rate fell for
a second month in February, led by price declines in the
telecommunications industry. Annual consumer-price growth slowed
to 1.8 percent from 2 percent in January, in line with an
initial estimate on March 1.  Asia, U.S.  In the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler is considering Chinese-style lending
restrictions to curb a housing boom.  In Singapore retail sales fell 2 percent in January from a
year earlier, while home sales plunged 65 percent in February
after the government introduced its seventh round of cooling
measures in January. In the  Philippines , unemployment climbed to
7.1 percent in January, government statistics showed.  U.S. consumer prices may have risen at a faster pace from a
month earlier in February, a Bloomberg survey showed. An index
of manufacturing activity in the  New York  region in March
probably held near the highest since May 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  