-- Sri Lanka’s GDP Growth Exceeds Estimates on Domestic Spending
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-03-15T10:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/sri-lanka-s-gdp-growth-exceeds-estimates-on-domestic-spending.html
Sri Lanka ’s economy expanded last
quarter faster than analysts estimated as domestic demand helped
offset a slump in exports.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.3 percent in the three months
to Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the statistics department said
in a statement today, compared with 4.8 percent in July-to-
September. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine analysts was for a 5.5 percent climb. Growth in 2012 was
6.4 percent, the report showed.  The end of a 26-year civil war in 2009 has driven
investment in roads and ports and brought gains in tourism,
supporting expansion. The central bank held  interest rates  for a
third meeting on March 8 in a bid to spur economic growth, after
exports declined in all except one month in 2012 and bad weather
hurt agricultural output.  “Sri Lanka looks well positioned to achieve slightly
faster growth in 2013 given that the policy bias is shifting
towards supporting expansion,” Samantha Amerasinghe, an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in  Colombo , said before the
release. She forecasts GDP will rise 6.7 percent this year.  The monetary authority raised borrowing costs in February
and April last year and let the rupee weaken to tackle a trade
deficit that pressured reserves. It then cut  interest rates  in
December.  Consumer prices  climbed 9.8 percent in February from a year
earlier, among the fastest rates in  Asia .  Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said earlier in
March that economic growth momentum is going to be “pretty
strong” in the next few months. He predicts expansion of 7.5
percent this year.  The island’s rupee has strengthened about 1.2 percent
against the dollar in 2013. The Colombo All-Share Index is up
1.1 percent in that period.  Agriculture fell 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, while services rose 3.7 percent and industry grew
13.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  