-- Synthomer Profit Beats Estimates as CEO Flags Investment
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-03-15T10:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/synthomer-profit-beats-estimates-as-ceo-flags-investment-1-.html
Synthomer Plc (SYNT)  reported annual
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as Chief Executive
Officer Adrian Whitfield said he is evaluating additional
investments to expand in  emerging markets .  The company made a solid start to 2013, driven by demand
for dispersions used in resins and coatings, Whitfield said in
an interview. Synthomer reported an increase in adjusted
earnings per share to 22 pence from 18.8 pence. Analysts
predicted 21.1 pence.  “The situation in  Asia  is still pretty bullish,”
Whitfield said today.  Synthomer reiterated that business conditions in Asia for
nitrile latex, used in surgical gloves and condoms, have
stabilized and an improvement is possible toward year-end. A
European construction slump and a jump in capacity and
aggressive pricing by Asian nitrile latex competitors have
hampered the returns from Synthomer’s $592 million purchase of
Polymerlatex in late 2010, its biggest ever acquisition.  Shares of Synthomer climbed as much as 1.7 percent before
trading 0.6 percent lower at 223.10 pence in  London  as of 9:56
a.m. local time.  Expansion  In  Europe , the integration of PolymerLatex is a focus to
obtain planned cost savings of 25 million pounds ($37 million)
this year. Synthomer had to grapple with Asian rivals that
increased capacity and dropped prices to take market share. The
world’s biggest nitrile-latex supplier responded with it’s own
price cuts to stop the “volume drain” and since then business
conditions have stabilized in the region.  Whitfield said investments will be made in Asia to expand
non-nitrile operations as factories are currently fully
utilized. Synthomer’s range of products includes polymers used
in adhesives and resins. Synthomer has “very specific” plans
for expansion in the  Middle East  and is evaluating some other
emerging market projects, Whitfield said in the interview.  The company reported net income of 56.6 million pounds,
compared with an estimated 44.3 million pounds.  Debt declined to 156 million pounds from 164 million
pounds. Leverage, at 1.2 times earnings, is at a reasonable
level with room for bolt-on purchases, Finance Director David
Blackwood said.  In terms of the availability of assets, it’s “not a bad
scenario at the moment,” with companies assessing what areas
they want to focus on and what business are peripheral,
Blackwood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  