-- Syrian Civil War Leaves 5 Million in Need of Aid, UN Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-15T12:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/syrian-civil-war-leaves-5-million-in-need-of-aid-un-says.html
Syria ’s two-year civil war has made
5 million people into refugees or aid recipients and left
virtually no safe areas for civilians, the United Nations said.  “Significantly more” than 4 million Syrians are in need
within the country and a further 1.1 million have fled abroad,
said Radhouane Nouicer, the UN’s regional humanitarian
coordinator, in a statement marking the second anniversary of
the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  “The civilian space is eroding as there is almost no place
deemed to be safe,” he said in the statement, noting that aid
funding was inadequate. “It is not possible to meet 100 percent
of the needs with only 21 percent of the funding required for
the first half of 2013. That math just doesn’t work. It
translates into less food, fewer blankets, fewer medicines, less
clean water.”  Peaceful anti-Assad protests that began in 2011 have
developed into a civil war that’s killed at least 70,000 people
by UN estimates. Attempts by the U.S.,  France  and Britain to
force UN Security Council action against Assad have been stymied
by Russia and  China .  Unless funding is increased to aid Syrian civilians, “some
activities will not get off the ground or will simply stop,”
Nouicer said. The funding gap for Syrians who have fled their
country is $700 million, Antonio Guterres, the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees, told reporters in  Beirut  today.  “There is no way a gap of this magnitude can be filled
with current humanitarian budgets,” he said. “We are
witnessing not only a humanitarian tragedy, but also a threat to
international peace and security.”  Arming Rebels  Germany wants talks to begin immediately on a French and
British proposal at today’s European Union summit in Brussels to
arm Syria’s rebels, German Foreign Office spokesman Andreas
Peschke told reporters.  While  Germany  believes that aiding the insurgents is the
only means to pressure Assad’s government, the question remains
“how,” Peschke said.  Civil conflict means “health standards have fallen
dramatically, medical facilities have been targeted and health
workers killed, intimidated or detained while trying to save
lives,” Robert Mardini, the International Committee of the Red
Cross’s head of operations for the Near and Middle East, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Property and infrastructure have
been severely damaged, leaving large areas in rubble.”  Meanwhile, the Red Cross is being denied access to
detainees by the Syrian authorities.  ‘Very Worrying’  “We have no first-hand information on the situation of
detainees and this is very worrying for us,” Mardini said.  Opposition groups are marking the anniversary of the civil
war -- and the deaths of about 5,000 people each month -- with
candlelight vigils in cities around the world.  Hampered by a lack of coordination and weapons, rebel
forces have made little progress in expanding zones under their
control, the London-based International Institute for Strategic
Studies said yesterday. A divided opposition has twice canceled
meetings to elect an interim government this month.  Damage to infrastructure is increasing, and has reached at
least $80 billion, an impossible bill for any new government,
Abdullah al-Dardaria, a former Syrian minister for economic
affairs, who is now working on a UN-backed reconstruction plan,
told Lebanon’s Daily Star newspaper.  Syrian protests that began in the southern town of Deraa
called on Assad to reform, not resign. His forces responded with
gunfire, saying demonstrations were led by armed criminal gangs.  About 9,000 people died in the first year. The monthly
death toll has risen since about 1,000 in 2011 to about 5,000
this year.  The conflict has increasingly developed along sectarian
lines, with many Sunni Muslims, who comprised 60 percent of the
population before 2011, supporting the opposition while Assad is
backed by members of his Alawite community. Kurds, Christians
and Druze are also involved in the conflict.  If the war is not stopped, “there will be an explosion in
the Middle East,” Guterres said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  