-- Szczesny and Vermaelen May Leave Arsenal: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-15T11:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/szczesny-and-vermaelen-may-leave-arsenal-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Arsenal Exit?  Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny and captain  Thomas Vermaelen  may be on the way out as manager  Arsene Wenger  “gets
tough” with underachievers, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Wenger is targeting Stoke’s Asmir Begovic, Simon Mignolet
of Sunderland and Liverpool’s Pepe Reina as a replacement for
the Polish goalkeeper.  Malaga Midfielder  Arsenal is willing to pay as much as 30 million pounds ($46
million) for Malaga midfielder Isco, the  Daily Star  reported.  Wenger has 70 million pounds at his disposal to strengthen
his squad, the newspaper said.  Isco, 20, played his first match for European and world
champion Spain last month during a 3-1 win against Uruguay.  Reading Favorite  Bradford manager Phil Parkinson is the favorite to replace
Reading manager Brian McDermott, who was fired earlier this
week, the  Sun  reported.  Parkinson, a former Reading player who is out of contract
at the end of the season, would “relish” the chance to manage
his old club, the newspaper said.  Under Parkinson’s guidance, Bradford this season became the
first fourth-tier club to appear in a major Wembley final. The
team eventually lost 5-0 to Swansea City in the League Cup
final.  Chelsea Shock  Chelsea’s players are “not happy,” they’re being sent on
a trip to the U.S. to play in a four-team tournament two days
after their final Premier League match, the  Sun  reported.  “They were looking forward to a holiday after flying all
over the world in the busiest season in club history,” the
newspaper quoted an undisclosed source as saying. “But the club
see this as an opportunity to confirm their status as the most
popular Premier League team in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  