-- U.K. Stocks Drop; FTSE 100 Retreats From Five-Year High
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-03-15T16:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-near-five-year-high.html
U.K. stocks  declined from their
highest level since December 2007, paring the fifth week of
gains for the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as European leaders met in
Brussels for a second day.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  dropped the most in
almost three months after the gambling company said 2013 revenue
will trail current estimates.  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  rose the most
in three years after the world’s largest pest-control company
said adjusted pretax profit jumped 16 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The FTSE 100 Index lost 39.76 points, or 0.6 percent, to
6,489.65 at the close of trading in London. The gauge yesterday
rallied to a five-year high as U.S. economic data beat estimates
and amid optimism that central banks around the world will
continue stimulus measures. The broader FTSE All-Share Index
fell 0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.3
percent.  “It’s not unusual to see a bit of profit taking at the end
of the week after some strong days in the market,” Veronika Pechlaner, who helps manage about $1.5 billion at  Jersey ,
Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., said in a phone interview.
“We would see any pullback in the market as a buying
opportunity. The big question is if all this positive macro data
out of the U.S. at the moment will stay that way in the second
quarter when tax hikes and spending cuts from earlier in the
year are felt in the market.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 was 47 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Brussels Summit  European Union leaders, meeting for a second day in
Brussels today, may endorse plans for loosening austerity
measures and giving debt-ridden countries more time to bring
down deficits.  Italian legislators failed to select speakers for the
country’s two houses of parliament today in a sign of the
growing political gridlock in the EU’s fourth-largest economy.
They met for the first time since elections last month meant no
candidate won the majority in both houses required of an Italian
government. The parliament will hold a second ballot today.  In the U.S., Britain’s biggest trading partner, industrial
production increased 0.7 percent in February after being
unchanged the previous month, figures from the  Federal Reserve 
showed in  Washington . The median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent gain.  Other data showed  manufacturing  in the  New York  area
expanded at a slower pace than economists predicted in March.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
eased to 9.2 this month from 10 in February, which was the
highest since May. Readings above zero signal expansion.  Pound Weakness  In the U.K., policy makers aren’t trying to talk down the
pound,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said in an interview
with ITV News yesterday.  In its Quarterly Bulletin published yesterday, the BOE
noted that there had been a large drop in the pound in recent
months, which it said may have been partly related to a weaker
demand for currencies traditionally considered havens.  “There’s clearly a divergence between the FTSE 100 and the
U.K. economy,” James Butterfill, head of global equity strategy
at Coutts & Co in London, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television. His firm oversees $64 billion. “A weaker pound
hurts the consumer, but you see that 27 percent of the FTSE’s
revenue comes from growth markets and so it really benefits from
a weak sterling,” Butterfill said.  Bwin.Party dropped 4.4 percent to 144.90 pence. Revenue
will be “slightly lower” in 2013 than  analysts  currently
predict, the online betting company said in a statement.  Carnival Outlook  Carnival Corp. slipped 2.1 percent to 2,379 pence in
 London , its lowest price this year. The world’s largest cruise-
line operator cut its earnings forecast for 2013 to between
$1.80 and $2.10 a share, from a previous  forecast  for as much as
$2.40 a share. The stock fell every session this week for the
biggest streak of declines in almost eight months.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest security company, fell 1.5
percent to 298.3 pence. Bank of America Corp. cut its rating on
the stock to underperform, similar to a sell recommendation,
from neutral, with analysts led by Andrew C. Ripper citing the
shares’ recent rally. G4S has increased 21 percent since the end
of November.  Rentokil rallied 9.4 percent to 99 pence, the biggest jump
since February 2010. Revenue increased 2.8 percent at constant
exchange rates in 2012, the company said in a statement. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Brown  said he expects Rentokil will
sustain the growth seen in the fourth quarter throughout 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  