-- U.K. Lawmakers Call on Regulator to ‘Bear Down’ on Prop Trading
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-k-lawmakers-call-on-regulator-to-bear-down-on-prop-trading.html
Regulators should “bear down” on
banks’ proprietary trading activities and review the case for an
outright ban within three years, according to a panel of British
lawmakers seeking to make the financial system safer.  The Prudential Regulation Authority should stop banks from
engaging in trades that aren’t linked to clients’ activities,
while firms should publish their risk exposures and report any
“control issues” raised by the regulator, the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a report today.  “It is particularly objectionable that the government
should subsidise and carry the risk for activities where the
benefits might accrue to bank employees and shareholders, much
of which would have little or no social utility, and which may
pose a threat to banking culture,” the committee said.  The panel stopped short of immediately recommending a ban
similar to that required under the U.S. Volcker rule, citing the
difficulties of differentiating between risks banks take as part
of their market-making activities and stand-alone bets. The
London-based committee said the PRA, the regulator that will
from next month be responsible for overseeing stability in the
banking and insurance industry, should police firms’ trading.  “The main U.K.-headquartered banks have told us that they
don’t engage in proprietary trading at the present time and do
not wish to do so,” it said. “We recommend that the PRA, with
immediate effect, ensure that their regular scrutiny of banks
monitors this assertion and holds banks to it.”  George Osborne  The parliamentary commission was set up by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  last year to review the
government’s plans to overhaul how Britain’s banks are regulated
after taxpayers were forced to bail out  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  The panel has already
called on Osborne to toughen his plans to force lenders to erect
firewalls around banks’ consumer units.  Proprietary trading, where traders use a bank’s capital to
make independent bets on the direction of securities, generated
an increasing proportion of bank profits before 2007 and may
have contributed to the financial crisis by pitting traders
against their clients and promoting a culture of excessive
short-term remuneration, the panel said in its report.  Regulators should “pay close attention to trading units
which have characteristics such as large open or arbitrage
positions and volatile revenue flows,” the panel said. If a
bank can’t demonstrate that such trading activities are related
to serving clients, the regulator should intervene, the
commission said.  Next Report  The panel said an immediate outright ban would be
impracticable because establishing whether banks were taking
bets on the market or taking legitimate proprietary positions as
a by-product of making markets for clients would be difficult.
Plans to set up so-called ring fences between firms’ consumer
and wholesale banking operations should reduce the need for a
specific law on proprietary trading, it added.  The regulator should publish a report within three years
outlining its success or failure in monitoring proprietary
trading as well as the outcome of plans by the U.S.,  France  and
 Germany  to curb the activity.  “The progress -- or otherwise -- of the USA, and, to a
lesser extent, France and Germany, in establishing a definition
of proprietary trading and enforcing their measures should
become apparent over time,” the panel said. “This will provide
valuable evidence to enable a better assessment of the
feasibility and likely effectiveness of similar action in the
U.K.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  