-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Hold; Jefferies Finance to Sell Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-15T21:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-before-factory-production-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held as data showed U.S. industrial production rose in
February while  consumer confidence  slumped this month, signaling
the economic recovery may be uneven.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 78.7 basis points at 4:07 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
closed yesterday at the lowest level since Jan. 11, 2010.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.7
percent, the most in three months and exceeding the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed today in Washington. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary sentiment index for
March fell to 71.8, below the median estimate of 78 expected by
67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Consumer sentiment is just one data point,”  Mirko Mikelic , a senior portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management in  Grand Rapids , Michigan, said today in a telephone
interview. “You’re seeing a little bit of a reaction, but
overall, everything is heading in a positive direction,
particularly in the U.S.”  Jefferies Offering  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Jefferies Finance LLC, a commercial-finance company linked
to  Jefferies Group LLC (JEF) , plans to raise $500 million with a sale
of seven-year notes. Jefferies Finance intends to issue the
securities for general corporate purposes, according to a person
familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified,
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  The unit originates and syndicates primarily secured loans
to corporate borrowers. Jefferies Group, the New York-based
investment bank, created the firm as a joint venture in 2004
with Babson Capital Management LLC and Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co., according to a regulatory filing.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 4.6 basis points to 393 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  DirecTV Swaps  The cost to protect the debt of a unit of  DirecTV (DTV)  against
default dropped to a record low after the company pulled out of
bidding for Vivendi SA’s Brazilian phone and Internet
subsidiary, GVT, forgoing an option to add more services in
 South America .  The five-year credit-default swaps that protect the debt of
DirecTV Holdings LLC and DirecTV Financing Co. dropped 8.8 basis
points to 133.6 basis points as of 4:01 p.m. in New York,
Bloomberg prices show. DirecTV, the biggest U.S. satellite-TV
carrier, and a group of private-equity firms had made
preliminary offers to acquire the Brazilian business, people
with knowledge of the matter said. Paris-based  Vivendi (VIV)  halted
the planned sale on dissatisfaction with the bids it received,
according to a company spokesman.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt added 1.1 basis points to 489.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  