-- U.S. Cane-Sugar Processors Seen at Risk of Default on Price Drop
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-03-15T22:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-cane-sugar-processors-seen-at-risk-of-default-on-price-drop.html
U.S. cane-sugar producers are at
higher risk of defaulting on loans issued by the government as a
supply glut pushed prices below production costs, a growers’
group said.  “The entire industry is vulnerable to defaults as
everybody is facing higher input costs and lower prices because
of the oversupply situation, exacerbated by surging imports,”
in particular from  Mexico , Jack Roney, director of economics and
policy analysis at the American Sugar Alliance, said in a
telephone interview from  Washington .  The non-recourse loans extended by the government’s
Commodity Credit Corp. were, on average, 18.75 cents for each
pound of cane-sugar produced, and 24.09 cents for each pound of
refined sugar made from beets, Roney said. If prices drop below
those levels, borrowers can repay their debt by selling to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Spot prices for cane sugar averaged 20.72 cents a pound in
February, while refined sugar made from beets averaged 28 cents,
Roney said. To pay the principal plus the interest, cane
processors need to sell their product at an average of about 21
cents and beet processors between 23.3 cents and 25.6 cents,
Roney said. “Right now, the beet processors are in better
shape,” he said.  Domestic raw-sugar prices slumped 38 percent in the past
year to 21.63 cents a pound today on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, amid the biggest glut in more than a decade.  As of mid-January, processors pledged 1.83 million short
tons as collateral for $775.3 million of loans, equal to 20
percent of the crop, according to government data obtained by
Bloomberg. A little more than half was taken by refined sugar
producers, the figures show.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that processors
that took out the bulk of the loans could be at a higher risk of
default. The newspaper also reported that the USDA was
considering the purchase of 400,000 tons of sugar to boost
prices and avert forfeitures.  The USDA hasn’t decided how to reduce the country’s sugar
surplus, Justin DeJong, a spokesman for the agency, said March
13 in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  