-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Consumer Confidence Data, Dollar Declines
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-15T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-stocks-fall-on-consumer-confidence-as-pound-gains-on-boe.html
U.S.  stocks  fell from a five-year
high and Treasuries rose after  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
dropped, while the dollar fell to a one-week low against the
euro as a report showed U.S. inflation is contained.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,560.72 after closing within two points of a record yesterday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped for the first time in
11 days. Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields fell four basis
points to 1.99 percent. The dollar depreciated 0.4 percent to
$1.3061 per euro. Natural gas rose to the highest since November
on speculation that a late cold blast will boost heating demand.  “When you get such a strong run and you couple that with
it being at historical levels, then buyers are a little bit more
wary of jumping in,” Wayne Lin, fund manager at Baltimore-based
Legg Mason Inc., which oversees $654 billion, said in a phone
interview. “Equities are fairly valued, but we’ve had a very
strong run and there is a question out there as to what’s going
on more fundamentally.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
sentiment index for March fell to 71.8 from 77.6 in February.
The gauge was projected to increase to 78, according to the
median estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Industrial production rose more than forecast in February
as U.S. factories turned out more business equipment and motor
vehicles. Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.7
percent, exceeding the median projection in a Bloomberg survey,
figures from the Federal Reserve showed today in Washington.
Separate data showed manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded for a second month in March and industry managers grew
more optimistic about the future.  Near Record  Trading in S&P 500 stocks was about 43 percent above the
30-day average at this time of day.  The S&P 500 climbed yesterday to within two points of its
record closing level of 1,565.15 set in October 2007. The gauge
has more than doubled from its bottom in 2009, fueled by
corporate earnings that topped estimates and monetary stimulus
from the Federal Reserve.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. slid 1.9 percent after being asked to
submit new capital plans to regulators in the wake of stress
tests. Separately, a Senate investigation found that JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon misled investors and dodged
regulators as losses escalated on a “monstrous” derivatives
bet last year.  Bank of America Corp. gained 3.8 percent to the highest
level since May 2011 after it won federal approval for a share
buyback.  U.S. Volatility  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, climbed 0.2 percent to 11.32. The gauge dropped
yesterday to the lowest level since February 2007.  The dollar versus the euro touched the lowest level since
March 8. The U.S. currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 95.39 yen.
U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in the 12 months ended
in February, after a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain the prior
month, a Labor Department report showed today in Washington.  Fed policy makers indicated in December that an
“exceptionally low” target interest rate is appropriate as
long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to more than 2.5
percent and unemployment stays above 6.5 percent.  Treasuries rose, dropping 10-year yields below 2 percent
for the first time in six days. The Fed purchased $5.2 billion
of Treasuries today due from December 2017 to November 2018 in a
program to bolster economic growth. China increased its holdings
of Treasuries in January by the most since 2011.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.4 percent. The index rose
0.6 percent this week, its fourth straight week of gains. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid for a fifth day, the longest
losing streak in four months, dropping 0.6 percent.  The pound was little changed against the dollar, erasing
earlier gains after Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said he
sees an argument for bolstering the economic recovery by
expanding quantitative easing.  “What I see are signs of a recovery, and I think there is
a case for supporting that through additional asset purchases,”
he said, according to the transcript of an interview with ITV
News released today.  In the first part of the interview broadcast yesterday,
King said policy makers aren’t trying to weaken the currency.
Markets determine the level of exchange rate, “not us,” King
said. Sterling gained as much as 0.6 percent earlier today.  Natural gas rose 1.6 percent to a 16-week high as Commodity
Weather Group LLC said below-normal temperatures in northern
states over the next five days will spread across the East from
March 20 through March 29. Prices rose 3.6 percent yesterday
after the government reported a bigger-than-expected supply
drop.  West Texas Intermediate crude rose to a three-week high as
inventories fell at a major storage hub and the dollar weakened.
Futures for April delivery advanced 42 cents to $93.45 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
since Feb. 20. Prices gained 1.6 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  