-- U.S. Stocks Gain in Week on Economy as S&P 500 Nears High
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-stocks-gain-in-week-on-economy-as-s-p-500-nears-high.html
U.S. stocks  climbed for the week,
sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index within five points of a
record high, as better-than-estimated retail sales and jobless
claims data boosted optimism in the world’s largest economy.  Benchmark indexes retreated on the last trading day as a
gauge of  consumer confidence  declined.  Boeing (BA)  Co. led advances
in the  Dow (INDU)  Jones Industrial Average during the week, jumping 6.4
percent after saying safety upgrades to the 787 Dreamliner’s
battery systems may allow commercial flights to restart within
weeks.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rallied 4.1 percent after winning
Federal Reserve support to buy back stock.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.6 percent to 1,560.70, for its third
straight weekly gain. The Dow climbed for a fourth week, adding
117.04 points, or 0.8 percent, to 14,514.11. The 30-stock index
posted 10 straight days of gains through March 14, the longest
winning streak since 1996.  The consumer and the labor market are “in a word,
healing,” Matthew Peron, head of active equity investing at
Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago , said by telephone. His firm
manages about $750 billion. “We’re more resilient than we have
been. We’re able to weather punches. People are seeing that and
getting comfortable that major potholes aren’t right around the
corner.”  Equities advanced as economic reports showed sales at U.S.
retailers climbed twice as much as forecast in February,
indicating that improving job prospects are helping consumers.
First-time  jobless claims  unexpectedly fell in the week ended
March 9 to the lowest level since mid-January. Stocks slumped on
the last day as confidence among American consumers unexpectedly
slumped in March.  Two Points  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed on March 14 to within two points of its
record closing level of 1,565.15 set in October 2007, before
retreating on the final day of trading. The gauge has more than
doubled from its bottom in 2009, fueled by corporate earnings
that  topped estimates  and monetary stimulus from the Fed. The
116-year-old Dow surpassed its record on March 5, and climbed
higher each day through March 14.  “Even though it’s a lot of days, the magnitude of the
rally hasn’t been huge,” Andrew Slimmon, Chicago-based managing
director of global investment solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, said by phone. His firm has $1.7 trillion in client
assets. “It’s been small, incremental moves. The reason for
that is that there’s still a relatively high level of skepticism
towards equities and that leaves me to believe the capitulation
is still out there. It hasn’t still run its course.”  Volatility Index  The CBOE Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the  S&P 500 , dropped 10
percent to 11.30 during the week, the lowest level since
February 2007. The gauge, known as the  VIX (VIX) , is down 37 percent
this year.  Financial, utility and energy stocks advanced at least 1.1
percent, leading gains among 10 S&P 500 groups. Investors bought
shares of companies most tied to economic growth, sending the
 Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  up 1.4 percent and the Dow Jones
Transportation Index higher 2.1 percent. Both indexes touched
all-time highs during the week.  Boeing jumped 6.4 percent to $86.43, the highest level in
almost five years. The safety improvements to the 787
Dreamliner’s battery systems will allow the resumption of
service once the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and other
regulators sign off, and  Air India  may fly its five 787s as soon
as April.  Banks Climb  Lenders rose as the KBW Bank Index added 1.6 percent in the
wake of Fed stress tests. Bank of America gained 4.1 percent to
$12.57 after the second-largest U.S. lender won federal approval
for a $5 billion  share buyback , the firm’s first repurchases
since the financial crisis. Morgan Stanley added 2.4 percent to
$23.59 after it got permission to buy the remaining stake in its
wealth-management venture.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. slid 0.4 percent to $50.02 while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advanced 1.2 percent to $154.84. The
world’s biggest trading firms must submit new capital plans to
regulators to address weaknesses the Fed found in their planning
processes. Separately, a Senate investigation found that
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  misled investors
and dodged regulators as losses escalated on a “monstrous”
derivatives bet last year.  DirecTV surged 9.8 percent to $54.99. The largest U.S.
satellite-TV provider pulled out of bidding for Vivendi SA’s
Brazilian phone and Internet unit, GTV, forgoing an option to
add more services in  South America .  Apple’s Cash  Apple Inc. rose 2.8 percent to $443.66 for the biggest
weekly rally in over a month. The iPhone maker will outline what
it plans to do with a growing pile of cash by next month, said
Howard Ward, chief investment officer at Gamco Investors Inc.
Legg Mason Inc.’s  Bill Miller  said on CNBC, “We just went
overweight on Apple again.”  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  sank 7.1 percent to $47 for the
biggest weekly decline of the year after  forecasting  annual
profit that was less than analysts estimated on costs to remodel
stores and improve its Web operations.  Carnival Corp. declined 2 percent to $34.95. The cruise
operator beset by mishaps at sea this year cut its annual
earnings forecast to reflect costs from an engine fire that
crippled the Carnival Triumph last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  