-- U.S. House Votes to Combine or Kill Job-Training Programs
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2013-03-15T16:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-house-votes-to-combine-or-kill-job-training-programs.html
The U.S. House voted to kill or
combine dozens of job-training and adult-education programs, a
change intended to end duplication.  “The current system is inefficient and ineffective,” said
Republican  John Kline  of  Minnesota , chairman of the House
Education and the Workforce Committee.“Taxpayer dollars are
being spent with little accountability.”  The vote on the bill, H.R. 803, was 215-202.  The measure next goes to the Senate, which has shown no
interest in taking it up.  The legislation would repeal or consolidate 35 programs,
replacing them with a Workforce Investment Fund, for which as
much as $6.2 billion would be authorized annually from fiscal
2014 through 2020.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said the bill
eliminates “bureaucratic hurdles” and makes it easier for
community colleges and technical schools to take part in the
program.  The federal government administers more than 50 employment
and training programs across nine federal agencies, according to
the House Education and the Workforce Committee’s  report  on the
bill.  All the programs overlap with at least one other program,
the committee majority found.  Partisan Disagreement  “We have yet to hear any credible evidence that these
programs are duplicative,” said  George Miller  of  California ,
the top Democrat on Kline’s committee.  The measure “would take our nation in the wrong
direction,” said Democrat Ruben Hinojosa of Texas.  Before passage, the House adopted an amendment that would
authorize the Comptroller General to complete studies to measure
savings from streamlining the programs. The bill also would set
aside funding for training for Alaska Natives.  The Workforce Investment Act of 1998 is the main federal
program that supports workforce development, job search
assistance, career counseling, occupational skills training and
on-the-job training. Its authorization has been extended through
appropriations since it expired in 2003.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  