-- U.S. 10-Year Note Shortage Eases as Treasury Seeks Holding Data
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2013-03-15T15:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/u-s-10-year-note-shortage-eases-as-treasury-seeks-holding-data.html
U.S. Treasury 10-year notes have
become less coveted in the short-term market for borrowing and
lending debt as the government tries to find out why the
securities were in such short supply.  The Treasury Department asked today for information about
positions in 2 percent notes maturing in February 2023, with a
threshold of $2 billion as of the close of business on March 11.
The on-the-run, or most actively traded 10-year note, came into
short supply in the repurchase agreement market that investors
pay interest on cash lent to borrow the debt, resulting in a
negative repurchase agreement rate. The Treasury sold an
additional $21 billion of the notes on March 13.  The repurchase agreement, or repo, rate on the benchmark
10-year note closed with the lowest repo rate for all specific
securities, at negative 2.95 percent on March 13, according to
data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The
repo rate for the note opened yesterday at negative 2.8 percent
and closed today at 0.02 percent. The overnight general
collateral Treasury repurchase rate opened today at 0.25
percent.  The Treasury in February 2012 asked for similar positioning
data related to transactions in the then seven-year note, the
1.25 percent notes of January 2019, which had also come into
short supply in the repo market prior to a new auction of that
maturity debt.  Below Zero  Repo rates traded below zero frequently since May 2009 when
a 3 percentage point penalty for failing to meet security
delivery obligations was put in place. The fee, instituted at
the time to reduce failed trades, means that at a repo rate
below negative 3 percent it is more economical for a
counterparty to fail to deliver than to obtain the needed
security in the repo market.  Traders often short, or sell securities they’ve borrowed in
the repo market ahead of a Treasury sale of new debt of similar
maturity, to profit if prices of the notes fall after the
auction. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those
loans, represented by a positive repo rate.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate, which is in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral.
Those in highest demand have lower rates and are called
“special.”  Central banks and the Fed are exempt from these position
requests.  The large-position reporting program was established in
1996 to guard against market manipulation. In December 2010, the
Treasury announced a test of the program and called for reports
from investors holding $2 billion or more of 0.75 percent
Treasury notes maturing on Sept. 15, 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Denver at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  