-- Municipal Bond Tax Exemption Seen Surviving Proposals for Curbs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-15T15:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/municipal-bond-tax-exemption-seen-surviving-proposals-for-curbs.html
Two-thirds of the asset managers
responding to a Citigroup Inc. survey said the tax-exempt
benefit of the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond market  will remain
unchanged.  Reducing or eliminating the amount of muni-bond investment
earnings that can be deducted from federal income taxes may be
used to help reduce the U.S. deficit. President  Barack Obama  has
proposed capping the value of itemized deductions at 28 percent,
down from 35 percent.  In the survey, 66 percent of respondents said they don’t
expect any reduction in the benefit. About 84 percent don’t
foresee a cut on the tax-exemption before the next congressional
election in November 2014, while 11 percent said they do.  Yields on municipal bonds due in 10 years would need to
jump by at least 0.2 percentage point if a cap were implemented
on new borrowings, 47 percent of participants said.  Other changes, such as limiting certain types of bond sales
or ending the tax-exemption benefit for some borrowers, will
also be considered, 72 percent of respondents said.  Citigroup surveyed hundreds of employees at 147 firms from
March 6 to March 13, said Vikram Rai, an analyst for the New
York-based bank. He declined to disclose a specific number of
respondents. The largest group, 33 percent, have $5 billion to
$20 billion of assets under management, while 18 percent managed
$1 billion to $5 billion, Citigroup said.  Ending munis’ tax exemption was one suggestion in the
Bowles-Simpson report released in 2010, which listed options for
reducing the nation’s deficit.  State and local debt tends to yield less than other fixed-
income investments because of its tax-free income. That helps
local governments achieve lower borrowing costs for
infrastructure projects such as roads, bridges and school
construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  