-- UniCredit Swings to Quarterly Loss After Writedowns Increase
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-15T15:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/unicredit-swings-to-fourth-quarter-loss-as-writedowns-increase.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest
bank, plans to revise its financial targets after bad loans
tripled to produce the first quarterly loss since 2011.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  of 553 million euros ($719
million) compared with a profit of 114 million euros a year
earlier, the Milan-based lender said in a statement today. That
was bigger than the 374.9 million-euro loss estimated by nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is reorganizing
the bank and selling assets to improve profitability as Italy’s
longest economic slump in 20 years and tougher rules force the
lender to increase provisions. Loan-loss provisions more than
tripled to 4.6 billion euros in the fourth quarter.  “Quality of the results is slightly disappointing and
guidance for 2013 very bearish, especially in terms of cost of
risk,” analysts at Equita Sim SpA wrote in a note to clients.
“Results are below estimates on monster provisions on loans.”  UniCredit shares  fell as much as 2.5 percent and were down
1 percent at 3.77 euros at 4:29 p.m. in Milan, reversing earlier
gains. That gave the bank a market value of 21.7 billion euros.  “Given the current challenging macroeconomic environment,
the strategic plan financial targets will be revised,” the bank
said in a statement.  Lower Income  UniCredit expects lower net interest income this year as
loan demand weakens and funding costs increase. Revenue in the
fourth quarter fell 5.6 percent to 5.7 billion euros on lower
income from lending, trading and fees.  The additional provisions allowed UniCredit to increase its
coverage ratio on Italian impaired loans to 43.4 percent at the
end of December from 40.2 percent three months earlier. The bank
posted a 2.7 billion-euro tax gain in the quarter.  UniCredit also faces risks from its position as one of the
biggest banks in central and eastern  Europe . Today it announced
the sale of its unprofitable Kazakh unit, ATF Bank, at a loss.  “Asset quality development seems the main risk for group
capital and profitability,” Azzurra Guelfi, a London-based
banking analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report March 8.
“UniCredit has a large exposure to CEE, which still leaves a
risk of incurring sizable credit or other losses in this
downturn.”  UniCredit last posted a loss in the third quarter of 2011,
when a writedown of goodwill and intangible assets brought a
record loss of 9.2 billion euros.  The bank proposed a payout of 9 cents a share from 2012
profit of 865 million euros, after not distributing a dividend a
year earlier. That’s higher than the 6 cents estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lender’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, rose to 10.84 percent at the end of December from 10.7
percent three months earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  