-- Vale $15 Billion Tax Verdict Seen Fueling Gain: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o ,   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-15T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/vale-15-billion-tax-verdict-seen-fueling-gain-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5)  investors stand to benefit
as a decade-long court battle over $15 billion in back taxes
that’s been weighing on the miner’s stock nears an end.  The Supreme Court is set to rule by June on a similar case
brought by  Coamo Agroindustrial Cooperativa , a farming group
from the southern state of Parana that’s suing tax authorities
to avoid levies on profits from foreign units. A ruling in favor
of the group would be in line with the legislation of most other
countries, according to Peixoto & Cury Advogados, a legal firm
that specializes in corporate law, including tax issues.  The case is being watched as a benchmark for Brazil’s
biggest exporters -- from Vale to beermaker Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas to steelmaker  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  -- who are fighting a combined
$44 billion in tax claims. A win would be a boon for Vale
because investors have already priced in much of the tax losses,
said Empiricus Research’s Roberto Altenhofen.  “The market is overreacting a bit about the chances of
Vale having to pay all the taxes that are being claimed,” the
analyst at the Sao Paulo-based consulting firm said in a phone
interview. “It’s almost impossible to predict the outcome of
this trial, but what we can say is that Vale seems to be willing
to negotiate with tax authorities so a deal can be reached. Vale
may end up paying something, but not the full amount.”  Discounted Shares  Vale trades at a  29 percent discount  to Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s second-biggest mining company, and a 12 percent
 discount  to industry leader  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , based on trailing
12-month price-to-earnings ratios. A resolution to the tax case
will help the Rio de Janeiro-based miner narrow the discount to
its global peers, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Finding a proper solution for it could unlock significant
value for Vale’s shareholders,” Deutsche Bank analysts led by
Rodrigo Barros said in a Jan. 30 note to clients. The bank’s $24
price target on the U.S.-traded shares assume a $10 billion
“penalty associated with this dispute.”  Joaquim Barbosa, head of the country’s top court, said on
Feb. 28 that he intends to rule on the issue by June. The farm
group’s case and a similar suit brought by the National Industry
Confederation, known as CNI, challenge a law allowing tax
authorities to charge income tax on foreign-earned profit even
if it’s not sent back to  Brazil .  ‘Capital Exodus’  “The very moment where these companies declare that
profit, they’re subject to taxation -- prior to the 2001 law
they could defer that payment,” Claudia Aparecida de Souza
Trinidade, coordinator at the Finance Ministry’s prosecution
department, said March 11 in a telephone interview. “In 2001
there was a big capital exodus and the country could not forfeit
tax income. Perhaps today or tomorrow that will change.”  The case pits President Dilma Rousseff’s ambitions to help
domestic companies expand abroad against the need to bolster
public coffers through increased tax revenue, says Marcos
Joaquim Goncalves Alves, an attorney with Mattos Filho, Veiga
Filho, Marrey Jr & Quiroga Advogados law firm in Brasilia. He
expects the court to vote 6-to-4 in favor of exporters.  As the world’s largest iron-ore exporter, Vale gets most of
its  revenue  from abroad. Only about 20 percent of its sales came
from Brazil last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  As of Dec. 31, Vale faced $21 billion in claims where the
likelihood of a loss was “reasonably possible but not
probable,” including $15.2 billion related to the non-Brazilian
subsidiaries tax dispute, it said last month. The company said
it had untaxed and undistributed profits from foreign units and
affiliates of $26.8 billion.  ‘Catastrophic’  “I don’t think there’ll be a ruling against Vale in this
case,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a phone interview. “If Vale
does have to pay all those taxes in the dispute, it’d be
catastrophic.”  Vale expects the issue to be settled in 2013, Chief
Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said on a call with investors
Feb. 28.  “The tax disputes are being gradually solved and we expect
that the conclusion will take place during this year,” he said.
Vale in 2012 agreed to provision 1.4 billion reais to settle a
royalties battle with Brazil, and in December said it would pay
about $560 million to settle disputes with Switzerland and the
Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.  Vale’s press office in Rio didn’t reply an e-mail and a
phone call seeking comment. Gerdau’s press office said the
company doesn’t comment on existing procedures. Coamo declined
to comment. A press official for Ambev in Sao Paulo didn’t reply
an e-mail seeking comments.  While Vale is poised to gain with a favorable court
decision, the shares are still at risk of suffering from higher
taxes as Brazil reviews its mining rules, said Rafael Weber, who
helps manage about 5.4 billion reais including Vale shares at
 Geracao Futuro (GFUTSEL)  Corretora.  ‘Rules of the Game’  “Shares will rise with a positive decision, but what will
give the company a better re-pricing is a clear definition of
the rules of the game,” he said by telephone from Porto Alegre,
Brazil. “Higher taxes will impact the company for the rest of
its life. It’s not a one-off like the court’s decision.”  Vale shares  have fallen  16 percent in Sao Paulo since March
6, 2012, when the company said it will challenge 30.7 billion
reais in unpaid tax claims by Brazil, compared with a 2.8
percent gain for Melbourne-based BHP and a 1.3 percent drop for
Rio Tinto. Vale  declined  0.1 percent to close at 33.59 reais in
Sao Paulo today.  “A favorable outcome would send the right message not only
for Vale but for all exporters in Brazil,” Laurence Balter,
chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research in Fox
Island,  Washington , said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Confidence needs to be restored for Brazil to blossom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  