-- Vehicle Fuel Economy Has Biggest U.S. Gain Since 1975
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-03-15T16:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/vehicle-fuel-economy-has-biggest-u-s-gain-since-1975.html
Fuel economy of vehicles sold in
the U.S. last year had the sharpest gains in almost four
decades, as foreign automakers  Honda Motor Co. Ltd. (7267) ,  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  had the most efficient fleets.  An  annual report  by the Environmental Protection Agency
showed new cars and trucks had a 16 percent gain in fuel
efficiency in the past five years, to 23.8 miles per gallon.
Preliminary data shows an average increase of 1.4 mpg in 2012
from the previous year, which in part was attributed to the drop
in Japanese vehicle production after the March 2011 tsunami, the
EPA said.  “We are making strides toward saving families money at the
pump, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and cleaning up the air
we breathe,” Gina McCarthy, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to
head the EPA, said in a statement on the report.  Obama’s administration hashed out an agreement with
automakers to boost the average fuel efficiency of their
vehicles in the next dozen years. Automakers must double fuel
economy of new vehicles by model year 2025 and lower their
greenhouse-gas emissions by half. The first set of rules phases
in through 2016.  25% Compliance  The EPA report shows almost 25 percent of vehicles already
in production can meet the 2016 model-year standards. And the
bulk of the vehicles that comply are fueled with gasoline,
although technologies including hybrids, electric and diesel
also are represented, according to the EPA, which has tracked
vehicle fuel efficiency since 1975.  “The industry is getting it,” Alan Baum, principal of
Baum & Associates, an automotive consulting firm in West
Bloomfield,  Michigan , said in an interview. “Obviously does it
keep getting more difficult as the numbers go up? Of course it
does, but there’s so much going on that the ability to get there
is intact.”  According to the preliminary data, Honda’s average miles
per gallon was 26.4, followed by VW at 26.2 and Mazda with 25.9.
 Fiat SpA (F) ’s Chrysler Group LLC had the lowest with an average
20.6 miles per gallon for its fleet.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and Hyundai Motor Co. weren’t included in
the list because of an ongoing investigation into their
efficiency test data, according to the report. The Korean
automakers would rank at the top if they were included,
according to EPA.  The low ranking of American-made vehicles “is a warning
light on  Detroit ’s dashboard,” Dan Becker, director of the Safe
Climate Campaign, which supports higher fuel-economy standards,
said in an e-mail. In 2011, “because American car makers
weren’t doing their share, when natural disaster curtailed
 Japan ’s auto production, our overall fuel efficiency faltered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  