-- Volkswagen, Apple Flaws Identified in China State TV Program
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T16:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/volkswagen-apple-flaws-identified-in-china-state-tv-program.html
Owners of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s cars in
 China  have reported instances of abnormal vibrations, loss of
power and sudden acceleration, state-owned China Central
Television said in its annual consumer rights program.  The problems are related to the direct-shift gearbox
system, the state broadcaster said today in its program marking
World Consumer Rights Day.  Volkswagen “will contact the involved customers to fix the
issue as quickly as we can,” Christoph Ludewig, a VW spokesman,
said in an emailed statement. “Customer satisfaction is always
our priority. We will spare no effort to make improvement in the
future.”  China is stepping up protection for consumers as carmakers
from VW to  General Motors Co. (GM)  seek to expand sales in the
world’s largest auto market. The nation’s quality watchdog this
year introduced laws allowing the government to order
investigations and impose fines should manufacturers and
importers fail to recall faulty vehicles in a timely manner.  VW,  Europe ’s biggest carmaker, said in May that its Chinese
division agreed to extend the warranty for an automatic
transmission technology to 10 years in response to customer
complaints.  Today’s broadcast also identified flaws in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
after-sales service and said  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. (600418)  sold
cars with rusted chassis. Apple’s spokeswoman in Beijing,
Carolyn Wu, didn’t answer her mobile phone or reply to an e-mail
seeking comment. Jianghuai Auto Board Secretary Wang Min didn’t
answer a call to his office outside regular business hours.  Past Programs  Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest retailer, temporarily shut
an outlet in Central China’s Henan province last year and issued
an apology to consumers after a CCTV investigation found it
falsely labeled meat sold at the store. The retailer had sold
regular chicken as premium for higher prices at the outlet and
altered labels for meat production dates, CCTV said.  CCTV last year also singled out  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  for
selling chicken wings past their sell-by period in 2012.
Following the broadcast, the company was asked by food safety
regulators to inspect all of its restaurants in China and to
apologize to consumers.  In this year’s program, the broadcaster found impure gold
made in a workshop in Shenzhen and sold in shops in Tianjin and
Hebei. The program also reported some Chinese medical companies,
including one in Henan province, hiring actors to masquerade as
doctors to promote physical-therapy plasters.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  