-- Warhol’s Elvis, Killing Joke, Flamenco: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-03-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/warhol-s-elvis-killing-joke-flamenco-london-weekend.html
They just want to be celebrities.  Seventeen dancers in “A Chorus Line” bare their souls every
night on the  London  stage as they try out in front of a hard-
nosed director. Pirouettes and prepared routines are meshed with
spontaneous confessions of self-hatred and chest augmentation.  The perms and shiny leotards may look dated, yet there’s
plenty of drama to keep you going for two hours with no break.  “A Chorus Line” is at the London Palladium, Argyll Street,
W1F 7TF. Information:  http://www.achoruslinelondon.com  or +44-
844-412-2957.  Brasserie Chavot, near the Palladium, is an all-singing,
all-dancing place to eat. Eric Chavot, who held two Michelin
stars at the Capital, is one of London’s most respected chefs.
His brasserie opened this week. The website isn’t fully
operational, so for bookings dial +44-20-7078-9577, and for the
address and other details see  http://brasseriechavot.com/ .  Saturday  The  Tate Gallery  was repeatedly bombed during World War II,
and has the pockmarks to prove it.  Turner Prizewinning artist Simon Starling uses that history
as a starting point for a film installation in what’s now Tate
Britain’s columned main hall. His roving camera captures works
that were once shown there and that touch on violence. Examples:
Picasso’s “The Charnel House” (1944-5), Fiona Banner’s “Jaguar”
warplane (2010), and Warhol’s “Triple Elvis” (1963), where the
rocker stands, legs apart, pointing a gun.  Starling’s “Phantom Ride,” part of a series of commissions
sponsored by Sotheby’s, ends Oct. 20. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Saturday Night  It’s a busy weekend for rock fans. Shows include the
Yardbirds at Twickenham Stadium and Stranglers at the Roundhouse
Friday; the much-tipped  Courteeners  at the O2 Academy Brixton
Saturday and troubadour Billy Bragg at Rough Trade East Sunday.  Fans of post-punk anarchy will probably be heading to
Kentish Town for the long-awaited return of Killing Joke. The
band, led by Jaz Coleman, specializes in humor as dark as its
name. Songs like “Love Like Blood” and “Empire Song” will be
revived with maximum feedback and plenty of punk sneers.  The Forum, 9-17 Highgate Road, NW5 1JY. Information:
 http://www.killingjoke.com/   It’s not strictly true that there’s only one place to eat
in Kentish Town: Chicken Shop, a destination for food fans, is
also home to Dirty Burger. This twin venue, an offshoot of Soho
House, is a magnet for carnivores. Information:
 http://www.chickenshop.com/  or +44-20-3310-2020. (For Dirty
Burger:  http://www.eatdirtyburger.com/  or +44-20-3310-2010.)  Sunday  Gustavo Dudamel is sure to give his all performing
Stravinsky’s “Firebird” with the LA Philharmonic on Sunday. His
four-day residency also includes an open rehearsal (with Dudamel
leading a mixed-ability young orchestra) and the European
premiere of a John Adams oratorio. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  The Sadler’s Wells flamenco festival turns 10 with a
powerful lineup featuring the fast-footed gypsy Farruquito
(Sunday), the top female star Eva Yerbabuena (Friday and
Saturday), and next week, the inventive Rocio Molina --
currently one of Sadler’s Wells young associate artists.
Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.com  or +44-844-412-4300.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
New York and London  weekend guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history and
 Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 