-- Water Losses in India Cut in Half by Smart Meters: Itron
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-03-15T20:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/water-losses-in-india-cut-in-half-by-smart-meters-itron.html
Itron Inc. (ITRI) , the largest U.S. maker
of metering devices that save energy and cut waste, said smart
meters installed in Mumbai reduced water losses by half.  Smart meter use in  India ’s most populous city eliminated 50
percent of the 700 million liters (150 million gallons) a day of
water that’s wasted or leaked by broken pipes, Marcel Regnier,
Itron’s chief operating officer for water, said today from
Paris. Itron is based in Liberty Lake,  Washington .  Mumbai installed the meters, which can be read remotely, to
help improve supplies from a system that provides tap water to
half of the city’s 13 million residents for a few hours a day
and no water at all for everyone else, Regnier said in the
interview. About 50 percent of Mumbai’s potable water is lost
compared with an average of 34 percent worldwide and about 10
percent for the most efficient water systems, he said.  “The target was, with the same level of resource and the
same  capital investment , to provide water to a larger portion of
the population,” Regnier said. Initial results show a
“significant” improvement in supply and new customers though
it’s too early to quantify, he said.  Metering helped the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai
find leaks and discouraged waste, “putting a value on a shared
resource,” Regnier said. In practice, Mumbai residents fill
cisterns daily to assure a 24-hour water supply, he said.  ‘Horrific’ Issues  Itron now is installing, or has contracts to install,
meters in the suburb of Navi Mumbai,  New Delhi  and Bangalore, he
said. It has seen similar water savings in  Africa , he said.  “If you’re able to meter the product and charge a fair
price for it, a very low price but a fair price, it gives the
utility enough return on their investment that they can develop
more lines and capacity,” Itron Chief Executive Officer Philip Mezey said in an interview yesterday in  New York .  “India has horrific water issues” that go well beyond
meters and domestic waste,  Deane Dray , a New York-based water-
industry analyst for Citigroup Inc., said today in a phone
interview. “It’s nice to hear they are interested in water
meters because it shows they are progressing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  