-- Wisconsin Won't Ask Top Court to Stay Union Law Ruling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2013-03-15T16:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/wisconsin-won-t-ask-top-court-to-stay-union-law-ruling.html
Wisconsin  Governor Scott Walker
won’t ask the state’s highest court to delay enforcement of a
lower court’s ruling that a law curbing the collective-
bargaining rights of some public employees is invalid.  The state’s intermediate-level appellate court on March 12
declined to stay Madison Judge Juan B. Colas’s September
decision that measures including requiring annual
recertification votes and making union dues voluntary unduly
burdened the free-association and free-speech rights of union
members.  Walker’s legislation, known as Act 10, also required local
referendums to authorize negotiations for any wage increase in
excess of a cost-of-living boost. The measure touched off
protests at the state Capitol in Madison and an unsuccessful bid
to have the 45-year-old Walker, a first-term Republican,
recalled from office.  “We asked for a stay because of our concern that municipal
employers and others would misconstrue Judge Colas’s order as
something that would prevent them from following Act 10,”
Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said today in a statement.  “While the Court of Appeals denied our motion for a stay,
it also was very clear that Judge Colas’s order does not have
statewide application and does not apply to any nonparties,”
the attorney general said.  Additional Litigation  The three-judge appellate panel said it wasn’t swayed by
the state’s claim that, absent a stay, confusion over whether
Colas’s ruling was applicable statewide would prompt additional
litigation.  Litigation seems “inevitable” until the Wisconsin Supreme
Court either rules on or declines to consider the merits of the
dispute, the appeals court said.  A lawyer for the plaintiff Madison Teachers Inc., Lester
Pines, disputed the attorney general’s interpretation of the
three-day-old ruling in a phone interview today.  “The Court of Appeals did not rule that the decision does
not have statewide effect. That is absolutely false,” Pines
said. “The court of appeals specifically did not reach that
issue.”  The chairman and two commissioners of Wisconsin’s
Employment Relations Commission, a state agency that hears
labor-relations grievances, were also parties to the suit and
are bound by Colas’s ruling, Pines said.  Should they fail to abide by it, the attorney said he would
ask the court to hold them in contempt.  “I don’t bluff,” he said.  Ruling in a separate case, a U.S. Appeals Court in  Chicago 
upheld Act 10 in its entirety on Jan. 18, reversing a decision
by a federal judge in Madison last year.  The case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 2012AP2067,
Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District IV (Madison). The trial-
court case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 11-cv-3774, Dane
County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court, Branch 10 (Madison).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  