-- Won Leads Weekly Decline in Asian Currencies on Growth Concern
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-15T04:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/won-leads-weekly-decline-in-asian-currencies-on-growth-concern.html
The won led losses in Asian
currencies this week after the Bank of Korea signaled its
concern that economic growth is slowing amid speculation  Japan 
will add to measures that weaken the yen.  South Korea’s currency headed for its biggest weekly
decline in six after the central bank left interest rates
unchanged yesterday and officials said the value of yen, which
has lost 10 percent against the dollar this year, poses a threat
to the economy. Haruhiko Kuroda was confirmed today as  Bank of
Japan (8301)  governor, with Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso as his
deputies, ushering in a new central bank leadership team that
may push for additional monetary stimulus.  “It is a won story,” said Nick Verdi, a strategist at
Barclays Plc in Singapore. “A number of factors are impacting
the won. The first is the hit to Korean sentiment on the back of
ongoing yen weakness, and the second factor is the possibility
of a rate cut spooking the markets.”  The won fell 1.8 percent this week to 1,110.23 per dollar
as of 12:51 p.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit declined 0.3 percent to 3.1160 and
Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to 9,701. The Bloomberg
JPMorgan-Asian Dollar Index lost 0.1 percent in the past five
days, the most since the period through Feb. 8.  South  Korea ’s officials flagged the risk that growth will
fail to recover to closer to its potential rate, estimated at
3.8 percent by central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo, after a 2
percent expansion last year. The BOJ may ease as soon as the
next scheduled policy meeting on April 3-4, assuming Kuroda can
persuade existing members of the board to go along with his
plans, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Malaysian Election  The ringgit was set for a second weekly drop on concern the
government will lose support in coming elections. Prime Minister
Najib Razak, who must dissolve parliament by April 28, saw his
approval rating drop to 61 percent in February, the lowest since
August 2011, according to a survey from the Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research released Feb. 26. Najib has embarked on a $444
billion, 10-year economic development plan.  “There was speculation early in the week that parliament
was dissolved,” said Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange strategist in
Singapore at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “The outcome of
the polls is also a big question mark.”  The rupiah was set for a second weekly drop after foreign
funds sold $57 million more Indonesian shares than they bought
in the four days through yesterday, exchange data show. The last
weekly outflow was in December. The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has
fallen 1.4 percent since reaching an all-time high on March 8.  Elsewhere in Asia,  China ’s  yuan  was steady this week at
6.2147 against the greenback, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$29.715,
while the Philippine peso rose 0.2 percent to 40.597.  India ’s
rupee climbed 0.3 percent to 54.14 and Thailand’s baht rose 0.4
percent to 29.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  