-- Worst New Zealand Drought in 30 Years Weighs on Economic Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-15T03:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/worst-new-zealand-drought-in-30-years-weighs-on-economic-growth.html
New Zealand is experiencing its
most widespread drought in at least 30 years, the government
said today, as dry conditions across the North Island threaten
economic growth and cause global milk prices to rise.  “Nearly all farmers in every part of the North Island are
facing very difficult dry conditions,” Minister for Primary
Industries Nathan Guy said in a  statement . It’s the first time
in at least three decades the entire island is suffering from
drought, his spokesman Phil Rennie said by telephone.  Finance Minister Bill English warned this week the drought
may curb economic expansion in the nation, where dairy exports
of NZ$11.4 billion ($9.4 billion) last year made up 25 percent
of all merchandise shipments abroad. The local dollar is heading
for a fourth weekly decline, which would be the longest losing
streak since May, after the central bank held the cash rate at a
record-low yesterday and cited concerns the dry conditions may
“substantially reduce economic output.”  Economists at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. reduced their
projection for first-half economic growth to 1.1 percent from
1.3 percent because of the drought.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, last month revised lower its forecast for milk
collection. Whole-milk powder auction prices climbed the most in
two-and-a-half years at the last Fonterra auction on March 6, as
the dry conditions curbed supply.  Global Trade  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, said in a Feb. 27 statement that dry
weather conditions in mid-December and January, particularly in
the North Island, had resulted in a slowdown in milk supply
growth. Spokesman Kobus Retief said today he couldn’t comment on
this week’s production.  Drought was declared earlier this month in several North
Island regions, including the largest dairying provinces.  “This is a difficult time for rural families and they need
to know that the government and all New Zealanders are behind
them,” Guy said in the statement. “Some rain is forecast this
weekend which is welcome news. However, we will need more than
this to help prepare for the winter and set up for next
spring.”  The government is also watching parts of the South Island
that are also “very dry,” Guy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  