-- THX, Founded by George Lucas, Sues Apple in Patent Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-15T22:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/thx-ltd-founded-by-george-lucas-sues-apple-in-patent-case-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was accused by THX Ltd.,
a company founded by “Star Wars” producer George Lucas, of
stealing speaker technology used in iPhones, iPads and iMac
products.  THX holds a 2008 patent for a speaker unit that can boost
sound output and attach to computers or flat-screen televisions,
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in San
Jose,  California .  Apple products that incorporate the speaker units infringe
the THX patent, causing the company “monetary damage and
irreparable harm,” according to the lawsuit. The complaint
seeks a court order to stop the alleged infringement and a
reasonable royalty, or damages to compensate THX for lost
profit.  THX, founded in 2002, drew its name from Lucas’s first
film, THX 1138, according to Wookieepedia, a website about
“Star Wars.”  Once part of Lucasfilms, THX created a set of standards and
a certification system for theater sound systems to ensure the
sound quality of “Star Wars” movies could be reproduced for
moviegoers, according to the company’s website.  This year, San Rafael, California-based THX announced its
first mobile application, THX tune-up, available in Apple’s
iTunes  App Store , according to a Jan. 29 statement from THX. The
app allows consumers to use an Apple device with the iOS
operating system to adjust the performance of televisions,
projectors and speakers, according to the statement.  Marika Knapp, a spokeswoman for THX, said in an e-mail that
the company doesn’t comment on pending legal matters.  Colleen Patterson, spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the complaint.  The case THX Ltd. v. Apple Inc., 13-01161, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  