-- Yahoo Work-at-Home Edict Squanders Benefits: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/yahoo-work-at-home-edict-squanders-benefits-cutting-research.html
Marissa Mayer ’s decision to order
Yahoo! Inc. staff to work in the company’s offices runs counter
to new research published by the National Bureau of  Economic
Research .  About a month after the biggest U.S. Web portal told
employees to end work-from-home arrangements, a  working paper 
released March 11 by the NBER concludes there are benefits for
companies that allow staff to telecommute.  While about 10 percent of U.S. employees are allowed to
work without leaving their front door, economists including
 Stanford University ’s Nicholas Bloom said in their  study  that
there are concerns the practice leads to “shirking from home.”  They studied  CTrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , a 16,000-
employee Chinese travel agency listed on the  Nasdaq Composite
Index (CCMP) , which sought volunteers and then assigned some to work at
home for nine months.  The results showed home-working led to a 13 percent
increase in performance, mainly reflecting reductions in sick
days and breaks. The rest was attributed to making more calls
per minute thanks in part to the quieter working environment.  Home workers also reported they were more satisfied with
their employment, leading fewer to quit. Still, their improved
performance didn’t lead to more promotions.  The company reacted by allowing the whole firm to choose
whether to work from home, and the performance gains almost
doubled. The economists acknowledged call-center work is
particularly suitable for telecommuting and the activity of such
workers can be more easily monitored.  Although the study didn’t mention Yahoo or Chief Executive
Officer Mayer, the Sunnyvale, California-based company is at the
heart of the debate over flexible working arrangements after
Jacqueline Reses, the executive vice president of people and
development, last month told employees to make their way to
offices, starting in June. Being side-by-side fosters
collaboration and improves work “speed and quality,” she wrote
in a memo.  “The practice of working from home is worth further
exploration,” said the report’s writers. “After all, much of
the research for this paper and its writing were done by the
authors working from home.”  * * *  Yahoo! may still enjoy an advantage from having Mayer as
CEO.  A study based on companies listed in France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC) 
found those with women in a third of managerial positions have
enjoyed significantly better stock performance than the other
companies over the last six years.  The Femina Index, created by professor Michel Ferray at
Geneva University’s Skema Business School, shows the ten
companies where women made up a third of management lost an
average 5.28 percent between 2007 and 2012. The French benchmark
stock index fell 34.7 percent over the same timeframe.  The companies which included a higher proportion of women
in management included BNP Paribas SA, Danone SA and L’Oreal SA.  * * *  Federal Reserve policy makers have a bigger effect on
financial markets when they speak as a group rather than
individually.  The release of statements and minutes by the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  each had roughly four times the
average effect of speeches, said Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in a
March 8 report.  FOMC statements had the largest impact, moving the 10-year
note yield by an average of 3.5 basis points last year. The
minutes of meetings and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s press
briefings moved the yield by about 3 basis points on average.  “The substantial impact of the minutes and press briefings
may reflect that these proved to be excellent guides to the
evolving Committee consensus in 2012, often providing the first
signals of an emerging consensus,” authors Laurence H. Meyer
and Antulio N. Bomfim said.  The study also found Bernanke moved the 10-year yield by
the most of all Fed officials, shifting it 18 basis points on a
cumulative basis. The runners up were  Dennis Lockhart  of Atlanta
and  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas .  Bernanke had the biggest impact per speech and Fisher
delivered the most speeches related to monetary policy, the
study found.  * * *  A resurgence in U.S. manufacturing could spell bad news for
 emerging markets .  That’s the warning of a March 6 study by Morgan Stanley
economists Manoj Pradhan, Patryk Drozdzik and Sung Woen Kang.  That’s because if the U.S. returns to sustainable growth,
it will probably do so as a competitor for emerging markets,
after five decades in which a strong  U.S. economy  meant robust
demand for goods from developing nations.  The re-industrialization of the U.S., aided by the shale-
gas revolution and corporate cash reserves, means U.S. factories
will jostle for a bigger piece of the production pie just as
demand falls from developed nations for  consumer goods , the
economists said in their report. The U.S. may also increase its
manufacturing base by moving down rather than up the “value-
added ladder,” producing lower-cost goods, according to the
report.  In the emerging world, China,  Brazil  and  Russia  are among
potential losers from the increased U.S. threat, according to
Morgan Stanley. Mexico is a winner because of its U.S. ties.  Countries could help limit the damage by finding ways to
play a role in the U.S. supply chain and taking steps to spur
domestic demand, according to the authors.  * * *  Moore’s Law, the principle that the number of transistors
on an integrated circuit doubles every two years, is not the
most accurate prediction for the pace of technological progress,
according to online journal  PLOS ONE .  A better gauge is Wright’s Law, first outlined in 1936,
which maintains that progress increases with experience, or that
each improvement in an industry’s cumulative production yields a
fixed percentage gain in efficiency.  The conclusion comes from a study into forecasting
technological progress that looked at 62 different industry
sectors from aluminum to beer.  * * *  A study published this month by the  European Central Bank 
shows changes in  tax revenue  have no significant impact on
economic growth while  government spending  appears to undermine
it.  Economists Antonio Afonso and Joao Tovar Jalles  studied  a
group of 155 economies from 1970 to 2008. They found levies on
incomes are not growth-enhancing, neither is government
consumption. By contrast, state spending on education and health
increases economic growth.  * * *  The U.S.’s move toward energy independence is set to
increase the country’s economic advantage over Europe, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The development may boost U.S. gross domestic product by as
much as 1.5 percentage points relative to European output, said
New York-based David Woo, head of global rates and currencies
research, in a March 10 report.  It would also help reduce the U.S. current account  deficit ,
which currently includes a petroleum trade shortfall of 1.7
percent of GDP, compared with Europe’s 4 percent.  Energy independence would be bullish for the  U.S. dollar 
and help break the cycle between the currency and the price of
oil that has been a source of economic volatility, according to
the report. It may even ease inflation’s sensitivity to growth.  * * *  It all adds up salary-wise for children who are good at
math.  Those in the top 15 percent of math scores at age 10 can
expect to earn 7.3 percent more when they are 30 than otherwise
identical children who achieve middle-ranked results, according
to a study of British youngsters by the London-based  Institute
for Fiscal Studies  published March 8.  That’s the equivalent of earning an extra 2,100 pounds
($3,100) a year.  While reading skills are also important, that has less of
an influence over pay, according to the report. A child scoring
in the top 15 percent of reading at 10 will probably earn 1.9
percent, or 550 pounds, more annually two decades later than a
peer who doesn’t do as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  