-- Yen Drop Seen Triggering Calls on Japanese Notes, Skewing Swaps
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-15T04:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/yen-drop-seen-triggering-calls-on-japanese-notes-skewing-swaps.html
The yen’s drop against the dollar
may be triggering early redemption of billions of dollars of
structured notes tied to interest rates in the currencies,
skewing swap rates as the issuers unwind their hedges.  The affected securities pay higher coupons when the yen
depreciates and the interest-rate differential between the
Japanese currency and its counterpart widens, according to
Morgan Stanley. The products, mostly issued before the 2008
financial crisis, have options for the sellers to cancel the
contracts early when the yen’s losses exceed certain levels. The
Japanese currency has slid from the fourth quarter, probably
causing about $10 billion of the notes to be called with more
possibly following, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The developments are pushing up long-term swap rates and
making it costlier to insure against interest changes. When the
so-called 30-year power reverse dual currency, or PRDC, notes
are called, the issuers exit rate hedges by paying fixed
interest in the dollar for periods matching the maturities. In
the U.S., 30-year swaps have jumped more than 45 basis points
since the start of October, compared with a drop of about 2 in
the one-year contract, according to Bloomberg data.  “There actually have been exotic hedging flows, which have
pushed up the super-long swap rates,” Yuya Yamashita, a Tokyo-
based rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone.
“If the dollar-yen approaches the 100 level, or more
specifically 99, then hedging activity may pick up, because 99
is a psychological level, and there should be some PRDCs that
set such levels as trigger points.”  BOJ Changes  The yen slid to a 3 1/2-year low of 96.71 this week, driven
down by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus pledges. The yield
on the Japanese government’s benchmark  10-year notes  fell to an
almost decade low of 0.585 percent on March 5.  Changes at the  Bank of Japan (8301)  have sparked speculation that
the yen may face further downward pressure. Haruhiko Kuroda was
confirmed as governor today, after he committed to enough
stimulus to reach a 2 percent inflation target in two years.  The PRDC securities were sold to individual and
institutional investors over the counter through private
placements, said Yamashita, who previously worked in the rates-
structuring business at Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  There may be about 500 billion yen ($5.2 billion) currently
locked up in PRDC notes, even after as much as 90 percent of the
securities have been redeemed, according to Akito Fukunaga,
chief rates strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Tokyo .  Higher Yields  The products combine interest-rate payments with options
that grant the right to buy and sell currencies, paying fixed
coupons the first year, then linking payouts to foreign-exchange
rates for the yen. They are called in the Japanese currency and
redeemed at maturity in higher-yielding counterparts such as the
U.S. or Australian dollar.  The call options embedded in the notes become more valuable
when the yen depreciates, making it more attractive for the
issuers to exercise the right than holding the securities
through maturity, according to the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  report. The
issuers of the Australian dollar-linked securities also probably
contributed to the steepening of the swap curve in the South
Pacific nation’s currency, following the yen’s post-crisis
losses against the Aussie, according to the report.  Investors shunned the U.S. dollar-linked products as the
yen’s gains after 2008 eroded returns, while banks stopped
issuing them because of their complexity and risks, Yamashita
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  