-- Zhou Qiang Picked as Head of China’s Supreme People’s Court
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-15T07:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/zhou-qiang-picked-as-president-of-china-s-supreme-people-s-court.html
China ’s legislature appointed
former provincial Communist Party chief Zhou Qiang as president
of the country’s top judicial body, amid calls for Chinese
courts to be granted greater independence.  Zhou, 52, was elected by a vote of 2,908 to 26, with 23
abstentions, at a session of the National People’s Congress
today. The only person nominated for the job, he was previously
Communist Party secretary in  Hunan Province .  In his new post, Zhou may help President  Xi Jinping  in his
stated efforts to make the judiciary more transparent and fair.
Zhou takes over a court system that may have more freedom than
the past and he has spoken out in favor of the rule of law, said
Lin Yan, associate professor at Shanghai Jiaotong University
KoGuan Law School.  “During his term in Hunan, Zhou Qiang stood out among
provincial level leaders for overtly promoting the rule of
law,” Lin said in an e-mail. “His political courage in this
regard should be credited.”  The court may have more freedomn because the new head of
the Communist Party’s political and legal affairs commission,
Meng Jianzhu, wasn’t given a spot on the all-powerful Politburo
Standing Committee in a party leadership change last year. That
restructuring will give the supreme court “more leeway to carry
our necessary reforms,” including eliminating corruption and
excess bureaucracy, Lin said.  Chen’s Escape  Rule-of-law issues in China were thrust into the spotlight
last year when blind legal activist  Chen Guangcheng  sought
refuge at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing after fleeing house
arrest. Chen was later allowed to leave China for the U.S.  “What I am most concerned about is the state of law in
China, which is very much being trampled,” Chen said during a
talk at the  Council on Foreign Relations  last June.  Analysts including Cheng Li of  Washington ’s  Brookings
Institution  have named Zhou as a member of the so-called sixth
generation of leaders positioned to succeed President Xi Jinping
and Premier Li in a decade’s time. Zhou was passed over for
membership in the ruling Politburo last year.  Zhou got legal training at Southwest University of
Political Science and Law in Chongqing and later took a post at
the Ministry of Justice, according to his official  biography .
Like former President  Hu Jintao , who stepped down yesterday,
Zhou previously headed the Communist Party Youth League.  Land Rights  In a 2011 interview in Beijing about rural land rights,
Zhou emphasized that in Hunan there were “clear policy and
legal provisions” to protect farmers’ land rights.  Li Keqiang , who also studied law and was appointed premier
today, emphasized days after being promoted to the party’s No. 2
spot in November that an economy focused on market signals
rather than the state was a “rule of law economy.” All moves
to overhaul the country must be “within the legal framework,”
he said, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  The Supreme People’s Court oversees a network of 32 high
courts, 409 intermediate courts and 3,117 lower courts with a
total of 190,000 legal officials, according to its  website .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  