-- Zimbabweans Vote on New Constitution Before Elections
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-03-16T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-15/zimbabweans-vote-on-new-constitution-before-elections.html
Zimbabweans voted today in a
referendum on a new constitution that paves the way for
elections to be held later this year.  Both President  Robert Mugabe , who’s ruled the southern
African nation since independence from the U.K. 33 years ago,
and Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , 61, are calling for a yes
vote, indicating the constitution will probably be approved. The
two rivals have shared power in a coalition government since
2009 following disputed elections that international observers
said were marred by violence that killed as many as 200 people.  Polling stations closed at 7 p.m. Counting would begin
tonight and final results will be announced within five days,
Rita Makarau, chairwoman of the  Zimbabwe  Electoral Commission,
told reporters today in Harare, the capital. Voter turnout
increased during the day following a slow start, she said.  “I voted for a yes to support what is taking place in our
country and for the future of our country,” Ngonidzashe Mahove,
a 33-year-old security guard, said in an interview at a voting
station in Mbare, a township in the capital, Harare.  “This is
a momentous occasion for myself and the future.”  The referendum was a requirement of the agreement mediated
by the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community  that
ended the post-election crisis. It led to the establishment of
the coalition government between Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front and two factions of the Movement
for Democratic Change, led by Tsvangirai.  ‘Historical Steps’  “We have just exercised one of the most historical steps
since the beginning of the constitutional journey,” Tsvangirai
told reporters at a polling station in Chitungwiza, 25
kilometers south of Harare. “Today, those who have died or lost
their lives, rest in peace because this is the most important
journey we have been fighting for.”  Tendai Biti, MDC’s secretary general and the country’s
finance minister said some incidents of violence occurred in
Harare, Kariba and Bindura, though the ZEC said there were none
reported. He told reporters that nine party members were
assaulted in Mbare for putting up posters.  The country’s constitution restricts the president to two
five-year terms and requires a two-thirds vote by members of
parliament to approve a state of emergency.  Land Seizures  If Mugabe, 89, wins the presidential vote, he could extend
his rule for another decade because the new constitution’s limit
isn’t retroactive. Western nations and international human-
rights groups have accused Mugabe of rigging elections since
2000 and brutalizing his opponents to cling to power.  “We shall not brook with anyone who interferes in our
country and those who want to encroach in our country,” Mugabe
said after voting at Mhofu primary school in Highfield, a suburb
in Harare. “We have a right to defend ourselves. We shall not
brook with those people who want to steal our country, our
natural resources, minerals.”  Mugabe’s program of land seizures from white farmers in
2000 plunged the economy into a decade-long recession, slashing
exports of tobacco, once Zimbabwe’s biggest export, and turning
the country into an importer of its staple food, corn.  Since then, he has targeted mining companies in a nation
that holds the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
deposits after  South Africa  and also has reserves of coal,
diamonds and gold. The government is forcing Johannesburg-based
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to cede 51 percent of its unit,
 Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , to the state and black Zimbabweans under
an indigenization law passed in 2007.  Voter Turnout  Provisions on land ownership in the new constitution mean
white-run commercial farms won’t be returned to their former
owners.  The National Constitutional Assembly, a pro-democracy
group, has urged voters to reject the charter, saying it still
concentrates too much power in the presidency.  Aloise Chaumba, an observer with the Harare-based Election
Resource Centre, said voter turnout was probably low.  The campaign to vote against the constitution “may make a
difference in towns, but not in the rural areas,” Chaumba said.
“The parties agree, so many will wonder if there’s any point in
voting.”  Biti said details were still unclear on the disappearance
of Samson Magumura, the MDC’s chairman for Headlands, who was
either arrested or kidnapped by armed men. Charity Charamba, a
police spokeswoman, denied there was an abduction, adding that a
man was arrested in Headlands for attempted murder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  