-- 
Kidney Broker Said to Use Johns Hopkins in Organ-Traffic Case

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-28T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-28/kidney-broker-said-to-use-johns-hopkins-hospital-in-organ-traffic-case.html
An Israeli man who brokered black-
market sales of human kidneys in the U.S. arranged transplant
surgeries at medical centers, including  Johns Hopkins  Hospital
in Baltimore, according to five people familiar with the case.  Levy Izhak Rosenbaum, 60, pleaded guilty yesterday to three
counts of organ trafficking and one count of conspiracy,
becoming the first person convicted in the U.S. of organ
trafficking. A 1984 U.S. law bans the sale of human organs.  He said in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, that three
ailing people paid him a total $410,000 to arrange the sale of
kidneys from healthy donors, and an undercover FBI agent paid
him $10,000.  Rosenbaum, who lives in the Borough Park neighborhood of
 Brooklyn ,  New York , was arrested in a July 2009 crackdown by the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  on  money laundering  and
political corruption in  New Jersey . After yesterday’s hearing,
Rosenbaum’s lawyers depicted him as a lifesaver.  “The transplant surgeries occurred in prestigious American
hospitals and were performed by experienced and expert kidney
transplant surgeons,” attorneys Richard Finkel and Ronald
Kleinberg said in a statement.  Rosenbaum admitted in court papers that he “would assist
the donor and the recipient to coordinate a cover story to
mislead hospital personnel into believing that the donation of
the kidney was a purely voluntary act and not a commercial
transaction.”  Johns Hopkins  One Rosenbaum client used Johns Hopkins, according to the
people familiar with the case. Rosenbaum sold a kidney to a New
Jersey man who got a transplant there around three years ago,
according to the people, who couldn’t be identified because the
hospital hasn’t been publicly named.  Gary Stephenson, media relations director at Johns Hopkins,
said he couldn’t comment on the case because of privacy law.  “All potential donors and recipients are interviewed
multiple times by a team of providers during a rigorous
screening process,” he said in a statement. “However, no
matter how thorough our policies and procedures are, the pre-
transplant evaluation may not detect premeditated and skillful
attempts to undermine and deceive the evaluation process.”  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said Rosenbaum admitted he “was
not new to the human kidney business when he was caught
brokering what he thought was a black market deal.”  A black market in human organs is “not only a grave threat
to public health, it reserves lifesaving treatment for those who
can best afford it at the expense of those who cannot,” Fishman
said in a statement.  Transaction Described  At yesterday’s plea hearing, Rosenbaum briefly described
one of the three transactions to U.S. District Judge Anne Thompson.  “The son told me the father has  kidney failure ,” said
Rosenbaum. “I helped him.”  Rosenbaum faces as long as five years in prison on each of
the four counts. He also agreed to forfeit $420,000 and may be
deported to Israel, where is a citizen. The judge set sentencing
for Feb. 2.  Rosenbaum was arrested in a crackdown that netted several
rabbis and mayors among the 44 people charged in New Jersey. The
same cooperating witness, Solomon Dwek, who helped the
government gather evidence in the corruption and laundering
probes brought authorities to Rosenbaum.  The U.S. didn’t charge or identify any people who bought
kidneys through Rosenbaum.  Started in 1999  Rosenbaum admitted details of a scheme that federal
prosecutors outlined in a criminal complaint with his arrest.
According to Rosenbaum’s statements to investigators, he began
brokering kidney sales around 1999, recruited Israelis to sell
their organs and charged Americans as much as $160,000 a kidney.  In court yesterday, Rosenbaum admitted that from 2006 to
2009 he recruited Israeli donors, arranged for their travel to
the U.S. and their lodging, and set up blood tests to match them
with recipients.  He told an undercover FBI agent that he had arranged
“quite a lot” of transplants, according to the complaint.  “I’ve never had a failure,” he told the agent in a 2008
conversation quoted in the complaint.  Court papers don’t identify hospitals where Rosenbaum’s
clients underwent transplants. Prosecutors haven’t accused
hospitals or doctors of wrongdoing.  Healthy Lives  Rosenbaum’s defense attorneys said in a statement after the
hearing that the transplants “were successful and the donors
and recipients are now leading full and healthy lives.” They
said that “each of the recipients had been on an official organ
donor network waiting list for receipt of a kidney, but was
unable to obtain a kidney and had little or no hope in obtaining
a kidney through the waiting list system.”  Rosenbaum arrived in the U.S. from  Israel  after living in
 Australia , according to an acquaintance, Isaac Lichtenstein. In
Brooklyn, he launched a company called Medicalink USA Inc. in
2000 and took control of a charity set up by a nephew.  The company and charity, called Kav Lachayim United
Lifeline Inc., aimed to “help needy, sick and disabled
people,” mostly Orthodox Jews, according to corporate filings
and other records.  Court papers don’t say how much Rosenbaum made from his 10-
year scheme. Beginning in 2003, he, his wife or a company he
controlled bought four New York properties for a total of $5.1
million and built the 6,745-square-foot brick house where he
lives, according to real estate records.  He previously rented a three-bedroom, two-bath apartment
for about $1,500 a month, according to Yitzchok Krasne, who
lives there now. In court, Rosenbaum said he worked in the real
estate business.  In an interview, Rosenbaum’s sister-in-law, Rachel
Rosenbaum, recalled an elderly man close to death telling Levy
Rosenbaum that he was desperate for a kidney.  “So he helped him,” she said.  The case is U.S. v. Rosenbaum, 09-mag-3620, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Trenton, New Jersey,
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Trenton, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Smith  in Santiago
at   Mssmith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 