-- 
Obama’s Citizenship ‘Distraction’ for Republicans, Chairman Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-28/obama-s-u-s-citizenship-a-distraction-for-republicans-rnc-chairman-says.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus, calling questions about President
Barack Obama’s citizenship “a big distraction,” said his
party’s presidential candidates are dropping it.  “I’ve said from the very beginning that I think it’s a big
distraction,” Priebus said on “Political Capital With Al Hunt,” airing on Bloomberg Television this weekend.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  was “badgered” by interviewers
to raise the issue, Priebus suggested.  Perry told  Parade magazine  last week that “I don’t have
any idea” whether Obama’s U.S. birth certificate is authentic.
After calling it “a distractive issue,” he appeared on CNBC
Oct. 25 and said “it’s a good issue to keep alive.”  A day later, he told the  St. Petersburg Times  he wasn’t
“expressing doubts” about where Obama was born and “was just
having some fun” with real estate developer  Donald Trump , who
had questioned the president’s citizenship.  Obama released his long-form birth certificate in April
showing his birthplace, Honolulu,  Hawaii . “We do not have time
for this kind of silliness,” Obama said at the time.  Perry was “badgered about 20 times on the question,”
Priebus said. “That was the result of a serious peppering.”  Anti- Washington  Mood  Democrats will pay a price for the public’s anti-Washington
mood, the Republican chairman said, predicting that his party’s
presidential nominee will win the White House and the party will
capture the Senate and hold the House.  “The Democrats are going to suffer because there’s an
identifiable head,” he said. “If the president gets beaten, he
will drag down the rest of the  Democratic Party .”  Unlike President  Harry Truman  in 1948, Obama won’t have
success campaigning against a “do-nothing Congress,” Priebus
said, because of the state of the American economy. The U.S.
unemployment rate averaged 3.8 percent in 1948; so far this
year, joblessness has averaged 9 percent.  “The economy is continuing to climb into the ditch,”
Priebus said. “This president has a real problem. He’s in love
with the sound of his own voice and can’t follow through on his
promises.”  Gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual
rate in the period from July through September, the Commerce
Department reported, the fastest pace in a year and up from 1.3
percent in the prior three-month period. After adjusting for
inflation, GDP climbed to $13.35 trillion last quarter, topping
the $13.33 trillion peak reached in the last three months of
2007.  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending in the U.S. accelerated in September,
helping the world’s largest economy skirt a recession. Purchases
increased 0.6 percent, matching the median estimate of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a 0.2 percent gain
the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  Priebus also played down the impact of public
dissatisfaction with his party, with a Bloomberg National Poll
showing 53 percent of respondents holding a negative view of the
 Republican Party .  Obama’s job-creation proposals have met with Republican
opposition on  Capitol Hill . Senate Republicans prevented the
president’s $447 billion jobs plan from reaching the floor for a
vote Oct. 11. Republican lawmakers almost unanimously opposed
Obama’s $825 billion stimulus package in 2009, which the
 Congressional Budget Office  said at its peak increased the
number of employed Americans by 1.4 million to 3.6 million.  As befits a party chairman, Priebus remained neutral about
his party’s presidential candidates.  Skipping Debates  Priebus said he had no problem with Perry’s intentions of
skipping some debates, saying “having 50 more debates in two
months is a little unreasonable.”  He said  Herman Cain , a former chief executive of
Godfather’s Pizza, has experience as a successful businessman
and is“making a lot of sense on the campaign trail.”  As for former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s comments
to the Las Vegas Review-Journal that the U.S. should let the
home mortgage foreclosure process “run its course and hit the
bottom,” Priebus said taxpayer money shouldn’t be used for
bailouts. He said Obama “hasn’t done anything about this
problem for three years.”  “The idea that big government in Washington, D.C., should
pick winners and losers and be into the finance game that
private companies should be involved in is a losing strategy,”
Priebus said.  Even as political action committees that can collect
unlimited donations are on the increase, Priebus said the
political parties will play a major role in the 2012 election.  “The parties still do something that no one else can do,
and that’s put the army on the ground,” the chairman said.
“Both of these national parties are going to raise record
amounts and the activism is going to be through the roof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 