-- 
Chinese Rogue Executives Dodge Singapore Law In Wake of Sino-Forest Drop

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-07-08T07:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/-rogue-executives-from-chinese-firms-dodge-singapore-laws-by-staying-home.html
Singapore  investors are demanding
tougher rules to prosecute executives of China-based companies
traded in the city-state after scandals from New York to  Hong
Kong  have wiped out the market value of such firms.  U.S. and Hong Kong regulators have been ramping up Chinese
company probes as Muddy Waters LLC said last month that Sino-
Forest Corp. overstated its timber holdings, erasing as much as
82 percent of the China-based tree plantation owner’s market
capitalization in Toronto.  With more than one in 10 Chinese firms listed in Singapore
delisted or suspended since 2008, regulators must seek a balance
between the need for investor protection and a desire to attract
companies to Singapore’s exchange. Lawyers said executives of
Chinese firms that trade in Singapore, so-called S-chips, are
beyond the reach of current law as long as they remain in  China .  “Some of these rogue executives are unreachable by staying
in China,” said former lawyer David Gerald, who is president of
the Securities Investors Association (Singapore), which
represents 70,000 retail shareholders. “We can’t afford to have
another scandal and let investor confidence wane further. We
need to get this problem arrested from Singapore to the U.S.”  The association has been seeking safeguards from the
island’s exchange for at least a year, including ensuring funds
are accounted for after leaving the city, Gerald said.  Suspended or Delisted  At least 20 Chinese firms on the exchange, where one in
five stocks are China-based, have been suspended or ordered to
delist since 2008. There were 152 China-based firms listed on
Singapore’s  S$893 billion ($727 billion)  stock market at the end
of June, according to the exchange. The FTSE Strait Times China
Index of 63 Chinese stocks has lost 11 percent this year,
compared with a 1.3 percent slide in the Straits Times Index.  There is little that anyone outside China can do to pursue
executives or companies there, said Mak Yuen Teen, an associate
professor at the  National University  of Singapore’s Business
School and co-director of the Corporate Governance and Financial
Reporting Center. The lack of an extradition treaty means
company officials can’t be compelled to return, and foreign
court orders aren’t recognized in China, he said.  “The legal hurdle is the key concern when all you have is
a listed shell and everything else is offshore,” said Sim Kwan
Kiat, head of business finance and insolvency at Singapore’s
Rajah & Tann LLP. “The rules are there; it’s an issue of
enforcement.”  ‘Flagrant, Blatant Breach’  Singapore should have separate laws governing listed
companies, said Walter Woon, who heads the steering committee
overseeing proposed changes to the Companies Act.  “Even if there’s a flagrant, blatant breach of our laws,
we can’t touch the guy because certain sections of our Companies
Act don’t apply to foreign entities,” said Woon, Singapore’s
former attorney general. “The culprits can thumb their noses at
us. We should at least consider making some of the basic rules
on corporate governance apply to foreign companies that want to
list here, even if this scares away some people.”  The Singapore,  New York ,  London  and Tokyo exchanges were
given permission to  open offices  in China in 2007 to lure
companies from the world’s most populous nation seeking to tap
international capital markets.  “The common concern is, in the big rush to get these
Chinese firms to list overseas, has the safety net been
compromised?” said Tan Han Meng, an analyst at DMG & Partners
Securities. “Now regulators from SGX to SEC are trying to see
what comfort they can give to investors.”  SEC Warning  Short-sellers including Carson Block’s Muddy Waters have
questioned the accounts of Chinese firms listed in  North America .  On June 9, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
warned investors about buying stakes in companies that gain
listings on its exchanges through reverse takeovers as they may
be prone to “fraud and other abuses.” Chinese companies have
used such takeovers to list shares in the U.S., avoiding the
regulatory and investor scrutiny of an initial public offering.  The SEC has revoked the registrations of at least eight
Chinese companies since December and more than 24 firms have
disclosed auditor resignations or accounting irregularities to
it since March, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote April 27.  U.S. and Chinese officials will meet July 11 to 12 to
discuss giving American securities regulators the right to
investigate companies within China for the first time, said two
Chinese officials with direct knowledge of the plans who asked
not to be named because the talks are private.  “Corporate governance practices have evolved worldwide and
Chinese companies that list overseas don’t seem to have caught
on,” Gerald said. “Investors are losing confidence in Chinese
companies, not just in Singapore but elsewhere including the
U.S.”  Imprisoned Director  In March, a Singapore court sentenced Peter Madhavan, a
former independent director at Singapore-based freight forwarder
Airocean Group Ltd., to four months in prison for his role in
making a misleading regulatory filing. Madhavan is appealing his
sentence and conviction, according to his  law firm , Drew &
Napier LLC.  “The regulators may not be able to go after the real
perpetrators in Chinese companies, but they can go after the
independent directors to make a point,” said Robson Lee, a
lawyer and an independent director at China-based Youcan Foods
International Ltd. “You could go to jail if something goes
terribly wrong, all for an annual director’s fee of S$50,000.”  Singapore-Listed  China Gaoxian Fibre Fabric Holdings Ltd. (CGXF)  is the latest
Singapore-listed Chinese firm to report accounting
inconsistencies. The Zhejiang-based maker of polyester yarn said
June 30 its auditors at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP discovered
the company’s bank balance should be less than a tenth of the
1.1 billion yuan ($170 million) it reported in its earnings.  “The exchange’s sanctions are limited to reprimand,
suspension and delisting,” DMG’s Tan said. “A share suspension
is very frustrating for investors and they’re held hostage. In a
delisting, they could be staring at negative returns.”  In the case of FerroChina Ltd., shareholders lost their
entire investment when the steelmaker was forced to delist in
March 2010 after being suspended for more than a year. The
company, which hired Merrill Lynch & Co. in April 2008 as an
adviser to help it be “the world’s largest and most efficient
independent galvanized steel manufacturer,” defaulted on loans
in October of that year, weeks after reporting quarterly net
income had tripled.  Fires, Stolen Trucks  Other stocks that have been suspended include  Sino
Techfibre Ltd. (SINOT) , which said a fire destroyed its financial
records after reporting accounting flaws, and China Sun Bio-Chem
Technology Group Co., which said a truck transporting its
accounting records was stolen.  Singapore, which the  World Economic Forum  said has the
 highest corporate governance standards in Asia , said it plans to
overhaul its Companies Act, which may include rules allowing
shareholders to sue directors. The city has also proposed
increasing independent directors’ responsibilities.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said in an e-mail that
it’s “constantly looking at ways to enhance our regulatory
regime in order for us to maintain our reputation as a well-
regarded financial center.”  The city state will “thoroughly investigate” and take
appropriate enforcement action when its securities laws have
been breached, the authority said.  In 2004, China Aviation Oil (Singapore) Corp. revealed a
$550 million derivatives fraud, Singapore’s biggest financial
scandal since  Nick Leeson ’s $1.5 billion trading loss brought
down Barings Plc. Chen Jiulin, China Aviation’s former Chief
Executive Office, became the first person imprisoned in
Singapore for  insider trading  after he returned from China.  The accounting scandals at some Chinese companies and the
lack of prosecutorial powers highlights the challenges of cross-
border transactions, Woon said.  “Laws are generally a generation behind technology,” Woon
said. “Legal systems can’t handle the cross-border nature of
business today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at   atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  