-- 
Aberdeen’s Daly Says China May Hike Reserve Ratio on Inflation

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-07T06:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/aberdeen-s-daly-says-china-may-hike-reserve-ratio-on-inflation.html
Kevin Daly , a portfolio manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. in  London , comments on  China ’s
monetary policy outlook and Indonesia’s rating outlook. Daly,
who helps manage $6.5 billion in emerging-market funds, spoke
today at a briefing in Hong Kong. The People’s Bank of China
yesterday lifted the one-year deposit and lending rates by a
quarter of a percentage point each to 3.5 percent and 6.56
percent respectively.  On China:  “China will continue to tighten policy if inflation
remains on the high side. If it remains at a 6 and 6.5 percent
range for July, we’re likely to see further tightening. You are
probably back to another 50 basis points hike in the required
reserve ratio. Policy rates probably not because obviously they
want to drain more liquidity from the financial sector. It’s
going to be very data-dependent after August.”  You will see inflation peaking in the next several months
probably at around 6.5 percent. We’re likely to see a pause in
tightening measures and that will start to provide some support
to the market. We have less concern about growth. In some way,
adjustment is underway in China. We see growth as probably
coming out at around 8.5 percent this year.’’  On  Indonesia :  “Indonesia has one of the lowest fiscal deficit positions
among the emerging countries. Its fiscal balance remains very
strong and there’s a big increase in foreign direct investment
as well. It’s a resource-rich country, which is benefiting from
not just the mix of commodities but also the coal shortage in
China and  India . What’s probably holding back the upgrade are
the subsidies, which stand at about 3 percent of its GDP. The
expectation is you are likely to see some move on subsidies over
the next year. That would be a signal for rating agencies that
this is a positive sign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  