-- 
Labor Board Crimps Companies in Union Campaigns, Lawyer Says

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-07-07T18:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/labor-board-crimps-companies-in-union-campaigns-lawyer-says-1-.html
A U.S. labor board plan to streamline
union elections will deny management a chance to make its case
to workers, consultants for business groups told House members.  A National Labor Relations Board proposal “assumes
employers have no role to play,” Michael Lotito, a lawyer at
Jackson Lewis LLP in  San Francisco  who handles labor issues,
said today at a House Education and Workforce Committee hearing.
“This all but shuts the door on employers providing critical
information to employees about the petitioning union, collective
bargaining and potential strikes.”  The  proposed rule  would give companies less time and
opportunity to block employee unions. The NLRB said the rule
would eliminate “unnecessary barriers” and cut litigation. The
proposal is part of the Obama administration drive “to tilt the
playing field in organized labor’s favor,”  Michael Eastman ,
executive director of labor-law policy at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said on June 21 when the rule was proposed.  “Whether its intended or not, it’s going to dramatically
increase the number of elections unions win, because employers
will give up,” Lotito said.  The push for quicker elections is a victory for labor after
defeats in states where Republican governors are seeking to curb
public-employee unions.  Board ‘Unconstrained’  “The proposed rule demonstrates once again that the
current board majority feels unconstrained by the limits of the
law and its role” to “be completely neutral on the question of
unionization,” said Peter Schaumber, a former NLRB chairman
appointed by President  George W. Bush .  Republicans will seek to stop the rule with legislation,
Representative Robert Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters.  “We are going to exercise everything in our toolbox” to
“block this,” Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota
Republican and committee chairman, told reporters after the
hearing.  Kline said the board’s proposal will change workplaces at a
time when employers are struggling and more than 14 million
people are seeking jobs. “It is a step in the wrong direction
and we must reverse course,” Kline said in a statement.  Resolving representation questions quickly, fairly and
accurately has been an overriding goal of American labor law for
more than 75 years, board Chairman Wilma Liebman said in a
statement that accompanied the proposal.  Process ‘Broken’  “The board’s election procedure is broken and in need of
an overhaul,” said Kenneth Dau-Schmidt, a labor professor at
 Indiana University  in Bloomington. “It allows unscrupulous
employers to control the election process through delay and
intimidation.”  Employers can refuse to agree on an election plan,
challenge the scope of the unit, raise objections over
jurisdiction and delay certifying the vote, Dau-Schmidt said,
citing researchers at the University of  California  at Berkeley.  “Delays intensify workplace conflict,” Representative
 George Miller  of California, the senior Democrat on the
committee, said in a statement. “They provide opportunities for
unfair labor practices, like threatening or firing workers, in
order to undermine workers’ freedom of choice.”  Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey Democrat, said the
board’s proposal is just “a small step toward an even playing
field” between unions and companies.  The NLRB conducted 1,633 union-representation elections in
the year ended Sept. 30, 2009, the most recent period posted on
the agency’s website. Of cases closed in the period, employees
chose to join a union in 64 percent of the votes.  The agency plans a hearing on the election rules on July 18
and 19 in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  