-- 
Accused Underpants Bomber’s Trial to Begin Oct. 4, Judge Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   S t e v e   R a p h a e l
-- 
2011-07-07T16:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/accused-underpants-bomber-s-trial-to-begin-as-scheduled-u-s-judge-says.html
The man accused of the 2009 Christmas
day attempt to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane with
explosives hidden in his underpants lost a bid to have his trial
moved back from Oct. 4.  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who is representing himself in
federal court in  Michigan , asked that the trial be postponed,
contending the U.S. was late in providing some evidence.
Prosecutors denied any delays in giving information to the
defense and opposed rescheduling the trial.  “It’s not just the government and the defense that need to
be considered,” U.S. District Judge Nancy G. Edmunds said at a
hearing today in Detroit. “It’s the public as well.”  She did set Aug. 5 as the new cutoff date for filing
motions. The original deadline passed on June 24. Jury selection
is set to start Oct. 4. Opening statements would begin a week
later, the judge said.  Abdulmutallab, 24, faces eight criminal counts, including
conspiracy to commit an act of terrorism, attempted murder and
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction. The indictment
also says he has ties to the al-Qaeda terrorist network. He has
pleaded not guilty and faces a possible life sentence if
convicted.  He fired his court-appointed attorneys in September and is
being aided by a so-called standby counsel,  Detroit  attorney
Anthony Chambers, who has filed pretrial motions on his behalf.  Chambers and Abdulmutallab said in court papers that the
U.S. released multiple documents on June 1, three weeks before
the deadline for pretrial motions. Chambers said in court papers
June 14 that he and the defendant “need additional time to
review all the new documents.” The pretrial sharing of evidence
is known as discovery.  ‘We Received More’  “The government told us we received complete discovery and
then we received more,” Chambers said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Some of the material had been provided previously and other
documents contained information already known to the defendant,
the U.S. said. The judge today said the evidence provided was a
“relatively small amount” and shouldn’t hamper the defense.  Northwest Airlines Flight 253, carrying 279 passengers and
11 crew, originated in Amsterdam and was approaching Detroit
Dec. 25, 2009, when Abdulmutallab tried to detonate the
explosives, according to prosecutors. He set fire to his clothes
and a wall before passengers subdued him, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  