-- 
Hacker Group Anonymous Targeted as Swiss Police Raid Home in Ticino Canton

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 
2011-07-07T11:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/hacker-group-anonymous-targeted-as-computers-seized-in-swiss-police-raid.html
Police in  Switzerland  raided the home
of a man suspected of carrying out computer attacks against
Italian websites for the hacker group Anonymous, a Swiss
prosecution spokesman said today.  “They seized lots of computer material,” Valerio Snider,
spokesman for the prosecutor’s office in Lugano, Switzerland,
said by telephone.  Officers on July 5 searched the address of a 26-year-old
foreign national in the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino in
southern Switzerland at the request of Italy’s state prosecutor,
the Swiss federal police said in an e-mailed statement.  Anonymous gained attention after targeting websites
including  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s Paypal and  Visa Inc. (V) , as well as other
companies deemed hostile to Wikileaks, which posts secret
documents on its website. Investigators began tracking the
hacker group in January and have identified “key figures” in
its Italian cell,  Italy ’s State Police said in a separate
statement.  The Italian man whose Swiss home was raided is “suspected
of being part of this hacker group,” Snider said, adding that
the man wasn’t arrested. Police declined to name him.  Italian police have carried out more than 32 searches and
charged three suspects, including a minor, who weren’t detained,
said Tomasso Palumbo, head of Italy’s National Cyber Center for
Critical Infrastructure Protection, who is leading the hacking
investigation. The Swiss suspect is thought to be a “promoter”
of Anonymous and not a leader of the organization, Palumbo said.  ENI, Mediaset  The man, known online by the pseudonym Phre, was the
“strategist of all the group’s offensive activity,” Italian
police said.  Anonymous’s Italian targets in the last six months included
 ENI SpA (ENI) , Europe’s fifth-biggest oil company, as well as  Enel
SpA (ENEL) , an electricity supplier, and  Mediaset SpA (MS) , a broadcaster 39
percent-owned by the family holding company of Italian Prime
Minister Sivio Berlusconi, Italian police said. Both chambers of
the country’s parliament also had their websites hacked.  “The damage caused so far to institutions and companies
has been enormous,” Palumbo said. “Once hit by an attack, they
cannot provide services to users, and a return to normal
functionality of the website often takes many hours and comes at
considerable cost.”  The number of suspects charged is likely to rise, Italian
police said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  