-- 
Mad Men Make AMC Priciest Media Takeover Since 2006: Real M&A

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-07-07T20:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mad-man-don-draper-makes-amc-most-expensive-media-deal-since-06-real-m-a.html
Don Draper and zombies may be enough
to entice  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  to chase the most
expensive American media takeover in five years.  AMC Networks Inc., the cable-television channel owner spun
off last week from  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , may lure buyers
from News Corp. to Disney and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , according to
Gamco Investors Inc. If an acquisition fetches $42 a share as
Collins Stewart LLC estimates, AMC would be valued at 25 times
this year’s projected earnings, making it the most expensive
U.S. media takeover greater than $500 million since 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The TV shows “Mad Men,” “The Walking Dead” and
“Breaking Bad” have helped propel AMC from a movie channel to
a bastion of original programming that could be integrated with
a larger network to boost advertising rates and fees from cable
operators. While AMC commands a higher valuation relative to
profit than 88 percent of U.S. broadcast and entertainment
companies, its $2.8 billion market capitalization makes it a
smaller target than standalone cable channel owners  Scripps
Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI)  and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)   “AMC would be a very attractive asset for a number of
larger media companies,” said  Chris Marangi , a  fund manager  at
Rye, New York-based Gamco, which oversees $35 billion and about
4 million AMC shares. “AMC is a hot network, and there are a
lot of companies looking for more cable network exposure because
they like the predictable, recurring dual-revenue streams of
advertising and subscription fees.”  Georgia Juvelis, a spokeswoman for New York-based AMC, said
it is company policy not to comment on rumors or speculation.  ‘Mad Men’  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Disney, didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for Time
Warner, declined to comment.  AMC, the owner of cable networks AMC, IFC, WE tv and
Sundance Channel, began trading as a separate public company
July 1 after Cablevision completed a tax-free spinoff of the
division, formerly known as Rainbow Media Holdings. AMC, formed
in  1980 , also owns independent movie distributor  IFC Films , an
international programming business and a TV-programming
distribution unit.  The channel AMC was started in  1984  as American Movie
Classics. Its show “Mad Men,” which follows creative director
 Don Draper  in the 1960s New York advertising industry, won the
Emmy for best drama for three straight years. The start of the
fifth season was pushed back until early 2012 amid a standoff
with creator Matthew Weiner, which AMC and producer  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  resolved in March.  Zombie Epidemic  “ The Walking Dead ,” a post-apocalyptic show about a
zombie epidemic, premiered on AMC in October.  “There’s an attractiveness about these highly targeted
cable channels,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950
million at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina .
“Content companies like Disney, News Corp. and others need to
find compelling and unique content that’s going to set them
apart.”  Based on a 25 percent premium to where peers including
Scripps Networks trade relative to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, AMC may fetch about $42 a
share in a sale, said Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins Stewart
in New York. The $3 billion price tag would value AMC at about
25 times its projected 2011 net income of $120 million,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Most Expensive Takeover  That would be the most expensive U.S. media takeover
greater than $500 million since Univision Communications Inc.
was taken private for 57 times net income, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The $13.7 billion deal, including debt, was
announced in June 2006 and completed in March 2007.  “There’s a very good chance that AMC does get acquired in
the future,” said  Richard Greenfield , a New York-based analyst
with BTIG LLC. “I think it’s the reason for doing the spin.”  Greenfield estimates AMC is worth at least $50 a share. AMC
rose 1.9 percent to $39.52 today in  New York .  Cablevision may be liable for taxes from the spinoff if AMC
is acquired within two years in what is deemed to be part of a
prior plan between the buyer and Cablevision, according to a
 regulatory filing .  As long as the acquirer didn’t have discussions prior to
the spinoff with Cablevision or its controlling shareholders
about buying AMC, then a deal would likely avoid triggering the
tax issue, said Jason Factor, a tax partner at law firm Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP in New York.  Dolan Family  Potential acquirers will likely wait at least six months
before making an offer, according to Gamco’s Marangi and BTIG’s
Greenfield. Cablevision implied at analyst meetings that it
didn’t have substantive discussions to sell AMC, Marangi said.  A deal would have to be approved by the Dolan family who
through Class B shares control the majority of shareholder
voting power.  The  $2.4 billion  of debt that AMC took on in the spinoff
may deter a potential buyer, said Rich Tullo, an analyst with
Albert Fried & Co. in New York.  The stock is also expensive, he said. AMC traded yesterday
at 24 times projected 2011 adjusted earnings of $1.58 a share,
based on five analysts’ estimated compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more expensive than all but two U.S. broadcast and entertainment
companies with a market value of at least $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising Sales  “AMC is attractive, but it’s not a must-have,” said
 Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
Denver. “People in this environment are somewhat price
sensitive.”  Revenue at AMC has climbed for four straight years to $1.1
billion in 2010, and the company posted an $80 million profit
last year, according to regulatory filings. Since exchanges
permitted trading in the stock starting June 17, AMC shares had
risen 9.3 percent through yesterday. AMC closed at $38.78
yesterday, giving the company a market value of almost $2.8
billion.  Scripps Networks, the owner of the Travel Channel and HGTV,
and Discovery Communications, which runs the  Discovery Channel 
and Animal Planet, are like AMC in focusing predominantly on
cable channel assets. Cincinnati-based Scripps Networks is
valued at $8.3 billion, while Discovery Communications of Silver
Spring, Maryland, has a market capitalization of almost $17
billion -- or about six times the size of AMC.  “AMC has a market cap that’s nearly three times less than
Scripps,”  Collins Stewart ’s Eagan said. “Its cable networks
can be exploited by a larger media company. A larger ad sales
force could probably take advantage of it.”  ‘More Muscle’  While a company like New York-based Time Warner might be
“gun-shy” to spend $10 billion or more on an acquisition, AMC
may be “a bit of a different story,” he said.  Time Warner and News Corp. both have robust advertising
sales groups that could take advantage of AMC, said John Tinker,
an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York. Its popular scripted
dramas fit with network assets they already own, he said.  “If you have an existing sales force, you give them more
muscle,” Tinker said.  Time Warner owns the HBO, TBS and TNT cable channels as
well as Warner Bros. Television, which produces “Two and a Half
Men” and “Fringe.” New York-based News Corp. is the parent
company of the Fox broadcast network and cable’s FX, known for
shows such as “American Idol” and “It’s Always Sunny in
Philadelphia,” respectively.  Finding a partner with established international sales may
help AMC leverage its hit shows globally, Marangi said. A
company like Burbank, California-based Disney, which owns ABC
and ESPN, already has a global advertising ad sales
infrastructure, making it easy to “slot” in AMC, he said.  AMC “would be potentially an attractive acquisition
target,” Greenwood Capital’s Todd said. “All those companies
are looking for unique and difficult-to-replicate content.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 