-- 
Thai Vote-Winning Policies Drive SCB Asset to First Inflation-Linked Debt

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-07T07:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/thai-vote-winning-policies-drive-scb-asset-to-first-inflation-linked-debt.html
Thailand ’s first inflation-linked
bonds are attractive as the election-winning policies of the
Pheu Thai party will fuel price increases, said SCB Asset
Management Co., the nation’s second-biggest asset manager.  Thailand will sell 40 billion baht ($1.3 billion) of the
debt by July 13, joining South  Korea  and Japan in issuing such
securities. Pheu Thai, led by exiled former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ’s sister Yingluck, formed a coalition with 299 of the
500 seats in parliament after pledging to raise the minimum wage
and guarantee crop prices. Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last month he is concerned populist policies
may add to inflation pressure.  “If we look at the relationship between wages and
inflation, there is a high correlation,” Jessada Sookdhis, a
Bangkok-based  fund manager  at SCB Asset said in an interview
yesterday. “There would be a higher chance for inflation to
accelerate.”  There is “strong demand” from overseas and local
investors who started bidding yesterday and today for the 10-
year bonds, Chakkrit Parapuntakul, director-general of the
finance ministry’s Public Debt Management Office, said in an
interview yesterday. Emerging-market debt that provides
protection against price rises returned 5.8 percent this year,
compared with 3 percent for conventional bonds, according to
indexes compiled by Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Worst Performer  Thai conventional bonds are the worst performers this year
among 10 local-currency debt indexes in  Asia  tracked by HSBC
Holdings Plc, with a gain of 0.7 percent, compared with 7
percent in  Indonesia . The yield on the 5.25 percent bonds due
May 2014 added two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.77 percent as of 1:48 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation-linked bonds track consumer-price gains to
compensate investors for the erosion of debt values. The
consumer-price index climbed 4.06 percent in June from a year
earlier, after reaching a 32-month high of 4.19 percent in May,
according to official data. The central bank said in April that
prices may rise 3.9 percent this year.  The Bank of Thailand has lifted its benchmark interest rate
four times this year to 3 percent and signaled more increases
are likely to tame inflation. Policy makers will boost the rate
to 3.25 percent when they next meet on July 13 to review
borrowing costs, according to all 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The one-day bond repurchase rate may rise to 3.5
percent by the end of this year, according to the median
forecast of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Election Pledges  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s government raised the
minimum wage in January to cushion the impact of rising prices
and boosted civil servants’ salaries in April.  Yingluck, 44, pledged on July 3 to implement the party’s
campaign policies, which include almost doubling the minimum
wage in some parts of the country to 300 baht per day,
distributing tablet computers to 100,000 students, building
hydroelectric dams and introducing high-speed trains. Her party
hasn’t said how it will fund the promises.  Standard & Poor’s  said on July 5 there is “downside risk”
on the Thai government’s finances if many of the campaign
pledges become reality.  ‘More Populist Measures’  “Implementing many of these policies without having proper
appropriation of the revenues would adversely affect the
country’s fiscal position,” said  Takahira Ogawa , a Singapore-
based S&P credit analyst. The ratings company ranks Thailand’s
local-currency debt A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade.  The measures would likely increase borrowing needs and may
cause bond yields to rise, said Wee-Ming Ting, the Singapore-
based head of Asian fixed income at Pictet Asset Management, a
unit of  Switzerland ’s largest privately held bank for the
wealthy that oversees $17.4 billion of emerging-market debt.  “We have Thai bonds and we are slightly short against the
benchmark,” Ting said in an interview on July 4, referring to
the weightings in bond indexes used to gauge fund performance.
“We expect there will be more populist measures, thereby
increasing supply,” he said. “ Interest rates  may move
higher.”  The debt pays the fixed interest rate, which is about 1
percent, as well as inflation compensation on the interest rate
and principal, according to the prospectus.  The  Hong Kong  government will also sell as much as HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) of three-year inflation-linked bonds, K.
C. Chan, the city’s secretary for financial services and the
treasury, said this week. It will be Hong Kong’s first such
offer, as it grapples with a year-on-year inflation rate that
reached 5.2 percent in May, the most in 34 months.  Korean Experience  South Korea ’s inflation-linked bonds returned 4.6 percent
this year, more than the 2.5 percent return on conventional
bonds, according to indexes compiled by Barclays and HSBC.
Korean consumer prices climbed 4.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, rising above the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling for a
sixth month, the government reported on July 1.  The so-called breakeven rate on Korea’s 2.75 percent
inflation-linked debt maturing March 2017 rose 27 basis points
in the past year to 2.64 percent yesterday.  The rate, which measures the gap between yields on
inflation-linked and conventional bonds, is 2.2 percent for
similar-maturity notes in the U.S., 2.1 percent for  France  and
minus 0.003 percent for  Japan , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge is indicative of traders’ expectations for
average annual inflation until the debt matures.  “We are using our experience in Korea, and this issue
could be more attractive in the secondary market, or should they
issue again,’ said Pongtharin Sapayanon, the Bangkok-based head
of fixed income for Thailand at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.
“You could say Pheu Thai’s policies are more aggressive: a lot
of spending and stimulus, so definitely more inflationary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  