-- 
AIG Sells New Jersey Apartment Properties for $241.5 Million

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-07-07T17:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/aig-sells-new-jersey-apartment-properties-for-241-5-million.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer seeking capital to replace U.S. government bailout
funds, sold 2,200 apartments in central New Jersey to Vantage
Properties LLC and Angelo, Gordon & Co. for $241.5 million.  The portfolio consists of six multifamily complexes in
Plainsboro, Neptune, Long Branch, Matawan and South River, the
buyers said today in a statement.  The U.S. apartment vacancy rate dropped to 6 percent in the
three months ended June 30 from 7.8 percent a year earlier, Reis
Inc., a New York-based property research firm, said in a report
today. Higher rents replaced landlord concessions as demand for
apartments increased because foreclosures are forcing people out
of homes and prospective homebuyers are having trouble getting
mortgages, according to the report.  “The fundamentals on the apartment market are pretty
terrific right now,” Neil Rubler, chief executive officer of
Vantage Properties, said in a telephone interview. “Vacancy
rates are as low as we’ve ever seen them. Where probably the
story in 2010 was that concessions were starting to be driven
out of the market, the story in 2011 certainly is increasing
face rents.”  The AIG acquisition is the second in New Jersey for Vantage
Properties, which owns 10,000 apartments in  New York  City. The
firm, based in  Long Island City , New York, bought the 776-unit
Fox Run apartments in Plainsboro in 2009 and resold that complex
in December, Rubler said.  Suburban Expansion  Vantage teamed with Angelo Gordon, a New York-based
investment firm with $25 billion under management, in both the
Fox Run and the latest transactions, Rubler said. He declined to
say how much each company contributed to the deals.  Vantage has started a subsidiary called Candlebrook
focusing on suburban rental properties in response to its
diversification outside  New York City , where demand for rental
housing is growing, he said.  “The American dream of owning one’s own home is here to
stay,” he said. “But what we do see for sure is that home
ownership is not as easy as it once was to achieve and so a lot
of folks are still pushed into the rental market.”  Lighthouse Properties Sale  Vantage simultaneously completed the sale of three
properties with 472 units to Lighthouse Properties of  New
Jersey , the statement said.  AIG purchased the apartments from Kushner Cos., Rubler
said. The June 2007 sale by Kushner, a closely held firm run by
New York developer Jared Kushner, of 86 apartment complexes with
almost 17,000 units was for about $1.9 billion including debt.  “They’re marketing several other properties” in New
Jersey through real estate firm Holliday Fenoglio Fowler LP,
Rubler said of AIG. “Even with those incremental properties,
still they continue to hold the majority of the portfolio they
acquired from Kushner.”  AIG has sold more than $50 billion of assets since its $182
billion rescue in 2008, including non-U.S. life insurers, a
consumer-finance unit and an asset manager. The sale of its New
York headquarters and a Tokyo office tower were among its
largest real-estate divestitures. Joseph Norton of AIG’s
communications department said he couldn’t immediately comment.  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 67, is focusing on the company’s
global property-casualty and U.S. life insurance businesses. The
company is 77 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  