-- 
Air France Asks Flyers to Take Out Trash in Ryanair Battle

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-07-08T17:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/air-france-flyers-told-to-take-own-trash-in-bid-to-outdo-ryanair.html
Air  France  will ask passengers to
clear their seats and take their trash with them when leaving
the plane as the carrier seeks to cut costs and stem the advance
of  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  in its home market.  Paris-based Air France is working on the plan after cabin
crew refused to assume cleaning duties at a low-cost operation
it’s introducing in a push to claw back traffic at provincial
airports, according to a union official involved in the talks.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon wants to
eliminate ground-based cleaners to keep jets flying longer,
emulating discount rivals and rendering hitherto-unprofitable
regional hubs viable. Still, union wrangles have already forced
one of four planned bases to be abandoned, even as EasyJet adds
French routes and  Spain ’s  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG)  begins flights
from Toulouse, one of the remaining locations.  Ryanair, the region’s No. 1 discount carrier, isn’t worried
about Gourgeon’s plan and regards Air France’s strategy as
“hopeless,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in an
interview. “No flag-carrier in the history of aviation has ever
succeeded in rolling out a real low-fares airline.”  Air France will only ask passengers to clean up the free
newspapers they are offered at the start of the flight,
spokesman Jean-Charles Trehan said. Further cleaning duties will
be carried out by ground staff who re-stock the planes, he said.  BA Experiment  Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s biggest airline, trails
rivals in evolving a strategy to confront the no-frills threat.  British Airways founded a low-cost subsidiary, Go Fly, in
1998 at  London  Stansted airport, Ryanair’s biggest base. Go was
sold to 3i Group Plc in 2001 and then to EasyJet a year later,
while BA pared its own unprofitable short-haul network to focus
on providing feeder traffic to  London Heathrow .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  created GermanWings to defend its
position on regional routes, and Iberia combined its no-frills
operation with Vueling in 2009. The Spanish company has since
merged with BA as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  “Air France is a little late making these adjustments and
the market rolls on without waiting for them,” said Penny Butcher, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. “Most of their
peer group recognized the low-cost threat and adapted their
businesses years ago. The delay is 99 percent labor-related.”  Air France’s share of domestic and international traffic
fell from 39 percent in 2002, when Luton, England-based EasyJet
opened its first French base, to 34 percent in 2009, the most
recent year for which a breakdown is available.  TGV Challenge  EasyJet more than quadrupled its French market share to 7.6
percent over the same period. It increased capacity on French
routes by 35 percent in the first half and based a 22nd aircraft
in the country to add summer flights from Paris Charles de
Gaulle airport and winter services to Verona and Bologna,  Italy .
Spokeswoman Celine Prenez declined to comment on the Air France
plan.  French short-haul  air travel  is also under pressure from
state rail operator  SNCF’s TGV  high-speed trains as the network
is extended and journey times fall.  Gourgeon’s strategy involves shifting part of Air France’s
single-aisle Airbus SAS A320 fleet from Paris to Marseille, Nice
and Toulouse, opening up dozens of new routes including services
to north  Africa , eastern Europe and Scandinavia.  Under the plan, staff will work longer hours and be
stationed at the bases, paring costs and trimming the turnaround
between flights to 25-30 minutes in order to lift time in the
air to about 12 hours a day from the current eight or nine.  Bordeaux  Air France has dropped Bordeaux from the model, and may
instead serve the city with smaller  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets, while
postponing the Marseille base’s opening from June to October to
allow for extra union consultation, Gourgeon said in a June 16
interview, adding that the company wants its employees to
endorse the plan.  “The delay is mainly because we want to do it in a win-win
way with staff,” the CEO said. “We don’t force anybody, we
don’t have to say ‘OK, you have to work more and make less
money.’”  Members of Air France’s main SNPL pilots’ union accepted
the strategy by a 54.5 percent majority in a ballot that ended
this week, the labor group said on its  website . Finding crews
prepared to move to provincial cities may prove tougher.  The SNPNC cabin-crew union has rejected the plan, it said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Fatiha Aggoune, the union’s
president, said in a phone interview that talks broke down
earlier in the week over issues including reduced rest periods
and a lower hourly pay rate.  Labor Concessions  “It’s very difficult to get concessions from strong unions
at traditional airlines,” said Alex Cruz, CEO of Barcelona-
based Vueling. “We’ve not yet seen a strategy articulated by
Air France that’s competitive enough to affect us.”  Vueling, which opened its Toulouse base this year and is
seeking to expand at Paris Orly, keeps to tight schedules
because of pilots and flight attendants who accept their wider
roles, he said, citing the actions of one pilot on a recent
flight.  “The plane wasn’t getting refueled fast enough so he went
down the stairs and began to give hell to the people on the
ground until they got their job done,” Cruz said in an
interview. “Our cabin crew go through and do a cleanup because
they’re already on board. You won’t get Air France staff to do
that unless you hire a new crew under new conditions.”  Yet unless Air France secures comparable agreements, it
will “never get near” the productivity or 25-minute
turnarounds of low-cost rivals, said Morgan Stanley’s Butcher,
who blames legacy labor costs for hampering no-frills
experiments at other mainline carriers and called Qantas Airways
Ltd.’s Jetstar the only budget offshoot that actually worked.  Weaker Hand  What’s more, Air France may soon face competition in
southern cities from other discount carriers, such as Norwegian
Air Shuttle ASA, Europe’s fourth-largest, Butcher said.  “It’s not a recent phenomenon that EasyJet decided to move
into France, and it has been over a year since Vueling decided
to move into the market,” she said. “Yet they really only
launched the idea of short-haul bases late last year, so they’ve
taken a very long time to actually get things moving.”  A rebound in demand for air travel from the credit crunch
and recession also gives labor representatives more leverage,
weakening Gourgeon’s hand, said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
Securities in Paris with a “buy” rating on  Air France-KLM. (AF)  The
airline should have acted after racking up 2.4 billion euros
($3.4 billion) of net losses in the two years through March
2010, Derocles said.  ‘Time to Negotiate’  “The time to negotiate was during the crisis, when
management held the bargaining power,” Derocles said, citing
increased labor flexibility secured by Lufthansa in 2009. “But
there was almost no discussion with unions, and now the
environment has changed completely. Management simply wasn’t
doing its job.”  O’Leary of Ryanair, which serves  26 French destinations  and
stopped basing planes in Marseille in a labor dispute,
encouraging Air France to target the city, said Gourgeon could
undermine demand at his company’s own mainline operation in his
eagerness to stem the discount tide.  “For the low-fares airline to succeed it would have to
cannibalize Air France’s traffic,” O’Leary said. “What Air
France will do is probably use it to block the development of
Ryanair or EasyJet in some regional markets, but that will be
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  