-- 
Airlines Prepare to Take Off on Fuel Made From Algae, Wood Chips

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-07T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/airlines-prepare-to-take-off-on-fuel-made-from-algae-wood-chips.html
After decades of waiting, commercial
airlines have been given the go-ahead to use fuel made from
algae, wood chips and other plants with obscure names.  Test flights in recent years by  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , Japan Airlines Co. and Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. have
shown that planes can fly on everything from coconut oil to
jatropha, a plant that grows in the tropics.  On July 1, ASTM International, an American organization
that sets worldwide technical standards for the airline and
other industries, gave approval for carriers to mix fuel made
from organic waste and nonfood plants with kerosene, which is
conventionally used to power planes, Bloomberg BusinessWeek
reports in its July 11 edition.  “A lot of companies have been waiting for the
certification,” says Mark Rumizen, fuel specialist at the  U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration.  “It’s going to drive a lot of
investment.”  Airbus SAS, which together with  Boeing Co. (BA)  makes about 80
percent of the world’s passenger planes, estimates that by 2030
plant-derived formulas could make up as much as 30 percent of
the market for  aviation fuel . Even so, it may take as long as
five years before biofuels are cost competitive, says Billy M.
Glover, managing director of environmental strategy at Boeing’s
commercial airplanes unit.  Pressure is building on the  airline industry  to cut
pollution. Aviation accounts for about 2 percent of global
emissions of carbon dioxide, according to the  International Air
Transport Association .  Cap-and-Trade  In 2012, carriers with European routes will have to
participate in the European Union’s cap-and-trade system for CO2
and will have to buy additional permits if they exceed limits
set by the European Commission. In the U.S., the Energy
Department, along with state agencies, has granted a total of
$348 million in loans, grants, and tax exemptions since 2004 for
research centers, fuel producers and refiners.  The trick for airlines, plane makers, and fuel suppliers
will be figuring out which brew works best and producing it in
large enough quantities so that costs begin to fall. Right now,
the aviation industry is most focused on the so-called second
generation of biofuels.  These are made largely from inedible plants, so there’s
little risk that expanding production will drive up food prices,
as happened with corn, which is used for ethanol.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to steer $600 million to a
partnership with Synthetic Genomics, a California company that
is experimenting with a type of algae that produces an oily
substance good for burning.  BP Plc (BP/)  is conducting research into
biobutanol, a fuel processed with the same bacteria used for
making cordite, an explosive once used in firearms.  Organic Waste  Boeing,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and the U.S. Air Force
have tested at least 20 different types of fuel derived from
organic waste and plants such as jatropha and camelina, found in
parts of  Europe  and  North America , as well as organic material,
including garbage.  Boeing and Airbus are building supply networks that include
growers, refiners, transporters, and distributors to bring
biofuel to airports worldwide. Airbus is in the process of
setting up a supply hub in  India , which has the right climate
for cultivation of jatropha and other plants used in biofuel
production, while Boeing is negotiating with suppliers in  South
America .  The challenge now is building fuel production facilities
fast enough to meet demand, and that may take at least three
more years, says James Rekoske, vice-president of renewable
energy at Honeywell’s UOP unit. The company is seeking to
license its technology to biofuel makers.  Jet Fuel  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) , a Finnish oil refiner, says all four of its
biodiesel production plants can also churn out renewable jet
fuel, and it’s in discussions with several airlines about
purchase agreements.  Solazyme Inc., a California company that supplies algae-
based oils to cosmetics and food companies, is also ramping up
output. Chief Executive Officer Jonathan S. Wolfson said that by
2013 or 2014 his company will start producing “large commercial
quantities” of its clean oils that can be refined into jet
fuel.  As demand for biofuels grows, the bigger  oil companies  may
scoop up smaller refiners. “There’s a lot of synergy and
advantages for Air BP,  Exxon Mobil , and others to be the ones
supplying all of the fuel for the airlines,” says Rekoske of
Honeywell. “Airlines buy their fuel from big companies because
they like the security. They know they’re going to get a quality
material.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  