-- 
Malaysia Government Forces Protest Rally Out of Capital

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-07T08:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/malaysia-government-forces-protest-rally-out-of-capital-2-.html
The  Coalition for Clean and Fair
Elections , a Malaysian election-rights group, must hold its
planned July 9 protest in a stadium outside of the country’s
capital to avoid creating traffic chaos, the government said.  The group, comprising more than 60 non-governmental
organizations, had wanted to stage its rally in  Kuala Lumpur ’s
Merdeka Stadium, after taking the king’s advice to cancel street
demonstrations. The coalition, also known as “Bersih,” should
instead take up an offer to use a venue in opposition-controlled
Selangor state, said Deputy Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin.  “We don’t want them to create traffic congestion in the
city,” Muhyiddin told reporters today in Putrajaya, outside
Kuala Lumpur. “The Merdeka Stadium is a historic venue, where
our independence was declared. I don’t think the venue will suit
Bersih’s purpose.”  More than 300,000 people may attend this weekend’s assembly,
opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  told reporters yesterday. Bersih
wants electoral changes, such as lengthening campaign periods to
at least 21 days and using indelible ink on fingers to prevent
people from voting more than once.  The cabinet reached a unanimous decision yesterday on
blocking the event from being held in the capital, Muhyiddin
said. Bersih still needs to apply for a permit through a legal
body to hold the rally, he said.  The coalition picked Merdeka Stadium as its preferred venue
due to its “symbolic nature” and central location, Bersih said
in a statement today, ahead of Muhyiddin’s remarks. “We will
not for one moment be swayed from our decision to gather there
peacefully,” it said.  Royal Advice  Similar protests by the group seeking changes to the
electoral system in 2007 drew 40,000 people in the capital of
Kuala Lumpur and water cannons were used to disperse crowds.
Selangor, which is controlled by Anwar’s People’s Alliance
coalition, borders Kuala Lumpur.  Bersih scrapped plans for street protests after King Mizan
Zainal Abidin expressed concern this would harm the country. The
monarch intervened following the arrest of more than 100
activists over the past two weeks, drawing criticism from groups
including  Amnesty International  and  Human Rights Watch .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  