-- 
Malaysia Refrains From Raising Key Interest Rate

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-07T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/malaysia-refrains-from-raising-key-interest-rate.html
Malaysia ’s central bank unexpectedly
refrained from raising interest rates, choosing instead to order
lenders to set aside more cash as it pledged to consider further
policy moves after assessing economic conditions.  Bank Negara  Malaysia raised the statutory reserve
requirement ratio to 4 percent from 3 percent effective July 16,
it said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The benchmark
overnight policy rate was held at 3 percent, a decision
predicted by five of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The rest expected a quarter-percentage-point increase.  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth have damped
the outlook for exports, putting pressure on Asian policy makers
to delay further rate increases even as inflation accelerates.
While there are “higher downside risks to growth,” pressure
remains on prices to climb further, Malaysia’s central bank said.  “This is largely a response to the downside risks to
growth which they perceive, but clearly they have left the door
open to future hikes,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based
economist at Citigroup Inc. “Given the way inflation is moving,
it is still possible” that the central bank may raise rates
later this year, he said.  The ringgit ended the day at 3.0113 a dollar yesterday,
from 3.0103 before the central bank decision, according to
Bloomberg data. It has jumped more than 6 percent against the
dollar in the past year, and reached 2.9598 against the U.S.
currency on May 2, the strongest level in 13 years.  Asian Tightening  Asia ’s central banks have enacted the steepest increases in
borrowing costs as the region led the global recovery from the
2009 recession, with  India ,  South Korea ,  Thailand  and  Taiwan 
raising their key rates last month and China announcing a move
this week.  The central bank said yesterday’s decision to raise the
reserve requirement for a third time this year is a “measure to
manage the significant build-up of liquidity, which may result
in financial imbalances and create risks to financial
stability.”  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in May from a year earlier.
Inflation may range from 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year
from 1.7 percent in 2010, the central bank said in March.  Inflation is likely to “head up further” before peaking
in the fourth quarter, Wellian Wiranto, an economist at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in  Singapore , said before the decision. “We think
Bank Negara will find that the global growth outlook is clear
and sunny enough for the central bank to nudge its policy rate
up” later this year, he said in a note after the announcement.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government permitted
power distributor  Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  to raise electricity
charges last month, adding to price pressures for business and
consumers.  Further Action  “The Monetary Policy Committee will assess carefully the
evolving economic conditions and to the extent that the growth
momentum is sustained, further normalization of monetary
conditions will be considered to safeguard price stability,”
the central bank said.  Bank Negara, led by Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, has raised
the benchmark rate by a percentage point since the beginning of
March 2010 to curb inflation, most recently a quarter-point
increase at the last meeting in May.  China  raised benchmark rates for the third time in 2011
this week. The  Bank of England  kept the benchmark rate at 0.5
percent yesterday to aid an economic recovery.  Greek Crisis  European finance ministers have authorized an 8.7 billion-
euro ($12.5 billion) loan payout to  Greece  by mid-July, pulling
the country back from the brink of default and gaining time to
hammer out a formula for ending the debt crisis. Economic growth
in the U.S. slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in the first
quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three months and the
 unemployment rate  has climbed back above 9 percent.  Malaysia’s growth slowed in the first quarter as
manufacturing and services moderated, with the economy expanding
4.6 percent. HSBC expects gross domestic product to increase 5.7
percent this year, raising its estimate from 5.3 percent
previously.  Banks are charging each other 29 basis points more than the
benchmark policy rate for three-month loans, according to the
 Kuala Lumpur  Interbank Offered Rate before the rate decision,
signaling expectations for higher interest rates and bank
reserve requirements. Interest-rate swap forwards showed traders
were pricing in 40 basis points’ increase in lending rates
between September and June next year.  The central bank’s “assessment is that the risks to
inflation are on the upside,” Bank Negara said yesterday.
“While the outlook for growth remains positive, there are
heightened uncertainties arising from global developments that
have created higher downside risks to growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  