-- 
Malema’s Mine Call Spooks Investors, Stokes South Africa’s Racial Tension

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-08T09:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/malema-mine-seizure-call-spooks-investors-stokes-racial-tension.html
Julius Malema , the youth leader of
South Africa’s ruling party, is rattling investors and stoking
racial tension with his declaration of war on “white monopoly
capital” and calls for government seizure of mines and banks.  Malema’s views resonate among the 50 percent of young black
South Africans who are unemployed and whose living conditions
have improved little in the 17 years since the end of apartheid.
While the  African National Congress  has distanced itself from
Malema’s proposals, it has done little to call him to order.  It is getting harder to dismiss Malema as a sideshow in
South African politics,  Bloomberg BusinessWeek  reports in its
July 11 issue. Business Leadership South Africa, an association
of the heads of 87 of the largest companies operating in the
country, and the Chamber of Mines warned last month that
nationalization would be catastrophic for the economy. Both
groups, whose members include  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  and  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , usually lobby behind closed doors.  “Large swathes of the South African population don’t know
that this is very much a tried-and-tested route to disaster,”
Michael Spicer, the chief executive of Johannesburg-based
Business Leadership, said in a June 28 interview. There is “a
cost in growth forgone, in investment foregone and employment
foregone. That’s an absolute observed reality.”  Power Broker  Malema, who helped President Jacob Zuma gain control of the
ANC in 2007 and won a second term as the youth league’s leader
unopposed at a conference last month, is flexing his political
muscle as lobbying intensifies ahead of ANC elections next year.
While Zuma, 69, has said he is available to serve a second term
as party president, Malema is warning the league will ditch
leaders who don’t heed its call for a “radical policy shift.”  Malema, 30, declined a request for an interview.  “Foreign investors in  South Africa  ought to take these
events seriously,” Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, Africa analyst at
DaMina Advisors LLP in  New York , said in e-mailed comments on
June 23. “Zuma is in the end likely to forge a halfway
compromise between the government’s current, relatively orthodox
policy positions and the more radical proposals proffered by the
ANC youth league.”  Zuma has pledged to create 5 million jobs by 2020 and slash
the jobless rate to 15 percent from 25 percent, while reining in
state spending and courting foreign investment.  ‘Populist Policy’  “We would be very alert to the risk of nationalization,”
Karl Leinberger, chief investment officer of Cape Town-based
Coronation Fund Managers Ltd., which manages 231 billion rand
($35 billion), said in a June 27 interview. “We have very high
levels of unemployment and poverty and when that is the
background there will always be political risk, risk of populist
policy, which will be damaging to business.”  The ANC, which won 66 percent of the vote in the country’s
last national elections in 2009, last year commissioned an
independent study on the viability of nationalization and plans
to debate its findings next year.  “One of the things that people are beginning to learn
about South Africa is how well we are able to engage in robust
debates on very sensitive matters, but come out with an outcome
at the end of the day that spells stability,” Deputy Finance
Minister Nhalnhla Nene told reporters in Cape Town on June 29.  Meanwhile, the government has established a state mining
company, African Exploration Mining and Finance Corp., which
plans to extract minerals such as coal and uranium. It is also
setting up a  state bank  that will compete with lenders such as
 Standard Bank  Group Ltd. and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)   Debate Risks  Mining accounts for about 8.8 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product. The country has the world’s largest
reserves of platinum, chrome ore and manganese. Citigroup Inc.
has valued its total  mineral resources  at $2.5 trillion.  “The risk associated with future investment in South
African mining has increased considerably as seen from the
outside world” because of the nationalization debate,  David Brown , chief executive officer of Johannesburg-based  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-biggest platinum
producer, said on June 28.  Shares of London-based Anglo American, the largest investor
in South African mining, have gained 32 percent in  London  over
the past year, while those of Rio Tinto Plc, the world’s second-
biggest mining company, have surged 49 percent. Anglo’s South
African assets include a 40 percent stake in the world’s top
manganese producer and 80 percent of the world’s biggest
platinum producer, while Rio’s only major South African asset is
a 50 percent stake in a heavy minerals plant and a  copper mine .  Long Term  “Many of South  Africa ’s mining companies have operations
which have 30- to 50-year lives,” Roger Baxter, chief economist
at the Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines, said in a June 28
interview. “Companies are going to be more reluctant to invest
if there is any threat of expropriation.”  Similar concerns were voiced by Sim Tshabalala, chief
executive of Standard Bank’s South African unit. “If the
nationalization debate grinds on for many more months, there
will be fewer new businesses, fewer new jobs, more poverty and
less development for decades to come,” he wrote in
Johannesburg’s Business Day on July 7.  ‘Real Enemy’  Such arguments hold little sway with Malema, whose
upbringing by his domestic-worker mother in a shanty town in the
northern province of Limpopo and background as a student leader
equipped him to tap into popular discontent.  “The real enemy is white-monopoly capital,” Malema, who
is driven around in a Range Rover, told more than 5,000 cheering
delegates at a youth league conference in Johannesburg on June
20. “They are the ones we are fighting against. In whose hands
is this wealth? In whites’.”  Malema may unravel  Nelson Mandela ’s legacy of a non-racial
and inclusive society, said  Helen Zille , head of the country’s
main opposition party. Mandela, who spent 27 years in jail for
plotting the overthrow of apartheid, won a Nobel Peace prize for
leading South Africa from the brink of civil war to its first
democratic elections in 1994 by advocating racial
reconciliation. He served as president from 1994 until 1999.  Malema’s “aim is to obliterate the historical compact we
achieved in the mid-1990s,” Zille, leader of the Democratic
Alliance, said in a June 29 opinion piece in Business Day. “He
has, singlehandedly, positioned the ANC as a racial, nationalist
party, exclusive, uncompromising, insatiable in its lust for
power.”  ‘Racial Schism’  Whites account for about 9.2 percent of South Africa’s 50
million people, government data shows. About 45 percent of the
market capitalization of the Johannesburg stock exchange and 55
percent of the country’s land is owned by white South Africans,
according to the Institute for Race Relations.  “Malema is driving a real racial schism in the country,”
Frans Cronje, deputy chief executive officer of the
Johannesburg-based institute, said in a June 28 interview. “It
doesn’t take a majority of black South Africans in order to drag
the country into a racial mess. It takes a few characters like
Malema with the tacit consent of the ANC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 