-- 
Algosaibi Family Ordered by U.K. Court to Show Saudi Assets

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T16:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/algosaibi-family-ordered-by-u-k-court-to-reveal-saudi-assets.html
Saudi Arabia’s Algosaibi family and
their company, which defaulted in 2009, were ordered by a U.K.
judge to disclose their assets after admitting liability in a
$250 million lawsuit by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks.  Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co. and more than a dozen
“wealthy” family members must provide lists of all assets
worth $50,000 or more by Aug. 4, including property in Saudi
Arabia, Justice Julian Flaux ruled today in the  High Court  in
London.  Algosaibi, which had sought as many as six weeks to
catalogue its Saudi possessions, was also told to reveal if any
business assets had been moved irregularly since June 16, when
the family dropped its defense during a trial on the banks’
claims. The company still hasn’t made a public offer to pay the
banks, Flaux said.  A Saudi court order freezing Algosaibi’s assets in the
country “isn’t preventing the family from carrying on quite
expensive litigation all around the world,” Tim Lord, a lawyer
for London-based HSBC, said at the hearing. “It’s about time
they pay off these debts.”  The case is part of a global dispute between Algosaibi and
one of  Saudi Arabia ’s richest men, Maan al-Sanea, who married
into the Algosaibi family and founded the  Saad Group , which has
businesses ranging from construction to health care. Units of
Saad and Algosaibi, both based in the Saudi oil city of Al-
Khobar, defaulted after borrowing about $15.7 billion from more
than 80 banks. Algosaibi has sued al-Sanea in the  Cayman
Islands , Saudi Arabia and New York, accusing him of heaping debt
on the company by taking out fraudulent loans.  Liability Admission  Algosaibi, with interests including construction, beverage
bottling and finance, “remains willing to negotiate with banks
toward a fair and comprehensive resolution,” the law firm Baach
Robinson & Lewis Pllc in  Washington  said in a statement on
behalf of Algosaibi. “AHAB does not have the funds to pay the
massive amounts that were borrowed in its name.”  Algosaibi’s admission of liability last month prompted HSBC
and the other lenders, including London-based British Arab
Commercial Bank Ltd., to question how Algosaibi planned to pay
them back and whether it would still admit liability if the
dispute moved to countries that don’t recognize English law.  The  London  case, stemming from the largest Saudi default to
come out of the credit crunch, includes HSBC’s $85 million
claim, British Arab Commercial Bank’s $19 million claim, Arab
Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  Algosaibi also admitted liability in a separate U.K. case
in which  European Islamic Investment Bank Plc (EIIB) , a London-based
lender whose deals comply with Sharia law, seeks payment of a
$78 million claim on behalf of group of other lenders.  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest bank by
market value, sought permission today to use witness documents
from the HSBC case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  