-- 
Alstom Sees Growth in Grid Sales on Wind, Interconnection Demand

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-07-07T14:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/alstom-sees-growth-in-grid-sales-on-wind-interconnection-demand.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , a French maker of trains
and turbines, is targeting faster sales growth at its power-grid
unit as demand for offshore wind systems and network
interconnection soars.  “We’re hoping for quicker sales growth in three to five
years,” Henri Poupart-Lafarge, who ran the power grid-unit until
July 4, said in an interview last week. He moved to the helm of
Alstom’s rolling-stock business this week. More precision on
timing is difficult, the executive said, “because it will depend
on the pace of growth in offshore projects.”  The “super-grid” market for high-voltage direct current
and network interconnections will triple in the next four to
five years, to 4.5 billion euros ($6.4 billion), Poupart-Lafarge
said. “The traditional part of the market is growing in volume,
but net growth isn’t very strong because of competition.”  Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron has said he targets an
operating margin of 8 percent to 12 percent in the medium term
for the grid business, as  Germany , the U.K. and  France  begin or
increase offshore wind-power operations and emerging countries
contribute to rising demand for substations, transformers and
switchgears.  The profit margin at the grid unit, bought from Areva SA in
June 2010, was 6 percent on 3.7 billion euros in revenue for the
fiscal year ended in March, Poupart-Lafarge said, as Levallois-
Perret, France-based Alstom faced competition from larger rivals
ABB Ltd. and Siemens AG as well as smaller Asian companies.  Voltage Converter  “Germany is a very dynamic market, which is propelling
Europe thanks to renewable energy projects,” Poupart-Lafarge
said. The U.S. grid market is “uncertain,” he said.  The French company has developed a system that transforms
alternating current into direct current which will allow it to
compete with ABB and Siemens for remote offshore wind farms and
multi-terminal interconnections, the executive said. Alstom won
a first contract for its voltage source converter in the U.S. in
April and now needs to “move on to the industrialization
phase,” he said.  Alstom, which opened an ultra-high-voltage research center
in  Shanghai  in March, is also in talks with Soyuz Holding SA to
set up a switchgear facility in  Russia , and may decide to build
a plant to make transformers or other products there, Poupart-
Lafarge said.  The French company is also looking to buy makers of
software used in network management and information systems for
so-called smart grids, he said. Products for smart grids, which
attempt to predict and respond to usage patterns, and super
grids, which trade large volumes across long distances, each
represent about 10 percent of Alstom’s grid revenue and may
account for 40 percent “in the medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 