-- 
Amazing Fact! Science Proves Health Insurance Works: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-07-07T00:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/amazing-science-proves-health-insurance-works-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
In 2002, about 110,000 people were
enrolled in Oregon’s Medicaid program. By 2008, budget cuts had
reduced that number to 19,000. In fact, so many people were
driven out that the state realized it had the money to cover
10,000 more residents. In the interest of fairness, officials
set up a lottery -- and, quite accidentally, kicked off the most
important health-care policy experiment since the 1970s.  The gold standard in research is a  study  that randomly
chooses who gets a new treatment and who doesn’t. That way, you
know your results are unaffected by differences in the two
populations you are studying. That’s hard to do with health-care
insurance: Are you going to randomly refuse to give people
access to medical care just to see how much worse than the
insured they fare? Is that even ethical?  But in Oregon, it was happening anyway. The state, due to
overwhelming demand and limited resources, was going to randomly
give insurance to some via a lottery and leave the rest
uninsured. So a team of health-care policy researchers proposed
the first randomized experiment to compare Medicaid -- or, to
their knowledge, any form of insurance -- to being uninsured.  When writing a column, you want surprising results.
“Health Insurance Doesn’t Improve Health” is a great headline,
even if it isn’t great news. But by September 2009, after the
first year of coverage and data collection, the  Oregon 
experiment wasn’t returning surprising results. Just encouraging
ones.  Better Care  Compared with the uninsured group, those in the Medicaid
sample got 30 percent more hospital care, 35 percent more
outpatient care and 15 percent more prescription-drug care.
There were similar gains for preventive care; mammograms were up
60 percent and cholesterol monitoring rose 20 percent. The
Medicaid recipients also had fewer unpaid bills sent to
collection, were 25 percent more likely to report themselves in
“good” or “excellent” health, and 10 percent less likely to
screen positive for depression. The one surprise was that there
was no evidence of “crowd-out”: Medicaid coverage didn’t make
someone more or less likely to purchase private insurance.  All this gets to a point that is frequently obscured in a
debate that’s often concerned more with cost curves than with
treating  heart disease . Part of health-care reform is about
making care cheaper. But the more important part is about making
Americans healthier.  Saving Money  “There was a lot of discussion in the reform debate about
whether expanding health insurance would save money,” says
Katherine Baicker, an economist at  Harvard University  who worked
on the study and served on President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of
Economic Advisers . “We don’t talk about other social programs
in those terms. Extending  food stamps  doesn’t save money, for
instance.”  In a way, what the Oregon study showed are the tragic
effects of the budget cuts that made the experiment possible. In
2002, about 110,000 Oregonians had this insurance. By 2008, only
19,000 did. The study proved how much some 90,000 had lost --
and how much others might lose if the budget debate continues on
its current course.  Senior citizens form a powerful voting bloc, with long
experience protecting Medicare. Medicaid -- which serves the
poor, the young and the disabled -- isn’t guarded by a force
anywhere nearly as fearsome. And so, as the Republicans back off
Medicare, there’s broad concern that Medicaid is going to get
the ax. For instance,  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin Republican who
heads the House Budget Committee, wants to repeal the Affordable
Care Act’s expansion of Medicaid to 16 million Americans and
ultimately cut $1.4 trillion from the $4 trillion program.  More Studies  Money can’t be our only concern in the health-care system,
but neither can it be something we can simply ignore. And though
the Oregon project’s results can’t tell us much about how to
save money and improve care, they underline the need for
experiments that can. After all, we are only now seeing the
results from the first gold-standard study examining whether
being on Medicaid is better than being uninsured. We can’t wait
that long for the studies showing which forms of Medicaid -- and
Medicare, and private insurance -- deliver the most effective
care for the least amount of money.  “The broad characterization of what we’ve learned is
Medicaid matters,” Baicker says. “It improves your health,
increases utilization, and reduces the financial strain against
being insured. But what is the best way to provide Medicaid?
That’s not a question our study answers.”  There have been attempts to answer this question. In the
1970s, the  Rand Corp.  conducted a huge randomized experiment
that gave people insurance with different levels of co-pays and
found that more generous insurance didn’t appear to improve
health except for the poorest of the poor. What we need now are
many more randomized studies looking at different types of
insurance and care.  Doing those studies right would cost money, but the
returns, in savings and health, would be enormous. After all,
knowing that Medicaid matters is good, but we already sort of
knew that. Knowing how to make it matter most, and for the
lowest possible cost -- that’s where we’re still struggling.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 