-- 
Ambac Files Reorganization Plan Without Regulator Agreement

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-07T15:10:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ambac-financial-group-files-proposed-chapter-11-plan-for-reorganization.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, proposed a
reorganization plan that still needs agreement from a Wisconsin
regulator and its operating unit.  Ambac filed its plan yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  without an agreement with the Office of the
Commissioner of Insurance, the Wisconsin regulator overseeing
the wind-down of its failed bond insurer, Ambac Assurance Corp.
The plan didn’t include a disclosure statement that details the
terms of a bankruptcy exit.  The plan proposes that Ambac Assurance would get $4 billion
in net operating losses to offset income for tax purposes, and
estimates an equity value for a reorganized Ambac Financial at
$750 million.  Since Ambac Financial filed for Chapter 11 protection in
November, it has clashed with constituents, including its
operating unit, over who gets $7.3 billion in net operating
losses to use for tax benefits. The  Internal Revenue Service  has
challenged tax claims by both companies.  “We agree with the material, substantive terms,” said
Anthony Princi, a lawyer representing unsecured creditors in the
case, in a phone interview. “There are certain provisions that
we’re not in full agreement with but for the most part we are
supportive,” he said.  Under the proposal, new stock and warrants would go to
general unsecured creditors and holders of $1.25 billion in
notes. If those noteholders accept the plan, holders of $444.2
million in subordinated notes would get 1.5 percent of the stock
plus warrants.  Resolving Disputes  If the Wisconsin regulator accepts the plan, disputes will
be resolved and the operating company can exit bankruptcy. If it
rejects the plan, Ambac Financial could convert to a Chapter 7
and liquidate, or transfer more than 20 percent of its stock in
the operating unit to a limited liability company, named AFG
Prime, or another third party, causing “deconsolidation,” and
the loss of any tax benefit, the plan said.  Peter Ivanick, a lawyer representing Ambac, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in May that if a plan was filed
without the Wisconsin regulator’s permission, it would be viewed
as a “declaration of war.” Ivanic said the commissioner’s
offers at the time were “disappointing,” and that negotiations
were at a standstill until better terms were offered.  ‘No Evidence’  Separately, the  New York  City Department of Finance said
yesterday that there is “no evidence at all” to support
Ambac’s claim it doesn’t owe $116.8 million in taxes. Ambac had
said in May that New York’s tax methodology was “illogical”
and couldn’t be proven. The response from New York says Ambac
has failed to prove it doesn’t owe the taxes, and includes 18
attachments including its tax returns from 2000 to 2010.  Ambac Assurance, an operating unit of New York-based Ambac
Financial, was the second-largest bond insurer before the 2008
financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages swamped
the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256 billion of
$1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to Bloomberg
data.  Ambac Financial filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November,
listing assets of $90.7 million and liabilities totaling more
than $1.6 billion, virtually all unsecured.  The holding company case is In re  Ambac Financial Group
Inc. (ABK) , 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  