-- 
Land Rover Lovers Defy Death for $1,000-Plus on Black Bear Road

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/land-rover-lovers-live-on-the-edge-for-1-000-plus-a-day-jason-h-harper.html
My life is in Jim Swett’s hands. With
his boot heels hanging over the edge of a cliff, he’s standing
right in front of my Land Rover LR4 trying to figure out if I
can make the next turn without tumbling into the abyss.  We’ve made it almost halfway down southern  Colorado ’s Black
Bear Pass, one of the most perilous 4X4 trails in America. The
switchback road runs right along the precipice, the turns so
tight that vehicles must reverse several times to get round.
Scary.  “Turn the wheel all the way,” shouts Swett, a Land Rover
instructor. “Then let go of the brakes. You’ve got about two
inches of clearance.” Stepping out of the way, the smile never
leaves his face. I hold my breath and comply.  Land Rovers are built, the company claims, to go anywhere.
But most customers think the trucks are too expensive to take
off-road. To counteract that concept, Land Rover hosts 4X4
adventures in places like  Utah ,  South Africa  and  Morocco . The
cost is around $1,000 to $2,000 a day, depending on location and
hotels, including food, accommodation and driving instruction. A
seven-day trip from Moab, Utah to Telluride, Colorado, is
planned for the end of August.  I took part in an excursion late last summer, spending two
days in the San Juan mountains. (The 4X4 season in Colorado’s
high country is short due to snowfall, often only July to mid-
September.)  Mining Towns  Steepled with more than a dozen 14,000-foot high mountains,
the region’s rugged passes connect the former mining towns of
Telluride, Ouray and Silverton. Our caravan of 10 or so $50,000
LR4s and $80,000-plus Range Rovers traveled between all three,
tires rarely touching asphalt.  It was a homecoming as I grew up nearby in the northwest
corner of  New Mexico . My parents took me into the San Juans
nearly every weekend. Our GMC pickup was once almost swept away
while fording the Delores River; another time the brakes gave
out descending Independence Pass. I remember these as extremely
good times.  Even my dad could have learned a few tricks from Swett, a
veteran Land Rover instructor who lives in  Connecticut . Swett is
the best kind of teacher, allowing you to make mistakes for
yourself, but keeping you out of the worst trouble.  Our first challenge was Imogene Pass, which begins from the
edge of Telluride and leads vertically into the crystalline blue
sky. It’s a tough trail and we rarely traveled faster than 10
miles an hour. Slow, steady and smart wins the day, and the
instructors wouldn’t even let us crash through streams. A geezer
with a limp moves faster.  Human Touch  The LR4 has a bunch of electronics for various off-road
conditions, including settings for sand, mud, ruts and rock
crawling. Good stuff, but Swett’s human touch was better. He’d
jump out and use hand signals to direct me over cavernous
trenches and boulders.  We drove directly over the most serious obstacles, choosing
to put the tire treads directly over sharp rocks rather than
brushing by and risking a sidewall puncture. Where else in life
can you tackle the worst in such a head-on fashion?  That slow pace guarantees the time to enjoy the vast
kaleidoscope of country. Well above the tree line, the backs of
bare mountains rupture the skyline. Small lakes captured in
cauldrons of rock are the color of turquoise. The air is so
fresh you feel as if you’ve just brushed your teeth.  My mind, though, was on Black Bear Road, which we’d face on
the second day. Swett insisted it wasn’t so dangerous -- “just
intimidating.”  Rocky Road  At first it seemed all right. But after the pass at 12,800
feet the trail turns sharply downhill and becomes a one-way road
where two vehicles can’t pass each other. Did I say road?
Actually it’s little more than a crumble of rock alongside sharp
cliffs, with the town of Telluride visible directly below.
Tumble off and you can imagine rolling right into the Last
Dollar Saloon.  Swett and I were the first to go down.  “I want you to stay off the gas,” Swett commanded.
“You’re either on the brake or letting the electronic control
keep your speed down. If I hear the engine rev, I’m going to
jump on the hood and beat you, got it?”  He said it lightly, but I understood the gravity of the
situation. He’d be standing in front of the truck guiding me.
His life was in my hands, too.  And so to the moment when we try to make the turn in one
attempt. I release the brake.  Swett’s smile holds firm -- a good sign -- and the truck
doesn’t slide over the cliff. I’m pointed down the road. Leaning
over, I can see a waterfall far below. Then I remember to breath
out.  Swett appears at my open passenger window.  “See? I told you. No problem.”  For more information on Land Rover driving experiences,
visit  http://www.landrover.com/gl/en/lr/experience-land -
rover/overview/.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 