-- 
Landlords Limit Freebies as U.S. Apartment Vacancies Reach Three-Year Low

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/landlords-limit-freebies-as-u-s-apartment-vacancy-falls-to-6-.html
Rent increases replaced landlord
giveaways as U.S. apartment vacancies dropped in the second
quarter to the lowest in more than three years, bolstered by
rising demand on the West Coast, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)   The apartment vacancy rate fell to 6 percent in the three
months ended June 30 from 6.2 percent in the first quarter and
7.8 percent a year earlier, the New York-based property research
firm said in a report today. The second-quarter rate matched the
first three months of 2008 and was the lowest since 5.7 percent
at the end of 2007, the year commercial real estate prices
peaked. Rents rose in all but two of the cities Reis tracks.  “The ongoing recovery and tightening vacancies continue to
generate greater pricing power on the part of landlords,” Ryan
Severino, an economist at Reis, said in the report. “Vacancies
should continue to decline while rents rise at an even faster
pace than we observed in the first half.”  Demand for rental apartments in the U.S. has soared as
foreclosures forced people out of their homes and prospective
homebuyers found it harder to get mortgages. The home ownership
rate in the U.S. fell to 66.4 percent in the first quarter, the
lowest since 1998, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  “There’s still a stigma to buying houses,” said Stan Harrelson, chief executive officer of Pinnacle, a Seattle-based
company that manages more than $17 billion of apartments and
other commercial properties. “Even with job growth, people
aren’t ready to take that step.”  Landlords had a net increase in occupied space of about
33,000 units in the second quarter, down from 45,000 units in
the first quarter, Reis said.  $997 a Month  Effective rents, or what tenants actually pay after perks
such as a free month, climbed in 80 of the 82 metropolitan areas
surveyed, to an average $997 a month from $974 a year earlier
and $991 in the first quarter.  San Jose ,  California , led rent growth last quarter,
followed by  New York ’s Westchester County and  San Francisco ,
according to Reis.  Las Vegas , one of the cities hardest hit by the housing
collapse, had an increase in effective rents for the first time
since 2008, Reis said. Rents in the city were still down from a
year earlier.  The national rent increases mark a reversal from early last
year, when many landlords were offering gifts to attract
tenants. Aspira, a 325-unit luxury apartment building in
Seattle, gave away dozens of iPads and 40-inch televisions,
preloaded credit cards worth $1,000 each and up to three months
of free rent when it opened in January 2010. With occupancy
surpassing 80 percent, such enticements are no longer needed.  Incentives ‘Gone’  “They’re gone,” said John Schwartz, director of the
Northwest regional office for Keller CMS Inc., the Los Angeles-
based project manager that oversaw the development of the 37-
story Aspira.  San Jose, the largest city in Silicon Valley, led rent
growth for both the second quarter and the 12 months through
June 30, Reis said.  “San Jose is everyone’s darling and rents are through the
roof, but that will plane off” as new supply comes to market in
the next 12 to 18 months, said Harrelson of Pinnacle.  Seattle is still one of the best markets for potential rent
growth, he said, citing increased hiring by technology companies
and airplane manufacturer Boeing Co.  Shane Lynch, a  software developer  in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox
gaming division, said he plans to renew his lease, at the
Neptune apartments in Seattle’s high-tech South Lake Union
district, even though the rent for his one-bedroom unit is going
up 11 percent to $1,300 a month.  ‘Everyone’s Increasing’  “I’ve been looking around and it seems like everyone’s
increasing that amount,” said Lynch, who moved to Seattle about
a year ago from the Baltimore area to take the job with
Microsoft. “I’m not seeing anything cheaper, and there’s also
the cost of moving.”  Lynch, 26, said he plans to consider buying a house after
he gets to know the city better.  “Because I’m so new to Seattle, I don’t want to be tied
down to a certain neighborhood, but if rents continue to
increase and get closer to mortgage prices, it will be kind of
silly not to buy,” he said.  Rising rents have in turn attracted investors to apartment
properties, encouraging new developments and purchases.  “We don’t anticipate a recovery in for-sale housing until
at least 2013,”Michael Schall, president and chief executive
officer of  Essex Property Trust Inc. (ESS) , said on a May 5 conference
call to discuss first-quarter earnings. The company, based in
 Palo Alto , California, owns and operates apartment complexes in
California and Washington state.  Supply and Demand  “Each month from December has shown significant
improvement, and we are now confident that the apartment supply-
and-demand equation is tipping towards housing shortage,”
Schall said.  Market rents at Essex properties have increased 9.2 percent
since the first quarter of 2010 and the rate of growth is
accelerating, Senior Vice President Erik Alexander said on the
conference call. Occupancy for the company’s apartments reached
97.1 percent by the end of April.  “We should see lower occupancies during the summer months
as market rents continue to grow, more leases expire and we push
rents on renewals,” Alexander said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  