-- 
Apple Denied Court Order to Stop Amazon.com ‘Appstore’ Use

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-07T20:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/apple-is-denied-court-order-to-stop-amazon-com-using-app-store-.html
A federal judge turned down  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s attempt to stop  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  from using the phrase
“Appstore” to sell software applications for mobile devices.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton denied Apple’s motion
for a preliminary injunction in the trademark-infringement case,
according to a filing yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Oakland,  California . Apple said it has used the term “App
Store” for three years and Amazon’s use of “Appstore” would
confuse consumers.  “The court finds that Apple has not established likelihood
of success as to the infringement claims,” Hamilton wrote.
“Apple has not established a likelihood of confusion.” The
case will continue in federal court.  Apple, in a lawsuit filed in March, said Amazon began
seeking software developers last September for its proposed
mobile software download service, called the Amazon Appstore
Developer Program. The service now offers almost 4,000
applications, according to court papers.  Apple said it began selling applications for mobile
devices in 2008 and had filed to register “ App Store ” with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  “We’ve asked Amazon not to copy the App Store name because
it will confuse and mislead customers,”  Kristin Huguet , a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, said in a
statement on the telephone.  Amazon argued that App Store is a generic term and can’t be
protected by trademark law.  A call to Seattle-based Amazon’s media line wasn’t
returned.  Amazon rose $2.55, or 1.2 percent, to $216.74 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Apple
climbed $5.44, or 1.6 percent, to $357.20.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-1327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 