-- 
Apple’s IAd Mobile-Ad Service Said to Cut Prices as Clients Turn to Rivals

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-07T14:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/apple-s-iad-mobile-ad-service-said-to-cut-prices-as-clients-turn-to-rivals.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iAd mobile-advertising
business has cut rates by as much as 70 percent as some marquee
clients are using rival services, two people with knowledge of
the matter said, signaling the company is struggling to parlay
its technology leadership into success in the ad industry.  When Apple rolled out iAd a year ago, companies such as
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and J.C. Penney Co. were being charged $1 million
or more to run ad campaigns. Today those brands aren’t using
iAd, and Apple is offering packages for as little as $300,000,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the rates are
private.  Even with lower prices, some advertising agencies are
balking at iAd’s cost, especially because the promotions only
reach Apple users. They’re turning instead to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
AdMob, Millennial Media and Greystripe, which serve a range of
devices. That means Apple risks losing ground in a market that
will  generate  $2.5 billion by 2014, according to  EMarketer Inc.   “Apple’s closed ecosystem may have been interesting in the
short run for advertisers, but in the long run they priced
themselves out,” said Thom Kennon, senior vice president of
strategy for the Young & Rubicam ad agency in New York.  Makers of applications, who benefit from iAd by selling
advertising, are getting only 5 percent to 15 percent of their
space filled by the Apple system, according to  Mobclix Inc. , an
exchange for buying and selling mobile ads.  Lower Prices  Apple has cut the minimum ad purchase from $1 million to
$500,000, and it’s offering agencies deals for as low as
$300,000 if they bring together multiple campaigns, the two
people said.  The company still has the advantage of offering the biggest
selection of mobile applications. Its App Store, which provides
software for its iPhone, iPad tablet and iPod Touch media
player, has more than 425,000 programs. When an ad runs within
an app, Apple gives the developer 60 percent of the revenue.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, said the company continues to sign some of the
world’s leading brands.  “In its first year iAd has launched more than 100
campaigns in seven countries,” she said.  Apple also is taking steps to attract more advertising. In
addition to offering lower prices, it hired a former ad agency
executive, Carrie Frolich, who was the head of digital for WPP
Plc’s MEC. And Apple added a new online design feature, called
iAd Producer, to help agencies design ads more quickly.  Disney, AT&T  Twenty companies have used iAd in the past month, including
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , where Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs 
is the biggest shareholder; AT&T Inc., a carrier of Apple’s
iPhone; and insurance provider Geico Corp. About 50 campaigns
will be joining the platform in the coming months, according to
Apple.  The iAd system carried unrealistic expectations from
developers and advertisers, said Noah Elkin, an analyst at
EMarketer, a research firm in  New York . Its biggest contribution
is validating the nascent market of showing advertisements to
people on their smartphones, he said.  “It has been successful in that it created a beacon for
mobile advertising,” he said. “Advertising was always going to
be a minor revenue source for them.”  Even if prices have come down, Apple legitimized the idea
of spending large sums on mobile ads, said Krishna Subramanian,
the co-founder of  Palo Alto , California-based Mobclix.  “You can go to an automotive company and pitch a $500,000
to $1 million campaign, and it’s realistic,” he said.  Disappointing Results?  Still, iAd has frustrated some developers, which haven’t
made as much money as expected, Subramanian said. They have
turned to other companies to sell ad space, he said.  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. is using
competing mobile-adverting networks after being part of the
initial group of companies to advertise through Apple, said Ed
Gold, the insurer’s advertising director.  J.C. Penney, another inaugural user of iAd, also is working
with other services, said Danika Berry, a spokeswoman for the
retailer. Citigroup confirmed that it’s not currently using iAd
as well. The companies said they may use iAd in the future.  Rival mobile-advertising companies have been luring clients
by undercutting Apple on price and promoting their ability to
run across multiple devices, including handsets from Samsung
Electronics Co., HTC Corp. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. -
- phones that rely on Google’s Android operating system.
Millennial Media also hired one of Apple’s iAd sales managers.  Limited Audience  “You’re cutting your potential audience in half by
focusing on a single platform,” said Dane Holewinski, head of
marketing at Greystripe, which was acquired by  ValueClick Inc. (VCLK) 
in April. About 80 percent of the company’s advertising
campaigns work across multiple devices. “Advertisers don’t care
about platform. They care about audience, performance and
engagement.”  The iAd system carries a level of prestige, in part because
of its sleek design, said Rob Norman, CEO of ad agency GroupM
North America, whose clients using iAd include  Unilever NV .  “Everyone likes the consumer experience it creates,” he
said. “Everyone wants to be there because they think that,
possibly since television, this is one of the most elegant
customer experiences.”  Still, companies must account for the cost, Norman said.  “We’d all like to stay at the Four Seasons, but not if it
costs $150,000 a night,” he said. “There’s a price equation.”  Quattro Acquisition  The iAd platform was started after Apple acquired mobile-
advertising company Quattro Wireless last year. It was
introduced last July at the company’s annual developers
conference as a way to take more interactive features, such as
videos, and embed them within applications.  Apple  targets  ads by using data from the millions of
accounts registered with its iTunes software. The pitches are
made based on demographic information, along with a user’s
music, movie or  App Store  purchases. Advertisers can choose
“buckets” of users to target, based on demographics, though
they can’t pick which specific applications the ads run in.  When it was introduced, Jobs said most other mobile
advertising “really sucks.”  For now, many ad agencies haven’t embraced iAd as an
improvement over the old approaches, said Rachel Pasqua, vice
president of mobile for  ICrossing , an online marketing firm. She
cites the cost, time needed to get ads approved, limited size of
the audience and control Apple has kept over data.  “I haven’t encouraged any of my clients towards it,”
Pasqua said. “I haven’t seen a huge value proposition.”  While Apple has stumbled in advertising, its influence over
the technology industry means it’s too soon to count the company
out, said EMarketer’s Elkin.  “IAd may have receded in to the background, but it’s too
early to assume it’s not going to come back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  