-- 
Harry Potter’s $6.37 Billion Magic Draws Fans to Final Premiere

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/harry-potter-s-6-37-billion-magic-draws-london-fans-to-last-film-premiere.html
“Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows: Part 2” rolled out to the screams of sleepless fans in
London yesterday, the final production in a film franchise that
has made $6.37 billion at the global box office so far.  The last installment in Hollywood’s top-grossing franchise
sees wizard Harry ( Daniel Radcliffe ) take on the nasty Lord
Voldemort ( Ralph Fiennes ), who has stolen a crucial wand that’s
one of the keys to immortality.  Trafalgar Square at the U.K. capital’s heart was cordoned
off completely by the movie’s producers --  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
 Warner Bros . -- and paved with an Oscars-style red carpet that
stretched several blocks to the gala screening. Teenage fans
crammed the square to see the cast walk by.  “It’s over,” said Hannah Duffy, 14, who had taken the
train from Frinton-on-Sea near Colchester. “Your childhood is
not closing, but it won’t be the same without Harry Potter.”  Clutching a book from the original series by  J.K. Rowling ,
Duffy said it had whetted her appetite for reading.  “Before that, I was like, books, you know, they’re OK,”
she said. “Now, I own a Kindle and have loads of books on it.”
She listed  Stephenie Meyer ’s “Twilight” series, and “old
stuff” such as works by Shakespeare and Dickens.  Actors in “Deathly Hallows: Part 2” include Helena Bonham Carter,  Michael Gambon  and Maggie Smith.  At the film’s July 6 news conference, Fiennes described his
bad-guy costume as “irritating,” saying “it was too long and
sometimes I would trip over it.”  Dignity Denied  “Underneath, I started off wearing tights, and the gusset
of the tights kept dropping down between my thighs,” he said.
“This made it very difficult to walk with any kind of
dignity.”  Last night, as cast members and VIPs drove by in one metal-
gray limousine after another, fans clustered on the edges of the
walled-off square squealed with excitement, even as smoked
windows often made the cars’ passengers invisible.  Security guards in fluorescent vests exercised crowd
control, stopping teenagers from standing on walls or peeking
through the canvas sheets that covered the tall railing. They
even turned away commuters heading for the train station on the
other side of the square, leading many to curse in frustration.  Emma Watson , who plays Hermione Granger, could clearly be
seen as she rode through in the back of a Mercedes. Dressed in a
strapless cream-colored gown, she waved at her fans, who
shrieked at the top of their voices.  Watson’s Fans  Watching her glide by was 16-year-old Sara Cravagnis from
Padua,  Italy , who said Watson was “a model” to her.  “She’s very intelligent without being boring,” said
Cravagnis, in a Potter-style top hat and large, dark frames.
“She’s also nice, and very beautiful.”  “When I was little, I used to identify with her: I too
would help friends with their homework,” said the Italian fan,
who said she read every  Harry Potter  book six or seven times and
was vacationing in London with her mother.  Watson also had scores of male admirers in the square --
among them a pair of 18-year-olds from Poitiers,  France , who had
spent the better part of 48 hours there for a glimpse of her and
the rest.  Bleary-eyed Nathan Audin explained that they had been
standing from 3 a.m. to keep their spot, getting rain-soaked in
the process, because tents were not allowed.  “We bought an umbrella,” said Audin. “It wasn’t very
warm.” Their only food break, he said, was a jaunt to a nearby
McDonald’s.  His friend Corentin Cheminot appeared much less tired.  “I told myself that an opportunity like this would only
come once in a lifetime: to see so many actors I really like,”
he said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 