-- 
MasterCard Attacks EU’s Order to Cut Fees in Court Challenge

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mastercard-attacks-eu-s-order-to-cut-fees-in-court-challenge.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA)  will challenge
European Union curbs on fees after the world’s second biggest
card network was accused of punishing consumers who choose to
pay with plastic.  MasterCard, supported by banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , will attack a 2007 ruling
on transaction fees on cross-border credit-card payments in a
case that will test whether such levies are unfair on the
retailers and customers who eventually pick up the tab.  The European Commission failed to “properly identify a
restriction of competition” and demanded a “disproportionate”
remedy and fines, MasterCard will tell a hearing at the EU’s
General Court in Luxembourg today, according to a court  summary .  Regulators globally are attacking card fees and the way
they are set. Visa  Europe  Ltd.’s fees for cross-border credit-
card and so-called deferred-debit transactions could spark an
antitrust complaint later this year, the EU’s regulator has
warned. The U.S. Federal Reserve Board’s decision last month to
cap debit-card swipe fees at 21 cents could slice about half of
the $16 billion in annual revenue reaped by card issuers
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “The credit-card companies are under enormous pressure to
make changes to this very opaque way that they have of doing
business,” said Paul Skehan, director of European Retail Round
Table, an advocacy group for retailers including Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., Ikea Group and Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s largest retailer.  While MasterCard agreed to change its charges in 2009 to
avoid a daily penalty of as much as 3.5 percent of sales, it
asked the court to quash the EU antitrust authority’s findings.  The cuts will save consumers 200 million euros ($287
million) a year, the commission said at the time.  Cost of Plastic  MasterCard, based in Purchase,  New York , has said the rates
it accepted are too low. Louise Herbert, a spokeswoman at
MasterCard Europe, declined to comment ahead of the hearing.  Retailers have long fumed about the cost of taking plastic.
Unlike with checks, banks charge them fees, known as
interchange, to process debit- and credit-card payments. The
amounts are set by MasterCard and Visa, which own the payment
networks and pass the money to the banks.  “Our best guess” on the amount of so-called interchange
fees “taken out of the market every year in Europe and paid to
the banks and schemes is about 13 billion euros,” said Skehan
in an interview. “Those costs can’t simply be borne by the
retailers so they are passed on to the consumers in terms of
higher prices.”  ‘Huge Burden’  The outcome of today’s case, which only concerns cross-
border transaction charges, may spur national competition
authorities “to take action,” said Ruth Milligan, legal
adviser on payment systems at EuroCommerce, a retailers
association supporting the commission in the case.  The levies have “been a huge burden of cost on retailers
and we’ve been fighting this case for 10 years,” said Milligan.
“The reality still is that in many member states these fees are
far too high.”  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the hearing.  Any decision in today’s case can be appealed at the
region’s top tribunal, the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg.  The case is: T-111/08, MasterCard and others v. European
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  