-- 
AT&T Joins Verizon in Fighting Web Piracy of Movies, Music

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-07T17:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/at-t-joins-verizon-in-fight-against-web-piracy-of-movies-music.html
Internet-service providers including
 AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
promised to take a more active role in fighting online piracy in
an agreement with the entertainment industry announced today.  The ISPs, which also include Time Warner Cable and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , will send as many as six electronic
alerts to customers whose accounts are allegedly being used to
download or distribute illegal movies, television shows or
music, according to a news release.  Customers who receive repeated alerts may have their
Internet speed temporarily reduced, or have their Web access
restricted until they discuss the matter with their Internet-
service provider or review “educational” information about
copyright, according to a fact sheet about the program.  Internet subscribers can request an independent review
before any restrictions are imposed under the agreement. The
system is aimed at pirated music, movies and other content
shared through online peer-to-peer networks.  The program, a voluntary set of industry best practices, is
backed by trade groups representing the entertainment and media
industries, including the  Motion Picture Association  of America,
the  Recording Industry Association of America , and the  National
Cable & Telecommunications Association .  “This broad industry effort builds on existing agreements
with several copyright owners to forward their notices of
alleged infringement to ISP subscribers,” Verizon General
Counsel Randal Milch said in a statement.  Educate Customers  Milch said the alert system is “designed to notify and
educate customers, not to penalize them” and is aimed at
informing customers about copyright laws and encouraging them to
obtain content from “the many legal sources that exist.”  Piracy of digital movies, music and software cost
businesses from $30 billion to $75 billion in 2008 in the Group
of 20 leading global economies, according to a February report
commissioned by the  International Chamber of Commerce  from
Frontier Economics, a London-based consulting firm.  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers have increased
efforts to combat online piracy this year. In March, President
 Barack Obama  released 20 recommendations that would toughen
sentences for stealing intellectual property and give
authorities stronger laws to go after websites that sell pirated
content.  Rogue Websites  The Senate Judiciary Committee approved a bill May 26
targeting so-called “rogue” websites, which sell or distribute
illegally copied music, movies and consumer products. The
measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to seek court
orders requiring U.S.-based Internet-service providers to block
access to infringing sites, among other things.  The committee on June 16 approved a measure that would make
illegal video streaming a felony offense in some cases. Obama
administration officials also have backed the idea of making
illegal video streaming a felony.  The program announced today “will have a significant
impact on reducing online piracy,” and is “consistent with our
strategy of encouraging voluntary efforts to strengthen online
intellectual property enforcement,” Victoria Espinel, the U.S.
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, wrote in a White
House blog  post .  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, is concerned that “ISPs have agreed to
serve as propaganda machines for big media” under the program,
Corynne McSherry, the group’s intellectual property director,
said in an interview.  Copyright information contained in the customer alerts may
be “skewed toward draconian view of how copyright law works”
and not inform people about the “fair use” doctrine allowing
use of copyrighted works for limited purposes, McSherry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  