-- 
Australia’s Gillard Says 500 Companies Affected by Carbon Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-07T06:14:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/australia-s-gillard-says-500-companies-affected-by-carbon-plan.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said 500 companies will be affected by the government’s
carbon tax plan scheduled to be announced on July 10.  Gillard said nine out of 10 households will receive family
payments or tax cuts to help as costs are passed through to
consumers from an emissions trading system in the world’s
biggest coal exporter.  “This figure of 500 strongly reinforces the point that
this is a price being paid by big businesses, a limited number
of big businesses,” Gillard told Sky News television today.
“It is not being paid by Australian families.”  Gillard, the least popular prime minister in 13 years, this
week told parliament she would be “wearing out my shoe
leather” to reverse record low public support for climate
measures. She will announce a start price for carbon, a date for
the beginning of trading and the amount of compensation for
companies and households on July 10.  The prime minister refused to confirm a report in the Age
newspaper today saying the start price would be A$23 ($24.74)
per metric ton.  “Costs will be passed through,” Gillard said. “That’s
why we are offering tax cuts, pension increases and family
payments increases to nine out of 10 households.”  Speaking later before parliament, Gillard said the proposal
would cut carbon pollution by 160 million tons by 2020.  The government wants to cut pollution to protect natural
icons like the Great Barrier Reef and move from fossil fuel use
to renewable energy. It will boost jobs in areas such as wind
and solar energy and limit the impact on companies if the world
adopts an international pollution system, Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
has said.  The number of Australians who say the nation should take
action to fight  climate change  slipped to a record low 41
percent, according to a Lowy Institute poll published on June
27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  