-- 
Auto-Safety Group Questions Merits of Handheld Mobile Phone Bans

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/auto-safety-group-questions-merits-of-handheld-mobile-phone-bans.html
A U.S. auto-safety group urged states
to hold off on enacting bans on drivers’ use of handheld mobile
phones, saying there’s not enough data about whether such
prohibitions prevent crashes.  The Governors Highway Safety Association, comprised of
state highway-safety offices, today urged states to ban texting
behind the wheel and mobile-phone use by novice drivers and
reserve judgment on banning phone use by non-beginners.  “While distracted driving is an emotional issue that
raises the ire of many on the road, states must take a research-
based approach to addressing the problem,” Barbara Harsha,
executive director of the Washington-based group, said in a
statement. “Until more research is conducted, states need to
proceed thoughtfully, methodically and objectively.”  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has made
distracted driving a signature issue, saying he is on a
“rampage” to curb it. He supports bans on all use of handheld
devices while driving.  “Any activities that take extended focus away from the
primary task of driving are both unsafe and unwise,” Lynda Tran, a spokeswoman for the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration , said in an e-mail. “While NHTSA agrees with the
GHSA recommendation that states should take a data-driven
approach in making decisions about whether to push for laws
mandating certain driver behaviors, we feel strongly there is
robust evidence on the dangers of distracted driving.”  The highway-safety group’s study was paid for by State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest U.S. auto insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 