-- 
Lawmakers Mulling Fate of Fannie, Freddie Split on U.S. Role

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-07-07T21:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/lawmakers-mulling-fate-of-fannie-mae-split-on-u-s-housing-role.html
The U.S. housing industry is finding
political traction in Congress as it objects to plans that would
wind down Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  and eliminate any
government role in mortgage finance.  Two members of the House Financial Services Committee,
 Gary Miller , a California Republican, and Carolyn McCarthy, a
New York Democrat, today introduced legislation to create a
government-run replacement for the two mortgage finance
companies, which originally were chartered by Congress.  The measure directly challenges House Republican leaders,
who have backed bills that would do away with the two companies
and aim to minimize the risk that taxpayers will have to bail
out future mortgage failures.  “This ideological approach has resulted in a stalemate for
years,” Miller said at a press conference. “It’s not getting
us any closer to fixing the housing problem.”  He and McCarthy were joined at the event by leaders from
two of the industry’s most active lobbying groups, the National
Association of Realtors and the National Association of
Homebuilders.  The legislation reflects concerns by the industry, consumer
activists and some policymakers that a complete withdrawal of
government support for home lending could deepen the housing
recession.  Taxpayer Support  That message has gained momentum even as  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac continue to rely on taxpayers for survival. The two
have cost the Treasury Department about $130 billion since they
were seized by regulators in September 2008.  “There was the idea that people were so tired of taxpayer
losses related to housing that the traditional housing lobby
would not be able to retaliate effectively,” said  Jim Vogel ,
head of agency debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee . “It’s time to start waving the housing flag again.”  That would be a turnaround from February, when the U.S.
Treasury Department recommended selling off the holdings of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac within a decade and the fourth-
ranking House Republican,  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , said he
wanted to do it in half that time.  Since then, homebuilders, real estate agents, investment
banks, civil rights leaders and consumer advocates have lobbied
to preserve a government role -- including the implicit federal
guarantee behind Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created
by Congress as private companies designed to expand home
ownership.  Line of Credit  Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , were put under government control when failing
subprime loans took them to the brink of insolvency. The
Treasury told investors the U.S. would make good on the
companies’ debt and promised the firms an unlimited line of
credit. The companies have accepted more than $160 billion in
Treasury aid. As of the first quarter of 2011, they had paid $26
billion in dividends back to the Treasury.  The Miller-McCarthy bill would create a “secondary market
facility” for residential mortgages, in essence a federal
utility that would buy home loans, pool them into bonds, and
insure their principal and interest payments. The utility would
be governed by a presidentially appointed board.  “We don’t want Congress meddling,” Miller said. Income
from the bond sales would finance the company’s operation and
any profit would be returned to the Treasury.  Alternate Plan  The Miller-McCarthy proposal follows a plan introduced in
May by Representatives  John Campbell , a California Republican,
and Michigan Democrat Gary Peters. That bill would replace the
government’s guarantee behind housing bonds with a system of
privately run associations that would bear most of the risk.  The Campbell-Peters bill was modeled on proposals from the
Housing Policy Council, a Washington trade group that  represents 
big financial companies, private mortgage insurers, lenders and
loan servicers, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and the  Mortgage
Bankers Association , whose members include small lenders.  Smaller lenders oppose the approach, saying they fear that
they could be squeezed by larger competitors who might end up
being the ones selling the guarantees now sold by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  “Under the Miller bill, the big banks don’t get to play.
Under the Campbell bill they might,” said Rob Zimmer, a
lobbyist for Community Mortgage Lenders of America, which works
for small lenders.  Legislative Obstacles  At this stage in the legislative process, both proposals
are little more than stakes in the ground. Neither will get a
hearing before the Financial Services Committee, said
Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey , who is leading
Republican efforts to eliminate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  “The central tenet of the Republican philosophy is no more
bailouts,” Garrett said. “We will only be considering
legislation that abides by that principle.”  He said “it comes as no surprise” that mortgage lenders,
investors and others in the housing business want to preserve as
much of the current system as they can.  “They wanted to be bailed out before and they want a
system again where they can be bailed out,” Garrett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 