-- 
Taxes and Capitalism, a Few Rules for Honest Tax Cutters: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/taxes-and-capitalism-a-few-rules-for-honest-tax-cutters-to-consider-view.html
It’s possible, just possible, that
Thursday’s White House meeting between President  Barack Obama 
and congressional leaders from both parties will lead to a
deficit-cutting deal.  The president, after all, has promised cuts to entitlements
like Medicare in exchange for Republican support on tax
increases. With the outlines of genuine progress on the horizon,
it seems like a good time to review a few principles about
taxing and spending.  Some people appear to believe that the government can run
on zero revenue, just borrowing whatever is needed to pay the
bills. They never put it that way, but that’s the implication of
what they say. The folly is bipartisan. These people include
conservative Republicans who have never seen a  tax cut  they
didn’t like, and liberal Democrats who see any expression of
alarm about the deficit as part of a plot to repeal the New
Deal.  That is not our position. We take the radical view that
revenue is sometimes necessary. This is one of those times.
Given that tragic necessity, what is the best way to go about
collecting it?  Start by acknowledging that the conservative supply-siders
have a point: Any tax depresses the activity being taxed.
Sometimes, you want to use the tax system to affect behavior.
The cigarette tax is an example. But in general, if you believe
in free markets (and the endless tax debate illustrates how many
people pretend to believe, but don’t), you want taxes to change
people’s incentives as little as possible.  In other words, you want them to behave as closely as
possible to the way they would if there were no taxes. This
means two things: Tax rates should be as low as possible, given
the government’s revenue needs, and tax rates on different ways
to use your labor or your capital should be as similar as
possible.  Nefarious Subsidies  Too much attention is given to the first of these
considerations (low tax rates) and not enough to the second
(consistent tax rates). In fact, Congress puts much energy into
making the second factor worse, by the profusion of different
tax rates and tax breaks for this and that. Government
subsidies through the tax system are especially nefarious
because they operate under the radar. They don’t appear in
annual government budgets, state or federal, they don’t require
an appropriation, and there’s no limit to how much they can
cost.  Every tax break for some industry or activity means higher
taxes for everyone else. People who call for or defend such
breaks -- from tax credits for car buyers to the favored
treatment for  capital gains  -- are, in effect, saying they (and
the government) know better than the market how best to allocate
capital in the economy.  Skewed Tax System  Even as the distribution of income in the economy has
become skewed in favor of the well-to-do, the tax system has
become skewed as well. We believe that the tax system should be
progressive, with people who have been more fortunate paying a
bigger share. Opponents of progressivity often note that the
rich, however that word is defined, pay an increasing percentage
of the income tax. Indeed they do: That is because they earn an
increasing share of the income. As a percentage of their income,
affluent people’s taxes have gone down.  Getting out of the fiscal hole the U.S. has dug itself into
(along with other nations that should have known better) will
require not just “the rich” but also the middle class to pay
more of their income in taxes.  Increasing numbers of Americans agree. According to a
recent Bloomberg National Poll, more than 75 percent of those
surveyed -- Republicans, Democrats and independents -- believe
that an increase to bring down the deficit is inevitable. That
could be resignation rather than conversion, but in any event,
it’s a start. Many more people, we believe, would find this
medicine easier to take if they had more faith that the money
was being spent wisely.  In short, spending must also take a hit. And not just
“waste,” either. On the spectrum between “nice to have” and
“essential,” many Americans have moved their private spending
closer to the latter, and they want the government to do so,
too. We agree.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 