-- 
Banks Said to Tussle with EBA Over Stress-Test Profit Estimates

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-07-07T12:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/banks-said-to-tussle-with-eba-over-stress-test-profit-estimates.html
European Union  regulators may publish
estimates of the future profitability of the region’s lenders as
part of the bank stress-test results, four people familiar with
the process said.  Banks are challenging the proposal from the  European
Banking Authority , the EU agency overseeing the tests, because
the estimates may be lower than figures published by some
lenders, said the people, who didn’t want to be identified
because the discussions are private. Firms are concerned the
disclosure could trigger a decline in their stock prices,
according to one of the people.  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region are inadequately capitalized with a
second round of stress tests. The EBA toughened this year’s
tests by tightening its definition of bank capital and forcing
firms to disclose more about their holdings of  government bonds .  “I would expect the profitability numbers to be lower than
the banks’ central scenario,” Kinner Lakhani, a banking analyst
at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London said in an e-mail. “The whole idea
of the stress tests is based around a challenging macro-economic
climate so you would expect gross operating profit to be
lower.”  The EBA is weighing whether to make banks publish a
forecast for 2011 or 2012, one of the people said. Companies are
pushing for the latter because they expect a longer-term
forecast would have less of an impact on their stock price, the
person said. Officials at the EBA declined to comment on the
negotiations.  2011 Proposals  This year’s exams, which may be published as soon as next
week, will include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5
percent economic contraction in the euro area in 2011, a 15
percent drop in European equity markets as well as possible
trading losses on sovereign debt. The banks will be expected to
maintain a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under
the stress-test scenarios, the EBA has said.  The EBA may fail as many as 15 banks to give the
examinations more credibility, a person familiar with the
negotiations said on June 29. The assessments may show that 26
of the 91 lenders being tested may require financial support,
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday.  “Speculation” that a certain number of banks would fail
the upcoming stress tests is “completely unfounded,” EBA
Chairman Andrea Enria said in a speech in  London  last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  