-- 
BofA Sells $2.5 Billion of Bonds Amid Foreclosure Deal Talks

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-07-07T20:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/bank-of-america-plans-bond-sale-as-credit-swaps-drop-on-foreclosure-talks.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold $2.5
billion of bonds as it nears a settlement on state and federal
claims over faulty foreclosures that’s increasing investor
confidence in credit of the biggest  U.S. bank .  The transaction included $2 billion of 3.75 percent, five-
year notes that yield 205 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and $500 million of three-year, floating-
rate securities that pay 155 basis points more than the three-
month London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The cost to protect the debt of  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America from losses decreased today as the lender,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and two other firms are in
advanced talks that may result in a settlement, which may exceed
$20 billion, according to two people briefed on the matter who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America fell 4.5 basis
points to 154 basis points as of 10:10 a.m. in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts have dropped 27 basis points since June 27,
the day before the lender agreed to pay $8.5 billion to resolve
claims over sour mortgages made my investors including BlackRock
Inc. Spreads on Bank of America’s bonds have narrowed 9 basis
points over that span, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Prior Offering  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  In March, in its last offering of five-year, fixed-rate
notes, Bank of America issued $1.5 billion of 3.625 percent debt
that paid 172 basis points, or 1.72 percentage points, more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The notes traded yesterday at 100.7 cents on the dollar to
yield 3.45 percent, or 181 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 