-- 
Divided Belfast Keeps Barriers as Economic Malaise Spurs Riots

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/belfast-keeps-barriers-as-economy-spurs-riots.html
Agnes Lendrum has a 30-foot (9-meter)
wall of brick and metal looming over her house in north Belfast,
and that’s just the way she wants to keep it.  The barriers, or “peace lines” as they are known in
 Northern Ireland , were first erected when the province’s three-
decade-long violent conflict erupted in 1969 to keep warring
Protestants and Catholics apart. The numbers are increasing,
with locals like Lendrum, 55, thankful for the walls keeping the
two sides apart as riots flared over last month.  “I’ve had gunmen fire over the wall, and the peace wall is
the only thing that makes me feel safe,” Lendrum said outside
her home in the Protestant Tiger’s Bay estate. “I’d chain
myself to the fence if they tried to take it down.”  The number of barriers, some twice as high as the Berlin
Wall, has risen by 10 percent since the  Good Friday Peace
Agreement  in 1998. Their lingering existence testifies to the
sectarian tension still rife in a region where the economic
crisis has bitten as hard as anywhere in the U.K. or Ireland.
That in turn is fueling violence among disaffected youths as
well as bomb attacks by dissident republicans.  Rioters confronted police in the worst disturbances in
almost a decade when Protestants and Catholics clashed in east
 Belfast  last month. Three people were shot in the disturbances.
On July 1, rioters in the same area clashed again at the same
peace line, throwing rocks and metal bars at each other. Six
 police  were injured.  “I don’t think the peace lines will come down for
generations,”  Pete Shirlow , a politics lecturer at Queen’s
University Belfast, said in an interview. “Disadvantaged
communities complain about poverty, lack of opportunity and turn
it into sectarian violence.”  Unemployment Doubles  Since 2008, unemployment in Northern Ireland has more than
doubled. Economic activity per capita in Northern Ireland, as
measured by gross value added, is about 20 percent below the
U.K. average, according to 2008 figures. The province accounts
for about 1.8 million of the U.K.’s 60 million people.  The Republic of Ireland was forced last year to ask for a
85 billion-euro ($121.4 billion) bailout from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund , as it grapples with the cost of
its bank bailout and rising unemployment. Jobs that were to
transfer to Belfast from Dublin following the revival of the
U.K. region’s assembly never materialized.  North Belfast, a patchwork of Protestant and Catholic
neighborhoods, is one of the region’s poorest. Last year
Catholics rioted for four days after a Protestant parade passed
by a nationalist area, injuring more than 80 police.  Test  The latest test of the peace process comes next week, when
Protestant celebrations of a 17th century victory over Catholics
in Ireland culminate with hundreds of parades across the U.K.
region.  Northern Ireland’s government is headed up by a pro-U.K.
First Minister, Peter Robinson, and Irish nationalist Sinn Fein
politician Martin McGuinness, who is deputy first minister. When
the assembly was revived in May 2007 it put rebuilding the
economy at the top of its agenda, just as the Republic of
Ireland, once dubbed  Europe ’s Celtic Tiger, entered a recession
which was amplified by the global financial crisis.  Sabrina Crilly, a Catholic mother-of-three who lives on the
opposite side of the barriers from Ledrum, wants the peace line
to stay. Her stepfather was shot dead by Protestant terrorists
during the conflict, one of about 3,500 people who were killed
during the violence known as the Troubles.  “I’d never go into Tiger’s Bay,” Crilly said. “If the
peace line came down, we’d move.”  In all, Northern Ireland has 42 peace lines, according to
the Justice Ministry. Three-quarters of them are in Belfast.  Berlin Wall  The first 15 feet of the walls are mostly made from
concrete, which is then topped by at least 15 foot of corrugated
iron or wire mesh. Along  some of the peace lines  sectarian
graffiti is scrawled, threatening to kill people on the other
side. The Jerusalem Walls, part of the West Bank barrier, are
about 26-feet high while the  Berlin Wall  was about 13 feet high.  While the government wants the walls torn down, they warn
of the need to tread gently.  “If we go in and say we are taking the walls down, that
will just cause more trouble,” Enterprise Minister Arlene Foster said in a July 1 interview. “There is a huge piece of
work there. It will take time for people to start to trust each
other.”  Lendrum on the housing project in north Belfast said she
had her windows smashed by youths a few months ago.  “I feel let down by everybody,” Lendrum said. “Things
were meant to get better with peace, it is better than it was.
But for this area the  peace process  has past us by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  