-- 
Boasson Hagen Gives Team Sky First Stage Win at Cycling’s Tour de France

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-07T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/boasson-hagen-gives-team-sky-first-stage-win-at-cycling-s-tour-de-france.html
Edvald Boasson Hagen of Team Sky won
the longest stage of this year’s  Tour de France  yesterday after
a hilly five-hour trek peppered with rainstorms.  The 24-year-old Norwegian raised his arms after beating
 Australia ’s Matt Goss of HTC-Highroad in a sprint finish after
the 141-mile ride between Dinan and Lisieux. It was a first Tour
stage win for him and Team Sky.  Thor Hushovd, who rides for Garmin-Cervelo and isn’t seen
as a contender for the race win, was third and kept the race-
leading yellow jersey. He said he was disappointed not to beat
Boasson Hagen, a compatriot.  “Today was my big goal for the Tour de France,” Hushovd
told Eurosport television. “It would have been so beautiful to
win with the yellow jersey.”  Hushovd remains one second ahead of two-time runner-up
 Cadel Evans , who finished in the main pack along with contenders
including defending champion  Alberto Contador .  The Spaniard had to chase to reach the peloton after
swapping bikes with Saxo Bank teammate Daniel Navarro with 16
miles left because of a mechanical problem.  Riders contended with wet roads and spray from cars and
motorbikes following the race. RadioShack’s Levi Leipheimer lost
more than a minute after crashing into a barrier and sliding
across the tarmac with 2 miles left.  Five riders broke away at the start and were caught over
the course with Adriano Malori of Lampre the last man reeled in
with barely a mile left. The 23-year-old Italian, last at the
2010 Tour de  France , had spent five hours at the front.  Contador Case  Andy Schleck , last year’s runner-up, is 12 seconds behind
Hushovd in 10th place. Contador, seeking his fourth Tour de
France win in five years, is 1 minute, 30 seconds further back
in 34th place.  Contador is riding the Tour after being acquitted by the
Spanish cycling federation after testing positive for banned
stimulant clenbuterol in winning last year’s race. The
federation accepted his argument that his consumption of
contaminated meat caused the elevated reading.  Cycling’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
appealed the decision and the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court
of Arbitration for Sport will make a final decision after the
race, which ends July 24 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  London  on  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  