-- 
Bondholders May Vie With Farmers If U.S. Must Choose in Default

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/bondholders-may-vie-with-farmers-if-u-s-must-choose-in-default.html
Failure to reach a deal to raise the
 U.S. debt  limit may force President  Barack Obama  to choose
between paying Chinese bondholders or American soldiers, and
between Iowa farmers or elderly Social Security recipients.  Those are among the dilemmas Obama may confront if talks 
with Republicans founder and the government falls short of
funds needed to pay its bills. Other choices would include
whether to sell at cut-rate prices financial assets such as gold
in Fort Knox or loan portfolios acquired through the bank
bailout, to avoid default and keep government services going.  Even if full payments are made to bondholders,  interest
rates  on U.S. debt may still rise, setting off ripples through
the financial world that would drive up costs for other
borrowers and impede economic growth, said bond traders.  “Stopgap measures such as picking and choosing which
programs to support would almost be as bad as default itself,”
said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading
in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 20 primary dealers
that trades with the  Federal Reserve .  While House Speaker  John Boehner  and other Republicans say
the  U.S. Treasury ’s Aug. 2 deadline for when its borrowing
authority will reach its limit is artificial, economists and
former government officials say those are the types of questions
the Obama administration will face if no accord is reached.  “It’s a real deadline,” said Jay Powell, a former
Treasury undersecretary for President  George H.W. Bush . “Could
you live through that for a month? Theoretically, you could. It
would be very chaotic. It would hurt the economy.”  Obama Meets Republicans  Obama is scheduled to meet today with congressional leaders
from both parties to negotiate an increase in the nation’s $14.3
trillion legal debt ceiling. Obama, who has urged Congress to
complete an accord within the next two weeks, is open to a long-
term deal to tackle the country’s finances, although he and
other Democrats say an agreement must include revenue increases.
Boehner of  Ohio  says any plan that calls for higher taxes
wouldn’t pass Congress.  The administration has resisted offering any guidance on
how the Treasury Department would respond should the talks fail.  David Plouffe , Obama’s chief political adviser at the White
House, dismissed as “inconceivable” the idea that the
government would choose between paying investors and soldiers.  “The notion that we would just pay Wall Street bondholders
and the Chinese government and not meet our Social Security and
veterans’ obligations is insanity, and is not going to happen,”
Plouffe said at a Bloomberg Breakfast yesterday.  ‘Extraordinary Measures’  Yet the Treasury Department says it will exhaust a series
of “extraordinary measures” in managing government finances to
avoid exceeding the limit on Aug. 2.  And without authority to borrow additional funds, the
federal government’s day-to-day income from taxes and other
revenue would only cover 56 percent of projected expenses for
the remainder of August, according to a study by the Bipartisan
Policy Center in  Washington , where Powell is a visiting scholar.  Since Congress already has legally obligated all the
 government spending , Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  would
be left to pick which bills are paid and which are delayed, the
Government Accountability Office concluded in 1985.  The Congressional Research Service said in a report last
month that one precedent the White House might follow is
focusing first on maintaining essential services such as the
military, law enforcement and air traffic control as it did in
the mid-1990s government shutdowns.  Paying Interest  Under one scenario developed by the Bipartisan Policy
Center, the federal government would be able to use its
projected $172 billion in income to meet its $29 billion in
interest payments in August along with Social Security, Medicare
and unemployment benefits and payments to defense contractors,
if it ceased all other functions. As a consequence, under that
scenario, the military and civilian federal workers wouldn’t be
paid, IRS refunds wouldn’t go out, and veterans wouldn’t get
benefits.  A report by George Mason University’s Mercatus Center cited
by some Republican members of Congress estimated the federal
government has $2.4 trillion in assets such as gold, currency
reserves and loan portfolios that could be sold to private
investors to temporarily make up the funding shortfall for
months.  Mary J. Miller, assistant Treasury secretary for financial
markets, rejected the idea in a May 6 statement as a “fire
sale” of financial assets that “would be damaging to the
economy, taxpayers, and financial markets.”  Better Than Default  Even so, Veronique de Rugy, a senior research fellow at
Mercatus and co-author of the report, said asset sales would be
preferable to the consequences of a default that the Obama
administration holds out as the inevitable result of failure to
meet the deadline. She cites a rush sale of equity investments
held by the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program
that Mercatus valued at $142.5 billion as of Sept. 30, 2010.  “Let’s say people who would buy these assets know we are
in a hurry and play hardball, maybe give us $50 billion. Well,
better than defaulting,” de Rugy said.  Some Democrats in Congress also have discussed the idea of
claiming presidential authority to continue borrowing without
congressional approval based on an interpretation of the
Constitution’s 14th Amendment. A provision originally passed to
prevent Southern sympathizers from later repudiating the federal
government’s Civil War debt declares the “validity” of  U.S.
government debt  “shall not be questioned.”  Senator Charles Schumer of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, told reporters last week the issue is “worth
exploring,” though “you wouldn’t want to just go ahead and
issue the debt and then have one of the courts reverse it.”  Worse Than Cure  Cooper, of the Jefferies Group, said either issuing debt
under such an untested legal theory or financing the government
with unusual asset sales would risk raising investor anxiety and
increasing interest rates.  “Taking that extra step of asset sales would send such a
negative signal to the marketplace, that the U.S. is having to
engage in Greece-style asset sales to raise money to pay
obligations, that the medicine is worse than the cure,” he
said.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes yesterday fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.11 percent at 5:05 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “There doesn’t appear to be great concerns in the market
yet,” said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust
Corp. in  Chicago .  S&P Threat  If the U.S. misses a payment on its debt,  Standard & Poor’s 
would cut its  credit rating  from its sovereign top-level AAA
ranking to D, the last rung on its scale, said  John Chambers ,
chairman of the company’s sovereign rating committee.  “If any government doesn’t pay its debt on time, the
rating of that government goes to D,” Chambers said June 30 in
an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Even a temporary default by the U.S. would likely have
“large systemic effects” on the economy and Treasury finances
by disrupting money funds, the repurchase-agreement market and
foreign investor willingness buy the government’s debt,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a report.  Ten-year Treasury yields may rise about 37 basis points if
the U.S. government temporarily misses a debt payment while
promising to make bondholders whole as soon as the debt limit
was raised, according to a mean estimate of 45 JPMorgan clients
that were surveyed by the firm. Foreign investors forecast
yields would rise 55 basis points.  Reducing Growth  An increase in Treasury yields of 50 basis points would
reduce U.S. economic growth by about 0.4 percentage points,
JPMorgan said, citing Federal Reserve research and data.  “If we get into the last week of July or the first week of
August and the debt ceiling hasn’t been raised, the markets will
begin to react,” said Terry Belton, global head of fixed-income
and foreign-exchange research in Chicago at JPMorgan Chase, a
primary dealer that trades with the Fed. “The biggest risk in
our mind has been and continues to be the threat of damaging
foreign sponsorship of Treasuries.”  If the longer-term U.S. rating was cut one step to AA+ from
AAA, stemming from political “deadlock” and concern over a
lack of long-term “fiscal policy reform,” JPMorgan estimates
Treasury yields would rise about 100 basis points.  A downgrade or default may affect the repo market, reducing
the percentage of par Treasury value accepted for collateral to
98.5 percent, the average during the financial crisis, from
about 99.5 percent, JPMorgan said. About $4 trillion of
Treasuries are used as collateral in the market for repos, which
are used by securities dealers to finance holdings and increase
leverage, the firm said.  A “sharp” devaluation of Treasuries for use as collateral
may lead to “significant margin calls, some forced de-
leveraging and a decline in lending capacity in financial
markets,” JPMorgan said.  With assistance from  Julie Davis  and Cheyenne Hopkins in
Washington. Editors: Mark McQuillan,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  