-- 
Bovespa Index Declines as Rate Concerns Offset Commodity Gains

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-07T20:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/bovespa-index-declines-as-rate-concerns-offset-commodity-gains.html
The Bovespa stock index declined for
a third day as expectations for higher  interest rates  pulled
down Brazilian banks and retailers, offsetting gains in
commodity prices that boosted some producers.  Natura Cosmeticos SA,  Latin America ’s largest cosmetics
company, fell after an inflation report reinforced bets that the
central bank will raise borrowing costs later this month. Lojas
Americanas SA,  Brazil ’s biggest discount retailer, declined as
traders braced for slower domestic demand. Banco do Brasil SA,
Latin America’s biggest bank by assets, led a decline among
financial stocks.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore miner controlled
by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , followed steel prices
higher. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, advanced as oil surged to a three-week high.  The Bovespa dropped 0.5 percent to 62,268.88 at 3:54 p.m.
New York time. The real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.5555 per
 U.S. dollar . The benchmark equity index trades at 10 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, the lowest since March 2009,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The strength of the real and the inflation numbers has
people nervous, and it’s mostly the domestic names that are
doing poorly,” said Greg Lesko, who helps manage about $800
million at Deltec Asset Management in New York. “Brazil is
starting to look cheap and growth is looking stronger, so it
surprises me that it’s not doing better, but we’ll have to be
patient.”  Relative Value  The Bovespa’s valuation compares with the Shanghai
Composite Index, which trades at 12.8 times analysts’ earnings
estimates,  Russia ’s Micex at 6.7 times and  India ’s Sensex at
15.5 times. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trades at 13.6
times.  Traders increased bets that Brazil’s central bank will
raise borrowing costs on July 20 after a report showed inflation
slowed less than expected in June. Consumer prices rose 0.15
percent last month, the national statistics agency said,
surpassing all but one estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 39
economists whose median forecast was for 0.07 percent increase.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
Brazil’s largest retailer, fell 1 percent to 68.68 reais as a
director at state-run development bank BNDES, Luiz Eduardo Melin, said at a conference in Paris today that Carrefour SA’s
proposed merger of its Brazilian assets with Pao de Acucar is
“more smoke than fire.”  Banco do Brasil dropped 2.6 percent to 27.33 reais. Natura
retreated 3.3 percent to 37.15 reais.  BicBanco  Banco Industrial e Comercial SA (BICB3) , the Sao Paulo-based lender
known as BicBanco, rose the most in more than a month after
saying it will buy back as much as 10 percent of its preferred
shares outstanding. BicBanco gained 3.6 percent to 9.90 reais
after earlier climbing as much as 4.6 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities
advanced 1.8 percent.  Copper rose on concern that adverse weather conditions in
 Chile , the world’s biggest producer of the metal, will damp
supply. Vale SA gained 0.4 percent to 46.50 reais as the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer said it’s keeping to its original
schedule for building a fleet of the biggest-ever ships to carry
the commodity. MMX advanced 2.2 percent to 8.90 reais, and
Petrobras gained 0.6 percent to 23.66.  The Bovespa has lost 15 percent from a November high through
yesterday on concern that quickening inflation may hurt domestic
demand, while a slowdown in global economic growth could cut the
appetite for commodities.  Traders moved 4.73 billion reais ($3 billion) in stocks
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a
daily average this year of 6.47 billion reais, according to data
from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  