-- 
Brazil’s BSBios Considers Expansion Into U.S. Biodiesel Market

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-07T20:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/brazil-s-bsbios-considers-expansion-into-u-s-biodiesel-market.html
BSBios Industria e Comercio de
Biodiesel Sul Brasil SA, a Brazilian biodiesel producer, may
expand into the U.S. to tap the country’s growing market.  The company’s first U.S. production facility is expected to
go into operation in August, President Erasmo Carlos Battistella
said by telephone.  Battistella said the “small” facility near Miami will
help the company evaluate how to approach the North American
market, where demand for the renewable fuel is increasing.  “The U.S. is a big consumer of fuels and it’s
incentivizing the production of biofuels,” he said. “We see
the market as an opportunity.”  Fuel distributors in the U.S. will mix 3.8 billion liters
(1 billion gallons) of biodiesel next year into their standard
 diesel fuel , Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s London office, said today by
phone.  That’s up more than fourfold from the 840 million liters
(222 million gallons) consumed in the U.S. in 2010, according to
 data  compiled by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  BSBios’s Miami plant will produce biodiesel from various
raw materials including soybean oil and palm oil. Battistella
wouldn’t discuss the size or cost of the facility.  BSBios is also expanding in  Brazil  into other applications
for biofuels. It  announced  July 4 a partnership with Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to study new
biodiesel, ethanol and specialty chemicals projects. As part of
the arrangement, Petrobras bought a 50 percent stake in one of
BSBios’s biodiesel plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  