-- 
Rousseff Said to Block More Currency Measures as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-07T19:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/brazil-s-inflation-slowed-less-than-analysts-expected-in-june-yields-jump.html
Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff ,
facing a surge in consumer prices and an exchange rate at a 12-
year high, has decided that fighting inflation is her bigger
priority, said a government official familiar with her views.  Consumer prices rose more than expected in June, exceeding
the upper limit of the government’s target range for a third
straight month, according to a report today by the national
 statistics agency . Consumer prices rose 6.71 percent from a year
ago, the fastest pace since 2005, exceeding all but one forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. Yields on interest-rate
futures rose across the board.  “Inflation is still at a high level, and services prices
are still adding pressure,” said Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo .
“There’s no significant change in the structure of Brazilian
inflation so the central bank will have to keep raising rates.”  With inflation above the government’s 4.5 percent target
since October, Rousseff isn’t considering more steps to stem
gains by the real, the best-performing currency in Latin America
over the last six months, said the official who can’t be named
because he isn’t authorized to discuss her policies publicly.
The real has strengthened 8.1 percent since Jan. 7.  Defend Brazil  While Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today that more
measures may be needed to defend Brazil from what he’s called a
global “currency war,” Rousseff considers the rally a welcome
boost to the government’s drive to ease price pressures, Valor
Economico newspaper reported today, citing officials it didn’t
name.  “We’ve always used the  exchange rate  as a tool of
adjustment, to gain competitiveness, but those days have
passed,” Brazil’s Trade and Development Minister Fernando
Pimentel told reporters today in Paris.  Yields on interest rate futures jumped after the inflation
report was published, as traders increased bets that the central
bank will need to keep raising borrowing costs beyond its July
19-20 meeting. The bank, in its quarterly inflation report
published last week, said that raising the benchmark rate a
quarter point in July wouldn’t be enough to slow inflation to
its target next year.  Brazil’s real this week rose to its strongest level since
1999 as investors increased demand for higher-yielding assets
amid easing concern over  Greece ’s debt crisis.  Leading a Drive  Policy makers in Brazil have been leading a drive in Latin
America to stem dollar inflows that are pressuring currencies
across the region. Near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and the
fastest economic growth in two decades in 2010 have made Brazil
a magnet for foreign investment, which is forecast to surpass
last year’s record of $48.5 billion, according to the latest
central bank survey of economists.  In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases. On March 29, PresidentRousseff’s administration increased to 6 percent a tax on new
corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks. A few days
later, she applied the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or
transferred loans of up to two years in length. Companies
previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90 days and
zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  “The currency war continues because the recovery in
advanced countries has led to expansionary monetary policies,”
Mantega told reporters in Paris today.  Critical of  China   Mantega also criticized China’s exchange rate policy. “Of
course China manipulates its currency, and it would be better
that the currency fluctuates even in China,” he said.  The real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.5556 per  U.S. dollar 
at 3:07 p.m. New York time, close to its 12-year high of 1.5534
on July 4. The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts
due in January 2012 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
points, to 12.50 percent, its biggest increase in more than two
months. The contract due in July 2013 rose six basis points to
12.69 percent.  Consumer prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index,
rose 0.15 percent last month, beating all but one estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 39 economists whose median estimate was for
a 0.07 percent increase. While analysts were forecasting a lower
reading, monthly inflation was still the slowest in 10 months as
the cost of food and fuel in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
declined 0.26 percent and 0.61 percent respectively.  Higher Benchmark  Policy makers raised their benchmark lending rate for a
fourth consecutive meeting last month to 12.25 percent. In the
minutes to the policy meeting, the central bank said it will
keep raising rates for a “sufficiently” prolonged period to
cool economic growth.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini told a Senate
hearing this week that inflation will peak in August. Steps
already taken by the bank to cool the economy will take time to
be fully felt, Tombini said.  “The results are already starting to be seen,” Tombini
told reporters after the event.  Traders are betting the central bank will raise borrowing
costs 0.25 percentage point at its July 19-20 policy meeting,
and are split on whether policy makers will continue to raise
rates after that, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures.  The surge in inflation at the end of 2010 and the start of
this year was largely caused by a rise in food, fuel and
transport costs, Tombini told lawmakers this week. Commodities
prices rose 32 percent in June from a year earlier, led by a 44
percent rise in agricultural goods, according to the central
bank’s commodities index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  