-- 
Brooklyn MySpace Bin Laden Fan Found Guilty by Jury of Terror Conspiracy

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-07T22:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/brooklyn-man-found-guilty-of-conspiracy-to-commit-murder-support-terror.html
A 23-year-old  Brooklyn , New York, man
who transcribed  Osama Bin Laden  videos on his MySpace page and
traveled to Cairo with his best friend was found guilty of
conspiring to commit murder overseas and supporting terrorism.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn today
announced the verdict against the man, Betim Kaziu, after the
jury deliberated for less than four hours following a two-week
trial. The jury found Kaziu guilty on four counts, including an
attempt to provide support to a terrorist organization overseas.  Kaziu, a U.S. citizen arrested in Kosovo in 2009, faces a
maximum sentence of life in prison, partly on testimony given by
Sulejmah Hadzovic, a neighbor he met in the sixth grade.
Hadzovic, whom the U.S. called Kaziu’s best friend, said they
both wanted to wage jihad overseas, possibly in Somalia, before
Hadzovic abandoned the idea and return to the U.S.  While in Cairo, Kaziu sought to join Al-Shabaab, a group
fighting to overthrow the government in Somalia; tried to travel
to  Afghanistan ,  Iraq , and  Pakistan ; and sought to buy an AK-47
on the black market, U.S. prosecutors said. He was also seeking
to attack NATO troops in Kosovo, where some U.S. troops were
stationed, U.S. lawyer Ali Kazemi said in court.  When Hadzovic had a change of heart and returned to the
U.S. in May 2009, Kaziu tried to urge him on, accusing him of
going back to the “disbelieving lands,” Kazemi said.  He is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 4.  ‘Homegrown Terrorist’  “We have brought to justice a homegrown terrorist who
conspired to kill U.S. troops overseas,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn said in a statement.  Kaziu and Hadzovic were first-generation Americans whose
parents came from the former  Yugoslavia . His parents declined to
comment today.  Closing arguments to the jury on July 6 focused on whether
Kaziu’s MySpace page and his contacts and travel overseas were
evidence of a conspiracy.  His avatar on the page, “Sayf-UL-iSLAM” shows a figure in
military fatigues with a saber. Under the alias Abdul Wahab Al-
Albani, Kaziu’s postings included lines like, “Angry at the
Kuffar,” or disbeliever.  He posted films including one of a crying U.S. soldier, and
an interview with Osama  Bin Laden  from 2008.  His occupation is listed as “mu******,” which Kazemi said
in closing arguments was short for mujaheed, or Muslim warrior;  Defendant’s Mind  “Those videos are a window straight into the defendant’s
mind,” Kazemi said.  “I came to chill with the brothers (inshallah) before I
depart,” Kaziu said in a video he made of himself walking along
a rocky coastline in Albania, presented as evidence in the
trial. The footage, which the government described as a “martyr
video” indicating his intent to die for Islam, shows Kaziu with
a full beard, in a white tank top and headscarf reciting how
he’d traveled from Brooklyn to Cairo to Pristina,  Kosovo , and
then to Albania.  Kaziu, in a white button-down shirt and tan blazer in
court, was expressionless as the verdict was read. He winked and
smiled at his family as he was led out.  Bin Laden  U.S. prosecutors said he had taken Osama Bin Laden’s words
and rebroadcast them as his own and disseminated messages from
Anwar al-Awlaki on his MySpace page. Al-Awlaki is a U.S. and
Yemeni citizen said by the U.S. to be a senior planner for
al-Qaeda, the Islamist group founded by Bin Laden.  “He’s not passively viewing this information on the
Internet, he’s adopting it, studying it, sharing it,” Kazemi
said.  Joshua Dratel, Kaziu’s lawyer, said his client should be
protected by U.S. law guaranteeing freedom of speech and
religion. Kaziu did nothing amounting to conspiracy, didn’t own
a gun and wasn’t trained to fight, the defense lawyer said.  At 21, he had made other “role playing” videos, posing as
a weatherman, a drug dealer and a Mafioso, Dratel said.  “Conspiracy is an agreement to do something illegal,”
Dratel said in his closing arguments. “It’s not watching
videos.”  Hadzovic testified against his best friend to avoid going
to prison himself, the lawyer said. The government said Hadzovic
signed an agreement under which lying under oath might result in
a 15-year sentence.  Terror Plots  The verdict followed other convictions in  New York  for
terrorism plots involving U.S. citizens that never came to
fruition.  Four men were convicted in Brooklyn this year for planning
to blow up  John F. Kennedy International Airport . They included
 Russell Defreitas , 67, an American citizen and native of  Guyana .  Three men were sentenced last month to 25 years in prison
for plotting to blow up New York synagogues and fire heat-
seeking missiles at military planes. They included  James Cromitie , a Brooklyn native.  Faisal Shahzad, a naturalized American citizen from
Pakistan who drove a bomb-laden vehicle into New York’s Times
Square, was sentenced to life in prison for the failed attack.  The Kaziu case is U.S. v. Kaziu, 09-cr-00660, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  The case is U.S. v. Kaziu, 09-cr-00660, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  