-- 
News Corp.’s BSkyB Bid Faces Unprecedented Opposition Before U.K. Enquiry

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-07T13:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/bskyb-extends-decline-on-concern-hacking-scandal-may-delay-bid.html
News Corp.’s proposed takeover of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  has drawn more than 125,000
messages of objection a day before a public consultation ends,
potentially delaying final approval by the U.K. government.  Avaaz , an advocacy group that organizes campaigns for
citizens, said today that more than triple the previous number
of submissions have been sent to the government. BSkyB extended
its decline in London trading amid further phone-hacking
allegations at News Corp.’s News of the World Sunday tabloid.  “The virality of this campaign has been unprecedented,”
Sam Barratt, a spokesman for Avaaz, said in a phone interview
from London. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  “would be suicidal
to push this through before recess.”  Parliament will break for vacation from July 20 to Sept. 5.  A week-long consultation on additional conditions imposed
by the government over  Rupert Murdoch ’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) offer for BSkyB ends tomorrow at noon. While Hunt has
said he is minded to accept the proposals, U.K. lawmakers have
called for the bid to be halted pending a public inquiry.
Regulator Ofcom, which monitors broadcasters, can also
intervene.  Shares Fall  BSkyB lost as much as 2.6 percent and was down 2 percent to
810.5 pence at 2:47 p.m. in London, extending yesterday’s 2.1
percent slump, the steepest since before  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 700-pence-
a-share bid in June last year. BSkyB reached a record 850 pence
on July 4 before reports that the News of the World hacked into
a murdered schoolgirl’s phone.  News Corp. added 0.5 percent to $17.55 in  New York , after
declining 3.6 percent yesterday.  During the previous consultation, which lasted from March
to June, the government received about 40,000 submissions. A
total of 46,000 people have shared the current campaign on
Facebook Inc.’s social network, Avaaz said.  “In the short term, investors are naturally wary,” said
Patrick Yau, an analyst at Peel Hunt in London, said in an
interview. “I don’t think at this stage what’s going on at News
International will necessarily affect the outcome of the
secretary of state’s decision.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government won’t suspend the
review of the takeover, Patricia Rawlings, a minister in the
House of Lords, said today.  No Date  “The secretary of state will need to consider all the
answers and all the presentations,” she told upper-house
lawmakers in  London . “There is no date at present for the
decision. The secretary of state will not be rushed. To be fair,
he has to make it strictly on media plurality within the law.”  A spokeswoman for the culture ministry said the government
had received more than 100,000 submissions and will consider all
of them. She declined to be named in line with department
policy.  Ofcom , which can take a broadcaster’s license away, said
yesterday it’s “closely monitoring” the investigations into
phone hacking. The regulator can intervene at any time to ensure
that the holders of a license are “fit and proper” persons.  The Royal British Legion, the charity for U.K. war
veterans, dropped the News of the World as a campaign partner
today after allegations that its journalists hacked into
messages on mobile phones of relatives of soldiers killed in
Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Sainsbury, Lloyds  News International, News Corp.’s U.K., unit, said it will
investigate those allegations, after previous reports that the
voicemail of murder and terror victims was intercepted.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , Wal-Mart Inc.’s Asda supermarket chain and
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. joined the list of companies to say
they’d halt advertising on the newspaper.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and Co-
operative Group have also announced suspensions, while  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit in the U.K. is reviewing its plans.  Another News Corp. newspaper, the London-based Times,
reported today that journalists suspected of involvement in
hacking were expected to be arrested within days, without saying
where it got the information. Hacking involves dialing into
someone else’s mobile phone and then listening to the owner’s
voicemail after obtaining the access code by guesswork or
otherwise.  Police Referral  From 2007, when one of its reporters was jailed for phone-
hacking, to 2010, News International has denied that there was
any widespread culture of illegality at the newspaper. The
company was backed in this by London’s Metropolitan Police,
which said there wasn’t enough evidence to support further
prosecutions.  The Metropolitan Police said in a statement today that it
has made a formal referral to the Independent Police Complaints
Commission over “alleged inappropriate payments” that may have
been made to officers, following the provision of documents by
News International on June 20.  Murdoch, News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said yesterday he would stand by News International CEO Rebekah Brooks after Cameron promised an inquiry into phone-hacking at
the News of the World, the newspaper she once edited.  “It was notable the speed that Murdoch came out on the
defensive -- and saying the allegations were ‘unacceptable,’”
Peel Hunt’s Yau said. “Normally one would expect him to be a
little bit more robust but I think even he can see the
seriousness of the situation now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  