-- 
HTC Shares Fall Most in Three Weeks After Agreeing to Buy S3 Graphics

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-07T06:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/htc-shares-fall-most-in-week-in-taipei-after-agreeing-to-buy-s3-graphics.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest
maker of smartphones, fell the most in three weeks in Taipei
trading after Citigroup Inc. cut the stock’s rating citing
corporate governance concerns over the company’s planned
purchase of S3 Graphics Co.  The stock fell 6.9 percent to NT$1,020 at the 1:30 p.m.
close in Taipei, the stock’s biggest drop since June 15.
Taipei’s benchmark Taiex index fell 0.6 percent.  Citigroup cut its recommendation on HTC shares to “sell”
as analyst Kevin Chang questioned the planned takeover of S3
Graphics, part-owned by HTC Chairwoman Cher Wang. HTC, which is
defending infringement lawsuits filed by rival  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , could
have licensed patents from S3 Graphics without a purchase, Chang
wrote.  Wang’s partial ownership of S3 Graphics raises “the
question of conflict of interest,” Chang, who previously
recommended buying HTC shares, wrote in a report today. If HTC
had licensed the patents instead of making the acquisition,
“concerns of corporate governance” could have been alleviated.  Chang also lowered his estimates for HTC’s sales this year
and in 2012, citing a slower growth rate in global smartphone
demand and increased competition.  ‘Related Parties’  “This is a transaction involving related parties, but it’s
certainly not the case that we could never have these types of
transactions,” HTC Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in
a phone interview today. The valuation of the S3 Graphics deal
was assessed independently and the transaction is
“transparent,” Yung said.  HTC will pay $300 million in cash for Fremont, California-
based S3 Graphics to  VIA Technologies Inc. (2388) , which has a 12.5
percent stake, and WTI Investment International Ltd., a holding
company controlled by VIA and HTC’s Wang.  VIA rose 3.4 percent to close at NT$36.90.  S3 Graphics, a provider of image-compression technology
used in Nintendo Co.’s Wii and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation game
machines, was unprofitable last year and has a negative book
value of about $9 million, Yung said yesterday. HTC will acquire
235 patents, mostly related to graphics technology.  Patent Portfolio  The main purpose of the S3 Graphics acquisition is to
bolster HTC’s holdings of patents, Yung said.  S3 Graphics, which VIA acquired in 2002, won a ruling this
month by a U.S. International Trade Commission judge, who
determined that Apple violated two of its patents. The findings
are subject to review by the six-member commission, which can
block imports of products that infringe on U.S. patents.  Apple filed a suit against HTC in a Delaware district court
in June last year, adding to an earlier complaint against the
company. The Cupertino, California-based company also asked the
U.S. International Trade Commission in March 2010 to block
imports of HTC phones, alleging infringement of patents related
to the implementation of operating systems.  HTC denied the charges and fired back with its own
lawsuits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  