-- 
California Spot Gasoline Weakens a Fourth Day on Higher Supply

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-07T19:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/california-spot-gasoline-weakens-a-fourth-day-on-higher-supply.html
Spot gasoline in California weakened
against futures for a fourth day after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  returned a
unit to service at its Los Angeles refinery and the state said
Carbob gasoline inventories rose last week.  The discount for prompt-delivery of California-blend
gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles widened 0.5 cent to 10.25
cents a gallon versus futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange as of 2:10 p.m. New York time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel weakened 1 cent yesterday.  Prompt-delivery of the fuel in  San Francisco  fell 0.62 cent
to a discount of 13.25 cents a gallon.  San Antonio-based Tesoro returned the cogeneration system
at its Los Angeles refinery to service after a fuel gas leak
forced it to shut. The incident had no impact on refinery
operations or supplies, said Mike Marcy, a company spokesman
based in Martinez,  California .  Refiners in the state increased Carbob output 4.9 percent
in the week ended July 1 compared with a year earlier, boosting
inventories 17 percent, the state Energy Commission said.  California-blend, low-sulfur diesel production fell 17
percent, with stocks down 4.8 percent, the commission said.  The premium for low-sulfur diesel in Los Angeles rose 0.35
cent to 7.25 cents a gallon versus Nymex heating oil futures.
The premium for the same fuel in San Francisco was unchanged at
9.25 cents.  Tesoro was scheduled to begin maintenance on a unit at the
Los Angeles refinery today. The work, scheduled to end July 11,
isn’t expected to affect supplies at the plant, Marcy said.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , narrowed 2 cents to 2.5 cents versus futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 