-- 
California’s Credit-Rating Outlook Changed to Stable From Negative by S&P

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-07T20:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/california-s-credit-rating-outlook-changed-to-stable-from-negative-by-s-p.html
California’s credit rating outlook
was raised to stable from negative after Governor  Jerry Brown 
signed a balanced budget that allows the state to take out a
cash-flow loan from  Wall Street ,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The revision by the rating company today means the
possibility for a downgrade has decreased. S&P maintained its A-
rating on California’s $71.7 billion of outstanding general-
obligation bonds, its lowest state grade in the U.S.  The budget cleared the way for the most populous state to
sell short-term municipal bonds, with a projected $5 billion
offering expected in August. The revenue-anticipation notes, or
RANs, are offered when cash is low and repaid later in the year
when the bulk of taxes are collected. Without the notes, the
state would run out of money, as it did in 2009, when the
controller issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.  “It’s a positive sign,” said Kelly Wine, executive vice
president of Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp. “The
A- negative has not been too great to look at, and while most
people didn’t think it would go into the triple-B range, this
takes that cloud away.”  Brown brokered an $85.9 billion spending plan with fellow
Democrats that filled what remained of a $26 billion deficit
with $12 billion in spending cuts and a forecast of an equal
amount in higher  tax revenue  from a recovering economy. The plan
includes $2.5 billion in automatic additional cuts if the money
doesn’t materialize.  Paying Off Loan  Treasurer Bill Lockyer has said he can borrow against the
spending plan because the trigger insures there’s enough money
left at year-end to pay off the loan.  “It’s nice to be out of the woodshed,” said  Tom Dresslar ,
a spokesman for Lockyer, “It confirms our view that this budget
represents a significant step toward getting California’s fiscal
house back in order. In addition, it bodes well for our RAN
deal.”  Ten-year general obligation bonds from California issuers
yield 4.08 percent on average, or about 1.25 percentage point
more than average top-rated debt of that maturity, according to
Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The yield difference is the
smallest in about five weeks.  “The negative outlook had been linked to the possibility
of a recurring cash deficiency that we now believe the enactment
of the fiscal 2012 budget is likely to mitigate,” a San
Francisco-based S&P analyst, Gabriel Petek, said in a statement.
“The state has improved the structural alignment between its
recurring revenues and expenditures.”  Yields Plunge  California ’s RANs will go to market as yields on such debt
have plunged along with Treasuries. One-year tax-exempt note
yields fell to 0.34 percent last week, according to a Bond Buyer
index, down from 0.64 percent a year earlier and 3.71 percent in
2007, before the recession. One- to three-year Treasury yields
also fell in the last year, to a record-low 0.60 percent July 5
from about 1 percent.  “The appetite is very good for that sale,” Wine said.
“They will probably get lower yields and low borrowing costs
with that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  