-- 
CBGB Founder’s Estate to Auction Brand Tied to NY Punk Club

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-07-07T22:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/cbgb-founder-s-estate-to-auction-brand-tied-to-ny-punk-club-1-.html
The estate of CBGB’s founder has put
the brand up for sale so the defunct  New York  punk-rock club
where Blondie and The Ramones gained fame can live
on in T-shirts, video games and perhaps a Broadway show.  The estate of founder Hillel “Hilly” Kristal, who died in
2007, is selling CBGB’s intellectual property rights including
trademarks, domain names, recordings and artifacts, Streambank
LLC, which was hired for the auction, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The name still resonates with global audiences and can be
used at live clubs, on apparel and in interactive media,
Streambank said. A Broadway musical, a satellite radio or cable-
television channel, or video games are among the possibilities
for a new owner, according to the company.  “We’re expecting it to trade well in excess of a couple
million,” said Jack Hazan, a principal in Needham,
Massachusetts-based Streambank, which specializes in intangible
asset transactions.  The club, which billed itself as the birthplace of punk
rock, closed after Kristal lost his lease in 2006, Hazan said.
The founder died a less than year later.  Hillel’s estate sold the CBGB trademarks and intellectual
rights once before for $3.5 million, including $1.11 million in
cash and the remainder covered by a secured note. The estate
foreclosed on the buyer, CBGB Holdings LLC, regaining the
property after a bankruptcy judge’s ruling late last year,
according to court filings.  Grungy East Village  CBGB-OMFUG, which stands for Country, Blue Grass, Blues and
Other Music For Uplifting Gourmandizers, was a dive at the
corner of the Bowery and Bleecker Street in New York’s grungy
East Village.  It opened in December 1973 and, under the curatorship of
Kristal, became the cacophonous foundry from which punk and
anarcho-rock emerged, through groups and solo artists including
Blondie, the Dead Kennedys, Ani DiFranco and most lastingly, The
Ramones.  Almost as famous as the music were the walls of the club’s
rooms, plastered with concert fliers, business cards, graffiti
and all manner of colorful, often obscene material.  Until its closing, CBGB drew passionate crowds of teens in
cutoffs, skinheads, multi-hued tattoo mannequins and serious
music fans to its famed cream-colored awning with the bright red
bubble letters. While music made Kristal a legend, T-shirt sales
made him rich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  