-- 
CFTC Adopts Dodd-Frank Swap Rule Against Market Manipulation

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-07T16:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/cftc-may-adopt-dodd-frank-swaps-rule-against-market-manipulation.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  adopted a Dodd-Frank Act rule designed to make it
easier for the agency to prove fraud and manipulation in markets
for derivatives and commodities such as oil and natural gas.  The rule, approved 5-0 by commissioners at a  Washington 
meeting today, will ease current requirements that the agency’s
enforcement lawyers demonstrate that artificial prices were set
and prove traders intentionally manipulated markets. The new
anti-manipulation rule will require the agency only to show that
traders acted recklessly.  “This closes a significant gap, as it will broaden the
types of cases we can pursue and improve the chances of
prevailing over wrongdoers,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at
the meeting.  The anti-manipulation rule is among the first of more than
40 Dodd-Frank rules to come up for a final vote at the CFTC. The
financial-overhaul law aims to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the $601 trillion global swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
CFTC rules will govern swaps traded by banks such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   At least one commission member, Republican  Scott O’Malia ,
expressed reservations about the rule.  ‘Vagueness’  “I have concerns that the anti-manipulation rule has not
provided adequate clarity and that such vagueness as to the
course of action that will be taken by the commission in
enforcing this rule will add confusion to the markets,” O’Malia
said before casting his vote in favor of the measure.  The rule will take effect 30 days after it is published in
the Federal Register.  Dodd-Frank sought to give the agency broader powers to
pursue fraud, manipulation and disruptive trading cases. The
agency has won one anti-manipulation case in 35 years, according
to Senator  Maria Cantwell , the Washington Democrat who
originally wrote Dodd-Frank’s anti-manipulation provision.  “They will perceive themselves as having an easier time to
bring manipulation cases without having a smoking gun as they
have in the past,” Geoffrey F. Aronow, a former director of
enforcement at the CFTC and partner at  Bingham McCutchen LLP ,
said in an interview yesterday.  The CFTC’s current anti-manipulation regulation relies on a
four-part test that requires the agency to prove a trader had
the ability to influence market prices, specifically intended to
create a price not relying on market supply and demand, that
artificial prices existed and that a trader caused those prices.  Weak Statute  The CFTC has had “probably one of the weakest statutes to
try to go after manipulation,” Cantwell said in an interview
yesterday.  Agency enforcement lawyers will make the new rule a
“priority,” David Meister, head of CFTC enforcement, said at
the meeting. “We will look to bring cases and investigate under
this new authority,” he said.  The new rules may be finalized as the CFTC pursues one of
its largest anti-manipulation civil cases. The agency filed a
lawsuit in May against two traders and three firms that
allegedly manipulated prices for crude oil derivatives in 2008,
generating $50 million in what the CFTC called unlawful profits.  The lawsuit against Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. and Parnon
Energy Inc. is “rubbish,” Norwegian-born billionaire  John Fredriksen  told Bloomberg News on May 25. Parnon and Arcadia,
affiliated companies, are subsidiaries of Farahead Holdings,
which is indirectly controlled by trusts set up by Fredriksen.  Crossing the Line  The new rule may create uncertainty in the market and take
many years for traders to understand because of the new reckless
standard, Aronow said. “I don’t believe the line will be very
clear and the peril later for having found to have crossed the
line will be very great,” he said.  The regulation will also allow enforcement lawyers to bring
cases against trading on the basis of material non-public
information that was obtained through fraud or deception or in
breach of other preexisting duties, Meister said.  “We’ll be able to get at, for example, bad actors akin to
insider traders,”  Bart Chilton , CFTC commissioner, said in a
prepared statement for the meeting.  Separately, the CFTC finalized Dodd-Frank rules governing
the definition of agricultural derivatives, consumer protection
provisions and physical commodity swap-data reporting.  46 Commodities  The data-reporting rule will for the first time provide a
survey to the CFTC of cleared and uncleared swaps tied to 46
physical commodities, the agency said in a summary of the rule.  The data rule will help the CFTC determine limits on
speculation in commodities such as oil, wheat and natural gas,
Gensler said. The so-called position-limit proposal, approved in
January, has been among the most contentious aspects of the
agency’s Dodd-Frank rulemaking.  The agency’s proposal spurred about 12,000 public comments
from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  as well as from
opponents including Morgan Stanley and Cargill Inc. The CFTC has
faced pressure from Democrats in Congress who have urged the
agency to quickly implement the trading curbs, citing increases
in commodity prices.  The agency hasn’t yet scheduled a meeting to finalize the
position-limit rule.  The CFTC plans to hold meetings on July 19 and Aug. 4 and
may approve Dodd-Frank proposals related to whistleblowers and
registration for swap data repositories, Gensler told reporters
after the meeting.  Commissioners also plan to vote on a proposal next week
extending Dodd-Frank’s mid-July deadlines until as late as the
end of the year, Gensler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  