-- 
Chavez’s Higher Price Caps Helped Push Venezuela’s June Inflation to 23.6%

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-07T15:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/chavez-s-higher-price-caps-helped-push-venezuela-s-june-inflation-to-23-6-.html
Venezuelan inflation accelerated more
than economists expected in June after the government raised
price caps on regulated food goods to prevent shortages and
doubled the fare on the Caracas metro.  Consumer prices rose 2.5 percent in June from a month
earlier, exceeding the 2 percent median forecast of five
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 23.6 percent from
a year earlier, the  central bank  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Venezuela , which has the highest inflation rate of 78
economies tracked by Bloomberg, raised price caps on beef, corn
meal, bread, milk and sugar in a bid to avoid shortages after a
40 percent devaluation in January that made imports more
expensive. The government has also raised prices on public
transport this year, including the first change to the metro
tariff since 2006.  “The main driver of inflation this month has been the
effect of price adjustments in transport and food,” Alejandro
Arreaza, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in  New York , said in a
phone interview. “After two years of recession and low demand,
there’s space for greater  government spending  without generating
inflationary pressure in the short term.”  Transport, food and non-alcoholic beverages led increases
by climbing 3.5 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively, the bank
said. Prices rose 2.2 percent in Caracas last month, less than
the 2.9 percent recorded in May.  Annual inflation across the country accelerated for the
first time in four months after falling to 22.9 percent in May.  Venezuela’s central bank and finance ministry have set a
target of 22 percent to 25 percent for inflation in 2011.
Central Bank President Nelson Merentes said in September that he
hopes to slow annual price gains to single digits by 2013.  Consumer prices rose 13 percent in the first half of the
year, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  