-- 
China Two-Year Swap Rate Jumps as China Raises Borrowing Costs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T09:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/china-swap-rates-jump-as-china-raises-borrowing-costs-correct-.html
China ’s two-year interest-rate swaps
rose the most in three months and the yuan traded near a 17-year
high after the central bank raised borrowing costs to curb
inflation.  The one-year deposit and lending rates were increased a
quarter of a percentage point each to 3.5 percent and 6.56
percent, after official data on June 14 showed consumer prices
climbed at the fastest pace in almost three years in May.  China lifted rates for a third time this year yesterday,
while policy makers have also ordered banks to set aside more
cash as reserves on six occasions. Inflation may have surpassed
6 percent last month to the highest level since July 2008,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the data
are released on July 9.  “We continue to project another 25-basis point hike
sometime in the fourth quarter,” economists from Singapore-
based DBS Group Holdings Ltd., led by  David Carbon , wrote in a
research note today. “The latest situation reconfirms our view
that the probability of premature loosening of monetary policy
is extremely small. The asset-inflation problem hasn’t been
resolved; property prices in many smaller cities have continued
to surge.”  The two-year interest-rate swap climbed nine basis points
to 3.635 percent as of 4:47 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest
increase since April 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Buyers of the contracts receive the deposit rate for one year,
after which the floating payment is reset for the second year.  Weaker Yuan Fixing  The yuan traded at 6.4658 per dollar, little changed from
yesterday’s 6.4670, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.4599 on July 4, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore
market, the yuan was also little changed at 6.4650.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate
0.03 percent weaker at 6.4732. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were at 6.3928 in Hong Kong, a 1.1 percent premium to
the onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based economist at CCB International
Securities, said China may now ease off the tightening pedal for
the rest of 2011 on signs the economy is slowing.  China’s manufacturing expanded in June at the slowest pace
in more than two years, according to the findings of purchasing
managers’ surveys released this month by the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing on July 1. The Purchasing Managers’
Index decreased to 50.9, from 52 in May.  ‘Last Rate Hike’  “It should be China’s last rate hike this year and the
government will focus on economic growth rather than curbing
inflation in the second half,” said Lam. “We expect the yuan
to gain 3 percent to 5 percent for the rest of the year on the
back of strong economic growth.”  Consumer prices climbed 5.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the most in 34 months, official data show. The median
estimate of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for the yuan to
appreciate 2.7 percent by the end of the year to 6.3 per dollar.  China’s money-market rate declined the most in more than
four months, after the central bank kept the yield on three-
month bills unchanged, fueling speculation the central bank will
limit interest-rate increases.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 182 basis points, or 1.82
percentage points, to 5.60 percent, the biggest decline since
Feb. 24, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched a three-year high
of 9.2 percent on June 24.  ‘Wait and Watch’  The People’s Bank of China kept the rate on the bills at
3.0801 percent, after pushing up yields at the previous two
sales, according to a statement on its website. The central bank
sold 30 billion yuan ($4.6 billion) of the securities today and
offered 60 billion yuan of 91-day  repurchase agreements .  “The cash shortage will ease gradually in the short term
because the likelihood of a reserve-ratio hike is quite low this
month,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst at China Merchants Bank
Co., the nation’s sixth-largest lender. “The central bank may
wait and watch for a while before considering the next interest-
rate hike.”  The yield on the 3.83 percent government bond due March
2021 dropped two basis points to 3.88 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  --Fion Li,  Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  