-- 
China’s Renren Rises to One-Month High on Growth Optimism

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-07T20:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/china-s-renren-rises-to-one-month-high-on-eighth-day-of-gain.html
Renren Inc.,  China ’s biggest social-
networking website by page views, rose to the highest level in a
month in New York trading on optimism about its growth
potential, as Chinese Internet stocks rebounded this month.  The company’s American depositary receipts jumped 5.9
percent to $11.33 at 4 p.m. New York time, the highest closing
level since June 7. The shares have gained for eight days in a
row, the longest winning streak since the company’s initial
public offering May 4, when it raised $855 million.  China’s biggest U.S.-listed Internet stocks, including
Baidu Inc., Sina Corp.,  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , each have bounced back at
least 14 percent since mid-June following declines in the
previous seven weeks. Renren’s revenue rose 47 percent in the
three months through March, and may climb as much as 51 percent
to $30 million in the second quarter, the company said June 20.  “Renren is benefiting from the changing overall market
sentiment -- the bigger Chinese Internet names have gone up 20
to 40 percent in the past two to three weeks,” said Andy Yeung,
an equity analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York . “Given the
large user base they have, most people are looking at what the
future potential is in advertising revenues.”  Renren’s advertisers, totaling more than 200, are a small
fraction of those at Baidu or Sina, Yeung said.  The Beijing-based website owner said its users rose to
about 122 million at the end of May, from 117 million two months
earlier. Its first-quarter loss was smaller than a year earlier
as advertising sales more than doubled to $8.1 million.  Yeung maintained an “outperform” rating on the company’s
shares with a 12-month target price of $12. Among the nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, four recommended “buy,” four
were for “hold” and one said “sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  