-- 
Copper Jumps to Highest in Three Month on Chile, Indonesia Supply Concerns

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-07T19:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/copper-advances-as-adverse-weather-strike-spur-supply-concerns.html
Copper futures rose to the highest in
almost three months on concern that adverse weather in  Chile ,
the world’s biggest producer, and a strike at the Grasberg mine
in Indonesia will tighten supplies.  Chile yesterday forecast snow in high-altitude areas in the
Atacama Desert, where Codelco and BHP Billiton Ltd. run copper
mines. Workers at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s
Grasberg, the world’s second-largest source of the metal, are on
strike for higher wages. Prices fell yesterday after  China , the
biggest metal buyer, raised  interest rates .  “The market is worried about supply, shrugging aside the
increase in rates out of China,” said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at
Credit Agricole SA in London.  Copper futures for September delivery jumped 10.7 cents, or
2.5 percent, to close at $4.442 a pound at 1:18 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York . Earlier, the price reached $4.4435, the
highest since April 12.  Rain is forecast in Chile’s Antofagasta region, where BHP
runs Escondida, the largest copper mine. Output disruptions may
exacerbate a projected shortage this year, estimated by the
International Copper Study Group to be 377,000 metric tons.  The metal extended gains as U.S. data on jobs and retail
sales bolstered optimism in the economy. Forecasts for
increasing Chinese imports in the second half of the year
supported prices, Michael Widmer, the head of metal-market
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months advanced $219, or 2.3 percent, to $9,740 a ton ($4.42 a
pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also rose in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  