-- 
Copper Fees May Stay High on Japan Quake, China Imports Drop

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-07-07T07:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/copper-fees-may-stay-high-on-japan-quake-falling-china-imports-jx-says.html
Processing fees to turn copper ore
into metal will likely be sustained at high levels next year
after an earthquake in  Japan  shut smelting capacity and China
imported less of the raw material, said Japan’s top smelter.  “The current level may remain to the end of this year”
when mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. begin annual talks for the fees with
major smelters for next year, said Masanori Okada, chief
executive officer of JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corp. The company
owns 66 percent of Pan Pacific Copper Co.  Increasing charges paid by mining companies will boost
revenue for smelters such as Pan Pacific and Sumitomo Metal
Mining Co., the second-biggest producer of copper used to make
pipes and wires. The March temblor and tsunami halted operations
at smelters and refineries, including  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711)   Processing rates “have risen somewhat in the first half of
2011, which was heavily influenced by smelter outages in Japan,
increasing spot offers,” said  Michael Widmer , head of metals
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. He was the
second-most accurate forecaster for the metal for the eight
consecutive quarters ended March 31, according to Bloomberg data.  “Since then, spot treatment and refining charges have
fallen again,” Widmer said on July 5. “We believe that the
concentrates market is structurally not oversupplied, so see
only limited upside to contract TC/RCs in 2012.” TC/RCs are 
treatment and refining charges.  Weather Disruptions   Weather disruptions in  Chile , which supplies a third of the
world’s copper, are reducing global stockpiles, MF Global and
 Barclays Capital  wrote in e-mailed reports yesterday. Workers at
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg operation in
 Indonesia , the world’s second-largest copper mine, started a
seven-day strike on July 4 to push for higher wages.  Smelters of the metal are “well supplied” into the third
quarter and are mostly accepting treatment charges only above
$100 a metric ton and refining charges above 10 cents a pound,
Aurubis AG said on June 22.  Treatment fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The fees are deducted from the price paid by
smelters to mining companies for the raw material.  Copper supply outpaced demand by 18,000 tons in March,
compared with a 1,000-ton deficit in February, the International
Copper Study Group said in a report on June 21. Demand will
exceed supply by 279,000 tons in 2012, narrowing from a deficit
of 377,000 tons in 2011, the group said April 15.  Pan Pacific, Mitsubishi  Copper for three-month delivery rose as much as 0.6 percent
to $9,578 a ton, the highest level since April 27, on the  London 
Metal Exchange before trading at $9,560.50 at 3:28 p.m. Tokyo
time. The metal has gained 44 percent in the past year.  Some smelters and mining companies were said to have set
annual contracts at $85 a ton and 8.5 cents a pound starting
July 1, Okada said in an interview on July 5. Processors in
Japan cover 10 percent to 20 percent of their annual volumes in
the mid-year contracts, according to Daiwa Securities Capital
Markets Co.’s analyst Takashi Murata.  Pan Pacific said May 19 that it agreed with BHP to $90 a
ton and 9 cents a pound for the period from July to December, up
from $70 and 7 cents in the first half. In January, the company
set annual fees for the contract ending on Dec. 31 at $56 and
5.6 cents with Freeport. That compared with $39 and 3.9 cents
for those starting July 1, 2010.  China  Imports  Mitsubishi Materials, Japan’s third-largest copper producer,
said July 1 that it maintained a force majeure on concentrate
shipments to the Onahama smelter, even as the plant partially
restarted. The smelter has an annual capacity of 258,000 tons.
Force majeure is a legal clause allowing companies to miss
deliveries because of circumstances beyond their control.  In China, copper concentrate imports fell 15.5 percent to
2.35 million tons in the January-to-May period, while imports of
refined metal dropped 32.7 percent to 905,434 tons, according to
the Beijing-based Customs General Administration on June 21.  “It looks like that China has put the brakes on smelting
capacity expansion,” Okada said. China is the biggest buyer of
copper concentrate, or semi-processed ore, and the biggest
consumer of refined metal, accounting for 38 percent of demand
last year, according to the International Copper Study Group.  Copper Stockpiles  Tightening monetary policy to curb inflation, decreasing
competitiveness in export markets following higher labor costs
and the yuan’s strength against the dollar have led the country
to slow capacity expansion, Okada said. A power shortage and
increasing demand for scrap metal amid lower ore processing fees
have also limited expansion, he said.  China’s copper stockpiles have fallen as Japan has
increased purchases to meet sales commitments at home and abroad
after the quake, Okada said. He estimated Japan’s copper
production losses from the disaster to reach about 100,000 tons.  “We may not see an increase in demand for rebuilding
within this year in Japan,” Okada said. “Even if it happens,
it may not be a drastic pick-up.”  Japan accounted for 5 percent of total refined copper
consumption in 2010, according to the study group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  