-- 
Czech Stocks Pare Declines on U.S. Jobs; Power Prices Boost CEZ

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-07-07T16:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/czech-stock-index-drops-as-erste-shares-catch-up-after-holiday.html
The Czech Republic’s benchmark stock
index pared earlier losses after a U.S. jobs report bolstered
demand for riskier assets worldwide and rising electricity
prices boosted  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the country’s biggest power utility.  The PX gauge trimmed its decline to 0.1 percent at 1,230.2
by its 4:28 p.m. close in Prague after earlier retreating as
much as 0.3 percent.  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG)  dropped 1.7 percent to
871 koruna, catching up with the stock’s 3.3 percent drop
yesterday in Vienna, its home market, after the Czech exchange
was closed for a two-day holiday. Erste rose 1.3 percent in
Vienna today.  “The unexpectedly high number of new employees in the U.S.
has added to optimism in European stock markets,” Miroslav Adamkovic, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS in Prague, wrote in a
report today. “Banks had a delayed reaction to  Portugal ’s
rating cut after the holiday” while “rising electricity prices
helped CEZ shares,” he said.  Stocks and commodities rallied worldwide after ADP Employer
Services said U.S. companies added 157,000 workers to payrolls
in June, fueling confidence in the world’s largest economy. CEZ
jumped 2.7 percent, the most since Jan. 21, to 874.7 koruna, as
Europe’s benchmark electricity prices rose the most in a month.  Yesterday, lenders led declines in European shares and
euro-area  government bonds  fell after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Portugal’s bonds four steps to non-investment grade,
boosting concern Greece’s debt crisis will spread. Komercni, the
Czech unit of Societe Generale SA, today slid 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  