-- 
Danish Covered Debt Wins Soros JV Backing After Moody’s Cut

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-07T10:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/danish-covered-debt-wins-soros-jv-backing.html
Denmark ’s covered bonds are likely to
be snapped up by U.S. buyers even after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded the securities, according to Alan Boyce, the
head of the George Soros joint venture  Absalon Project .  “You buy Danish mortgage bonds if you want no credit risk
and plenty of liquidity,” Boyce, who was a bond trader at
Soros’ $28 billion Soros Fund Management LLC before becoming
chief executive officer at the venture, said in a phone
interview out of  California . “It should be easy to find new
buyers for Danish mortgage bonds in the U.S.; there are lots of
mortgage bond traders who will understand exactly how Danish
bonds work, just like in the U.S.”  Issuers in the world’s third-biggest covered-bond market
have encountered a barrage of obstacles from raters and
regulators. Moody’s in June warned the bonds may no longer
deserve their AAA grade as a surge in the proportion of
adjustable-rate mortgages infuses the market with risk. At the
same time, Denmark needs to persuade the European Union to ease
liquidity rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  to prevent Danish banks selling off the bonds.  “It’s a bit annoying that there’s a multiple of noises, a
multiple of disturbances sort of coming by the day,” said
Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of ratings and
regulatory affairs at Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s
biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages.  Outperforming Bunds  Danish mortgage bonds returned 0.5 percent this year, not
including re-invested interest, according to Nykredit’s index of
the securities. That compares with a 1.5 percent loss in the
same period for German bunds, Merrill Lynch prices show. The
mortgage bonds haven’t defaulted in their 200-year history, not
even when the Kingdom of Denmark went bankrupt in 1813.  The difference in yield on Nykredit’s 5 percent 2041
mortgage bond and German 10-year bunds eased two basis points to
219 basis points today, the biggest drop this month, according
to data available on Bloomberg.  Still, Moody’s said on June 10 changes in Denmark’s
covered-bond market, including new kinds of securities, are
adding risk. It wants lenders to raise their capital buffers to
protect investors.  In the past 15 years, Denmark’s mortgage-bond market has
moved away from traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par
securities into more varied debt instruments. Adjustable-rate
mortgages were introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which
the central bank has criticized for exacerbating volatility in
the country’s property market, were sold from 2003. So-called
capped floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a
ceiling on how high borrow costs can rise, came in 2004.  Long-Term Capital Management  In 1998, Danish mortgage bonds contributed to the $4 billion
loss that caused the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management
LP, sending global markets into a panic. The Connecticut-based
hedge-fund had bet the bonds were undervalued and used German
derivatives to profit on that assumption. They lost money when
interest rates started to rise, leaving Long-Term at the wrong
end of a swap contract.  Now, Moody’s argues the move toward adjustable-rate debt,
which makes up about half of Denmark’s $470 billion covered-bond
market, is a problem because the bonds, unlike other Danish
covered debt, don’t match the maturities on the loans linked to
them. Investors buy one- to three-year bonds to finance home-
loans that run for about 20 to 30 years.  Moody’s says that means the issuers, like Nykredit and
Realkredit Danmark, lose money at refinancing auctions if
interest rates rise. Berg at Nykredit says that’s not how the
mortgage market works.  Footing the Bill  In Denmark, borrowers foot the bill if investors refinance
loans at higher interest rates. Issuers only lose money if
borrowers default; in other words, they run a so-called credit
risk. The Danes call this the  balance principle .  “Moody’s does not fully recognize the transformation of
market risk -- i.e. higher interest rate -- into a credit risk
for the issuer,” Berg said. “Moody’s models this transaction
as representing market risk. They assume it works the same as in
other countries.”  Denmark’s second-biggest issuer, Danske Bank A/S unit
Realkredit Danmark A/S, said last month it will no longer use
Moody’s to grade its covered bonds after the rating company
warned a downgrade would follow unless the lender found an extra
$6.3 billion in capital to offset the rise in risk.  Issuer BRFKredit A/S said yesterday it will start a
dialogue with  Standard & Poor’s  to have its bonds graded there
after being downgraded by Moody’s on July 1.  ‘Wrong Direction’  Moody’s analyst Oscar Heemskerk declined to respond in a
July 1 interview to Danske Bank’s decision.  Even after its downgrades, Moody’s still assumes that
“there’s a more-than 80 percent chance of timely payment of
covered bonds if issuers have defaulted,” analyst Alexander Zeidler said by phone the same day.  Boyce, whose Absalon venture seeks to promote mortgage
finance based on the original Danish model, says the market’s
main weakness is an erosion of liquidity as lenders split the
securities into different series.  “The Danish market is moving in the wrong direction,” he
said. “More liquid bonds would attract more international
buyers.”  Housing Decline  At the same time, property prices will continue to decline
this year and next, Nykredit Markets said in a note today.  House
prices  will fall as much as 4 percent in 2011 and up to 1
percent the following year, senior analyst Jens L. Pedersen said
in the note. Part of the drop will stem from higher mortgage
costs on the back of Moody’s downgrades, he said.  Still, the prospect of borrowers reneging on their mortgage
debt isn’t one that worries Boyce, he said.  “Why should I care about adjustable-rate-mortgage-
borrowers with loan-to-value ratios lower than 80 percent,” he
said. “I only care about the 1.6 percent with LTV’s over 80
percent and if 30 percent of those default, which is the
absolutely worst scenario I would expect, lenders should be very
well off to cover those loan losses.” He calls Moody’s capital
requirements “ridiculous.”  Investors, raters and regulators should make sure they
understand the securities before pronouncing them risky, Boyce
said. “Surprisingly, very few people know the features of
Danish mortgage bonds outside of Denmark,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  