-- 
Default Is Well-Played Threat as Republicans Press Spending Cuts

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-07T14:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/default-is-well-played-threat-as-republicans-press-spending-cuts.html
When House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  walked out on the bipartisan debt-ceiling talks in late
June, all of  Washington  professed shock. For some cable news
addicts, it rivaled the Casey Anthony trial in its titillation
factor.  Opinion writers and Democrats warned that Cantor was
sacrificing the global economy for the sake of politics. The
Republicans seemed to be playing brinkmanship with the debt
ceiling, which the Obama administration says must be raised by
Aug. 2 to avoid a U.S. default.  It’s time to take a deep breath and stop fretting because
the likelihood the U.S. will default on its debt obligations is
very slim, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 11 issue.
Republican leaders may engage in some theatrics, yet in the end
they will almost certainly take their bows and allow the curtain
to close without incident. Republican leaders have professed in
unwavering terms that there will ultimately be a happy ending.  “Nobody believes the  United States  is going to walk away
from its obligations,” House Speaker  John Boehner  told  Fox News 
on June 28. A month earlier, he told financiers at the  Economic
Club of New York  that letting the debt talks fail would be
“irresponsible.”  Boehner has been hammering at the same point since just
days after the November elections, which returned the  Republican
Party  to power in the House.  Deal ‘as Adults’  “We’re going to have to deal with it as adults,” he said
to reporters then, explaining that he was already talking to
newly elected Republican lawmakers to impress on them the
importance of preventing a default. “Whether we like it or not,
the federal government has obligations, and we have obligations
on our part,” he said.  Republican leaders share that sentiment. Just a few months
before his walkout prompted headlines, Cantor, the No. 2 House
Republican, was lecturing his party’s rank and file on why they
can’t let the U.S. default.  During a private January retreat attended by more than 200
House Republicans at a waterfront hotel in Baltimore, Cantor
implored the politicians to view the debt negotiations as a
“leverage moment,” according to a person close to the
representative. Cantor never suggested that allowing a default
was even a possibility.  Policy Goals  Seeking to use the debt discussions to score policy
victories, Republicans are demanding big spending cuts from the
Democrats. Republicans also want to slash entitlement programs
such as Medicare. And so far they’ve held firm against
Democrats’ demands to increase government revenue by ending
subsidies for oil and gas companies and tax breaks for
businesses and the wealthy.  Cantor said on July 6 that Republicans would agree to close
tax loopholes only if they are “coupled with offsetting tax
cuts somewhere else,” something the Democrats are loath to do.
The Republican stand plays well with its base, especially
budget-conscious Tea Party backers such as  Michele Bachmann , the
Minnesota representative and Republican presidential contender.  Still, at the same time it is making demands, the
Republican leadership is suggesting that Tea Partiers shouldn’t
expect to get everything they want during the debt-ceiling
talks.  At the Baltimore retreat, Cantor urged his colleagues to
think of the debt ceiling issue as the second of “three bites
at the apple.”  Last Year’s Talks  The first bite came in the form of the 2011 budget
negotiations, which almost ended in a government shutdown in
April but instead resulted in a compromise that included
$38 billion in spending cuts Republicans favored. The leadership
wants to build on those gains during the debt-ceiling
negotiations and sees the 2012 budget talks as another chance to
extract spending cuts from Democrats.  Republicans’ pragmatism is motivated in part by the memory
of 1995-96, when a congressional budget impasse led to two
government shutdowns -- and the Republican leadership got the
blame.  That episode is “a scar that doesn’t go away,” says
Michael Franc, president for government studies at the  Heritage
Foundation , which backs limited government.  Then there is the money issue. In the 2010 elections,
Republicans took in the majority of donations from the
securities sector and  hedge funds . Both groups sided with
Democrats in 2008.  Wall Street  Money  That money is “up for grabs” again in 2012, says John Pitney, a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont,  California . Republican leaders are eager for Wall
Street to know the party won’t trigger a financial apocalypse,
he says.  Republicans don’t have much incentive to strike a deal
before Zero Hour. Brinkmanship worked well for them during the
April budget negotiations, when they came to an agreement just
hours before the deadline.  One possible outcome: The two sides could make a temporary
agreement to delay the day of reckoning, forcing them to revisit
the debt limit again before the 2012 elections.  There may be plenty of prime-time drama on the way to the
deal, with Democrats such as Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York 
accusing the other side of trying to sabotage the economy, and
Republicans such as South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint  saying the
Obama administration is “playing chicken.” In the end, one or
both drivers will swerve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  