-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Weigh Jain as Co-CEO After Ackermann

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-07-08T17:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/deutsche-bank-said-to-weigh-jain-as-co-ceo-to-succeed-ackermann.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
bank, may name investment-banking head Anshu Jain co-chief
executive officer alongside a German-speaking board member to
succeed  Josef Ackermann , people familiar with matter said.  Jain, 48, might be partnered with Juergen Fitschen, 62,
 Rainer Neske , 46, or another management board member to allay
concerns over making a non-German-speaking investment banker
sole CEO, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private and no decision has been made.  Jain, a native of  India  who heads the corporate and
investment bank, became the frontrunner after  UBS AG (UBSN)  announced
the hiring of Axel Weber as chairman last week, removing the ex-
Bundesbank chief from contention for the top job at Deutsche
Bank. Investors including Hermes Equity Ownership Services,
which represents more than 20 pension funds and asset managers,
have urged the Frankfurt-based bank to map out a  succession plan 
for the 63-year-old Ackermann, whose contract expires in 2013.  “I’m a fan of an internal solution and Jain is a suitable
candidate,” said Daniel Hupfer, who helps manage about $46
billion in assets, including Deutsche Bank shares, at M.M.
Warburg in Hamburg. “I’d prefer dual leadership because his
partner could cover the German political role that comes with
the job.”  Boersig Leading Search  That aspect of running Germany’s largest bank was on
display last week, when Ackermann stood beside Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin to announce an agreement by the
country’s banks and insurers to roll over Greek debt holdings.
Ackermann has run the company since 2002.  Chairman  Clemens Boersig , 62, who is leading the search for
a new CEO, plans a meeting of the supervisory board’s nomination
committee on July 10 to discuss succession, and the full 20-
member body is likely to meet shortly thereafter, one of the
people said.  Boersig will seek backing for Jain and an unidentified
German member of the management board, newspaper Bild said,
without saying where it got the information. Deutsche Bank
spokesman Armin Niedermeier declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank shares fell 2.2 percent to 39.85 euros in
Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained almost 2 percent this
year, valuing the bank at about 37 billion euros ($53 billion).  Banziger, Krause  While Ackermann’s contract runs until the spring of 2013,
he may leave earlier and the bank could designate a successor by
the end of this year, people familiar with the matter have said.
Additional candidates for the CEO job include Chief Risk Officer
Hugo Banziger, 55, and Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause,
48, people have previously said.  Fitschen would make a good co-head to Jain because as CEO
 Germany , he’s well connected in the domestic political and
business community and he’s also the head of regional management
worldwide, the people said.  This weekend, Boersig will propose Jain and Fitschen as co-
heads, a solution that has received the backing of Jain and
other management board members, Die Welt reported today, without
saying where it got the information. Ackermann would prefer
teaming Jain with Banziger and he’s trying to convince the
supervisory board to support that combination, the paper said.  Ackermann as Chairman?  Deutsche Bank has qualified internal candidates and doesn’t
need an external executive, a person familiar with the
supervisory board’s deliberations said last week.  Some investors have voiced concern about having dual CEOs,
citing the potential for a power struggle. The German bank
periodically had co-CEOs in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s.  “I’m never sure about joint leadership, I’d rather have
one person at the top,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage
about 720 million pounds ($1.2 billion), including Deutsche Bank
shares, at Royal London Asset Management. “There’s some concern
about the political element of the job but I don’t think there
should be. I don’t see the hang-up of a non-Germanic and non-
political CEO who is operationally more adequate for the job.”  Ackermann may consider taking over the supervisory board as
chairman where he could help run the bank alongside a CEO such
as Jain, one person said last week. Spiegel magazine reported on
its  web site  yesterday that nine of the 10 labor representatives
on the supervisory board had voiced support for naming Ackermann
chairman, without saying where it got the information.  Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board failed to agree on a
successor in 2009, and extended Ackermann’s tenure for three
years. Boersig put himself forward as Ackermann’s replacement at
the time and was rebuffed by labor union representatives on the
board, people familiar with the matter said then.  Handelsblatt reported last week that pressure was
intensifying on Boersig after he failed to lure Weber to the
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 