-- 
DiDonato Soars in ‘Cendrillon’; Schoolboy Dominatrix: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/didonato-soars-in-cendrillon-schoolboy-s-dominatrix-dream-london-stage.html
When a little-known opera is staged
as a vehicle for a superstar, that singer had better be worth
the ticket. Kansas-born mezzo Joyce DiDonato proves every inch a
box-office draw at  London ’s  Royal Opera House .  The company is presenting “Cendrillon,” Massenet’s 1899
reworking of the Cinderella fairytale, with DiDonato in the
title role. It has ravishing Gallic melodies, sumptuous passages
of 18th-century pastiche, and a terrific role for a boomy mezzo
as the domineering stepmother. It also has some dramatic
troughs, and they’re probably the reason why it’s not as popular
as the composer’s “Manon” or “Werther.”  If anyone can make a convincing case for it, it’s DiDonato.
The role is written for a mezzo with good high notes, and she
soars to them without compromising her rich lower register. Her
acting is charming, and she does naivety without toppling into
sentimentality. No doormat, she.  DiDonato herself requested Laurent Pelly’s production, not
seen since its first outing at  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , in 2006.
It’s a charming affair that employs some laugh-out-loud
exaggerated fin-de-siecle costumes for the women who are out to
bag the prince. It’s beautifully choreographed too, with grumpy
angular gestures for the stepsisters and little jumps and skips
for the periwigged courtiers.  Sometimes the magic fails. Pelly stages a scene supposed to
be set in an enchanted wood among soot-covered chimney tops. The
atmosphere pops like a balloon.  Amorous Duet  This is where Cinderella and the prince (Alice Coote, in
wonderful form) get their big love duet, a musically ravishing
affair. Since there’s some way to go before the prince puts the
slipper on the fair incognita’s foot, it’s also a bolt that
Massenet shoots too soon. Everything after the duet feels like
padding.  There’s also padding -- of a more amusing variety -- in the
hilarious hourglass-figure costume for the stepmother. Ewa
Podles makes the most of this old dragon, and shoots out some
terrifically low and comical baritonal notes. Cuban-American
soprano Eglise Gutierrez trills and chirrups prettily through
the coloratura showpiece role of the fairy godmother.  Conductor Bertrand de Billy proves once again what a
nonpareil he is in French music. There’s no over-emotionalism
here, no full-on outpouring. Restraint, elegance and clarity are
the order of the day.  A masterpiece, it’s not. As a vehicle for a star, it’s a
delight. Rating: ***.  Boys and Girls  Director Robert Carsen clearly thinks “Rinaldo” is no
masterpiece. His new production at  Glyndebourne  treats it as an
excuse for wearisome schoolboy jokes and lead-balloon frivolity.
Emotional engagement? Nada.  Handel’s 1711 opera is about a Christian crusader who
rescues his beloved Almirena from her Saracen abductors. Plenty
to chew on there, you might think.  Carsen sets it in a boys’ school. Rinaldo is a gawky youth
who dreams of chivalric deeds and derring-do. The action of the
opera is presented as his schoolboy fantasy world.  He meets Almirena by the bike sheds. The Saracens lock up
their captive in a girls’ dormitory. There are chemistry labs,
lockers, football matches and plenty of other jokey details of
school life. The Saracen queen Armida (an underpowered Brenda
Rae) is a cane-wielding dominatrix figure who sports a rubber
fetish skirt. She’s just a schoolboy fantasy, you see. Yawn.  The problem is that all this has diddly squat to do with
Handel’s music, which creates moments of real vigor and pathos.
With Carsen’s cardboard cutout approach to characterization,
it’s hard to care when the pigtailed schoolgirl heroine sings
her famous lament “Lascia, ch’io pianga” (Let me weep), even
when it’s performed as beautifully as by Anett Fritsch.  Vocally, she brings more to the table than Sonia Prina
(Rinaldo), who has an alarming tendency to speed up during her
coloratura flourishes. She leaves conductor Ottavio Dantone
struggling to keep up in the pit.  Meanwhile, although there’s some attractive singing from
Luca Pisaroni and Varduhi Abrahamyan, the rest of us were
struggling to stay awake. Rating: **.  “Cendrillon” is in repertory at the Royal Opera through
July 16. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  “Rinaldo” is in repertory at Glyndebourne until Aug. 22.
Information:  http://www.glyndebourne.com  or +44-1273-813813.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 