-- 
Dimon-Bernanke Faceoff Shows Frustration Over Regulation Amid Kohn Regrets

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dimon-bernanke-faceoff-shows-frustration-over-regulation-amid-kohn-regrets.html
When a top banker chooses to tangle
publicly with the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, it can
only mean one of two things: strength or desperation.  “We’ve been through two stress tests, one at the Treasury,
one at the Fed. I believe most of the banks passed the recent
ones with flying colors,”  Jamie Dimon , JP Morgan Chase & Co.’s
chief executive officer, told Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke June
7. “Now we’re told there are going to be even higher capital
requirements,” and “we know there are 300 rules coming. Has
anyone bothered to study the cumulative effect of all these
things?”  One month later, Dimon’s boldness has proven to be less an
emblem of power than a cry of frustration. Global banking
supervisors are poised to impose higher capital requirements
that Wall Street complains will crimp profits, hamstring its
fight against foreign rivals and damage the U.S. economy. And
Dimon, 55, who kept JPMorgan largely clear of the subprime
mortgage fiasco and helped stabilize the financial system in
2008 by acquiring Bear Stearns Cos. and  Washington  Mutual Inc.,
will face the same new strictures as the industry’s rogues.  Another indication of the changing regulatory environment
took place almost a month earlier and an ocean away. During a
May 17 confirmation hearing on his appointment to a new British
financial watchdog,  Donald Kohn , a former Fed vice chairman,
told British lawmakers he had abandoned his belief that bankers’
self-interest would keep markets safe.  “I placed too much confidence in the ability of the
private market participants to police themselves,” he testified.  Rival Poles  Banker and regulator, Dimon and Kohn represent rival poles
in the struggle to reconcile economic growth and financial
stability. Their remarks, ostensibly about the details of
banking regulations, really concerned the lessons of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression -- and the danger,
say some, that those lessons already are being forgotten. “I
see a lot of amnesia setting in now,”  Sheila Bair , chairman of
the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , said last month.  “Unquestionably, there’s a need for higher capital,” said
Richard Spillenkothen, the Fed’s director of banking supervision
and regulation from 1991 to 2006, now retired. “The industry
will never be terribly enthusiastic about that prospect.”  Once known as “Obama’s favorite banker,” Dimon and his
 Wall Street  colleagues long ago lost the battle for public
opinion. Taxpayers soured on the banks in late 2008 when called
upon to save them from collapse and have stayed sour ever since.
In a March 2011 Bloomberg national poll, 19 percent of
respondents said banking regulation was too strict; 76 percent
said current rules were needed or should be toughened. Kohn and
Dimon both declined to comment.  Bank Credit  There is scant evidence to support Dimon’s complaint that
the prospect of more stringent regulation, aimed at preventing
another crisis, is instead slowing a recovery from the last one.
Total U.S. bank credit for the week ending June 22 was a
seasonally adjusted $9.16 trillion, little changed from a year
ago, according to the Fed.  With industry using less than 77 percent of available
capacity and almost 14 million workers unemployed, there is
little indication that the welter of pending regulations is what
is depressing lending.  “I think demand is still more important than supply,”
said  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moodys Analytics in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  Greenspan’s Mentor  Kohn’s May 17 testimony, from the man  Alan Greenspan  once
dubbed “my first mentor at the Fed,” was striking for its
defense of regulation and its public apology for Fed errors that
enabled the 2008 crisis.  In the eyes of its critics, the Fed has much to apologize
for, such as trusting the banks to largely police themselves and
keeping interest rates too low for too long. In 2000, Edward Gramlich, a Fed governor who worried that mortgages were being
extended to so-called “subprime” borrowers who couldn’t afford
them, urged Greenspan to investigate the home-loan units of
major banks. The Fed chairman refused, and the fuse on the
subprime bomb continued to burn.  Greenspan also welcomed financial innovations such as
derivatives, which he said in 2002 “appear to have effectively
spread losses” from corporate defaults rather than concentrate
them. The Fed further fueled the housing and credit bubbles by
keeping interest rates low for years before the 2008 panic, say
economists such as Stanford University’s John Taylor. In 2001,
the Fed cut borrowing costs 11 times, bringing the benchmark
interest rate to 1.75 percent, the lowest in 40 years. Greenspan
repeatedly dismissed warnings that housing prices were headed
for a crash.  Benefits of Stability  At his London confirmation hearing, Kohn, 68, acknowledged
that additional regulation means additional costs. “But the
benefits of keeping a stable system are huge,” he said. “We
have seen the cost of not keeping a stable system.”  The financial and human toll has been immense. More than
8.7 million people lost their jobs in the recession that
followed the bursting of the housing bubble, while the recovery
so far has created only 1.8 million new ones. In excess of $6
trillion was erased from household balance sheets. And the
national debt has ballooned by $4.7 trillion, or almost 50
percent, in the 33 months since the Sept. 15, 2008 collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  Amid a global credit panic, the nation’s largest banks were
saved only with capital infusions from the federal government
and extraordinary aid from the central bank.  Markets Heal  As financial markets have healed -- the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  is up 93 percent from its March 2009 low --
memories of the post-Lehman Brothers trauma have faded. The
banking industry has been able to capitalize on that shift.
Regulators’ efforts to implement the Dodd-Frank financial
regulation bill Congress passed one year ago are bogged down
amid disputes over agency funding and lobbying efforts to weaken
constraints on the industry.  “As markets began to get better, the fervor for regulatory
reform has diminished,” said  Arthur Levitt , the longest serving
head of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Levitt, a
Bloomberg LP board member and policy adviser to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., criticizes President  Barack Obama  and members of
Congress for buckling to lobbyists and punting the toughest
choices to regulators.  On July 21, 2010, Obama signed Dodd-Frank into law, saying
“Unless your business model depends on cutting corners or
bilking your customers, you’ve got nothing to fear from
reform.”  It seemed like the battle over remaking Wall Street was
over. In fact, it was just beginning.  Lobbying Costs  In 2010, the securities and investment industry spent $101
million on lobbying, compared with $60.5 million in 2005,
according to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington.  The backstage maneuvering burst into public view on June 7,
when Dimon rose from the audience at a bankers’ conference in
Atlanta. His confrontation with Bernanke was a rare example of a
banker publicly challenging his principal regulator.  The CEO’s concerns had been brewing for some time. In an
April 4 letter to shareholders, Dimon previewed his argument.
Much already had been done to make finance safer: off-balance-
sheet vehicles “essentially are gone;” mortgages are written
to tougher standards; and bank boards and managements “are more
attentive to risk,” Dimon wrote.  Industry Ire  Under Dodd-Frank, banks face hundreds of new regulations by
federal agencies such as the Fed, the SEC and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The greatest industry ire is
reserved for a proposal by global regulators for the largest
“systemically-important” institutions -- known as SIFIs -- to
hold an extra capital reserve of up to 3.5 percentage points
beyond the 7 percent Tier 1 capital required by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s so-called Basel III rules.  The aim is to make sure that in any future crisis, losses
are absorbed by bank shareholders, not taxpayers.  In the years before the 2008 crisis, the largest U.S. banks
grew reliant upon borrowed money to increase their returns. By
2007, Lehman Brothers and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  had borrowed $40 for
every $1 of equity; Goldman Sachs and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had
leverage ratios of 32-to-1, according to the report of the
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  Absorbing Losses  Dimon told Bernanke that capital and liquidity now are
“more than double what they were before.” Starting with a 7
percent level, the nine U.S. banks likely to be deemed
systemically important could “absorb an instantaneous loss
equal to two years of their average losses during the financial
crisis -- $203 billion -- and still maintain a 5 percent Tier 1
common capital ratio,” Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk
officer, told the House Financial Services Committee June 16.  Requiring banks to hold even more capital is unnecessary
and would hamstring U.S. financial institutions in global
markets, Dimon said in his shareholder letter.  Those complaints are proving unpersuasive. Bernanke and
Bair both say requiring banks to use more capital and less debt
to fund their lending won’t hurt economic growth. “I say full
speed ahead and the higher the better,” Bair said last month.  Likewise, a December 2010 report by the Basel panel’s
Macroeconomic Assessment Group found that each additional
percentage point increase in banks’ required capital ratio would
lower the level of long-term gross domestic product by 0.22
percent. If applied to the current size of the  U.S. economy ,
that suggests a GDP of $14.978 trillion instead of the actual
$15.01 trillion.  ‘Ultimately Therapeutic’  “If we settle around 10 percent, that would be digestible
and ultimately therapeutic,” said Zandi.  Compared to Dimon’s reassuring assessment, the financial
world looks quite different through Kohn’s eyes. A veteran of 40
years in the Federal Reserve system, Kohn was at Bernanke’s side
during the crisis, which he described in a 2010 speech as “a
difficult learning experience.”  In February, Kohn was named to an interim U.K. Financial
Policy Committee, the forerunner of a new  Bank of England  body
designed to curb systemic financial risks. His May 17 testimony
before Parliament’s Treasury Committee showed a central banker
scarred by crisis.  “I have learned quite a few lessons, unfortunately for the
economy I guess, in the past few years,” Kohn testified, later
adding: “I deeply regret the pain that was caused to millions
of people in the  United States  and around the world by the
financial crisis and its aftermath.”  Bad Actors  Where Dimon sees a rebuilt financial industry in which
“most of the bad actors are gone” and the survivors are more
attuned to risk, Kohn, who declined to be interviewed, says the
crisis taught him “people in the markets can become excessively
complacent and relaxed about risk.”  Asked how to handle the issue of banks considered “too big
to fail,” Kohn embraced the tool that so irks Dimon. “Step
number one is to make them much less likely to fail: much higher
capital,” Kohn said. “I would include a so-called SIFI
surcharge in that, on top of the Basel III  capital requirements 
and I hope that it is a substantial surcharge, on the order of
the 3 percent people are talking about.”  The new U.K. panel issued its first recommendations on June
24, including a call for British regulators and banks to build
thicker capital buffers. The extra buffers may come in handy
some day, as Kohn has learned.  “Everybody relaxed -- in the financial sector, in the
regulatory sector -- and it turned out to be a big mistake,”
said Kohn. “We need to guard against that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David L. Lynch at   dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  