-- 
Dismissal of Madoff Suit Against JPMorgan Affirmed by U.S. Appeals Court

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-07T15:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dismissal-of-madoff-suit-against-jpmorgan-affirmed-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
A lawsuit accusing  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  of conspiring with  Bernard Madoff  to injure an investment
company was rightfully dismissed by a U.S. District Court, an
appeals court said.  MLSMK Investment Co. accused New York-based JPMorgan of
violating U.S. racketeering law in conspiring with the Ponzi
scheme operator to harm investors. The plaintiff is barred from
making the claim by securities law, the higher court decided.
The ruling was filed by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit today.  MLSMK lost its $12.8 million investment with Madoff’s firm
when the con man was arrested in December 2008, according to the
filing. It sued JPMorgan on grounds that the company was
Madoff’s banker, using state and federal law to allege that
JPMorgan helped Madoff to “fleece” his victims while
benefiting from fees paid by Madoff, according to the filing.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in  Manhattan  dismissed
the case, saying the suit didn’t adequately show any of the
facts the plaintiff was alleging. The appeals court last month
affirmed the judge’s dismissal of the state law claims,
including aiding and abetting the fraud, commercial bad faith,
and negligence. The latest ruling affirms dismissal of the
outstanding claim brought under federal racketeering law,
according to the filing.  Separately, JPMorgan is fighting a $19 billion suit by the
trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, who alleges some similar
violations by the second-biggest U.S. bank.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison.  The case is MLSMK Investment Co. v. JPMorgan, 10-cv-3040,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Linda Sandler} in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 