-- 
Dodgers’ Bankruptcy Judge Refuses to Let Team Question Commissioner Selig

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-07T18:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dodgers-bankruptcy-judge-refuses-to-let-team-question-commissioner-selig.html
The judge overseeing the  Los Angeles
Dodgers ’ bankruptcy rejected the team’s request to question
 Major League Baseball  Commissioner  Bud Selig  under oath, saying
it wasn’t relevant to the team’s bankruptcy loan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today denied a motion to force the league to provide documents
and make Selig available for questioning. Doing so would be
“burdensome” and would complicate a court hearing later this
month when he must rule on the loan dispute, the judge said.  “I wish for my childhood days when baseball was just a
game,” Gross said at the start of a hearing held by telephone.  The Dodgers and the league are battling over who should be
allowed to loan the team as much as $150 million to keep
operating while in bankruptcy. The team said it needed the
information to prove the commissioner was so biased against the
Dodgers and its owner,  Frank McCourt , that the league shouldn’t
be the lender.  Gross approved the league’s requests for documents and
interviews with Dodgers officials, including a deposition of
McCourt. Gross said the league’s request was focused only on the
bankruptcy loan.  The Dodgers will be allowed to question a league official
who is knowledgeable about the league’s bankruptcy loan
proposal, Gross said. Typically, the company providing the
information, in this case the league, would be allowed to choose
who will be questioned.  Dodgers’ Choice  The team wants to borrow money from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Highbridge Capital Management LLC. Gross already has given the
Dodgers interim approval to borrow as much as $60 million from
Highbridge.  The team will return to court later this month to ask Gross
to approve a $150 million loan from Highbridge. Major League
Baseball opposes that loan because it has a higher interest rate
and higher fees than what the league is willing to provide,
Major League Baseball attorney Glenn Kurtz said today during the
hearing.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Selig
rejected a proposed television-rights deal McCourt negotiated
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  The team will eventually have the chance to collect
information from the league to support its claims that Selig has
treated the Dodgers’ differently from the other clubs, Robert
Siegfried, a Dodgers’ spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  MLB Proposal ‘Inferior’  The Dodgers’ proposed bankruptcy loan, known as a debtor-
in-possession, or DIP, loan is better than the league’s proposed
financing, Siegfried said.  “We fully expect this DIP financing to be approved and for
the financing alternative that MLB wants to put forward to be
shown for what it is -- inferior,” Siegfried said in the
statement.  McCourt and Selig began exchanging allegations about who is
responsible for the Dodgers’ financial problems before the team
and its affiliated companies sought court protection.  The Dodgers blame Selig, claiming his refusal to approve
the Fox Sports television deal caused a temporary cash crisis
that only bankruptcy could solve. The league is investigating
McCourt for “widely reported mismanagement,” Kurtz said today
at the hearing.  The Dodgers will pursue a sale of the TV rights while in
bankruptcy, the team said in court papers. Selling future cable
television rights to Fox Sports would have generated enough
money for the Dodgers operations and would have helped resolve
McCourt’s ownership fight with his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, in
divorce court in  Los Angeles .  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 