-- 
Yen Set for Weekly Drop as U.S. Job Data, German Exports Curb Haven Demand

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-08T07:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dollar-halts-decline-before-u-s-jobs-report-euro-is-set-for-weekly-drop.html
The yen headed for a weekly drop
against most of its major peers before data that may show the
U.S. added jobs for a ninth month and after German exports rose
by more than forecast, reducing demand for haven currencies.  The Swiss franc, a traditional refuge from financial
turmoil, slid for a second day.  Australia ’s currency was less
than 0.1 percent from a two-month high as a global rally in
stocks supported demand for higher-yielding assets. The euro
fell this week against 15 of 16 counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg on concern more countries will be dragged into the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We’ve seen good news stories lapped up by traders this
week, resulting in significant flow into higher-yielding
currencies and keeping the yen on the back foot,” said  Tim Waterer , a currency dealer at CMC Markets in Sydney. “If we saw
a positive result in the non-farm payrolls report today, we
could see an extension in the gains for riskier currencies.”  The yen traded at 81.33 per dollar as of 8:53 a.m. in
London, from 81.25 in  New York  yesterday, headed for a 0.6
percent weekly decline. The Japanese currency strengthened to
116.50 per euro from 116.70 yesterday.  The dollar rose 0.3 percent to $1.4324 per euro. It
yesterday touched $1.4221, the strongest since June 27. The U.S.
currency is set for a 1.4 percent weekly gain against the 17-
nation euro. The Swiss franc dropped 0.6 percent versus the
greenback to 84.92 centimes.  Dollar’s Weekly Gain  The yen has fallen 0.2 percent in the past week against a
basket of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 1
percent while the dollar has risen 0.4 percent.  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 105,000 in June after an
advance of 54,000 in the prior month, according to the median
estimate of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
today’s report from the Labor Department. The  unemployment rate 
probably stayed at 9.1 percent, according to a separate survey.
Estimates in Bloomberg’s poll range from 40,000 to 175,000.  The dollar’s advance versus the euro was curbed by
speculation that the gain in jobs won’t be enough to spur the
 Federal Reserve  to increase borrowing costs. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  has kept its benchmark rate unchanged between
zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  ‘Massive Upside’  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of an increase in
the fed funds target rate by the March 2012 meeting fell to 23
percent, from 26 percent odds a week ago.  “The payrolls number has to be a massive upside surprise
or a big disappointment to be dollar positive,” said  Robert Ryan , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  Singapore .
“Otherwise it’s going to be neutral to positive for risk.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 0.6 percent,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.2 percent.  Australia’s dollar traded little changed at $1.0775 after
rising to $1.0790 on July 1, the most since May 11.  European officials remain at odds over the best way to
handle the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, which took another
lurch forward when  Portugal ’s debt was cut below investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service on July 5. Discussions over
how to include private investors in a second bailout for Greece
are ongoing, helping to drive up borrowing costs at other
European nation’s debt sales pending the outcome.  By comparison, Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has
pledged to return the nation’s budget to surplus by 2013 while
 Canada ’s government has forecast a surplus of C$4.2 billion
($4.3 billion) for the 2015 fiscal year.  ECB Rates  “The euro has scope for further underperformance versus
the currencies of more fiscally-sound countries, like the
Australian and Canadian dollars,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . “We
still haven’t got any clarity as to the extent of private sector
involvement in the second bailout for  Greece , so that continues
to boil away in the background.”  The euro rose yesterday, paring its weekly drop, after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled
more interest-rate increases after raising the benchmark to 1.5
percent yesterday.  “Our monetary-policy stance remains accommodative,”
Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt . “It is
essential recent price developments do not give rise to broad-
based inflation pressures over the medium term.”  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, rose 4.3 percent in May, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said today. The median economist forecast in a
Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 1.5 percent.  Euro ‘Leg Up’  Trichet said the ECB will suspend its minimum credit-rating
threshold on Portuguese bonds after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered the nation’s debt to junk. The suspension will be
maintained “until further notice,” he said. This follows the
waiving of minimum thresholds for Greek and Irish bonds.  “The euro has got a leg up from the surprise ECB
announcement on accepting Portuguese debt as collateral and also
from signals that we may see more rate increases over the next
few months,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 