-- 
Dope-Smoking Chimp Learns Sign Language; Suicidal Atheist: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-07T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dope-smoking-chimp-learns-sign-language-suicidal-atheist-film.html
Shortly after his birth at an
Oklahoma primate center in 1973, a chimpanzee was taken from his
distraught mother and sent to  New York  as a guinea pig.  Nim became the test case in an experiment to determine if a
chimp raised like a human child could learn to communicate
through sign language. Sure enough, the ape soon built a
vocabulary of more than 100 words, telling his handlers when he
wanted to eat, play and hug. He also picked up other human
habits like smoking dope, wearing clothes and using the toilet.  As we learn in James Marsh’s poignant documentary “ Project
Nim ,” the tale then takes a sad turn.  The film demonstrates the folly of trying to treat animals
like humans. Nim had a series of caring, educated “mothers”
and for several years he lived at a spacious estate that was the
former home of  Columbia University ’s president. In the end,
however, his primal instincts made him incompatible with his
human caretakers.  Marsh, who directed the Oscar-winning “Man on Wire,”
tells the heartbreaking story through vintage footage, re-
enactments and revealing interviews with project director
Herbert Terrace and those who studied and work with Nim over the
years.  Terrace, a Columbia University psychologist, comes across
as a well-intentioned but neglectful researcher who ultimately
cared more about the data than the chimp. He finally concluded
that Nim was more beggar than communicator, using sign language
to get what he wanted rather than expressing himself in a
broader way. Others disagreed.  Medical Research  Without making judgments, Marsh elicits colorful anecdotes
and candid opinions from his interview subjects. Though it’s a
documentary, “Project Nim” has the emotional impact of a great
dramatic film.  At the age of five, after biting one too many people,
Nim was sent back to the Oklahoma center, where he had to adjust
to living in a cage and mingling with other chimps for the first
time in his life.  Nim’s situation got even worse when he was sold
to a New York University lab that used chimps to conduct  medical
research . Film clips of apes being tied down on tables and
drugged with needles is hard to watch, even if you believe that
kind of research is worthwhile.  Publicity about Nim’s predicament helped get him moved to a
Texas ranch for abused animals. He was the only ape there,
however, and he showed his frustration by killing a dog and
throwing a chair through a window. Nim eventually got some chimp
companions and seemed happier, though he always appeared torn
between the human and animal worlds he was unfairly asked to
bridge.  “Project Nim,” from Roadside Attractions, opens today in
New York and  Chicago . Rating: ****  ‘The Ledge’  In “ The Ledge ,” a policeman tries to stop a suicidal man
from leaping off a tall building. Writer/director Matthew
Chapman is more interested in how the man got there than what
he’s about to do.  It turns out that a  love triangle  involving three people
with dark pasts has led Gavin (Charlie Hunnam) to climb onto the
ledge and threaten to jump by a self-imposed deadline. A cop
named Hollis (Terrence Howard), who has his own personal
problems, watches from a nearby window and listens to Gavin as
he explains what brought him to the precipice.  The engrossing film alternates between scenes of Gavin on
the ledge and flashbacks to his life as a hotel manager
entangled in an affair with Shana, a beautiful neighbor (Liv Tyler) married to an evangelical zealot ( Patrick Wilson ). Shana
also works as a maid at Gavin’s hotel, providing a convenient
place for their assignations.  Gay Roommate  Atheist Gavin engages in heated religious debates with
Shana’s husband, who tries to convert him and his gay roommate.
When the husband discovers the affair, he hatches a nefarious
plot to force the illicit lovers apart.  Hunnam is charismatic as the free-spirited Gavin, while
Wilson’s pious believer alternates between repression and rage.
Tyler is so subdued, you half expect her to fall asleep in the
middle of a sentence.  “The Ledge,” from  IFC Films , opens today New York and  Los
Angeles . Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 