-- 
DynCorp Should Refund $2 Million for Afghan Work, Audit Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-07T22:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/dyncorp-should-refund-2-million-for-afghan-work-audit-says.html
DynCorp International Inc., the
largest U.S. contractor in  Afghanistan , should refund at least
$2 million it was paid by the State Department for costs that
“were either not authorized or for services not provided” for
Afghan police training work, according to an audit.  The payments were made because contracting officials from
State’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement
Affairs “did not always perform a detailed review of invoices
prior to payment,” said the audit, released today by the
inspectors general of the Pentagon and the State Department .  Contracting officials approved invoices for unauthorized
travel and purchases and excess labor costs, said the audit,
which examined State’s management of what is now a $4.6 billion
contract for Afghan police training and criminal justice
initiatives.  In one example, DynCorp, based in  Falls Church ,  Virginia ,
billed $334,400 for personnel to travel to Washington, D.C.,
from  Texas  to attend weekly meetings that included
“unreasonable round trip airline tickets,” a one-day  car
rental  and $104 in parking fees and hotel fees that exceeded
allowable per-diem expenses, the audit said.  While the meetings occurred on the same day every week, one
DynCorp official initially purchased a $335 round-trip ticket
and then changed flights multiple times “which caused the price
to increase to $1,931,” said the audit.  Bloomberg News provided DynCorp with a copy of the audit.  DynCorp Comments  “We understand and respect the important role of those
charged with oversight, will review the report’s recommendations
and will work to resolve them to the satisfaction of the
government,” said DynCorp spokeswoman Ashley Burke.  “Refunds can be issued for any number of reasons but we
carefully review each invoice to validate every cost we submit
for reimbursement,” Burke said. “In the limited instances
where a refund is due, the company works with our customer to
ensure all concerns are addressed and we issue a refund,”  The additional $2 million is on top of $39.9 million the
State Department as of March asked DynCorp to refund for work in
Iraq and Afghanistan for such reasons as incorrect billing
charges and duplicate payments.  Billing System  The State Department needs to improve its scrutiny of
DynCorp vouchers because, “due to systemic internal control
weaknesses in the DynCorp billing system,” the agency and the
Pentagon are “at an increased risk that the contractor could
bill both for the same charges,” the audit said.  The audit outlines the latest status of DynCorp business
systems which have had deficiencies since 2007 when the Defense
Contract Audit Agency first raised concerns with its methods for
labor accounting, billing and purchasing.  The  Defense Contract Management Agency  in June 2010
disapproved DynCorp’s purchasing system. The agency initiated in
October -- and then halted -- a status review to assess
corrections “because the team identified recurring internal
control weaknesses early in the process.”  “These deficiencies and weaknesses increased DynCorp’s
risk for producing inaccurate invoices,” the agency said.  Burke, the company spokeswoman, said DynCorp has taken “a
comprehensive, company-wide approach to refine and enhance all
of our business systems through a team of more than 100
personnel. Our goal is to identify and correct potential issues
before they occur.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  