-- 
Lebanon’s Government Wins Confidence Vote as Hariri Supporters Walk Out

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-07T14:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/lebanon-government-led-by-mikati-receives-parliamentary-vote-of-confidence.html
Lebanon’s new government under
billionaire  Najib Mikati  won the parliamentary vote of
confidence it needs to start work.  A total of 68 lawmakers in the 128-seat parliament voted
today for the Cabinet, which is dominated by ministers from the
Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement and its allies. Supporters of
former Prime Minister  Saad Hariri , who didn’t attend, walked out
of the chamber in Beirut as voting began. Lawmakers voted after
three days of debate on the 30-seat Cabinet’s policy document.  The ministers were criticized by lawmakers allied with
Hariri, whose government collapsed in January amid a dispute
with Hezbollah over an inquiry by a United Nations tribunal into
the 2005 killing of his father,  Rafiq Hariri . The politicians
said in the debate that the new Cabinet is “against the
international community,” and that the policy brief is a “coup
against democracy” that “threatens, intimidates and warns
against dealing with international justice.”  Hezbollah pressed Hariri before the fall of his government
to disavow Lebanese cooperation with the UN tribunal. The group
rejects the court, saying it is unconstitutional, biased and
part of a U.S.-Israeli plot to target Hezbollah and  Syria , which
supports it. Hezbollah wanted Hariri to end Lebanon’s financing
of 49 percent of the tribunal’s costs. The court issued warrants
on June 30 for members of the group, prompting Hezbollah chief
 Hassan Nasrallah  to pledge that it won’t hand the suspects over.  ‘Pretty Implausible’  “I wouldn’t expect the government to actively pursue these
arrest warrants, as it would severely undermine the political
stability of the country if they did,” Edward Bell, an analyst
at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London , said after the
confidence vote. “The chances of these four men actually being
found or arrested is pretty implausible as well.”  The Cabinet referred to the UN inquiry into Hariri’s
killing in its policy document, saying: “Out of respect for
international resolutions, the government affirms its commitment
for the truth to be revealed” and will “follow the progress of
the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, which was established in
principle to achieve truth and justice, far away from any
politicization or revenge, and without any negative impact on
Lebanon’s stability, unity and civil peace.”  Future Movement  Hariri’s Future Movement, some members of which have
characterized Mikati’s coming to power as a betrayal, said July
3 that the new Cabinet and “all who sit on its table, is a
government which turns against the Lebanese people who triumphed
for justice and freedom.” The movement said it will continue to
support the UN tribunal “to achieve justice, preserve the
Lebanese people’s dignity and rights,” and vowed to say “No to
Hezbollah’s government, yes to freedom and justice. Yes to
coexistence, democracy and the Constitution.”  Mikati’s government, in the policy statement, said it
“adheres to the right of Lebanon’s people, army and resistance
to liberate or retrieve the Shebaa Farms, Kfar Shouba Hills and
the Lebanese part of Ghajar Village, as well as to defend
Lebanon by all available legal means,” referring to areas still
considered to be occupied by  Israel  and that Hezbollah says
justify its possession of arms.  The wording on Hezbollah’s weapons retains a policy of the
governments formed in 2009, 2008 and 2005.  The wrangling over Lebanon’s involvement in the tribunal
threatens a return to sectarian violence in a country that
emerged from a  15-year civil war  in 1990. Hariri was killed
along with 22 others by a roadside bomb in Beirut. The country
has since witnessed at least seven political assassinations, a
monthlong war between Israel and Hezbollah in 2006 and civil
unrest three years ago in which about 80 people died.  Nasrallah’s Warning  Nasrallah said Nov. 11 that he won’t allow Hezbollah
members to be detained and will “cut the hand” of anyone who
attempts to do so. He has also called on Lebanese officials and
citizens not to cooperate with the UN inquiry. The  tribunal ’s
investigators were attacked at a clinic in a southern suburb of
 Beirut  in October while collecting information.  While Mikati said Lebanon will adhere to its international
obligations, it remains unclear how he will succeed in
mollifying his Cabinet’s Hezbollah allies after Hariri, who
headed a national unity government, failed to do so.  “The political section of the ministerial statement is
what you would expect from a Cabinet that has some influence
from Hezbollah,” Bell said. “The economic side of the policy
statement was uninspiring, given that you had a lot of broad
statements without any clear timeframes or real objectives that
they want to meet.”  Public Debt  In addition to addressing security and political concerns
stemming from tension over the tribunal, the new government will
need to reduce public debt, which reached $52.6 billion at the
end of last year, or about 137 percent of gross domestic
product. The figure has been swollen by reconstruction costs
after the end of Lebanon’s  15-year civil war  in 1990 and the
2006 conflict between Hezbollah and Israel.  The government pledged to cut spending, increase revenue,
reduce the national debt and introduce “structural reforms in
the tax system.”  Previous governments had aimed to reduce debt by raising
about $7 billion from the sale of two mobile-phone network
licenses. Those plans were put on hold because of an 18-month
political crisis that abated in 2008 and delayed further by the
global credit crisis, elections in 2009 and political disputes.  The restructuring of  Electricite du Liban , the state-run
power company that provides more than 90 percent of Lebanon’s
electricity has also been put on hold for many years. The
company’s rising deficit continues to sap state finances through
as much as $1.5 billion a year in government subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 