-- 
EBay to Buy Mobile-Pay Service Zong for $240 Million in Cash

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-07T21:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ebay-to-buy-mobile-payment-service-zong-for-240-million-in-cash.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest online
marketplace, agreed to buy closely held mobile-payment provider
Zong Inc. for $240 million in cash, accelerating its expansion
of smartphone services.  The deal is expected to close in the third quarter and
won’t have a material effect on earnings,  San Jose , California-
based EBay said in a statement today.  EBay is pushing deeper into smartphone services as its
PayPal unit faces growing competition from Square Inc. and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , which offer products making it easier for customers
to make purchases with mobile devices. Last year, EBay acquired
Red Laser and Milo, mobile comparison shopping applications that
let users scan product barcodes and read reviews.  EBay is “pushing faster and harder on mobile than any
other company in the e-commerce payments landscape,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst with BGC Partners LP in New York, said today
in an interview. Zong is “one of the best private mobile plays
out there and there aren’t many.” Gillis has a “buy” rating
on the shares.  Ebay rose 41 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $33.33 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
20 percent this year.  Zong, which lets consumers pay for virtual goods such as
game credits on Facebook Inc., will help PayPal tap the
increasing number of online transactions such as streaming
movies and newspaper subscriptions. PayPal said it processed
about $3.4 billion in digital goods purchases last year.  Mobile Payments  Zong’s relationships with about 250 wireless carriers in 45
countries will help PayPal increase its mobile payments service,
Patrick Dupuis, PayPal’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview.  The total value of mobile payments for virtual and physical
goods is forecast to almost triple to $670 billion by 2015,
according to Juniper Research. About $240 billion in mobile
payments will be made this year, Juniper said.  Zong is one of several recent acquisitions EBay is using to
bridge the Internet and in-store buying experience, Ken Sena, an
analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York , said in an
interview.  Using Zong, customers who find a better deal elsewhere
might soon be able to make the purchase more easily on their
phone, Sena said. While it is possible to type in a credit card
number in a payment form on a smartphone, Zong’s solution is
easier for consumers, he said.  Higher Fees  Still, Zong charges merchants more than PayPal for a
comparable transaction. PayPal transactions carry a fixed fee of
30 cents in addition to 2 to 3 percent of the purchase.
Merchants who use Zong receive between 70 and 92 percent of the
purchase amount, said Brooke Hammerling, a Zong spokeswoman.  The high fees could hinder the service’s adoption for
physical goods, said Richard Crone, chief executive officer of
Crone Consulting LLC, which advises on mobile payments.
Merchants may also offer the pay-by-phone service and use
discounts to encourage customers to make purchases using a
transaction method with a lower fee, such as a  credit card  or
checking account transfer, he said.  -- With assistance from Joseph Galante and Douglas Macmillan in
 San Francisco . Editors: James Callan, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 