-- 
Trichet Says ECB Waives Collateral Rules for Portuguese Debt

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-07T13:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ecb-s-trichet-says-rate-increase-warranted-on-upside-risks-.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy, inflation and the
region’s fiscal crisis.  He made the remarks in Frankfurt today after the ECB
increased its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 1.5
percent.  On suspension of the minimum collateral rules for  Portuguese
government  debt in ECB refinancing operations:  “In the case of  Portugal  we are waiving the threshold.”  “We have decided to suspend the application of the minimum
credit-rating threshold in the collateral eligibility
requirements for the purpose of euro-system credit operations in
the case of marketable debt instruments issued or guaranteed by
the Portuguese government.”  “This suspension will be maintained until further
notice.”  On rating companies:  “We have to reflect on” the role of rating companies “on
a global level.”  “It is clear that there is element of pro-cyclicality
which is embedded in the function of the rating agencies that is
not optimal.”  “It would be naïve to say that we have the solution and
that the solution would be easy to apply.”  On Italy’s austerity plan:  “These decisions that are not that easy to take, they are
good and are going in the right direction.”  “We did not discuss that in the Governing Council.”  “We are sending the message to all countries: being ahead
of the curve is good, by all means, and is rewarded by more
growth and more  job creation .”  “All structural reforms are welcome; being ahead of the
curve in structural reforms is important.”  On Ireland:  “It is extremely important that the program is applied.”  “Ireland and all other countries are benefiting from the
fact that we are credible in anchoring inflation expectations.”  “The results that I see are going in the right
direction.”  On monetary policy:  “We were unanimous” in deciding to raise rates today.  “Monetary liquidity remains ample.”  “ All in all, it is essential that the recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures over the medium term. Our decision will contribute to
keeping inflation expectations in the euro area firmly anchored
in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term.”  “Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to
contribute to economic growth in the euro area. At the same
time, interest rates across the entire maturity spectrum remain
low. Thus, our monetary policy stance remains accommodative,
lending support to economic activity and job creation.”  “The underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro
area continues to be positive, uncertainty remains elevated. We
will continue to monitor very closely all developments with
respect to upside risks to  price stability .  “The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will also be adjusted when appropriate,
taking into account the fact that all the non-standard measures
taken during the period of acute financial market tensions are,
by construction, temporary in nature.”  On inflation:  “Inflation rates are likely to stay above 2 percent in the
coming months.”  It’s important that faster inflation “does not give rise
to second-round effects.”  On ECB inflation forecasts:  “ We publish ranges and we capture with these ranges much
better the uncertainty that exists.”  “The staff projections were incorporating an increase of
rates. So you should not deduct from this forecast the fact that
we would not need interest rate increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  