-- 
Hedge Funds Move Past Greece With Bets That Sovereign Debt Crisis Expands

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-07-07T19:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/hedge-funds-move-past-greece-with-bets-that-sovereign-debt-crisis-expands.html
Hedge funds that trade bonds and
loans are increasing bets that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread to Portugal,  Spain  and Italy, even after Greece won
a temporary reprieve with 12 billion euros in aid.  “Nothing you’ve seen so far has dealt with solvency, just
liquidity,” said Simon Finch, head of credit trading at CQS UK
LLP, a London-based hedge fund that oversees $11 billion.  Finch, who has bought and sold corporate bonds and loans
for 18 years, has stepped up trading in mobile-phone, utility
and toll-road companies in the three countries. He expects their
governments will be forced to slash spending to pay off lenders,
slowing growth and reducing discretionary consumer outlays.  CQS is among the hedge funds that say investors are
underestimating the odds of distress or even default not only by
 Portugal , whose credit rating was downgraded this week to junk
status by Moody’s, but also by the bigger Italy and Spain. The
funds are moving beyond a direct wager that sovereign debt
values will tumble, targeting potential fallout in the
corporate-debt market and the banking industry.  “We are on the verge of an economic collapse which starts,
let’s say, in Greece, but it could easily spread,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said during a panel discussion in Vienna
on June 26. “The financial system remains extremely
vulnerable.”  Laying Low  Most hedge funds had been hesitant to make big wagers
against European debt ahead of the parliamentary vote in  Athens 
last week that led to the European Union approving the aid to
 Greece , said Omar Kodmani, senior executive officer at London-
based Permal Investment Management, a unit of Legg Mason Inc.
that has invested $23 billion with hedge funds on behalf of
clients.  Finance chiefs of the 17 nations that use the euro also
pledged to complete work on a second rescue package that could
reach 85 billion euros ($122 billion) and would involve banks
rolling over 70 percent of Greek bonds maturing by mid-2014.  “Most opinions on the  euro zone  and Greece were not very
pessimistic,” Kodmani said. “People saw it as a problem that
could be postponed, so there hasn’t been much negative
positioning.”  Hedge funds had been reluctant to discuss any bearish
trades they made for fear of sparking protests from regulators
who view the investors as vultures. On July 5, European
lawmakers called for restrictions on traders’ uses of credit-
default swaps to profit from failures on sovereign debt they
don’t own. Credit default swaps are a type of insurance that
makes investors whole if a borrower fails to pay.  Assessing Austerity’s Impact  Now that an immediate Greek default has been avoided,
investors are looking for ways to play continued distress among
countries including  Italy , the euro area’s third-largest
economy, and Spain, its fourth. The extra yield investors demand
to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds over German bunds slipped 19
basis points today to 994 basis points from a euro-era record of
1015 basis points yesterday, when Moody’s cut the country’s
credit rating four levels to Ba2, below investment grade.  Italian 10-year bonds fell today, driving the spread over
German bunds to the most since before the euro was introduced in
1999. The Italian yield increased more than 5 basis points to
5.175 percent, pushing the difference over bunds to 221 basis
points. The spread over German bunds for Spain’s 10-year bond
was 265 basis points, up from 206 basis points a year earlier. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  One area where Finch has been trading is the debt of
mobile-phone companies, whose ability to repay bonds and loans
could be diminished by austerity-triggered economic slowdowns.
If such companies were downgraded, the market would be flooded
with  junk bonds , causing prices to fall.  “If you crimp peoples’ spending, you’ll find that phone
calls are surprisingly discretionary,” Finch said.  Market Overhang  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , the country’s biggest telephone
company, is rated one rung above junk, according to a
presentation that Finch made to investors in May. In the event
of a downgrade, its 5.8 billion euros of debt would equal about
one-10th of this year’s forecasted issuance of 55 billion euros
to 60 billion euros in non-investment-grade bonds.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest phone company, is rated
two notches above high yield. In the event of a downgrade, it
would equal half of this year’s estimated issuance, according to
the presentation.  Finch is also looking at utilities and toll roads where
prices charged to consumers are regulated by the government.
Budget-cutting measures could keep the government from providing
subsidies to corporations, which will then have to make up the
gap between the cost of providing services and what people can
pay for them.  “Our thesis is that the bad countries can make bad
corporate debt,” he said.  Marathon Asset’s View  Marathon Asset Management LP, a $10 billion fund run by
Bruce Richards, told investors in mid-June that it’s evaluating
the purchase of portfolios of $1 billion or more of real estate
and corporate loans from banks in Portugal, Ireland, Spain, the
United Kingdom and Italy as they are forced to sell debt to
raise capital, according to a presentation sent to clients.  Richards expects some countries to nationalize financial
institutions and sell assets because the banks have borrowed too
much money.  “The banking problem is acute throughout  Europe , including
the German, French and U.K. banks, which have begun to sell
assets and raise capital,” Richards wrote in the 27-page
presentation.  Marathon, based in  New York , said it has already traded
more than $1 billion gross market value of sovereign credit in
the peripheral European countries this year, using both CDS and
bonds.  Too Sanguine  Nick Swenson, who runs Groveland Capital LLC in
 Minneapolis , has been wagering on sovereign defaults in
peripheral European countries since March 2010. He’s not
concentrating on Portugal or Ireland. Instead his $10 million
fund is buying credit-default swaps on Spanish and Italian
 government bonds , which are cheaper than those other countries
and whose defaults would potentially cause more damage in the
market.  “Italy and Spain seem to be outliers,” he said of the
relatively robust prices of their CDS, which trade at 222 basis
points and 307 basis points, according to data provider CMA,
compared with 935 basis points for Portugal and 2,150 basis
points for Greece. “People think they aren’t at risk of
defaulting.”  Economic Inertia  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  While their economies are certainly more robust than
Greece’s, Italy and Spain aren’t out of the woods, Swenson said.  “The scale of their economies creates an inertia that
somehow raises the probability of something bad happening,” he
said.  “The need to restructure the periphery and the quite
reasonable demand that bondholders take pain will, in my view,
happen,” said Swenson. “It’s not a radical view and yet prices
of all non-Greek bonds seem to be too optimistic.  Al Moniz, portfolio manager at Fore Research & Management
LP, a New York-based hedge fund with $1.9 billion under
management, said he is “very bearish” on European sovereign
debt and the region’s banks, though he declined to say how he
was positioning his portfolio to take advantage of that
weakness.  “We are still in the early stages of the European
crisis,” he said. “It hasn’t even been 30 percent played
out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  