-- 
Cairo Protesters Demand Speedier Trials of Former Officials, Policemen

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-07-08T12:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/egyptian-protesters-to-demand-speeding-up-ex-officials-trials.html
Egyptians took to the streets to
demand the justice system hold trials more quickly of former
officials and policemen accused of killing protesters in the
uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  five months ago.  Thousands of people poured into central Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square , returning to the focus of the protests against Mubarak’s
regime. Activists, youth groups and political parties, including
the April 6 Youth Movement and the  Muslim Brotherhood , called
for demonstrations across  Egypt  to also demand the purging of
alleged rogue police officers by the Interior Ministry.  “We will continue the fight,” thousands of protesters in
the square chanted today. “The people want fair trials,” they
said on a banner. Pictures of protesters killed during the
demonstrations that ousted Mubarak were displayed in the square.  The trials of former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli and
several police officers accused of killing protesters during the
uprising have been postponed, causing resentment and anger among
the families of the dead as well as political activists. Mubarak
ceded interim power to a military council.  “We don’t feel that the regime has changed,” said Khaled
Abdel Hamid, an activist and a member of the Popular Alliance
Party. “We are calling for speedy, transparent and open trials
for members of the former regime, and for the purging of the
police force and the state-owned media.”  Promoting a ‘Revolution’  The protests were promoted on Facebook with the slogan,
“the revolution first -- real trials, real purging, real
government,” highlighting the organizers’ aim to unite
political groups over a common set of demands.  “The revolution is not over yet, so we have keep fighting
and reminding ourselves and others what this is about,” said
Dina Sharnouby, a graduate student at the American University in
Cairo. “It’s about the killing of the martyrs, about social
justice and the rights of workers.”  The  Muslim Brotherhood , the country’s biggest opposition
group, reversed its position and announced it would take part in
today’s protests to secure “the public interest of the country
and the people” and “to protect the revolution.”  The group cited the slow progress of trials and the release
of accused police officers, which activists say allowed some of
them to tamper with evidence and pressure the families of those
killed to drop cases against them.  The Brotherhood said it will organize demonstrations until
“justice prevails, each one takes his rights and each criminal
gets his punishment and the demands of the people’s revolution
for which they paid blood are fulfilled.”  Leaflets Nationwide  The April 6 Youth Movement distributed 500,000 leaflets
across the country to mobilize people for the protest, said
Mohammed Adel, the group’s spokesman.  “The ruling military council is trying to make it seem as
if the revolution is over,” Adel said. “But the protest will
be a message that nobody could contain or control the
revolution. The achievements and justice were slow. A revolution
means full change and any compromise means the end of it.”  At least 846 people were killed in the demonstrations that
started Jan. 25 and culminated with Mubarak ceding interim
authority to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces on Feb. 11.  Activists from The April 6 Youth Movement today distributed
leaflets to protesters at the square asking them to evaluate the
performance of the military council and the current Egyptian
government since Mubarak was ousted, Al Jazeera TV reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 