-- 
Egypt Brotherhood Courts Investors With Pro-Business Stance

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-07-08T12:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/egypt-s-brotherhood-courts-investors-with-pro-business-stance.html
Only a few months ago, Khairat El-
shater was languishing in an Egyptian prison, put there by the
Hosni Mubarak regime. Many of his businesses were shuttered.  Now the deputy general guide, or No. 2 leader, of the
Muslim Brotherhood,  Egypt ’s dominant political-Islamic group,
El-shater shuttles between meetings at one of his once-closed
offices in a grimy building in Cairo’s Nasr City district. His
visitors include bankers and investors from the U.S. to
 Australia , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 11
edition.  “They all have many questions about one issue: What impact
will the Muslim Brotherhood have on the investment climate?”
said El-shater, 61.  Founded in Egypt in 1928, the Brotherhood has helped spawn
Islamic groups across the globe, including the militant
Palestinian movement Hamas. The Brotherhood’s founder, Hassan al-Banna, preached the adoption of Islamic law as the way to
lift the yoke of Western domination. Because of its popular
appeal and occasionally violent tactics, the group came into
conflict with secular Arab states such as Syria and Egypt, where
the Brothers were persecuted intermittently from the 1950s until
this year’s regional uprisings known as the Arab Spring. The
Egyptian Brotherhood has long since disavowed violence.  Analysts say the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party
may well emerge as a power in the Egyptian Parliament once
elections are held. The party said it won’t field a presidential
candidate or seek more than half of Parliament’s seats.  ‘Political Force’  “The Brotherhood is the largest political force,” said
Samer Soliman, an assistant professor of political economy at
the American University in Cairo.  The Brotherhood said it was joining political groups and
activists from different stripes in protests today to press for
the country’s interim military council to meet their demands,
including justice for those killed in the uprising that toppled
Mubarak.  The prospect of a more powerful Brotherhood has riveted
global investors. The fear, said Naguib Sawiris, a Christian who
founded Cairo-based mobile-phone operator Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE, is that the Brotherhood will encourage “better
relations with Hezbollah and Hamas, more hatred of Israel, and a
love-hate relationship with the U.S.”  Political Landscape  Many outsiders don’t know whether the Brothers will be a
force for moderation or a divisive element in a traumatized
Egypt. Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, recently brought 14 managers of
foreign institutional funds based in the U.S., the U.K.,  Africa ,
and the  Middle East  to see El-shater as part of a tour of the
new political landscape.  “I believe the meeting dismissed some investors’ concerns
about an extreme economic policy,” said  Wael Ziada , EFG’s head
of research. He said some of the investors “were positively
surprised to find some of the ideas shared by the Brotherhood to
be mostly capitalist in nature.”  The Brotherhood supports private enterprise, a stock market
and engagement with the global economy.  “We believe in a very, very big role for the private
sector,” said El-shater. The Brotherhood also wants “to
attract as much investment as possible,” he said.  The group said it would create jobs by directing more
investment than the previous regime did toward industries,
agriculture and information technology. It wants to trim the
 budget deficit , projected at 8.6 percent of gross domestic
product, and increase the use of Islamic bonds. The bonds
technically don’t pay interest, which is forbidden by the Koran.  Objects to Injustice  Although the Brotherhood doesn’t question pro-business
measures taken under Mubarak, it does object to the social
injustice that resulted.  The Brotherhood’s agenda “is a generally free-market-
oriented program,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at
the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. “I found it surprising
because that is not the way the winds are blowing in Egypt.”  El-shater’s own status helps. His businesses range from
furniture to clothing to bus assembly to pharmaceuticals. He
estimates that they employ 2,000 people.  “The Brotherhood is trying to reassure investors by
saying, ‘Look, we are business owners and professionals,’” said
Elijah Zarwan, an analyst in Cairo for the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  Not all investors are comfortable with what could be an
increasingly Islamic society. “Who is going to invest in a
country like  Iran ?” Sawiris said.  Conflict for Tourism?  Others say they worry about what a stricter observance of
Islamic codes would do to business.  “Tourism could be in conflict with some of the
Brotherhood’s ideas,” said Aladdin Saba, chairman and chief
executive officer of Cairo-based investment bank Beltone
Financial.  Saba is among many business people who say they assume the
Brothers will show restraint when it comes to tourists enjoying
cocktails at their hotel. “I don’t think they would
jeopardize” tourism, he said.  Brotherhood members may need to compromise in running the
economy as well.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley Reed in  London  at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Power in  New York  at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net . 