-- 
Heineken Should Target Ethiopia, Congo for Growth, Africa Head De Man Says

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-07-07T22:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/heineken-should-target-ethiopia-congo-for-growth-africa-head-de-man-says.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
largest brewer by volume, needs to build its business in nations
such as  Ethiopia  and the Democratic Republic of Congo to sustain
growth in  Africa , according to the retiring division head.  The maker of Amstel and Star lager should target markets
with relatively low beer consumption and fast-growing economies,
which are supported by investment and, when necessary, global
political intervention to aid stability, according to Tom de Man, who steps down from his role as president of Heineken’s
Middle East and Africa unit in August. Rwanda and Burundi may
also provide growth opportunities, he said.  De Man, 63, helped increase Heineken’s  revenue in Africa 
and the  Middle East  to 1.98 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in 2010
from 846 million euros in 2003. The unit last year delivered an
operating profit margin higher than any other region. Heineken
got about 23 percent of its profit from Africa and the Middle
East in 2010 compared with 33 percent from western  Europe , the
biggest contributor to revenue and profit. Nigeria, where
Heineken first started brewing beer in 1949, is now the
company’s biggest market in the region, De Man said.  “I compare most of our Africa breweries to ships,” De Man
said in a telephone interview from Amsterdam. “You’re on the
high seas, every now and then,” restricted by poor
infrastructure and even political instability, he said.  Negative Reputation  Heineken, which competes with brewers including  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) , Group Castel and Diageo Plc across the African continent,
is already expanding in Ethiopia and said this year it will buy
two state-owned breweries in the country. The company has 46
fully- or partially-owned breweries in Africa, excluding the two
new purchases in Ethiopia.  Heineken has had a brewery in Kisangani in central Congo
since 1957. The Dutch company brews or exports beers across all
of Africa and the Middle East, with the exception of  Libya , De
Man said. Many African countries have a negative reputation, he
said, even as their economies grow at a faster pace than the
U.S. and eurozone.  “We only know the bad messages about it -- civil war,
genocide -- but in the olden times, it was a developed area, and
you see slowly and surely things are coming back,” he said.  Congo holds a third of the world’s cobalt reserves and 4
percent of all copper, and is recovering from more than a
decade-and-a-half of conflict, which destabilised the country’s
infrastructure and economy. Ethiopia is the world’s second-
biggest recipient of foreign aid, after  Afghanistan , according
to the  Organization for Cooperation and Economic Development .
The country has recorded an average economic growth rate of 11
percent over the past seven years, according to government data.  Cobalt Reserves  “It’s been a bad time in Africa, but we’re talking about
the ‘90s, when there was a lot of instability,” said  Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “In the last
five years, there’s enormous  money flow  moving into Africa
because of all the commodities.”  Hazardous roads, insufficient energy supplies and the
difficulties of getting basic machinery for breweries all add to
the challenges of operating in the continent, according to De
Man, who was appointed as Heineken’s managing director for sub-
Saharan Africa in 2003 and has also overseen the company’s
expansion into markets including  China  and  South Korea .  Heineken now employs a group of people who specialize in
importing goods to Africa, even occasionally chartering planes
to fly in brewing equipment, he said.  Short-Wave Radio  De Man learned the challenges of operating in Africa with
his first posting as brewery manager at Nigerian Breweries Ltd.
in 1973, where he spent three years in Aba, about 60 kilometers
north of  Port Harcourt  in  Nigeria . He took his family with him,
home-schooling his child, and the only means of communication
was via a short-wave radio. Heineken’s expansion in Nigeria,
Africa’s second-biggest beer market, is among the things he’s
most proud of, and he regards the company’s growth there as a
blueprint for future expansion in the region.  The company now has 12 breweries in Nigeria, where the
estimated population of 155 million, according to the CIA World
Factbook, is three times bigger than in  South Africa , the
largest beer market in the region. Nigeria also has a relatively
low per-capita consumption of beer, he said.  De Man said he’ll continue as non-executive director at
some of Heineken’s African units after he retires, emphasizing
the importance of handing on knowledge of “the scenery” in the
region to his successor, Siep Hiemstra.  He’d also like to indulge his love of travel with a trip on
the Congo river, perhaps on one of Heineken’s ships carrying
supplies to inland breweries, he said.  “Thinking ‘invest before the market’ has proved very
successful,” De Man said. “There’s so much growth that it’s a
challenge for everybody to make sure you install sufficient
capacity all the time in those countries to maintain and grow
your positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 