-- 
Electric, Hybrid Cars to Be Required to Sound Pedestrian Alerts

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a
-- 
2011-07-07T16:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/electric-hybrid-cars-to-be-required-to-sound-pedestrian-alerts.html
The U.S. National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration will propose a rule requiring electric and
hybrid vehicles to sound an alert under certain conditions to
alert pedestrians to their presence.  The rule will require all such vehicles to come equipped
with a pedestrian safety sound system, the agency said in a
 notice  published on its website today. The regulation will cover
light and low-speed vehicles, motorcycles, buses and heavy-duty
trucks.  “Even as we make giant leaps forward with hybrid and
electric vehicles, we must remain laser focused on safety,”
NHTSA Administrator David Strickland said in a statement. “With
more and more quiet vehicles on the road, we have to consider
their effect on pedestrians.”  NHSTA raised concerns about pedestrian safety risks   posed
by hybrid and electric vehicles, which make less noise than
internal-combustion-engine vehicles, when it convened a public
meeting on the matter in June 2008.  The agency, in an October 2009 report, found a higher rate
of pedestrian accidents associated with hybrid vehicles compared
with gasoline-powered vehicles. An April 2010 report found
quieter cars, such as hybrid-electric vehicles with only their
electric motors running, could pose a safety risk to visually
impaired pedestrians.  Rulemaking Process  NHTSA by law must write a standard by July 4, 2012 for an
alert system that doesn’t require action by a driver or
pedestrian to activate it, the notice said. All vehicles of the
same make and model must have the same alert sound, the notice
said.  A final rule must be published by Jan. 4, 2014. Covered
electric and hybrid vehicles will have to comply if they are
manufactured in September of the calendar year that begins three
years after the rule’s final publication.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s  Chevy Volt , a plug-in electric
vehicle, has an alert system that’s activated when the driver
pulls the turn-signal handle, according to the NHTSA notice and
GM’s website.  Japan  issued guidelines in 2010 recommending that
sound alerts be required only on hybrids that can run
exclusively on electric motors, electric vehicles and fuel-cell
vehicles, according to the notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  