-- 
Elizabeth Warren’s Dream Becomes a Real Agency She May Never Get to Lead

-- B y   D r a k e   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-07T21:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/elizabeth-warren-s-dream-becomes-a-consumer-bureau-she-may-never-lead.html
Elizabeth Warren’s admirers often
refer to her as a grandmother from  Oklahoma . This is technically
true. It’s also what you might call posturing.  Warren, 62, is a Harvard professor and perhaps the
country’s top expert on bankruptcy law. Over the past four years
she has managed to stoke a fervent debate over the government’s
role in protecting American consumers from what she sees as the
predatory practices of financial institutions, and she has
positioned herself as the person to oversee a new federal agency
to rewrite the rules of lending, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its July 11 issue.  Warren is a grandma from Oklahoma in roughly the same way
Ralph Nader is a pensioner with a thing about cars.  If the grandmother perception is plausible, it’s largely
because Warren has a gift for parables and for placing herself
in the middle of them as the embodiment of moral force. Thus,
her account of the precise moment she realized that changing the
way banks lend was going to require a new federal bureaucracy --
-and that it was up to her to create it.  Warren begins her tale in the spring of 2007, before the
housing crash and the financial crisis. She was on a plane back
to  Boston  after a series of discouraging meetings with credit-
card company executives. She had tried to sell them on an idea
called the “clean card” that grew out of her academic work and
her side gig as a guest on such shows as Dr. Phil, where she
dispensed empathy and advice to audience members who were one
bad check away from losing everything.  The concept was simple: Offer the equivalent of a Good
Housekeeping Seal of Approval to any credit-card company that
disclosed all of its costs and fees up front, no fine print.  Trade Secret  After a few meetings in which she was politely rebuffed,
one executive walked Warren to the door and, with his arm around
her, let her in on a trade secret: If he admitted that his
card’s actual rate was 17 percent, while his competitors were
still claiming theirs was only 2.9 percent, his customers would
desert him for the seemingly cheaper option, seal of approval or
not.  No credit-card company would ever go along with a clean
card unless all of them did. And the only way to get all of them
to do it was to require it by law.  At this point, Warren says, the banker made a confession.
“We recognize that we have an unsustainable model, and it
cannot work forever,” she says he told her. “If we told people
how much these things cost, they wouldn’t use them.”  Here she pauses for effect, and to take a sip of herbal
tea. Warren is slight and kinetic, with wide, pale blue eyes
behind rimless glasses.  Leaning In  She punctuates her sentences with exclamations like “Holy
guacamole!” It’s difficult to tell whether these are
spontaneous or deliberately deployed to soften her imposing
professorial mien.  Warren, who grew up poor and went to college on a debate
scholarship, understands the power of expression. When she wants
to underline a point, she leans in to conspire with her
listener; then her voice goes quiet, as it does when she says
she knew instantly the condescending executive was right. Her
clean card was a flop.  And so, on the flight home, Warren turned to the problem of
how to push those credit-card companies into doing the right
thing. By landing time, she says, she had her answer: a powerful
new federal agency whose sole mission would be to protect
consumers, not only from confusing credit cards but from what
she calls the “tricks and traps” of all dangerous financial
products. The same way the Consumer Product Safety Commission
guards against dangerous household products or the  Food and Drug
Administration  watches out for contaminated produce and quack
medications.  Rough Sketch  The way Warren tells it, she pulled a piece of paper out of
her backpack and got to work right there on the plane: “I
started sketching out the problem and what the agency should
look like.”  It’s a good story, even if the timeline is a little off.
Warren’s aides say she first pitched the idea of a consumer
financial protection agency to then-Senator Barack Obama’s
office months before her fateful meeting with the executive.  Whatever the idea’s provenance, there’s no doubting its
influence. In a summer 2007 article in the journal Democracy,
Warren outlined what her guardian agency would look like.  “It is impossible to buy a toaster that has a one-in-five
chance of bursting into flames and burning down your house,”
she wrote. “But it is possible to refinance an existing home
with a mortgage that has the same one-in-five chance of putting
the family out on the street--and the mortgage won’t even carry
a disclosure of that fact to the homeowner.” One was
effectively regulated. The other was not.  Dodd-Frank  The annals of academia are stuffed with provocative
proposals. Most die in the library. A little over four years
after she first dreamed it up, Warren’s has become a reality.
Last summer, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank  Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, a package of financial
reforms meant to prevent another economic meltdown. One of the
bill’s pillars is Warren’s watchdog agency, now called the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  On July 21, exactly a year after Dodd-Frank became law, the
CFPB is scheduled to open for business with a broad mandate to
root out “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” lending practices.
Consolidating functions previously scattered across seven
different agencies, the bureau will have the power to dictate
the terms of every consumer lending product on the market, from
mortgages and credit cards to student, overdraft, and car loans.  Hall Prowlers  It will supervise not only banks and credit unions but
credit-card companies, mortgage servicers, credit bureaus, debt
collectors, payday lenders, and check-cashing shops. Dozens of
researchers will track trends in the lending market and keep an
eye on new products. Teams of examiners will prowl the halls of
financial institutions to ensure compliance.  The bureau is already at work on its first major
initiative: simplifying the bewildering bank forms you sign when
you buy a house.  Warren’s life is a blur of building and promoting the
agency she dreamed up--and that she may never get to lead. On
leave from Harvard, she has spent hundreds of hours on  Capitol
Hill  visiting with members of Congress, Democrat and Republican,
and flown across the country meeting with the heads of the
nation’s major banks and many smaller ones.  If most financial firms have yet to embrace the bureau,
she’s made some headway, at least, among the community banks.  ‘From the Heart’  “Some of my colleagues have not gotten there yet because
they are convinced she’s close to the antichrist,” says Roger
Beverage, the head of the Oklahoma Bankers Association. “I
don’t think she’s doing anything but speaking from the heart on
community banks.”  One other person she has not yet won over:  Barack Obama .
The President has not nominated her to head the bureau. Instead,
last fall he gave her the title of special assistant to the
President and special adviser to the Treasury and tasked her
with getting the place up and running. For now, she is the non-
head of a non-agency.  The White House refuses to say whether Obama will
eventually put her up for the job, allowing only that he is
considering several candidates. In the coded language of
appointment politics, it is a signal that they are seriously
considering passing Warren over for someone else. A White House
official says the Administration would like to have a nominee in
place before Congress leaves for its August recess.  There’s a reason for their wariness. The White House is
reluctant to antagonize congressional Republicans in the middle
of contentious negotiations over the federal debt ceiling.  Free Market  Warren’s position requires Senate approval, and
Republicans, many of whom regard the CFPB as more clumsy
government meddling in the free market, are vehemently opposed
to allowing its creator to be installed at its helm.  Republicans have used a parliamentary maneuver to keep the
Senate from officially adjourning for its traditional summer
break, thus depriving Obama of the opportunity to sidestep their
objections and make Warren a recess appointment.  “She’s probably a nice person, as far as I know,” says
Senator Richard Shelby of  Alabama , the senior Republican on the
Banking Committee, which will hold hearings on the eventual
nominee for the post.  Shelby has said Warren is too ideological to lead the
agency, a judgment shared by many of his Republican colleagues.  ‘Power Thing’  “She’s a professor and all this,” he says in a tone that
makes it clear he is not paying her a compliment.  “To think up something, to create something of this
magnitude, and then look to be the head of it, I wouldn’t do
that,” Shelby says. “It looks like you created yourself a good
job, a good power thing.”  Warren is not waiting for permission to do the job she may
never get. She and her small team have hired hundreds of people,
at a recent clip of more than 80 per month. The agency has
already outgrown its office space and is divided between two
buildings in downtown Washington--with branches to be opened
across the country.  A fledgling staff of researchers is cranking out the CFPB’s
first reports, and its first bank examiners are being trained.
Meanwhile, the office softball team has compiled a 2-3 record.
Above all, an institutional culture is emerging, and it is
largely loyal to Warren and her idea of what the agency should
be.  Outside Hires  She has attracted several top hires from outside the
federal government. The bureau’s chief operating officer,
Catherine West, was previously president of Capital One; its
head of research, Sendhil Mullainathan, is a behavioral
economist and star Harvard professor; the chief of enforcement,
Richard Cordray, is the former attorney general of  Ohio ; Raj Date, her deputy and head of the bureau’s Research, Markets and
Regulation Div., is a former banker at Capital One and Deutsche
Bank.  Warren, whose reputation as a scholar rests on her
pioneering use of bankruptcy data, has imbued the place with her
faith in quantitative analysis. Researchers she recruited and
hired have begun to build the bureau’s database of financial
information, with a broad mandate to keep track of lending
markets and find ways to make financial information more easily
digestible.  While  Washington  bickers, Warren has built the CFPB largely
to her specs and almost entirely free of interference from
Congress and the Administration, which devotes most of its
attention to fixing the economy. Few Cabinet secretaries can
claim to have left as indelible a mark on the departments they
lead as  Elizabeth Warren  has already left on the one she
doesn’t.  12-Hour Days  The CFPB’s main offices are on two floors of a russet-
colored office building a few blocks northwest of the White
House. The government-gray cubicles and hallways spill over with
new hires --- many of them young --- working 12- and 14-hour
days elbow to elbow, pale and exuding a dogged cheerfulness that
suggests that, no, they do not miss the sun. By the elevator
bank is a calendar counting down the days until July 21.  Ten years ago, before she became a liberal icon, Warren was
a popular Harvard professor known for taking a maternal interest
in the students she chose as research assistants. She was
famous, but only in the small corner of academia that cared
about bankruptcy.  “In my opinion she is the best bankruptcy scholar in the
country,” says Samuel Bufford, a law professor at Penn State
who got to know Warren decades ago as a bankruptcy judge in
 California ’s Central District.  Bankruptcy Study  Work Warren did with Jay Westbrook, a law professor at the
University of Texas at Austin, and Teresa Sullivan, a
sociologist who is now president of the University of  Virginia ,
reshaped the scholarly understanding of bankruptcy.  Analyzing thousands of filings and interviewing many of the
debtors themselves, they found that those who go bankrupt
weren’t, as commonly assumed, primarily poor or financially
reckless. A great many of them were solidly middle class and had
been driven to bankruptcy by circumstances they did not choose
or could not control: the loss of a job, a medical disaster, or
a divorce. The explosion in consumer credit in recent decades
had only exacerbated the situation--almost without realizing it,
households could now slide faster and further into debt than
ever before.  Warren, Westbrook, and Sullivan all saw their bankruptcy
findings as a window into the broader travails of the
financially fragile middle class. More than her co-authors,
though, Warren sought a larger audience for the message.  Popular Author  In 2003, along with her daughter, Amelia Warren Tyagi, she
wrote The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers & Fathers
Are Going Broke, a book that combined arguments about the
political and economic forces eroding middle-class financial
stability with practical advice about how households could fight
them.  The language was sharper than in her academic work:
“Subprime lending, payday loans, and the host of predatory,
high-interest loan products that target minority neighborhoods
should be called by their true names: legally sanctioned
corporate plans to steal from minorities,” Warren and Tyagi
wrote.  The book got attention and Warren became a frequent TV
guest. She was invited to give speeches and sit on panels on
bankruptcy and debt. She was a regular on comedian Al Franken’s
radio show on the now defunct Air America network. “She’s quite
brilliant. She was always just an excellent guest,” recalls
Franken, now a Democratic U.S. Senator from  Minnesota . “She has
a very good sense of humor.”  Meeting Obama  In 2003, Warren attended a fundraiser in Cambridge for
Barack Obama, then running for  U.S. Senate . When she walked up
to shake his hand, he greeted her with two words: “predatory
lending.” As a senator, Obama would occasionally call Warren
for her thoughts, though the two never became close.  It was the financial crisis that made Warren a star. In
November 2008, in a nod to her growing reputation as a consumer
advocate, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid chose Warren to
chair the congressional panel overseeing the TARP financial
rescue program.  The reports she helped produce over the next two and a half
years and the hearings she helped lead gave the panel a higher
profile than even its creators had predicted, as she articulated
concerns that many Americans had about the wisdom of a massive
Wall Street bailout. In perhaps her most famous moment, Warren
grilled Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  on AIG’s share of
the aid money and how it was that so much of it had ended up
simply reimbursing the investment banks the insurer owed money.  Pushing the Agency  Warren used her role on the panel, and the newfound
visibility it gave her, to push for her agency. She worked the
idea into a special report the committee released in January
2009, among a list of recommendations to head off future
financial crises.  She wrote op-ed pieces, was on TV constantly, and met with
at least 80 members of Congress. She also brought the idea to
the Administration. Over a long lunch at an Indian restaurant in
Washington, she pitched the concept to White House economic
adviser Lawrence Summers, whom she knew from his tenure as
Harvard’s president.  Inside Treasury, the idea was taken up by Michael Barr, a
key architect of Dodd-Frank and a lawyer Warren had known for
years. At least within the White House, Barr recalls, it wasn’t
hard to build support.  ‘Good Option’  “I think there was a general consensus that built pretty
quickly that this was a good option,” he says. “I didn’t get
any significant pushback on the idea.”  Barr’s inside advocacy, combined with Warren’s PR blitz,
paid off. In June 2009, Obama released a “white paper” laying
out his own financial regulatory proposals, and Warren’s agency
was in it. By that fall, she was living in Washington, running
the bureau.  Among the CFPB staff there is a strongly held belief that
they have the opportunity not only to reshape an industry but
reinvent what a government agency can be, to rescue the idea of
bureaucracy from its association with sclerosis and timidity.
People there emphasize that they are creating a 21st century
agency.  Still, there’s a throwback Great Society feel to the place,
with its faith in the abilities of very smart unelected
administrators, armed with data, to iron out the inefficiencies
and injustices of the world. “Nobody looks at consumer finance
regulation as it existed over the past decade and says, ‘Yeah,
that seemed to work all right, let’s do more of that,’ ” says
Raj Date, a square-jawed 40-year-old who speaks in the
confident,  numbers-heavy parlance of Wall Street.  Start Date  Regardless of whether the CFPB has a director by its July
21 “transfer date,” there are certain things it will
immediately begin to do. One is to send teams of examiners into
banks and credit unions to make sure they are complying with
existing consumer finance regulations.  When the bureau is fully staffed up--initially, it will
have some 500 employees and an annual budget of around $500
million --- a majority of the people who work there will be
examiners. The bureau has only supervisory power over banks with
assets of more than $10 billion, though the rules it writes will
still apply to smaller banks. Banks on the low end of the scale
will see a team of examiners for a few weeks every two years,
unless there are specific complaints to investigate. Most of the
biggest banks, those with assets of $100 billion and up, will
have CFPB examiners in residence year-round.  Evidence of Harm  The examiners will go to work parsing the terms of
mortgages and other loans, searching for evidence of consumer
harm. They’ll look at how the products are marketed and sold to
make sure it’s done transparently, that costs and fees are
disclosed up front.  What the bureau will not be able to do without a director
is send its examiners into nonbank financial institutions. Dodd-
Frank gives the CFPB jurisdiction over payday lenders, check
cashers, mortgage brokers, student loan companies, and the like.
Because this is an expansion of regulatory powers, it will not
take effect until a permanent director is in place.  The bureau is less willing to discuss the specifics of what
will happen when it finds evidence of wrongdoing. The press
office refused to make the head of enforcement, Richard Cordray,
available for an interview.  Enforcement Tools  Like other enforcement agencies, the CFPB will have a
variety of measures at its fingertips: It will be able to give
firms a talking-to, or issue so-called “supervisory guidance”
papers on problematic financial products. It will be able to
send cease-and-desist orders. And if all else fails, the bureau
will be able to take offenders to court.  The CFPB will also have broad rule-making powers over
everything from credit-card marketing campaigns to car loan
terms to the size of bank overdraft fees. For now, it has
confined itself to initiatives less likely to arouse wide
opposition among financial firms.  The major one at the moment is developing a clear, simple,
two-page mortgage form that merges the two confusing ones
borrowers now confront. Bureau staff met with consumer advocates
and mortgage brokers last fall, then put up two versions of a
possible new form on the bureau’s website, where consumers were
invited to leave critiques. About 14,000 people weighed in. The
forms are now being shown to focus groups around the country. A
new version is due out in August.  Public Calendar  This lengthy process is meant to demonstrate the bureau’s
commitment to a sort of radical openness to counter accusations
that it’s a body of unaccountable bureaucrats. In another
gesture, Warren’s calendar is posted on the website so that
anyone can see who has a claim on her time. The undeniable sense
among bureau staffers that they are political targets tempers
that commitment to transparency a bit.  The press office is jittery about allowing reporters to
talk to staff on the record, and Warren agreed to two interviews
on the condition that Bloomberg Businessweek allow her to
approve quotes before publication.  If the supervision and enforcement division is the long arm
of the bureau, its eyes and brain will be Research, Markets and
Regulations, headed by Raj Date. Teams of analysts will follow
various markets--credit cards, mortgages, or student loans--to
spot trends and examine new products. Economists and other
social scientists on staff will help write financial disclosure
forms that make intuitive sense.  ‘Someone’s Job’  The benefits of this sort of work, Date argues, will extend
beyond just protecting consumers. It will help spot signs of
more systemic risks. If the bureau and its market research teams
had been in place five years ago, he says, they would have
spotted evidence of the coming mortgage meltdown and could have
coordinated with the bureau’s enforcement division to head it
off.  “If it was someone’s job to be in touch with the
marketplace and monitor what was going on,” Date says, “it
would have been very difficult not to notice that three
different kinds of mortgages had gone from nothing to a very
surprising share of the overall marketplace in the span of,
honestly, like three years.”  Were it not for a head of prematurely gray hair,  Patrick McHenry  could still pass for the college Republican he once was.
Elected to Congress from  North Carolina  seven years ago at age
29, he speaks through an assiduous smile and arches his eyebrows
as he listens--furrowing them quizzically at arguments he
disagrees with.  Chief Antagonist  In late May, McHenry assumed the role of Warren’s chief
antagonist in Congress. At an oversight hearing he was chairing,
McHenry accused Warren of misleading Congress about whether she
had given advice to Treasury and Justice Dept. officials who
were investigating companies for mortgage fraud. McHenry said
she had concealed her conversations. Warren insisted she had
disclosed them.  The hearing then took a bizarre turn. McHenry called for a
recess so members of the committee could go to the House floor
for a vote. Warren replied that she had agreed to testify for an
hour and could not stay any longer.  “Congressman, you are causing problems,” she said. “We
had an agreement.” Offended, McHenry shot back: “You’re making
this up, Ms. Warren. This is not the case.” Warren’s response,
an outraged gasp, was played on cable news.  In a conversation a month later in his Capitol Hill office,
McHenry is eager to emphasize that his problem is not with
Warren, but with the bureau itself. That’s not to say he feels
he has anything to apologize for.  Early Opposition  “I’ve asked questions of a litany of Administration
officials from Democrat and Republican Administrations, and I’ve
never seen an action by any witness like I saw that day,” he
says.  Like most congressional Republicans --- and a broad array
of business groups, including the Chamber of Commerce, the
Financial Services Round­table, and the National Association of
Federal Credit Unions ---McHenry opposed the creation of the
CFPB and voted against Dodd-Frank.  At the time, the bureau’s opponents argued that its
seemingly noble goals would not only hurt financial firms ---
depriving them of the ability to compensate for risky borrowers
by charging higher  interest rates  --- they would also hurt
borrowers. The prospect of limits on the sort of rates and fees
they could charge would cause banks and payday lenders alike to
lend less and to not lend at all to marginal borrowers at a time
when the economy needed as much credit as it could get.  Redundant  Where it’s not actively harmful, McHenry argues, the bureau
will be redundant. If there’s fraud or deceptive marketing in
the consumer lending market, the federal government can
prosecute it through the Federal Trade Commission. Clearer
mortgage forms are all well and good, but Congress can take care
of that, he says, noting that he introduced legislation for a
simpler mortgage form three years ago. In response to arguments
like these, Warren simply points to the record of those existing
regulators: the Fed and the Housing & Urban Development Dept.
have haggled over a simpler mortgage form for years. As for
fears that the bureau will cap the interest rates companies can
charge, she notes that Dodd-Frank explicitly prevents it from
doing that.  Warren has been uncharacteristically tightlipped about her
own ambitions. She refuses to say whether she even wants the job
and has never publicly expressed a desire for it.  Spared Indignity  In a way, the White House may do her a favor by not
nominating her. If the President decides to go with a compromise
candidate to appease Republicans, she will be spared the
indignity of being tossed aside. She can’t be said to have lost
a job she was never offered.  Yet Warren gives the distinct impression that she will not
suffer long if the President passes her over. Harvard has more
than its share of celebrity professors who have gone to
Washington and returned.  The experience could also lead to a different kind of life
in politics: Democrats in  Massachusetts  have been urging her to
come home to run for Senate against Republican Scott Brown.  There would be books to write, television appearances to
make, and, who knows, maybe a show of her own. And whatever
happens, she will get to tell the second half of the story of
how she started a government agency. Whether the story ends with
her confirmation or being driven from town, it’s almost certain
that the character of Elizabeth Warren will come out looking
just fine.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Drake Bennett in  New York  at 
 dbennett35@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 