-- 
Temasek Assets Increase 3.8% to $157 Billion With Focus on Emerging Asia

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-07-07T09:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/temasek-boosts-assets-3-8-to-s-193-billion.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, said the value of its assets
climbed 3.8 percent to a record last fiscal year and profit more
than doubled on increased contributions from its holdings.  Temasek’s assets climbed to S$193 billion ($157 billion) in
the year to March 31, surpassing last year’s record of S$186
billion, the firm said in its annual report today. Net income
jumped to S$12.7 billion from S$4.6 billion a year earlier.  The Singapore-based company spent more in emerging markets
including  China ,  India ,  Brazil  and  Mexico , as developing nations
led the global economy’s recovery from its worst recession since
World War II. Temasek said it’s still seeking investments in
China after raising $3.6 billion selling stakes in two of the
nation’s three biggest banks this week.  “We will continue to invest in the transforming economies
of Asia and  Latin America ,” Chief Executive Officer Ho Ching
said in a statement today. “At the same time, we remain open
and ready to participate in opportunities in mature markets such
as our recent investments in the U.S.”  Net income rose as contributions from investments increased
and earnings improved at its portfolio companies. Temasek,
founded to help develop the island’s banks, airlines and ports,
funds investments from the income of the companies it owns, and
not from government budget surpluses or oil revenue.  The value of Temasek’s assets was expected to rise to about
S$200 billion, according to Victoria Barbary, senior analyst at
Monitor Group in  London  and Song Seng Wun, Singapore-based
economist at CIMB Research Pte. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
advanced 16 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, outpacing
the 11 percent gain in  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed nations.  Asset Allocation  Temasek said group net debt was reduced to S$9.5 billion
from S$17.8 billion a year earlier as it increased its cash
position, which was positive at the end of the year.  “If there are opportunities in the credit market we
obviously would like to access those opportunities,” Dilhan Pillay Sandrasegara, Temasek’s head of portfolio management,
said at a press conference today.  Asian investments made up 77 percent of Temasek’s
underlying portfolio on March 31. Investments in Singapore were
32 percent of assets, while holdings in the mature economies of
 Australia ,  New Zealand ,  North America  and  Europe  were 20 percent.  Structural Issues, Imbalances  “Medium-term global recovery is clouded by deep structural
issues and imbalances,” Chairman S. Dhanabalan said in the
annual report. “Longer term, we remain bullish on Asia, despite
medium-term inflationary and other pressures in various parts of
the world.”  The percentage of financial services in Temasek’s portfolio
rose to 36 percent from 35 percent; transportation and
industrials were unchanged at 23 percent; telecommunications,
media and technology shrank to 22 percent from 24 percent; and
energy and resources grew to 3 percent from 2 percent.  Temasek said it invested S$13 billion during the year,
including more than S$4 billion in recapitalizations and rights
offers in  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , Standard Chartered Plc and China
Construction Bank Corp., while it sold S$9 billion of assets.  The company raised HK$28.2 billion ($3.6 billion) this week
selling stakes in China Construction Bank and  Bank of China , two
of the country’s three biggest banks. It sold about HK$18.8
billion of Hong Kong-traded shares in Bank of China and about
HK$9.4 billion in an offering of China Construction Bank stock.  Comfortable Position  “We’re still looking for opportunities in China and we’re
comfortable with our position there,” Nagi Hamiyeh, Temasek’s
managing director of investment, oversees investments in natural
resources, and initiatives in  Africa  and the  Middle East , said
at a press conference in Singapore today.  China’s stocks underperformed in the first half on concern
government measures to cool inflation will slow the economy. The
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, fell 1.6 percent in the period, compared with a
0.5 percent gain in the MSCI  Asia  Pacific excluding Japan Index.  Temasek said it supported recapitalizations of portfolio
companies, stepped up investments in the energy and resources
industries and in other faster-growing developing economies such
as Latin America. Its resources investments included Brazil’s
Odebrecht SA, Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake Energy Corp. and
GMR Energy Ltd.  Temasek, which aborted the appointment of Charles “Chip” Goodyear as chief executive officer in 2009, is seeking a
successor to CEO Ho Ching, 58. Last year, Temasek named
Executive Director Simon  Israel  president, along with Gregory Curl, once a candidate for CEO of Bank of America Corp., and
former Singapore Exchange Ltd. head Hsieh Fu Hua. Israel retired
from his executive and board roles effective July 1.  ‘Fully Engaged’  “Ho Ching has unequivocally said to all of us that she’s
staying at Temasek,” Sandrasegara said. “She remains our CEO,
she’s fully engaged with us in everything that we do.”  Developing economies accounted for 60 percent of the number
of direct investments made by sovereign wealth funds last year,
up from 53 percent in 2009, according to  Monitor Group , which
collects data on the funds. The group said Temasek was the most
active sovereign firm in 2010, making 38 investments.  Globally, sovereign fund assets climbed 11 percent from a
year earlier to almost $4 trillion, London-based research firm
Preqin Ltd. said in March. The market value of  Norway ’s
sovereign fund increased 17 percent to 3.08 trillion kroner
($569 billion) last year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index and emerging-market measure
lost as much as 9 percent from this year’s high on May 2 amid
concern a slowing U.S. economy, Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
and China’s steps to curb inflation will crimp earnings.  “We continue to see the rising middle income populations
driving rapid urbanization and housing demands,” Temasek’s
Dhanabalan said. “Innovation will spur demand for new
services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  