-- 
Temasek Seeks Opportunities in China as Long-Term Outlook Remains Bullish

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-07-08T04:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/temasek-seeks-opportunites-in-china-as-long-term-outlook-remains-bullish.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, is “bullish” on China and
seeking deals even after selling some of its stakes in two of
the nation’s banks this week for $3.6 billion.  “China is our largest investment destination,” Nagi Hamiyeh, Temasek’s managing director of investment, said in
Singapore yesterday. “We are still looking for opportunities in
China and we are very comfortable with our position there at
this time.”  Temasek, which sold shares in  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  this week, said on July 6 the sale was
part of its “portfolio rebalancing.” The world’s fastest-
growing major economy accounts for more than 20 percent of
Temasek’s overall portfolio and it remains “heavily invested”
in the two banks, Hamiyeh said.  The country’s stocks underperformed in the first half on
concern government measures to cool inflation will slow the
economy. The central bank has increased  interest rates  five
times since October to contain inflation, including this week’s
quarter-point boost to one-year lending and deposit rates.  The People’s Bank of China moved before a report scheduled
for July 9 that may show consumer prices rose more than 6
percent last month, the biggest gain since July 2008 and
probably a peak for this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Policy makers have also boosted banks’ reserve requirements to
record levels.  Faith in Policies  “We have faith in the policies of the Chinese government
in the long-term and we remain bullish on China,” Hamiyeh said.
With “China, like with any growing economy, there will always
be risks.”  Temasek still holds about $14 billion of China Construction
Bank’s shares and about $3 billion of  Bank of China ’s stock
after trimming its stakes in the lenders, he said.  The Singapore investment firm spent more than S$3 billion
($2.4 billion) in the rights offerings of China Construction
Bank and Bank of China during the period, according to its
annual report released yesterday. The value of Temasek’s assets
climbed 3.8 percent to a record S$193 billion in the year ended
March 31, it said in the report.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 5.8 percent during the
fiscal year, compared with a 15 percent gain in the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific excluding Japan Index.  Waiting for Value  ‘To reserve funds to move forward, to take advantage of
market opportunities, particularly in  China  as and when they
come, particularly with the more interesting IPOs pertaining to
the consumer sector that’s likely to rear their heads in the
second half would be a right strategy,” Gabriel Yap, executive
chairman of GCP Global Pte, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Singapore today. “What it’s trying to position
itself is to wait for value to present itself.”  In February, Temasek said it appointed Ding Wei, an
investment banker at China International Capital Corp., to head
its expansion in the country.  About 43 percent of Temasek’s direct investments announced
in the 12 months ended in March were in China, according to
estimates by  Monitor Group , which collects data on sovereign
wealth funds.  Temasek also spent S$90 million in  Asian Citrus Holdings
Ltd. (73) , the largest orange plantation owner and operator in China,
and invested in Beijing-based insurer New China Life. It spent
S$50 million on Chinese video website Tudou.com and S$50 million
on Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., according to its annual report.  ‘Liquid Stance’  This fiscal year, it invested in Shanghai Pharmaceuticals
Holding Co., China’s second-largest drug distributor.  The sovereign wealth investor will “maintain a liquid
stance” with the flexibility to adjust the investments in its
portfolio at any time, Hamiyeh said. The firm will continue to
focus on fast-growing economies in Asia,  Latin America  and
 Africa , as well as industries such as energy, resources and
technology, he said.  Temasek sold about HK$18.8 billion ($2.4 billion) of stock
in Bank of China, the nation’s third-largest lender by assets,
and about HK$9.4 billion of second-ranked Construction Bank at
discounts of at least 3 percent earlier this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Construction Bank has more than doubled in Hong Kong
trading and Bank of China has gained about 30 percent since
Temasek bought the stakes before their initial public offerings
more than five years ago.  Long-Term Story  China is reining in credit after record lending in 2009
fueled the nation’s economic rebound and increased the risk of
real-estate bubbles and bad loans. The nation’s first audit of
local-government debt found liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan
($1.65 trillion) at the end of 2010 and repayment risks. Moody’s
Investors Service said this week that the credit outlook for
lenders may sour.  Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
may sell some of its almost $22 billion stake in Construction
Bank, three people briefed on the plans said last month. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender was the second-biggest
shareholder in Construction Bank at the end of the year,
followed by Temasek, according to Bloomberg data.  “The long-term investment story remains,” said Song Seng Wun, Singapore-based economist at CIMB Research Pte. “In
between, there will be cycles as optimism about strong growth
has turned to more caution. That’s a more challenging
environment to make money from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  