-- 
Emerging-Market Growth Probably Slowed to 2-Year Low, HSBC Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-07T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/emerging-market-growth-probably-slowed-to-2-year-low-hsbc-says.html
Growth in emerging-market countries
probably slowed to its weakest level in two years in the second
quarter as the global economic recovery faltered, HSBC Plc said,
citing a survey of purchasing managers.  The HSBC Emerging Markets Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 reporting companies, fell to 54.2 from 55 in the previous
three months, London-based HSBC said in an e-mailed report
today.  “After a strong rebound in the immediate aftermath of the
global financial crisis, the pace of activity in the emerging
markets has faded,”  Stephen King , the lender’s chief economist,
said in the report. “In many parts of the emerging world, there
has been a noticeable reduction in the growth of export
orders.”  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan , causing
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl, probably also
crimped second-quarter growth, as did the lingering impact of
rising inflation, HSBC said. The world economy will expand 4.3
percent this year, according to June forecasts from the
 International Monetary Fund . Developing nations will grow 6.6
percent and advanced economies 2.2 percent, the IMF estimates.  “Rates of production growth eased across the majority of
manufacturing sectors monitored by the survey, with  South Africa 
and Singapore the two exceptions,” HSBC said. “China saw
growth slow to the least marked in nine quarters while output
rose at the weakest rates for two quarters in  Taiwan  and South
Korea. Even India recorded a slower rise in manufacturing
output, although the rate of growth remained substantial.”  The lender noted a sharp reduction in inflationary
pressures as central banks across the developing world raised
 interest rates , saying this increased the prospects of a “soft
landing” for emerging-market economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 