-- 
Mets Put Jose Reyes on 15-Day Disabled List With a Strained Left Hamstring

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-08T02:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mets-put-jose-reyes-on-15-day-disabled-list-with-a-strained-left-hamstring.html
New York Mets shortstop  Jose Reyes 
was placed on the 15-day disabled list today with a left
hamstring strain, a move that will keep  Major League Baseball ’s
leading hitter out of next week’s All-Star Game.  The assignment is retroactive to July 3, the Mets said in a
news release. The All-Star Game is scheduled for Phoenix on July
12.  The 28-year-old shortstop leads baseball with a .354
batting average, 65 runs scored and 15 triples, and trails only
Houston Astros outfielder Michael Bourn in steals, with 30. He
was voted a starter on the National League All-Star team this
week.  “It came down to what’s the most important -- three games
or the next 50,” Mets manager Terry Collins said on the team’s
website.  Reyes was injured in a 5-2 loss to the  New York Yankees  on
July 2. The injury, originally diagnosed as the lowest severity
of sprain, more recently has kept Reyes from running and most
over physical activity.  Reyes, a four-time All-Star selection, hasn’t played a full
season since leading the league with 688 at-bats in 2008. He was
limited to 36 games in 2009 because of leg injuries and missed
the 2010 All-Star Game with an oblique injury.  Reyes said last month on the team website that he was would
not negotiate a new contract until after the season ends, when
he can become a free agent.  Four of the Mets’ five highest-paid position players --
Reyes,  Jason Bay ,  David Wright  and  Angel Pagan  -- have spent
time on the disabled list this year. Bay returned from a
concussion in April, Pagan came back from a strained oblique in
May, and Wright remains sidelined with a fracture in his lower
back. The team is also without two-time Cy Young Award winner
Johan Santana and first baseman  Ike Davis , who was leading the
team in home runs and runs batted in when he bruised a bone in
his left ankle on May 10.  The Mets are 45-42, 9 1/2 games behind the first-place
Philadelphia Phillies in the National League East division.  New York called up infielder-outfielder Nick Evans from
their Triple-A Buffalo affiliate to take Reyes’s spot on the
roster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  