-- 
Mets Join JPMorgan in Tactic to Cut Madoff Client Jackpot, Hurt Claim Bets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mets-join-jpmorgan-in-tactic-to-cut-madoff-client-jackpot-hurt-claim-bets.html
Legal victories by owners of the  New
York Mets  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may slash the $100 billion
Irving Picard is seeking on behalf of  Bernard Madoff 's clients,
undercutting bets traders have made on victims' claims.  Picard, liquidator of Madoff's firm, has filed 1,000 suits
on behalf of Madoff investors. He sued JPMorgan Chase for $19
billion, equal to all the money lost by all investors in
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. He sued  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and a dozen
feeder funds for $9 billion, and seeks as much as $59 billion --
including trebled racketeering charges -- from Bank Medici AG,
its founder, Sonja Kohn, and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  The Mets owners,
 Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, face a $1 billion suit.  The banks say that Picard is straining the limits of the
law as he tries to grab back money for victims of Madoff’s
fraud. They won initial victories by persuading a judge to
remove their dispute with Picard from bankruptcy court to
higher district courts, which will decide whether Picard
exceeded his powers.  If the suits are scaled back by this tactic, Madoff clients
will have a smaller pot of damages from which to recover losses,
and investors who bought some of their claims at discount may
lose the bets they made. Madoff claims are now trading at
about 70 cents on the dollar.  “The general view is, Picard will have enough success with
his lawsuits to provide substantial recovery over and above what
has settled,” said Andrew Gottesman, who heads bankruptcy
claims trading at SecondMarket in  Manhattan . “That’s what’s
driving pricing. If the trustee loses those lawsuits against the
banks, traders’ sense of the risk involved would change.”  Signs of Fraud  Many of Picard’s suits are based on the theory that banks
and investors had a duty to investigate what Madoff was doing.
Instead, he says they ignored signs of possible fraud such as
the con man’s low-grade accountants and unusually steady
results.  JPMorgan, Madoff’s primary banker, could have stopped the
fraud if it had passed on its suspicions to regulators, Picard
said in his suit, revised on June 24 to triple his demands from
an earlier complaint. New York-based JPMorgan, the second-
biggest U.S. bank, “knew” that billions of dollars flowing
through the Madoff account “could not have been linked to a
legitimate business purpose,” he wrote.  Banks, though, don’t have a duty to investigate customers,
JPMorgan says. Picard’s interpretation of banking law “would
impose broad investigative duties on banks that do not exist,”
it said in February as it asked a district judge to take the
case out of  bankruptcy court  where Picard filed it.  U.S. System  In the U.S. justice system, bankruptcy judges rank below
district court judges and they’re not supposed to interpret
undecided issues of non-bankruptcy law. That’s what the banks
say Picard’s suits require U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland ,
who is handling the Madoff case, to do. So Picard has to
persuade a higher court that he has the authority to sue the
banks for damages before he can try to get any money from them.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said on June 6 that he will
decide if Picard can use U.S. racketeering law to sue Milan-
based UniCredit and other foreign banks, in the biggest
challenge so far to the liquidator. Picard’s bankruptcy court
suit against these banks represents about 60 percent of the
money he is seeking for investors in the Ponzi scheme.  An adverse ruling from Rakoff could send Picard back to the
drawing board to see how much he can demand. He sued UniCredit
with Bank Medici and other parties for $19.6 billion in  New York 
in December, using the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act to treble the amount.  Duty to Investigate  At a July 1 court hearing, Rakoff said the Mets owners may
not have had a legal duty to investigate whether Madoff was
running a fraud. If he rules that they didn’t, he would
undermine Picard’s argument for taking back $700 million in
principal they invested with the con man.  “If Picard loses in district court, the risk he has is
that he might get some money back from JPMorgan and lose the $19
billion,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum
Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville,  Kentucky . “With the Mets
owners, there if he loses, he stands at best to get the
fictitious profits and not the $700 million in principal.”  Picard said in April he had recovered $7.6 billion to pay
$17 billion in claims, although most of the money isn’t
available for distribution. He and his  law firm , Baker &
Hostetler LLP, have charged more than $175 million for their
work since the  Ponzi scheme  collapsed in 2008, according to
court filings.  “I just keep reading in the papers how much is being paid
to Picard,” Rakoff told the trustee’s lawyers at a May hearing.  Common-Law Claims  The Manhattan judge, who in past rulings has struck down
some charges leveled against banks, also will decide if Picard
can bring common-law claims such as unjust enrichment against
HSBC and can sue on behalf of customers, since his job is to
liquidate the Madoff firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Liquidators aren’t allowed by law to bring class actions on
behalf of investors, HSBC says. Asking Rakoff on May 3 to
dismiss Picard’s suit,  Europe ’s biggest bank said Picard was
“attempting to steal” money from Madoff investors who sued
HSBC in class actions. He planned to hand their money to other
parties on the principle of “robbing Peter to pay Paul,” it
said.  Picard’s bank suits are “very aggressive,” according to
bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller .  “The question is whether Picard is suing for damages
caused to the estate, or pursuing rights that are personal to
the individual customers of the firm,” said Miller, a partner
at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP who’s the lead bankruptcy lawyer
for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “The  Supreme Court  long ago
decided that a bankruptcy trustee could not sue based upon
personal claims of investors.”  Picard has estimated that his 1,000 suits if successful
would
bring in about $100 billion. His spokeswoman, Amanda Remus, said
he wouldn’t comment beyond what he’s filed in court.  Custodian  HSBC, which acted as custodian for so-called feeder funds
that had money with Madoff, has denied that it ignored signs of
fraud at the Madoff firm. The bank lost almost $1 billion of its
own money investing in feeder funds, “a fact that clearly
undermines the trustee’s claim that HSBC was on notice of
Madoff’s fraud,” it said in a filing.  Rakoff, who rejected securities regulators’ $33 million
settlement with Bank of America Corp. over undisclosed Merrill
Lynch bonuses in 2009, also has dismissed or reduced lawsuits
against banks. In 2004, he refused group status to a case
against Lehman over biased research.  Defending his suit against HSBC, Picard said in a filing he
is suing on behalf of a fund for customers, not on behalf of
customers themselves. He similarly defended his suit against
JPMorgan, saying it wasn’t a class action either. JPMorgan
accused Picard of fighting a “back door” class action suit on
behalf of Madoff customers.  Judge McMahon  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in New York will decide
if Picard is entitled to bring such a suit against JPMorgan.  The Mets owners have also challenged the trustee’s right to
sue them. Brokerage customers don’t have a duty to investigate
their  money manager , according to Katz and Wilpon. Rakoff said
that may be true, and that he will review Picard’s $1 billion
suit against them and other Sterling Equities Inc. partners.  Madoff claims have shot up to around 70 cents on the
dollar, from about 30 cents in early December, according to
Gottesman, the Manhattan claims trader. That was before Picard
began filing his suits against the banks, and before the estate
of Madoff investor Jeffry Picower agreed to pay him $7.2
billion.  “I wouldn’t recommend paying 70 cents for Madoff claims,”
said Bowles. “Trying to bet on litigation is a real scary
game.”  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 