-- 
European Stock-Index Futures Climb; ASML, ThyssenKrupp May Move

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-07T06:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/european-stock-index-futures-climb-asml-thyssenkrupp-man-group-may-move.html
European stock-index futures advanced
before a report that may show the number of Americans filing
claims for jobless benefits fell. Asian shares were little
changed and U.S. futures gained.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  and  Solvay SA (SOLB)  may be active as UBS AG
recommended buying both stocks.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  might fall as
 Germany ’s largest steelmaker said it plans to raise as much as
1.68 billion euros ($2.4 billion) in a share sale to help it
reduce debt.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  may move after reporting increased
funds under management.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index expiring in September
rose 0.6 percent to 2,850 at 7:37 a.m. in London, while  FTSE 100
Index (UKX)  futures climbed 0.4 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rose less than 0.1 percent and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures added 0.4 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.3 percent
yesterday, snapping the longest winning streak in two months, as
 China  raised  interest rates  and Moody’s Investors Service cut
 Portugal ’s credit rating to junk. The measure has fallen 5.6
percent from its February high amid speculation the region’s
fiscal crisis will derail the economic recovery.  The number of Americans making initial claims for jobless
benefits fell to 420,000 last week from 428,000 the prior
period, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
data comes a day before the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls
report.  ECB, BOE Rates  The  European Central Bank  will raise interest rates for a
second time this year, increasing the benchmark by 25 basis
points to 1.5 percent, when council members meet in  Frankfurt 
today, according to all 55 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The central bank may increase borrowing costs
further in the fourth quarter, according to a separate survey.  Bank of England  is expected to keep record-low interest
rates, with the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee holding
the benchmark rate at 0.5 percent, according to all 51
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  China may limit interest-rate increases for the rest of
this year as Premier Wen Jiabao bets that a slowing economy will
help tame inflation after five moves since mid-October. A
quarter-point boost to one-year lending and deposit rates was
announced yesterday, effective from today. That may be the last
for 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts
one more move, this quarter.  ASML, Solvay  ASML, Europe’s biggest semiconductor-gear maker, and
Solvay, the world’s largest soda-ash maker, were both raised to
“buy” from “neutral” at UBS.   ThyssenKrupp may decline as the Essen, Germany-based
company is selling 49.5 million shares, representing a 9.6
percent stake, at 32.95 euros to 33.95 euros apiece, according
to terms for the deal. ThyssenKrupp will offer the shares to
institutional investors and the sale is being managed by
Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc, the
steelmaker said in a statement.  Man Group said funds under management rose to $71 billion
in the second quarter, with net inflows of $3.7 billion.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  may move as NYSE Euronext shareholders
are scheduled to vote today on the company’s $9.33 billion
takeover by the operator of the Frankfurt exchange, a deal that
would create the world’s largest exchange operator.  BP Plc (BP/)  may be active. The oil company’s plan to buy stakes
in 23 oil and gas blocks in  India  operated by Reliance
Industries Ltd. for $7.2 billion may get cabinet approval next
week, an oil ministry official with knowledge of the matter
said.  Alcatel-Lucent SA may gain. Private-equity firm Permira is
bidding $1.3 billion for Alcatel’s enterprise telecommunications
unit, Reuters reported, citing people familiar with the
situation. Alcatel is still in contact with other potential
buyers including Siemens Enterprise Networks, part-owned by
Siemens AG, Reuters said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 