-- 
Europe, U.S. Inflation Threat Underestimated

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-07T14:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/europe-u-s-inflation-threat-underestimated.html
Investors underestimate the threat of
inflation in  Europe  and the U.S. and should seek protection from
higher prices even though the economy appears to be slowing,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Central banks are likely to keep official borrowing costs
at “accommodative levels” in the next 12 months to stave off
risk of a double-dip slowdown, said Stephane Salas, global head
of inflation trading at Deutsche Bank in London. This, coupled
with negative real  interest rates  in the U.K. and the U.S., are
likely to underpin inflation in coming months, he said.  “Short-dated inflation breakeven rates in all major
markets, especially in the U.K., are still too low given the
global economic outlook,” said Salas, who joined Deutsche Bank
from Societe Generale SA in January. “Although price pressure
may ease somewhat next year, we see significant risk that
inflation will stay above central-bank targets.”  Traders have pushed back bets on interest-rate increases in
Britain and other countries on speculation policy makers will
probably keep borrowing costs low to stimulate the economy.
Britain’s five-year breakeven rate, a market gauge of inflation
expectations, has dropped five basis points from a month ago to
2.57 percentage points.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said last month that
while the current level of inflation is “clearly uncomfortably
high” at more than double the target, the majority of the
Monetary Policy Committee hasn’t seen signs that it’s feeding
through to second-round effects. The bank kept its benchmark
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent today.  Breakeven Rates  In  France , the two-year breakeven rate fell to 1.55
percentage points from 1.70 percentage points during the same
period. The U.S. three-year rate dropped 13 basis points to 1.67
percentage points.  These breakeven rates are likely to climb, said Salas.
Index-linked bonds have already outperformed their non-
inflation-linked peers this year in Britain,  Germany , France,
the U.S. and  Japan , according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  U.S. inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, led the
gains, handing investors a 5.6 percent return followed by a 4.5
percent from British index-linked bonds.  “One investment theme that we like is to buy short-dated
breakeven rates, especially in the one, two, and three-year
sector, which are the cheapest,” Salas said. “We expect policy
rates to remain accommodative in the next 12 months as central
banks risk-manage the global economy.”  Investor Base  The  European Central Bank  raised its key rate by a quarter
point to 1.25 percent in April, the first increase in almost
three years, and further lifted it to 1.50 percent today. The
key rate is still less than half the average of 2.6 percent in
the past 10 years.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark rate at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, while the Bank
of England’s official borrowing costs have stayed at the record
low of 0.50 percent since March 2009.  Prices of long-dated index-linked bonds in the euro region
will be underpinned by supply and demand imbalance as government
issuance failed to meet increased demand from the pension
industry and liability-driven investment, Salas said.  “If you look at long-dated breakeven rates in the euro
region which in some cases are close to their all-time high,
it’s as if there’s no crisis at all,” said Salas. “That’s a
message from the investment community to governments that they
should issue more.”  Prices for index-linked bonds and breakeven rates are
likely to be supported by a shift in the securities’ investor
base, which has included fewer speculative investors than were
interested during the financial crisis in 2008, said Salas.  “There are fewer short-term holders of inflation-linked
bond asset-swaps than in 2008, and most investors in linkers now
are long-term holders,” said Salas. “Therefore, the market is
less vulnerable to the kind of speculative sell-off that we saw
during the financial crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  