-- 
Ex-Citadel Manager Doubles Dymon Asia Hedge Fund Assets to $1 Billion

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-07-07T02:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ex-citadel-manager-doubles-dymon-asia-hedge-fund-assets-to-1-billion.html
Dymon  Asia  Capital, which started a
hedge fund in 2008 with capital from Tudor Investment Corp., has
doubled its assets under management since March to more than $1
billion after its Asian macro fund outperformed peers.  The Dymon Asia Macro Fund, which has assets of around $900
million, gained more than 13 percent this year through June,
Chief Executive Officer Danny Yong said in an interview. The
Singapore-based firm also manages the Dymon Asia Currency Value
Fund, which is open only to existing investors in its macro fund,
said Yong, who previously set up and ran Citadel LLC’s Asia
macro trading business.  Dymon joins the expanding pool of billion-dollar hedge
funds in Asia that this year includes Senrigan Capital Group
Ltd., founded by former Citadel trader Nick Taylor, and Azentus
Capital Management Ltd, run by Morgan Sze, a former global head
of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s principal strategies proprietary
trading.  Hong Kong  and Singapore were home to a combined 18
hedge-fund firms that each managed assets of $1 billion or more
as of January, according to London-based data provider HedgeFund
Intelligence.  “The factors contributing to the growth of some of the
indigenous hedge funds in Asia are the pedigree of the portfolio
manager, his past experience as well as the fact that the
offering is of institutional level in terms of the team and
infrastructure,” said Stephane Pizzo, founder of Lotus Peak
Capital, a Singapore-based hedge-fund investing firm. “The
larger teams that are well staffed with people who have
extensive experience seem to be able to raise more money.”  New Capital  Dymon, which had initially counted on European investors
for half of its money, gathered new capital for its macro fund
mainly from U.S. investors and pension funds, Yong said.  “We will grow as we continue to show that we can scale,”
Yong said. “If we cannot demonstrate the ability to produce at
the same run rate of between 15 percent and 20 percent, we will
not take in more capital.”  Dymon’s macro fund returned 8 percent in March, its best
month this year, as it profited from short-term trading in the
days following  Japan ’s worst earthquake and as the  Bank of Japan ,
together with the Group of Seven nations, intervened to weaken
the yen. The fund focuses mainly on Asian currencies, equity
indexes and  interest rates , said Yong, the former head of
Southeast Asia foreign exchange and interest-rate derivatives
trading at Goldman Sachs.  Non-Traditional Approach  Dymon also gained from its Asian currency wagers by
correctly predicting that the region’s policy makers would allow
for more appreciation in their currencies to stem inflation,
“as opposed to the traditional approach of aggressive interest
rate hikes,” Yong said.  The fund has reduced its longer-term positions and is
focusing on “short-term opportunistic trading of the markets”,
Yong said. It expects two to four months of “extreme volatility
and unpredictable market moves” as manufacturing growth in
 China ,  Europe  and the U.S. slows and the likelihood that the
European debt crisis will worsen, Yong said.  Credit conditions in China are also “extremely tight”,
fueling concerns that growth will slow further, he said. China
has increased interest rates five times since October to contain
inflation, including today’s quarter-point boost to one-year
lending and deposit rates. Policy makers have also boosted
banks’ reserve requirements to record levels.  “We are the most cautious on the markets as we have been
in the last 18 months,” Yong said.  Greece ’s debt crisis will need to worsen before the
European Union leaders are likely to get together to “make a
real decision” to help ease the country’s debt burden, Yong
said.  ‘Many Moving Parts’  “Right now, there are many moving parts, everyone has
different incentives and vested interests,” Yong said. “If we
see politicians hold emergency meetings on weekends, that will
probably tell you we are inching closer to a solution.”  Many financial rescue packages have been hammered out over
the weekend since 2008, including the acquisition of floundering
Bear Stearns Cos. by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in March 2008, and the
creation of the European Financial Stability Facility in May
2010 to support the euro-region’s most indebted governments, he
said.  Dymon’s Asian macro fund started trading in August 2008
with $113 million of initial capital from Tudor, the Greenwich
Connecticut-based hedge fund company founded by  Paul Tudor Jones ,
as well as partners and employees, Yong said. It started
accepting money from outside investors in August 2009, after it
separated from Abax, the asset manager part-owned by Morgan
Stanley.  The Dymon Asia Currency Value Fund, with assets of less
than $200 million, started in May, Yong said. The fund, which
wagers on further gains in Asian currencies mostly through
options, will benefit from certain underlying trends in Asian
 currency markets  that Dymon expects to play out over the next 12
to 24 months, he said.  The manager expects to lock in profits and return money to
investors in the Dymon Asia Currency Value Fund once it achieves
its objectives within the next two to three years, Yong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  