-- 
Exco Chief Miller Is Said to Lower His Buyout Offer by 9.8% to $4 Billion

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-07-07T20:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/exco-chief-douglas-miller-is-said-to-lower-his-buyout-offer-to-4-billion.html
Exco Resources Inc. (XCO)  Chief Executive
Officer Douglas H. Miller lowered his buyout offer for the
natural-gas producer by 9.8 percent to $4 billion and added a
stock component to the bid, said three people with knowledge of
the matter.  A revised offer submitted to the company last week is
valued at $18.50 a share, with a majority of the price in cash
and the rest in shares, said the people, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks are private. The stock
component means that a minority of Exco shares would continue to
be publicly traded. Miller’s original bid, made in October, was
for $20.50 a share in cash, or about $4.4 billion.  The new proposal didn’t include committed financing,
according to people with knowledge of the matter, and puts in
doubt Exco’s six-month effort to find a buyer. A two-member
committee of Exco’s board is reviewing the offer and may reach a
decision within days, the people said.  Miller “couldn’t find buyers for the deal in order to take
it private,” said Eliecer Palacios, energy-sector specialist at
New York-based investment bank Maxim Group LLC. There may still
be interest among investors who want to buy into gas companies
at a lower price, betting that demand will rise, he said.  Exco fell 77 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $16.64 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 14 percent this year.  Enough Premium?  Miller didn’t return two phone calls seeking comment.
Vincent J. Cebula, identified in company filings as the chairman
of the special committee, also didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  “The question is, is the special committee going to
approve that deal, is that really enough of a premium for the
committee to say, ‘that works,’” said Leo Mariani, an analyst
with  RBC Capital Markets  in Austin. Mariani rates Exco’s shares
at “sector perform” and owns none.  Miller, who is also the chairman, said in November that the
company was undervalued because of falling gas prices. Prices
have averaged $4.289 this year, after reaching $13.577 in July
2008.  Three of the four largest Exco shareholders joined Miller
in the previous bid: Dallas billionaire  T. Boone Pickens ,
Oaktree Capital Management LLC and Ares Capital Management LLC.  Third Buyout  If approved, the deal would be Miller’s third buyout of
Exco. The former Coda Energy Inc. executive bought 51 percent of
Exco in 1997, leaving the rest of the shares publicly traded,
and became CEO.  In 2003, he took the company private through a buyout with
backing from Cerberus Capital Management LP. He listed shares
again in 2006.  Barclays Plc and Evercore Partners Inc. have been serving
as financial advisers to Exco’s special committee considering
the offer, and Kirkland & Ellis LLP and  Jones Day  are its legal
advisers. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
advising Miller, the company said previously.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  