-- 
Farm-State Senators Agree to End Ethanol Tax Breaks in July

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-07T19:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/farm-state-senators-agree-to-end-ethanol-breaks-feinstein-says.html
Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, said she has reached an agreement with two
farm-state lawmakers to end ethanol subsidies July 31.  Feinstein’s agreement with Senators  Amy Klobuchar , a
Minnesota Democrat, and  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican,
would end a 45-cent-a-gallon ethanol blender tax credit and a
54-cent-a-gallon tariff on ethanol imports that are scheduled to
expire Dec. 31. The lawmakers said the proposal, announced
today, would reduce the federal budget deficit by $1.33 billion.  Feinstein said she hopes the agreement will be included in
a deficit reduction package the Obama administration is
negotiating with congressional leaders. In a  letter  to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the lawmakers said the agreement would
fall apart if it doesn’t come up for a vote soon.  “If Congress fails to enact this proposal before it
adjourns for August recess, the substantial levels of deficit
reduction and investment achieved by this compromise will no
longer be possible and we cannot commit our support after that
point,” the three senators wrote in the letter dated today.  The Senate voted last month to curb ethanol subsidies. The
measure was attached to underlying legislation that didn’t clear
the chamber. Klobuchar and Thune opposed that measure, and
Feinstein won their support by agreeing to use $668 million that
would be saved by ending the ethanol subsidy to support other
technologies.  Details of Proposal  Under the agreement, $308 million would be spent to extend
for three years a $1.01-a-gallon tax credit for cellulosic
biofuel production. That credit is set to expire at the end of
2012. The lawmakers said extending the credit would support the
development of non-corn biofuels.  Cellulosic biofuel can be produced from items other than
corn, including grasses and farm waste. Poet LLC, the largest
U.S. biofuels producer, along with  Verenium Corp. (VRNM)  and  BP PLC (BP/)  are
investing in commercially viable cellulosic fuel.  The lawmakers also propose spending $253 million on a
three-year extension of an alternative fuel infrastructure tax
credit. This benefit currently expires at the end of 2011 and
the credit would be reduced to 20 percent from 30 percent.  The agreement includes $107 million for a one-year
extension of a small-producer tax credit. The credit currently
expires at the end of 2012 and would be reduced to 7 cents a
gallon from 10 cents a gallon.  Lost Support  The effort to win the votes of Klobuchar and Thune might
cost the support of other lawmakers who have also targeted
ethanol subsidies.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who worked with
Feinstein in June on an ethanol deal, said he was unlikely to
support the new agreement. Coburn has said savings from ending
the ethanol subsidies should be applied to lowering the  budget
deficit  and he has opposed using the funds to support cellulosic
ethanol production.  “Private industry’s already spending billions on algae-
based cellulosic ethanol, and we’re going to give them $600
million more?” he said. “It’s nuts.”  Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, echoed
those concerns. He shepherded a measure through the House in
June that would have prohibited federal funding for certain
ethanol pumps or storage facilities.  ‘Still Too Generous’  “Frankly, the compromise bill is still too generous to the
ethanol industry,” he said in an emailed statement. “I think
there’s enough support in the House to end all ethanol
subsidies.”  A similar amendment was defeated in the Senate on June 16.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who is one of
the Senate’s staunchest ethanol supporters, said the agreement
should have included a “more robust investment in alternative
fuel infrastructure and cellulosic ethanol.”  “The fact that this happened in a vacuum, rather than in
an even-handed debate over all energy tax incentives, will
always be a raw deal, especially for taxpayers and renewable
fuel producers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net 
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  