-- 
Father’s Torture Shaped Uruguayan Human-Rights Chief’s Career

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/father-s-torture-shaped-uruguayan-human-rights-chief-s-career.html
Laura Dupuy Lasserre was six years
old when her father, a union representative, was arrested and
tortured by a government intent on suppressing opponents
demanding democracy and rights. He was held for four years.  As the first female president of the United Nations Human
Rights Council, Dupuy Lasserre plans to promote women’s rights
and fight against the sort of abuses that took place in her
native Uruguay during the dozen years of military dictatorship
that controlled the South American nation until 1985. Now the
battleground has shifted to places such as  North Korea , Myanmar
and Belarus.  “We were even limited about the kind of words we could
use,” Dupuy Lasserre, 43, recalled in an interview in her
office in Geneva on June 30. “The word ‘freedom’ was banned.”  Her childhood experiences drove Dupuy Lasserre to pursue a
career in human rights as well as environmental issues. She was
director of human rights and humanitarian law at Uruguay’s
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  before becoming her country’s
permanent representative to the UN in Geneva in 2006.  Gender issues will be among Dupuy Lasserre’s priorities
during her 12-month presidency of the UNHRC, the world’s only
global body dedicated to promoting and protecting human rights.
Three decades after the Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Discrimination Against Women came into force,  violence 
against women “prevails on an unimaginable scale,” according
to the UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights,
which is also headed by a woman, South African Navi Pillay.  Gender Issues  Globally, as many as six in 10 women experience physical or
sexual violence, according to the UN. A 2005 World Health
Organization study of 24,000 women in 10 countries found that
the prevalence of physical or sexual violence by a partner
varied from 15 percent in urban  Japan  to 71 percent in rural
 Ethiopia , with most areas ranging from 30 percent to 60 percent.  “I will try to enlighten people about gender issues,
violence against women and discrimination, because they are very
important,” said Dupuy Lasserre. “Maybe I can serve as an
example for other women and offer a gender perspective on
different issues that tend to get lost or aren’t that visible.”  Dupuy Lasserre, who has a degree in international relations
from the University of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay, worked
at the country’s Directorate of Environment from 1992 to 1994
and was a delegate to the UN and various international
organizations in Geneva from 1995 to 2000. She worked at the
General Directorate on Integration and Mercosur in 2000 and
2001, and was an alternate representative to the  Organization of
American States  in  Washington  from 2002 to 2007.  Better Balance  Freedom House , an independent watchdog that advocates for
democracy and human rights, is “very happy to see a woman take
over the mantle” at the council, Director Paula Schriefer said
by telephone from Washington. “Having gender balance in the
people who are essentially making decisions about human-rights
issues is a good thing. It shows a more balanced approach.”  Having a woman at the helm for the first time, especially
one with Dupuy Lasserre’s background, will be “extremely
significant, because a lot of human-rights issues
disproportionately fall against and on the shoulders of women,”
Joshua Cooper, a lecturer on human rights at the University of
Hawaii in Honolulu, said by phone.  Dupuy Lasserre took over as president on June 20, more than
six decades after Eleanor Roosevelt became the first person to
head the UN Commission on Human Rights, the council’s
forerunner.  Dupuy Lasserre is “walking in the footsteps of other
amazing women,” Cooper said. “She brings a lot of elements.
She lived through an oppressive regime and understands what
that’s like. She’s relatively young, so she’ll be very
approachable. She’ll be innovative and open to new ideas.”  Politically Motivated  Some of those ideas may not go over well in the council,
which has been censured by officials including UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for being politically motivated. Ban and his
predecessor, Kofi Annan, as well as the U.S., the European Union
and  Canada  have accused the 47-member body of focusing
disproportionately on the Israel-Palestinian conflict since it
was created in March 2006.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in February called
for the council to end its “structural bias” against  Israel ,
saying it “undermines the important work we are trying to do
together.” As of 2010, the assembly had condemned Israel in 32
resolutions -- two-thirds of all motions it’s passed. Israel is
the only country the council has specifically condemned.  ‘Inordinate Influence’  That track record and its belief that the council turned a
blind eye to human-rights abuses in  Zimbabwe , North Korea, Cuba,
Belarus and Myanmar prompted the administration of  George W. Bush  to boycott the organization. The U.S. decided to seek a
seat on the council in March 2009, saying the move fit with the
Obama administration’s goal of international engagement.  Some human-rights groups say the council is controlled by
various  Middle East  and African nations, supported by China,
Russia and Cuba, which protect each other from criticism. “A
relatively small group of rights-abusing countries have exerted
an inordinate level of  influence  within the council,” according
to Freedom House.  Dupuy Lasserre acknowledges this, saying she aims to shore
up confidence in the organization.  “There’s still too much politicization in the debates,”
she said. “I would like to work with the parties that are on
the extremes, to find these bridges, to find common ground. It’s
a pity that issues like this” taint the council.  Still, the UN body plays an important role, with its
“biggest value coming from the idea of the universality of
human rights,” said Freedom House’s Schriefer.  “This past year has been the best in addressing the most
critical human-rights issues that are taking place right now,”
she said. “We saw strong resolutions on Libya and  Syria  and the
council singled out countries like Sudan and Somalia that are
among our worst of the worst. The council largely plays a name-
and-shame role, and there it can make a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 