-- 
FDIC Sues Ex-IndyMac Chief Michael Perry Over $600 Million in Bank Losses

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T02:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/fdic-sues-ex-indymac-chief-michael-perry-over-600-million-in-bank-losses.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
sued former  IndyMac Bancorp Inc. (IDMCQ)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Perry, accusing him of causing more than $600 million in losses
from risky  mortgage loans  that couldn’t be sold.  Perry acted negligently when he allowed IndyMac to generate
and purchase $10 billion in loans for sale in the secondary
market in 2007 when he knew that that market had become unstable
and illiquid, the FDIC said today in a complaint filed in
federal court in Los Angeles.  When IndyMac wasn’t able to sell the loans, the bank was
forced to transfer them to its investment portfolio where they
created more than $600 million in losses, according to the
complaint. In 2008, Perry acknowledged that he was responsible
for the debacle, according to the complaint.  “Instead of enforcing credit standards, Perry chose to
roll the dice in an aggressive gamble to increase market share
while sacrificing credit standards,” the FDIC said in the
complaint.  IndyMac, once the second-largest U.S. independent mortgage
lender, was seized by regulators in July 2008 after a run by
depositors left the Pasadena, California-based company strapped
for cash. The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a lawsuit
filed in February, accused Perry and two other former IndyMac
executives of failing to warn investors of the bank’s
deteriorating financial condition.  D. Jean Veta, a lawyer for Perry, didn’t immediately return
a call to her office seeking comment after regular business
hours.  The case is FDIC v. Perry, 11-05561, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  