-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Says U.S. Economic Outlook Positive Amid Risks

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T19:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/fed-s-hoenig-says-outlook-for-u-s-economy-positive-amid-risks.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig , the Fed’s longest-serving policy maker,
said U.S. economic growth will likely persist while confronting
risks from the federal deficit and Europe’s debt crisis.  “The outlook for recovery continues to be positive,”
Hoenig said today in a speech in Ada,  Oklahoma . “There are
risks in this fragile recovery.”  The Fed last week completed $600 billion of Treasury
purchases to spur the economy and reduce unemployment after
policy makers said temporary forces are inhibiting growth,
including energy prices and disruptions in the supply of goods
after  Japan ’s earthquake.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  also voted on June 22 to
maintain its record stimulus, affirming its pledge to keep the
main interest rate near zero for an “extended period.”  “ We are not the only part of the world having economic
difficulties,” Hoenig said at the Chickasaw Nation Community
Luncheon. “ Europe  is under pressure. Their banking industry is
under pressure.”  “Can you really understand why a country like  Greece ,
which geographically is about the size of Oklahoma, is holding
the world hostage right now on financial stability issues?”
Hoenig said. “We know it is fragile if we have that going on.”  The Kansas City Fed official also called on lawmakers to
agree on a way to cut the deficit as a prelude to an increase in
the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt limit. The U.S. Treasury Department
has said raising the debt limit is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a
default on the nation’s financial obligations.  ‘Critical’ Negotiations  “The negotiations going on right now are critical,”
Hoenig said. “The interest rate is very low on the debt, and we
know that will change as interest rate rise, making the debt
problem even more difficult. We need to address that.”  The Kansas City Fed official said the economy has been
growing at close to a 3 percent annual rate during the two-year
recovery, while the second quarter of this year will be “under
3 percent.”  Hoenig repeated his call for raising the central bank’s
target interest rate to 1 percent as part of a normalization of
monetary policy reflecting that the recovery is more than two
years old.  “ I am not for tight monetary policy,” he said. “I am
for nonzero monetary policy” that isn’t “wracked with
imbalances and new crises we have to deal with.”  No Vote  Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, has
repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten monetary policy to
limit inflation and avert the emergence of asset price bubbles.
He voted eight straight times in 2010 against record stimulus
led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single year.  If the Fed waits until “the imbalances are there or
inflation has already broken out,” then policy makers will
“have to act as aggressively as we did in the 1980s, with the
difficult consequences that come with that,” he said.  Increased U.S. regulation in industries such as banking and
health care poses another risk to growth, Hoenig said. “You
have to adjust and in the economy that takes time and it tends
to slow the recovery,” he said.  Hoenig in March announced plans to retire on Oct. 1 after a
20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed. He is required
under internal Fed rules to retire at age 65, an age he will
reach in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews at   smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  