-- 
FCC’s Rules on Media Cross-Ownership Are Vacated by Federal Appeals Court

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-07-07T21:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/federal-appeals-court-vacates-fcc-rules-on-media-ownership.html
A U.S. appeals court vacated a
Federal Communications Commission rule relaxing limits on cross-
ownership of newspapers and broadcast outlets, saying the agency
failed to provide adequate notice.  The FCC in 2007 approved a rule allowing publishers to own
both newspapers and broadcast stations in the biggest U.S.
cities.  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Clear Channel Communications Inc., Gannett
Co., and Cox Enterprises Inc. challenged the FCC order for
failing to relax the rule further. Consumer groups argued that
the FCC didn’t provide adequate notice and that elements of the
rule were unsupported by evidence.  The federal appeals court in Philadelphia in a 2-1 vote
today sent the cross-ownership rule back to the FCC for further
consideration. The court upheld FCC limits on local broadcast
ownership.  “This decision is a vindication of the public’s right to
have a diverse media environment,” Andrew Jay Schwartzman,
policy director of Media Access Project, a Washington-based  law
firm , said in an e-mail. “The FCC majority knew that its effort
to allow more media concentration was politically and legally
unworkable, so it tried to end-run the procedural protections
that are designed to give the public the right to participate in
agency proceedings.”  Second Intervention  Today’s ruling marks the second time the appeals court has
intervened in the commission’s attempts to relax media ownership
rules. The same panel ruled in 2004 that the commission failed
to provide reasoned analysis to support regulating cross-
ownership with a new set of limits and sent the rules back to
the FCC for review.  The agency in 2008 adopted an entirely new rule, under
which it would consider cross-ownership proposals on a case-by-
case basis using a four-factor test, according to court
documents. The order eased restrictions on cross-ownership of
full-service broadcast stations and daily newspapers in major
cities. It retained such restrictions in smaller markets.  Austin Schlick, the FCC’s general counsel, said in response
to today’s opinion that the agency continues a “statutorily
mandated review of its media ownership rules.”  “With an updated record and this supportive decision, the
agency should be able to take appropriate steps to ensure that
the nation’s media marketplace remains healthy and vibrant,”
Schlick said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘More Consolidation’  Shannon Jacobs, a spokeswoman for New York-based CBS, and
Lisa Dollinger, a spokeswoman for San Antonio-based Clear
Channel, declined to comment. Elizabeth Olmstead, a spokeswoman
for Cox, said the company had no immediate comment. Robin Pence,
a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based Gannett, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  FCC Commissioner Michael J. Copps said he was pleased the
cross-ownership rule, “which would have opened the door to more
consolidation,” was sent back to the commission.  “The rule and the process that brought it forth were
highly inimical to media democracy,” Copps said in an e-mailed
statement.  The agency’s procedures leading up to the 2007 vote were
“irregular,” the appeals panel said. Between October 2006 and
November 2007, the commission held six public hearings on media
ownership in various cities with the final hearing announced
just 10 days before, the appeals court said in its ruling.  The commission’s 2006 notice on the proposed rule failed to
solicit comment on the overall framework under consideration and
how the new approach might affect other ownership rules, the
appeals court said.  ‘Significant Omissions’  “These were significant omissions,” the appeals panel
said in the ruling.  Notices for the proposed rule changes also didn’t provide
enough information on what the commission was planning to do and
the options it was considering, and didn’t give the public a
meaningful opportunity to comment, the appeals panel said.  The FCC didn’t “fulfill its obligation to make its views
known to the public in a concrete and focused form as to make
criticism or formulation of alternatives possible,” the appeals
panel said.  John Sturm , president of the  Newspaper Association of
America , an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group, called the
ruling “very disappointing.  “We’re back to the original rule that was passed in
1975,” Sturm said. “It strains credulity to understand why
that is.”  ‘Massive Changes’  The media market has undergone “massive changes” from the
Internet, cable channels and satellite TV, and the cross-
ownership rule isn’t needed to preserve a diversity of voices,
Sturm said.  Judge Anthony J. Scirica in dissent said the court’s
decision to vacate and remand the cross-ownership rule
“preserves an outdated and twice-abandoned ban.” The FCC gave
ample notice and made it clear from 2006 that it was planning a
significant revision of the rule, Scirica said.  “As is well known to the parties involved, the NBCO rule
is not just the product of one isolated rulemaking, but is
instead the outcome of an iterative and interactive process of
statutorily prescribed agency review of broadcast media
regulation,” Scirica said.  Today’s ruling may have little effect on the future of the
 media industry ,  Ken Doctor , a media analyst at Outsell Inc. in
 Santa Cruz ,  California , said in a phone interview.  “It is clearer than ever that multimedia, multiplatform
reporting is going to be the way of the future,” Doctor said.
“Because of the economics of the business overall there may be
money to support one big company that does it all. The market
and the technology are pushing toward singularity and
concentration.”  The companies filed as petitioners in the main case
Prometheus Radio Project v. FCC, 08-3078, 3rd U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Allan Holmes  at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 