-- 
Federal Reserve Names David Wilcox as Director of U.S. Economic Research

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-07T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/federal-reserve-names-david-wilcox-as-director-of-u-s-economic-research.html
The  Federal Reserve  Board appointed
David Wilcox as the director of U.S. economic research,
replacing David Stockton, who plans to retire on Sept. 30.  Wilcox, 52, will lead the 325 employees in the Division of
Research and Statistics, which provides forecasts for the
economic outlook at each meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , according to a Fed release today in  Washington .
Wilcox is currently the division’s deputy director.  “David Wilcox brings many years of exemplary public
service -- both at the Board and in other senior positions -- to
the position of division director,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a statement. “His economic interests are wide-
ranging and his expertise in topics relevant to the Federal
Reserve is deep,” he said.  Wilcox will become one of three top Board of Governors
staff officials who brief policy makers on  interest rates  and
U.S. and international economic developments. The other two top
staff economists are William English, director of the Division
of Monetary Affairs since July, and Nathan Sheets, head of the
Division of International Finance since 2007.  Wilcox was a staff member at the Washington-based board of
governors from 1986 to 1997, working in economic forecasting
economic measurement and monetary policy formulation, the Fed
said. From 1994 to 1995 he was detailed to the staff of
President Bill Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers. In 1997
he left the Fed to serve as assistant secretary for economic
policy at the Treasury Department.  Deputy Director  Wilcox rejoined the Fed’s staff in 2001 as deputy director
of the research division under his predecessor David Stockton.
Stockton announced his retirement in May.  In addition to advising the FOMC, the research division,
which includes around 100 economists with doctorates, produces
statistical releases including the Industrial Production and
Flow of Funds reports. It also provides research related to the
Fed’s responsibilities in financial stability and bank
supervision.  Wilcox earned a B.A. in mathematics at  Williams College  in
1980 and a Ph.D. in economics from the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , the same doctoral program as Bernanke, in 1987.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  