-- 
Financial Firms Push U.S. Toward Global Accounting Standards

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T18:57:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/financial-firms-push-u-s-to-adopt-global-accounting-standards.html
Major financial firms and credit
ratings agencies are pushing the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to blend U.S. and international accounting standards
into one set of practices.  At a roundtable meeting on accounting standards in
 Washington  today, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  called the idea “a
major decision for this agency, and not one to be taken
lightly.”  Regulators were originally supposed to finish the
convergence work by last month. It’s now expected to go “into
the first or second quarter” of next year, Schapiro said in an
interview.  Representatives of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Allstate Corp.,  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill Cos.’  Standard & Poor’s  unit who took part
in the roundtable argued that differing accounting standards
pose difficulties for international businesses.  “Diverse languages are great for human culture but are
troublesome, obviously, for us analysts,” said Gregory Jonas, a
Morgan Stanley managing director, who advocated a gradual U.S.
transition toward International Financial Reporting Standards.
“Let’s not do something that undermines the positive momentum
we have today.”  The SEC, which oversees U.S. accounting regulation, has
agreed to develop a plan to converge U.S. and international
standards. The agency published report in May that said it “has
yet to make a decision as to whether and, if so, how, to
incorporate IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S.
issuers.”  Investor Information  “Our primary focus will be to ensure that investors have
the information they need,” Schapiro said at today’s meeting.  “We do support the adopting of a single global account
framework,” said Kevin Spataro, senior vice president at
 Allstate Corp. (ALL) , saying that the international standards “could
fill that role.”  Some smaller companies based entirely or mostly in the U.S.
are concerned about the difficulty of an accounting system
change.  “There’s really not a benefit to us to switch,” said
Charlie Rowland, chief financial officer of Exton, Pennsylvania-
based ViroPharma Inc. “There’s no efficiency; there’s no cost
savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 