-- 
French Banks Slash Bank Card Fees to Settle Antitrust Probe

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-07T08:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/french-banks-slash-debit-card-fees-to-settle-competition-probe.html
The group that governs France’s bank-
card industry agreed to cut by as much as 36 percent interbank
fees for bank card transactions to settle a competition
regulator’s investigation.  The  Groupement des Cartes Bancaires CB , which represents
banks including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, will cut the interbank fee charged on a retail
transaction using a card with the CB logo by 36 percent, the
Competition Authority said today. The interbank withdrawal fee
will be reduced by 21 percent and fees for cards seized by cash
machines will drop by half. The new rates take effect Oct. 1.  “The substantial drop in the fees will make France the
European country with the fifth-lowest interbank fees” for
these card transactions, Competition Authority President Bruno Lasserre said in a statement on the regulator’s website. “It
should lead to a reduction in the fees banks in turn charge
their customers.”  The CB cards, which link to customers’ bank accounts, are
more popular in  France  than credit cards, representing 80
percent of card transactions in 2007, according to the Bank of
France. The country is currently eighth in  Europe  for the fees
charged between a cardholder’s and retailer’s bank, the
regulator said.  September Fine  After the regulator levied a 384.9 million euro-fine ($551
million) for interbank check fees in September, the group
volunteered to trim its rates for when  debit cards  are used for
payments by 25 percent.  The decision “affirms the necessity and utility of
interbank fees” as they are “indispensible for guaranteeing the
intrinsic qualities of the CB system,” Gilles Guitton, the
president of Groupement des Cartes Bancaires, said in a
statement on the group’s  website .  The regulator opened the investigation after being
contacted by two French retail trade groups over concerns about
how the bank card group sets fees. The proposed reductions were
published in April, and after fielding comments from consumer
associations, merchants and others, the regulator sought deeper
cuts and reductions for cash withdrawals and fees charged when
card withdrawals and payments fail.  “The Groupement des Cartes Bancaires did not provide
enough data to justify such amounts,” the regulator said.  A separate investigation is under way into interbank fees
for independent credit cards and other non-cash payments, such
as automatic withdrawals and transfers, the regulator said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  