-- 
Freshfields Partner Profits Fall 6.9% as Law Firms Brace for a Slower Year

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-07T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/freshfields-partner-profits-fall-6-9-as-law-firms-brace-for-a-slower-year.html
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP’s
profits per equity partner fell 6.9 percent to 1.3 million
pounds ($2.1 million) as the highest-grossing U.K. law firms
braced for “uncertainty’’ amid the European sovereign debt
crisis.  Freshfields revenue fell slightly to 1.14 billion pounds,
the firm said in a statement today. Another London firm,
Linklaters LLP, said revenue increased 1.4 percent to 1.2
billion pounds.  Simon Davies , the managing partner of Linklaters, said in
an interview that some deal work may slow over concerns about
sovereign debt issues. European finance ministers earlier this
month authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12 billion) loan payout
to Greece in an attempt to avert the region’s first sovereign
default.  “The sovereign debt crisis we’re seeing is likely to
create turbulence in terms of creating uncertainty that will
challenge deal flow,” Davies said.  Freshfields’ London-based rivals including Linklaters and
Clifford Chance LLP saw equity partner profits rise to 1.23
million pounds and 1 million pounds respectively.  Allen & Overy 
LLP’s figures stayed unchanged at 1.1 million pounds. Equity
partners share in a firm’s profits.  Clifford Chance  remained the largest European  law firm  with
revenue of 1.22 billion pounds. Allen & Overy’s revenue rose 7
percent to 1.12 billion pounds.  Magic Circle  The firms, known collectively as the Magic Circle,
benefitted from advising companies and underwriters on the
largest initial public offerings, and from an increase in deal
work in emerging markets including  China , Brazil, India and
Africa. Slaughter and May, which doesn’t publish its financial
accounts, is the fifth Magic Circle law firm.  Freshfields advised BP Plc on defending against potential
takeovers as a result of the  oil spill  in the Gulf of Mexico,
and U.K. subprime lender Cattles Plc on its 3 billion pound
restructuring. The firm is also the lead adviser to the  London 
2012 Olympic Games.  “We are hopeful that business will pick up this year,”
Freshfields’ managing partner Ted Burke said in an interview.
“There are sufficient potential for economic disruptions that
we cross our fingers a bit.”  ‘Significantly Stronger’  Linklaters had a “significantly stronger” second half of
the year, with revenues increasing by 9 percent from the first
half, driven by emerging markets, Davies said. In mature
markets, the firm saw a decrease in distressed work, and a
tapering off of advice in the administration of Lehman Brothers
International (Europe), he said.  “We’ve more than made up for that fall,” Davies said. The
firm advised the commodity trader Glencore International Plc in
the world’s biggest IPO this year.  Clifford Chance opened offices this year in Qatar and
Istanbul while Allen & Overy started practices in Jakarta and
Australia. Clifford Chance advised the underwriters of both the
Glencore and Prada SpA initial public offerings, while Allen &
Overy advised  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  on its A$9.5 billion ($10.2 billion)
bid for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)   Linklaters said yesterday it is opening an office in  Abu
Dhabi .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 