-- 
LG Cuts Smartphone Sales Target 20% on Rivals

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-07T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/lg-cuts-smartphone-sales-target-20-after-apple-samsung-gain.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
third-largest mobile-phone maker, lowered its full-year
smartphone sales target by 20 percent after losing customers to
competitors led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The company expects to sell 24 million smartphones this
year, Park Jong Seok, head of the mobile business, said at a
media briefing today in  Seoul . The company had previously
forecast 30 million.  LG’s mobile-phone division had an operating loss of 100.5
billion won ($94 million) in the first three months of the year,
contributing to a second straight quarterly loss for the
company. While the business is “slowly” improving, it’s
unclear when it will turn around, Park said.  “It’s hard to give an exact timing, because there are so
many market variables, and the situation changes quickly,” he
said.  The company said in February it aims to quadruple
smartphone sales this year by introducing 20 new models.
Including other types of handsets, the company will probably
sell about 114 million units this year, also lower than the
February goal to sell 150 million phones, Park said.  Koo Bon Joon, who took over as chief executive officer in
October, told reporters last month that it will be difficult for
the handset unit to return to profit in the second quarter.  Optimus Push  The company is counting on its Optimus smartphones running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software to revive earnings. The handset
maker in February unveiled an 8.9-inch tablet computer called
the LG Optimus Pad and the LG Optimus 3D smartphone capable of
recording 3-D images.  LG expects the 3-D handset to sell 1.7 million units by the
end of the year, Park said.  “We want to differentiate ourselves with good hardware
such as the 3-D model by taking advantage of what we are strong
at, like displays,” he said.  The company is working on a new model equipped with a high-
definition 4.5-inch screen, Park said.  LG’s share in the global mobile-phone market declined to
5.6 percent in the first quarter from 7.6 percent a year
earlier, Gartner Inc.  said  on May 19.  Apple’s share in the global smartphone market increased to
18.7 percent in the first quarter from 15.7 percent, while
Samsung had its share more than double to 10.8 percent from 4.3
percent, according to researcher IDC.  LG is holding off selling its Android tablet computer in
 South Korea  because of a “big change” in the tablet market
caused by the new iPad since LG introduced its product in
February, Park said.  LG will still release the product in some overseas markets
“defined as meaningful,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  