-- 
Gasoil Stockpiles Fall in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-07-07T16:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gasoil-stockpiles-fall-in-europe-s-oil-trading-hub-pjk-says-1-.html
Gasoil stockpiles in independent
storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp,  Europe ’s oil-trading
hub, fell to the lowest level in more than two months, according
to PJK International BV.  Gasoil inventories declined 6 percent to 2.64 million
metric tons in the week to today as cargoes were exported to the
Mediterranean, the  Middle East  and west Africa, according to
PJK, a consultant in the Netherlands. That’s the lowest level
since April 21. Cargoes of the fuel, which includes heating oil
and diesel, arrived from Russia, Sweden, the U.K. and the U.S.  “Cargo-wise, there was more demand,” Pieter Kulsen,
founder of PJK, said by phone from Oosterhout, where the company
is based. “Outgoing cargoes outweighing incoming vessels was
the main factor in lowering the stocks.”  Gasoline stockpiles declined 0.6 percent to 699,000 tons as
the motor fuel was sent to  Denmark ,  Mexico ,  South Africa  and
west Africa, according to PJK data. Supplies arrived from
Denmark, France, Russia and the U.K.  Naphtha stores dropped 13 percent to 92,000 tons even as
product arrived into the ARA area from Russia and  Spain , the
data show.  Fuel oil stocks decreased 2.1 percent to 732,000 tons as
two very large crude carriers have loaded destined for
 Singapore , according to PJK. Cargoes arrived from France,
Lithuania, Poland, Russia, the U.K. and the U.S.  Jet fuel increased for a second week, rising 8.1 percent to
467,000 tons on imports from Kuwait and Qatar, PJK said. That’s
the highest level in a month.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  