-- 
Gazprom, Billionaire Vekselberg to Merge Power Utilities

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-07-07T15:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gazprom-billionaire-vekselberg-agree-to-merge-power-utilities.html
OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export
monopoly, and billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  agreed to merge
electricity assets, forming a utility that may control 25
percent of the country’s generating capacity.  The combined utility will compete on the scale of
international companies such as EON AG and Electricite de France
SA, Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said today at
a signing ceremony in Moscow.  Vekselberg’s Renova Group, one of the biggest investors in
Russia’s power market through its IES Holding unit, will have a
blocking stake of at least 25 percent plus one share in the
combined utility, the billionaire said at the ceremony. Gazprom
will hold no more than 75 percent.  “IES is one of the biggest gas consumers and Gazprom is
the biggest gas supplier, so the synergy is obvious,”
Vekselberg said.  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, aims to become a
leader in the power market to bolster cash flows amid growing
electricity demand in  Russia  and volatility in the European gas
market. The company is also looking to build or acquire
generators in  Europe .  Gazprom Energoholding, the gas producer’s power unit, plans
to acquire IES Holding and be the base for the merger, according
to today’s agreement. The deal may be completed by the end of
this year, after meeting antitrust demands, Vekselberg said. The
utility plans to seek a listing, he said.  ‘Serious Threat’  Russia’s competition watchdog sees the tie-up as
“undesirable” because Gazprom already holds many power assets,
RIA Novosti reported, citing  Igor Artemyev , the head of the
Federal Anti-Monopoly Service.  The tie-up “puts competition on the Russian  electricity
market  under a very serious threat” because IES Holding was one
of the few privately owned generating companies in Russia,  Alfa
Bank  said in a research note late yesterday.  The antitrust service opposed a planned merger between
Gazprom and OAO Siberian Coal Energy Co., known as SUEK, and the
deal fell through in June 2008, the same year Russia broke up
the state-controlled utility, OAO Unified Energy System. EON and
 Enel SpA (ENEL)  bought assets at auctions during the preceding period
of restructuring, which was designed to bring in private
investors, spur upgrades of aging plants and boost competition.  Gazprom Energoholding owns  four generating companies  in
Russia, with installed capacity of about 37 gigawatts,
accounting for 17 percent of Russian capacity, Miller said on
June 30. IES Holding owns four utilities with 16 gigawatts of
capacity, as well as sales companies in Russia’s Urals and Volga
regions.  “Gazprom has reached a very good pace of commissioning new
capacity and this year will build more than RAO UES in its
entire history,” Miller said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  