-- 
German May Industrial Output Increased on Investment Goods

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-07T11:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/german-industrial-output-increased-in-may-on-investment-goods.html
Industrial production in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, increased more than economists
forecast in May, led by rising output of investment goods such
as machines.  Production jumped 1.2 percent from April, when it fell a
revised 0.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.8 percent, the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, output
rose 7.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  German business confidence unexpectedly improved in June,
suggesting companies are confident they can weather the region’s
debt crisis. Factory orders also increased in May. While growth
is likely to be “considerably weaker” in the second quarter,
this “should not be interpreted as an economic slowdown,” the
Bundesbank said on June 20.  “The strength of the German industrial sector is
independent of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis,” said
Christian Schulz, and economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co.
in  London . “The growth story continues and allows Germany to
thrive on its buoyant manufacturing sector as well as improving
domestic demand.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.4291 at 12:53 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.2 percent on the day.  Slowing Growth  The ministry had previously reported a drop in output of
0.6 percent in April. Production of investment goods jumped 2.5
percent from April and output of basic goods rose 0.7 percent,
the report showed. Consumer-goods production stagnated in May
and construction output increased 1.1 percent.  The pace of expansion may slow somewhat in the coming
months after order intake moderated recently, the ministry said.  Factory orders rose 1.8 percent in May from the previous
month, when they gained 2.9 percent, led by domestic demand for
investment goods, the ministry said yesterday. Companies are
increasing spending and hiring to meet surging demand, putting
more money in consumers’ pockets and broadening the country’s
recovery that has driven the euro region’s expansion.  German carmaker Porsche SE is seeking to hire at least
1,000 people at its factory in Leipzig, while  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi unit plans to recruit some 300 skilled workers.  The Bundesbank last month raised its 2011 growth forecast
to 3.1 percent from 2.5 percent. In the 17-member euro region,
the economy may expand 1.9 percent this year, according to the
 European Central Bank ’s latest projections.  Economic ‘Tailwind’  A 32 percent increase in crude  oil prices  over the past
year is clouding growth prospects just as governments from
Ireland to Spain toughen spending cuts to fight the region’s
debt crisis. German investor confidence dropped to the lowest in
2 1/2 years in June and manufacturing growth slowed.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, said on
June 28 that it will be more difficult to achieve growth in the
second half. The “tailwind from the economic recovery is likely
over,” Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said.  The ECB today will probably raise its benchmark interest
rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent to fight price pressures,
according to all 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
Frankfurt-based central bank will announce its decision at 1:45
p.m. followed by a press conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  