-- 
Portugal, Spain Government Notes Fall as Trichet Comments Provide No Balm

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T16:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/german-government-bonds-slip-before-ecb-rates-decision-production-data.html
Government notes from  Europe ’s most
indebted nations declined as the  European Central Bank ’s move to
loosen collateral rules on downgraded Portuguese bonds failed to
stem concern that the sovereign-debt crisis is spreading.  German bunds and U.S. Treasuries slid while stocks advanced
as data on U.S. jobs bolstered optimism about the world economy,
weakening demand for the safest fixed-income assets. The ECB
raised  interest rates  for the second time this year as President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy in the euro region remains
“accommodative.” Irish bonds pared a drop after Fitch Ratings
analyst Chris Pryce said the nation is unlikely to default.  “There is a negative spiral for  Portugal , and there are
definite concerns about contagion to other bigger peripherals,”
said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.
“On balance, Trichet was on the hawkish side. We have seen a
minor rise in bund yields.”  The yield on two-year Portuguese notes was up 50 basis
points to 17.25 percent as of 4:10 p.m. in  London  after reaching
a record 18.28 percent. The 5.45 percent securities due in
September 2013 fell 0.71, or 7.10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,437)
face amount, to 79.73.  Spanish two-year note yields rose four basis points to 3.66
percent, Italian yields on securities of similar maturity
increased five basis points to 3.32 percent, and Greek two-year
note yields were up 38 basis points to 28.83 percent.  ECB Collateral  European officials remain at loggerheads over the best way
to handle the crisis, which took another lurch forward this week
when Portugal’s debt was cut below investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service two days ago. Discussions over how to include
private investors in a second bailout for Greece are ongoing,
with the uncertainty helping to drive up borrowing costs at
other nations’ debt sales.  Trichet said in  Frankfurt  today that policy makers
suspended “the minimum credit-rating threshold” for Portuguese
debt used in repurchase operations, similar to measures already
taken for Greece and Ireland to support local banks. He also
maintained his view that the central bank is unwilling to
sanction a default by a euro-area nation.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said private
investors may have to be forced into contributing to the new
Greek aid package, according to an interview in Dutch newspaper
Het Financieele Dagblad.  Irish Outlook  Irish two-year note yields were 31 basis points higher at
15.61 percent after earlier reaching a record 16.04 percent.  “Our ratings, which are investment grade, reflect the view
that we certainly don’t believe that Ireland is likely to
default,” Fitch’s Pryce said in a telephone interview today.  Developments in  Greece  haven’t been “sufficient” to
change Fitch’s views on Ireland at this stage, Pryce said. Fitch
has a BBB+ rating on Ireland.  Spanish borrowing costs increased as the nation auctioned 3
billion euros of debt today.  Spain   sold  1.5 billion euros of
five-year notes at an average yield of 4.871 percent, up from
4.549 percent in a May auction. It also sold 1.5 billion euros
of three-year notes for an average yield of 4.291 percent,
compared with 4.037 percent in a June 2 tender.  France  also sold
8.4 billion euros of debt.  German two-year yields were little changed at 1.58 percent.
Ten-year yields increased four basis points to 2.97 percent.  Companies in the U.S. added 157,000 workers to their
payrolls in June, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services, bolstering confidence in the labor market before
tomorrow’s government employment report. German industrial
production rose 1.2 percent in May, after declining a revised
0.8 percent in April, exceeding the 0.8 percent median estimate
of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  German bonds returned 0.6 percent this year, compared with
2.7 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 2.6 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 