-- 
German Stocks Rise as Industrial Production Tops Forecast; SAP Advances

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-07T12:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/german-stocks-rise-as-industrial-production-tops-forecast-sap-advances.html
German stocks rose as industrial
production topped economists’ forecasts, offsetting an increase
in the  European Central Bank ’s key interest rate.  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, led gains as analysts recommended the shares.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the maker of luxury and Mini-
branded cars, and  Linde AG (LIN)  climbed.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  retreated
the most in more than a year after selling a 9.6 percent stake.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 53.04, or 0.7 percent, to 7,484.23 at
2:25 p.m. in Frankfurt. The gauge has rebounded to within 1
percent of this year’s high on May 2 as Greek lawmakers passed a
five-year austerity package, qualifying the country for further
aid from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .
The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also increased 0.7 percent today.  “We continue to recommend a level of risk that is modestly
above the neutral level, hence our ongoing stance on developed-
market equities,” said  Kevin Gardiner , head of global
investment strategy at Barclays Wealth in  London . “The best for
stocks is yet to come.”  Industrial production in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
increased more than economists forecast in May, led by rising
output of investment goods such as machines.  Production jumped 1.2 percent from April, when it fell a
revised 0.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.8 percent, the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, output
rose 7.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  U.S. Employment  The DAX extended gains after an ADP Employer Services
report showed companies in the U.S. added 157,000 workers to
their payrolls in June. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an advance of 70,000.  The ECB raised the euro-zone’s key interest rate by 25
basis points to 1.5 percent after council members met in
 Frankfurt  today. The central bank may increase borrowing costs
further in the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists.  SAP advanced 2.4 percent to 43.09 euros, its seventh
consecutive gain for the longest winning streak in five months.
UBS AG and Morgan Stanley advised investors to buy the shares
before the company’s July 27 second-quarter earnings report.  “Our checks suggest the second quarter saw a nice rebound
in large deal activity, both in the U.S. and Europe,” UBS
analysts wrote in a report on SAP today.  BMW, ThyssenKrupp  BMW gained 2.1 percent to 69.24 euros. Linde, the world’s
second-biggest maker of industrial gases, climbed 1.5 percent to
123.45 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, plunged 5.7
percent to 32.77 euros, the biggest decline since May 2010. The
company said it sold 49.5 million shares at 32.95 euros apiece,
raising 1.63 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to lower debt.  “No matter the reasons behind it, such a move will always
be taken negatively by the market,” Anindya Mohinta, a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in London, wrote in a report today. “We
still like the assets, and a stronger balance sheet will bolster
the longer term investment case. However, we would expect some
near term underperformance in the wake of this large placing.”  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
lost 1 percent to 55.41 euros. Chinese rival Li Ning Co. tumbled
16 percent in Hong Kong after saying its first-half sales
declined by about 5 percent and its profit margin narrowed 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  