-- 
Ghana’s Cedi to Gain to Strongest Since June by End-July, Standard Says

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-07T15:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ghana-s-cedi-to-gain-to-strongest-since-june-by-end-july-standard-says.html
Ghana ’s cedi may appreciate to the
strongest since the start of June by the end of the month as
foreign investors purchase the local currency before a sale of
five-year bonds, according to  Standard Bank  Group Ltd.  The currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
is poised to gain to 1.5000 per dollar, the strongest intraday
level since June 6, from 1.5160 per dollar reached by 1:30 p.m.
in Accra, the capital, today, Chris Nettey, a currency trader at
the local unit of Standard Bank, said by phone.  The Bank of Ghana is offering 300 million cedis ($198
million) of notes due 2016, the first sale of five-year bonds in
3 1/2 year on July 28. The West African nation’s three-month
borrowing costs have retreated to within 10 basis points of the
lowest in at least four years as inflation slows. The cedi,
which reached the weakest in at least 17 years against the
dollar on Feb. 3, has strengthened 4.2 percent since then.  “We expect a successful auction because of a relatively
stable cedi,” he said. “The  Bank of Ghana  has been very active
on the  currency market  nowadays, providing liquidity that helps
in meeting dollar demand.”  The central bank sold between $20 million and $25 million
today, Jacob Brobbey, a currency trader at the local unit of
Barclays Bank Plc said by phone. “The bank’s dollar sales and
bond auctions help to keep the market liquid,” he said.  The central bank monitors the currency market on daily
basis and gives liquidity support when it sees the need for it,
Collins Antwi, assistant director at the treasury department of
the central bank, said by phone today, declining to confirm
whether the bank sold dollars today.  The nation’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate
by half a percentage point to 12.5 percent yesterday a four-year
low. Inflation decelerated to 8.9 percent in May, the weakest
pace of price gains this year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 