-- 
Goldman, Morgan Stanley Stay Bullish on Oil, Copper on Demand Recovery

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-07T10:55:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/goldman-morgan-stanley-stay-bullish-on-oil-copper-as-economy-to-recover.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan
Stanley kept their bullish view on oil and copper, predicting a
global recovery in the second half that will push up prices.  Both banks maintained their Brent-crude forecasts even
after a 4.2 percent decline in the second quarter. The world
economy will accelerate in the second half, boosting demand and
helping raw materials with supply constraints, Goldman analysts
led by London-based  Jeffrey Currie  said in a report dated today.  Commodity prices tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials lost 7.8 percent in the second
quarter, the worst performance since 2008, as a record
earthquake hit Japan, the U.S. expansion slowed and  China 
tightened monetary policy. Commodity assets under management
dropped $26 billion in May, the most since October 2008,
according to  Barclays Capital .  “Prices and returns will rise further later this year and
into 2012,” the Goldman analysts said. The S&P GSCI Enhanced
Index will return 20 percent in the next 12 months, they said.  Europe’s sovereign-debt problems as well as China’s above-
target inflation will continue to create near-term volatility,
Goldman said. China, the world’s top consumer of energy, metals
and grains, raised its benchmark  interest rates  by 25 basis
points yesterday, the third time this year after inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace since July 2008.  The  U.S. economy  will expand between 2.7 percent to 2.9
percent this year, down from forecasts ranging from 3.1 percent
to 3.3 percent in April, the  Federal Reserve  said last month.  Brent Crude  Goldman predicted Brent crude will advance to $130 a barrel
in a year’s time, while  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts led by New York-
based Hussein Allidina said it will average $120 this year,
increasing to $130 in 2012.  Brent crude oil advanced 0.8 percent to $114.51 a barrel as
of 10:43 a.m. London time today.  Oil prices will be “pressured” in coming weeks after a
release of strategic oil stockpiles by member countries of the
International Energy Agency and will rise later in the year as
inventories shrink, Morgan Stanley said.  “We remain bullish oil, particularly in the second half,
and expect inventory draws will prompt OPEC to increase
production, at the expense of spare capacity,” Allidina said in
the report dated yesterday.  Copper will benefit from Chinese demand as the world’s
largest buyer has started restocking, Allidina said. The metal
will increase to $11,000 a metric ton in 12 months, Goldman
said, also citing increased purchases from China.  Buy Corn, Soybeans  Investors should buy corn and soybeans, Morgan Stanley
said, after prices tumbled 17 percent and 6 percent last month.
“We view the recent weakness in agriculture prices as a buying
opportunity,” the analysts said.  Not every firm is as bullish on commodities. There could be
a “bull trap,” said  Edward Meir , senior commodity analyst at
MF Global Holdings in Darien,  Connecticut .  Europe ’s debt crisis has not yet ended because other
nations apart from Greece such as Portugal, Italy and Spain have
similar problems, he said. U.S. unemployment, higher interest
rates in the euro zone and China are among factors that “do not
make the case for being long commodities that compelling,” Meir
said in a report received today.  The  European Central Bank  will raise interest rates for a
second time this year, increasing the benchmark by 25 basis
points to 1.5 percent, when council members meet in Frankfurt
today, according to all 55 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. The central bank may increase borrowing costs
further in the fourth quarter, according to a separate survey.  Goldman said there is “upside” to natural gas prices at
the U.K. National Balancing Point because of a “tightening
shift” in the global market for liquefied natural gas after the
shutdown of some nuclear plants in  Japan  and the loss of Libyan
oil and gas exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  