-- 
Gold May Advance Next Week as Debt Concerns Boost Demand, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gold-may-advance-next-week-as-debt-concerns-boost-demand-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as debt concerns in
 Europe  and the U.S. spur demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth, a survey found.  Fourteen of 18 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 78 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Two
predicted lower prices and two were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was up 3 percent for this week at $1,527.80 an ounce by
11:39 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It reached a
record $1,577.40 on May 2.  Gold rose to within 2.7 percent of its all-time high this
week as Moody’s Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s credit rating
to below investment grade, making it the second euro-area nation
after  Greece  to be downgraded to so-called junk status by the
company. President  Barack Obama  struggled to reach a compromise
with opposition Republican lawmakers who are seeking spending
cuts before they agree to raise the nation’s borrowing limit.  “Debt contagion seems to be back on the agenda, prompting
diversification back into safe-havens,” said  James Moore , an
analyst at TheBullionDesk.com in London. “Data has shown a big
reduction in fund longs in recent weeks and suggests scope for
gains as players rebuild their exposure.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position in New York gold futures by 18 percent
in the week ended June 28, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data. Speculative long positions, or bets
prices will rise, are down 23 percent since April.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of July 1.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 212 of 370 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 14 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 