-- 
Liberty Mutual, Safeco Sue Goldman Alleging Securities Fraud

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-07T20:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/goldman-sachs-sued-for-alleged-fraud-by-liberty-mutual-peerless-insurance.html
Liberty Mutual  Insurance Co. and
Safeco Corp. sued  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for “making
misleading statements and omissions” in a preferred-stock
offering for  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FMCC)  in 2007.  The plaintiffs, which also include Peerless Insurance Co.,
said they invested $37.5 million in the offering of  Freddie Mac 
shares, which Goldman underwrote, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Boston.  Goldman claimed Freddie Mac “already met its regulatory
capital requirements” and that the offering was made to
increase the mortgage company’s capital base, the plaintiffs
said.  “The stated purpose for the offering was false,” the
plaintiffs said in the complaint. “Goldman knew or recklessly
ignored that Freddie Mac did not meet its regulatory  capital
requirements , and Freddie Mac remained severely undercapitalized
even after the sale of the preferred stock.”  “The suit is without merit and we intend to contest it
vigorously,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, said in a telephone interview.  The insurers are seeking damages of more than $100 million
and a trial by jury. They said in the complaint that their
investments are “virtually worthless.”  Subprime Defaults  Freddie Mac, based in McLean, Virginia, is a corporation
chartered by Congress to provide liquidity to the U.S. mortgage
market. It buys mortgage loans from banks and bundles them into
mortgage-backed securities that are sold to investors.  In 2006,  home prices  in the U.S. began to decline and
subprime mortgage loans, given to homeowners who don’t have the
highest credit ratings, began to default at increasing rates.  Freddie Mac issued 240 million shares of Series Z preferred
shares in November 2007, raising about $5.9 billion, according
to the lawsuit. The shares were backed by “billions of dollars
in subprime residential mortgages,” the suit claimed.  Goldman’s bets against subprime-backed securities resulted
in a profit of $3.7 billion in 2007, the insurance companies
claimed in the suit.  Goldman Sachs rose $1.12, or 0.8 percent, to $135.01 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Freddie Mac
was little changed at 37 cents in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
Boston-based Liberty, Seattle-based Safeco and Keene, New
Hampshire-based Peerless don’t trade publicly.  The case is Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs &
Co., 11-11194, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
( Boston ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 