-- 
Google Mulling Who Testifies Before Senate

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-08T15:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/google-still-deliberating-whom-to-send-to-senate-subcommittee.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is still deliberating
over which executive to send to a U.S. Senate panel probing its
market power, Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said.  “We have not made a decision yet,” Schmidt said yesterday
at a media-industry conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho. “It’s a
legal question of who is best to represent the company. We’ll
make a decision soon.”  The antitrust subcommittee has asked Google to provide a
top executive who could deliver testimony, and has threatened to
issue subpoenas to compel Schmidt or Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  to attend.  The Senate probe reflects a groundswell of scrutiny of
Google’s competitive position. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
is probing the business, as is the European Union. Separately,
the antitrust division of the  Department of Justice  is reviewing
Google’s $400 million purchase of the Internet-advertising
company Admeld Inc.  In a letter dated June 10, the Democratic chairman and
leading Republican on the Senate antitrust subcommittee asked
Google to provide one of the company’s two senior executives
before Congress’s August recess. The letter urged an agreement,
to avoid “more formal procedures,” according to a copy
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Beyond ‘Legal Issues’  Google offered to have Chief Legal Officer David Drummond
appear at the hearing, according to the letter.  The subcommittee would “strongly prefer” Page or Schmidt
at the proceeding, “which will address fundamental questions of
business operations rather than merely legal issues,” according
to the letter.  The FTC is preparing for its probe by asking technology
companies to gather information about Google, three people
familiar with the matter said in April. In his remarks
yesterday, Schmidt referred to previous FTC investigations,
which include the review of its AdMob acquisition and probes
into the privacy implications of its Street View and Google Buzz
products.  “They know us pretty well,” Schmidt said.  Google’s chairman recently met with European Union
officials during a trip to Brussels, he said yesterday. That
body is still reviewing Google’s answers to a round of
questioning, Schmidt said. European investigators have contacted
800 companies, he said.  Schmidt said he doesn’t know how long the  Justice
Department ’s review of its Admeld acquisition could take.  Twitter, Hulu  He also discussed other topics, such as a failed agreement
with Twitter Inc. and Google’s new social-networking site
Google+. Google couldn’t reach a search accord with Twitter
after “lengthy” talks, Schmidt said. Google+, meanwhile, has
struggled with a flood of users. Millions of invited users were
blocked by the service, he said.  Schmidt declined to comment on whether Google is interested
in buying Hulu LLC, the video-streaming service. Bankers for
Hulu have met with Google, Yahoo Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as the
company explores a sale, people familiar with the process said
last week.  “We are not able to answer M&A questions,” Schmidt said.
“But it’s widely reported that Hulu is being discussed.”  He said acquiring a premium-content service like Hulu “is
not the highest priority” for Google now because its own YouTube
video site is doing well with revenue generation and developing
original content.  Hulu’s owners include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp . and
Comcast Corp.’s NBC Universal. Disney CEO  Robert Iger  said this
week that Hulu’s owners are “committed to selling.”  Google fell $18.19, or 3.3 percent, to $528.41 at 11:28
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had declined 8 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  