-- 
Google, Nortel, Apple, Anheuser-Busch: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-07T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/google-nortel-apple-anheuser-busch-lvmh-intellectual-property.html
Paul G. Allen’s claims that 11
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Apple Inc. infringed his
business’s online-shopping technology should remain on hold
while the U.S. government reviews the quality of its patents,
the defendants said in a filing in federal court in Seattle.  U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman issued an order June 16
that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office be given time to
evaluate whether the four patents cover novel inventions.
Allen’s Interval Licensing LLC has asked that her decision to be
reconsidered.  The defendants, which also include  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Facebook Inc.
and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , said July 5 that the judge’s decision “was
correct and based on a reasoned analysis.”  In granting the request to put the case on hold, the judge,
who has yet to rule on Interval’s request, said the agency
review could “reshape” the patents. The patents, which mainly
cover common electronic-commerce applications for displaying and
categorizing product information, were obtained from a defunct
computer-science and communications research business Microsoft
co-founder Allen and David Liddle formed in 1992.  Allen, 58, controls Seattle-based Interval, a patent-
licensing company that is seeking unspecified cash compensation
and a court order to block further use of the inventions. The
other six companies named in the lawsuit, filed in August, are
AOL Inc.,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
Yahoo! Inc. and Google’s YouTube.  Pechman said that since Interval doesn’t compete with the
companies, it won’t lose any market share from the delay.  The companies in March had asked the patent office to take
a second look at the patents and then asked the court to put the
case on hold until that review could be completed. Interval said
the case had progressed while awaiting the judge’s decision and
in a June 24 filing called the delay “unproductive.” The
patent office has rejected some of the arguments the companies
put forth, Interval said.  The companies said people hired to analyze the case “could
simply pick up where they left off” if the patent office
upholds the patents in their current form, so no work would be
lost.  Interval Licensing owns the patents from Interval Research,
a computer-science and communications researcher that Allen shut
in 2000. Interval Research helped fund outside projects,
including work by Google founders Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page,
according to a statement announcing the suit. Allen has
maintained ownership of the patents through companies he
controls.  The lead case is Interval Licensing LLC v.  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
10cv1385, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  Canada  Looking Into Whether Nortel Patent Sale Needs Review  Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis has asked his
department to determine whether the country’s foreign investment
review process applies to the sale of Nortel Networks Corp.
patents to a group led by Apple Inc.  “The minister has asked his officials to look into how the
Investment Canada Act may apply to this transaction,” Stefanie
Power, a spokeswoman for the department, said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News.  Under Canada’s investment legislation, foreign acquisitions
of companies with assets worth more than C$312 million ($323
million) are reviewed by the federal government to determine
whether the transaction is a “net benefit” to the country.  Siemens Osram Unit Claims Against LG, Samsung to Get ITC Review  Patent-infringement complaints filed by  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram
unit against  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
over light-emitting diode technology will be reviewed by a U.S.
trade agency.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said yesterday it
had begun two investigations of complaints filed by Osram. One
is against both companies and the other against LG alone,
according to notices posted on the Washington-based agency’s
website.  The patents involve technology used in LED displays for
light-conversion and electrical and thermal connections in
backlighting for TV sets and monitors, Munich-based Osram has
said. LEDs, which require less energy than traditional lighting,
are increasingly used in electronics, home lighting and
automobiles.  The ITC typically completes its investigations in about 15
to 18 months and has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe U.S. patents. In addition to LG and Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung, the complaints also name LG Innotek
Co., which is part-owned by Seoul-based LG.  The LG case is In the Matter of Certain Light-Emitting
Diodes and Products containing the Same, 337-784, and the case
against both companies is In the Matter of Certain Light-
Emitting Diodes, 337-785, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Registers Freeway Number, Map Diagram as Trademark  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which is presently involved in a battle with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over the “App Store” trademark, registered the
number designating a freeway as a trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Apple registered “280” as a trademark June 28.  The company, known for its iPad and iPhone portable
devices, said it will use the mark for “computer software for
use in searching, finding and viewing geographic locations and
related contact information and for providing directions and
traffic information sold as a feature of computers and handheld
mobile digital electronic devices comprised of mobile phones,
digital audio and video players, handheld computers, personal
digital assistants, and electronic personal organizers.”  The I-280 freeway runs from San Jose to  San Francisco ,
skirting the San Andreas fault. It’s also known as the  Junipero
Serra  Freeway, named in honor of the Franciscan friar who
established  a chain of 21 missions  running from San Diego to
Sonoma,  California .  Apple’s headquarters  in Cupertino, California, are less
than 500 feet from the I-280 freeway.  Apple’s trademark includes the red and blue shield that’s a
symbol of the Interstate Highway System superimposed on the map
of the freeway intersection next to Apple’s offices. The image
also contains a gray and red pin symbol of the kind used on maps
to pinpoint a particular location.  Anheuser-Busch Applies to Register Area Codes as Beer Trademarks  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s largest brewer, is
seeking trademark registration for 14 clusters of numbers that
appear to be area codes.  According to applications filed May 20 with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, the brewing giant seeks to use the marks
with beer.  Among the numbers are 415, which is San Francisco’s area
code; 314, which is used in  St. Louis ; 202, the area code for
Washington, D.C., 713 for Houston; and 303 for Denver.  The area codes could be used as identifiers for regional
craft beers. According to the Boulder, Colorado-based Brewers
Association, while beer sales fell 1 percent in 2010,  craft beer
sales rose 5 percent  in the same period.  LVMH, Burberry Receive Canada’s Largest Trademark Judgment  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (LVMUY) , the Paris-based luxury
goods company, and London clothier  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  won the
largest judgment in a Canadian trademark-infringement case,
 Agence France-Presse   reported .  Canada’s federal court awarded the two companies a total
award of C$2.5 million ($2.6 million), to be paid by three
Canadian companies, Singga, Carnation Fashion and Altec,
according to AFP.  The court said the defendant companies’ actions in creating
and importing counterfeit merchandise was “egregious,” AFP
reported.  Vuitton said in a statement that the defendants had been
selling infringing merchandise since January 2008, according to
AFP.  U.K.’s ‘Money Saving Expert’ Wins Trademark Battle Against CCL  A U.K. consumer expert won a trademark fight against a
claims-management service, the Belfast Telegraph  reported .  Martin Lewis, who operates the  MoneySavingExpert.com 
website, sued Client Connection Ltd. of Swansea,  Wales , for
infringing his “money-saving expert” trademark, according to
the Telegraph.  Lewis, who has 5 million readers for his consumer-advice
website, persuaded the court that the mark was “distinctive to
claimant,” the Telegraph reported.  The court said that Client Connection was “riding the coat
tails” of the “money-saving expert” mark, to benefit from
“its power of attraction, its reputation and its prestige,”
according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Stephens’ Righthaven Hit With Attorney Fees in Copyright Case  In another blow to Stephens Media Group’s copyright-
infringement campaign against those who’ve posted some of its
newspapers stories and photos on their websites without
authorization, a federal judge in Las Vegas awarded attorney
fees to a defendant’s lawyer.  The cases have been pursued by Las Vegas-based Righthaven
LLC, which has claimed to own the copyrights to Stephens’
various publications content. That assertion of ownership has
been at issue in some of the more than 200 cases Righthaven has
filed.  In a case against the owners of the veteranstoday.com
website, Righthaven claimed its copyright was infringed with the
site posted a story from the Las Vegas Review-Journal about an
Army veteran’s murder. That suit was filed in federal court in
Las Vegas in September 2010.  In November Righthaven filed an amended complaint adding
Denise Nichols, a member of veteranstoday.com’s board of
directors, as a defendant.  In a May 2011 court filing, Righthaven dismissed Nichols as
a defendant “in view of her extensive prior military service to
the United States of America and in view of her apparent medical
condition.”  Michael Leon, one of the other defendants, was dismissed
from the case after the court determined in April 2010 that he
hadn’t been served properly with a complaint. Leon’s attorney
then sought an award of attorney fees, which was opposed by
Righthaven.  Righthaven argued that because Leon was represented pro
bono, the fees should be paid instead to a charitable
organization.  In an order filed July 5, U.S. District Judge Gloria M.
Navarro disagreed. She said it was appropriate to award fees to
Leon’s lawyer because denying the fees would discourage pro bono
representation. She said the lawyer’s fees of $275 an hour are
reasonable in the Las Vegas legal market, and that the 13.8
hours spent in Leon’s representation were also reasonable.  She ordered Righthaven to pay $3,815 in legal fees.  Leon is represented by  James Malcolm DeVoy  of the  Randazza
Legal Group  of Las Vegas.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Michael Leon, 2:10-cv-01672,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 