-- 
Greek Debt Rollover Discussions Among Bank Said to Move Back to Rome Today

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-07-07T09:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/greek-debt-rollover-discussions-among-bank-said-to-move-back-to-rome-today.html
Discussions on how to include banks
and insurers in Greece’s next crisis aid package have moved back
to  Rome , according to a person familiar with the matter.  Representatives of the Institute of International Finance,
whose members include financial companies that hold Greek debt,
are taking part in the talks hosted by Vittorio Grilli, head of
the European Union’s Economic and Finance Committee, which helps
prepare policy for European finance ministers, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. Grilli is also Italy’s director general of the
treasury.  The talks are part of Europe-wide efforts to get creditors
to share the burden of a second Greek bailout a year after a 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) package failed to stop the debt
crisis from spreading. Finance ministers are scheduled to gather
July 11-12 in Brussels to discuss  Greece  and other matters.  German and French lenders are the biggest foreign holders
of Greek debt. A proposal from French banks to roll over 70
percent of debt maturing by mid-2014 into new 30-year Greek
bonds backed by AAA-rated collateral was dealt a blow on July 4,
when  Standard & Poor’s  said it would likely lead to a default
rating.  Charles Dallara , the IIF’s managing director, told
Bloomberg News yesterday that a temporary default might be
helpful to Greece’s efforts to escape the crisis. His comments,
which contrasted with the opposition to default by the  European
Central Bank , European Union and Greece itself, came as Germany
revived a proposal for a bond swap to lengthen Greek debt
maturities.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said private
industry may have to be forced into contributing to a new Greek
aid package, Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad wrote
today, citing an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 