-- 
Gross’s Total Return ETF Will Charge 0.55% in Fees, Pimco Says

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-07T16:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gross-s-total-return-etf-will-charge-0-55-in-fees-pimco-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
first active exchange-traded fund to be run by  Bill Gross  will
charge annual fees of 0.55 percent, as the firm seeks to expand
in the fastest-growing industry segment.  Pimco disclosed the cost for the Pimco Total Return
Exchange-Traded Fund in a filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco
said in April it planned an ETF that will follow a strategy
similar to Gross’s top-ranked $242.8 billion Total Return bond
mutual fund. The institutional share class of the mutual fund,
available in some retirement accounts, carries an expense ratio
of 0.46 percent, while the fund’s most widely used retail share
classes charge fees ranging from 0.75 percent to 0.85 percent.  Gross, 67, is the most prominent  fund manager  to offer his
investment strategy in an ETF format. Total Return, the world’s
largest mutual fund, has climbed an average of 9 percent
annually in the past five years to beat 99 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, which is
diversifying beyond bond mutual funds under Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed El-Erian, pushed into ETFs two years ago.  “This has been a very deliberate and thoughtful process,”
Don Suskind, head of Pimco’s ETF product-management group, said
in an interview. “Through the ETF vehicle, we thought there
could be a broader set of investors that can access the Total
Return strategy.”  ETF Surge  In offering an ETF version of its Total Return approach,
Pimco sought to satisfy demand from financial advisers who are
increasingly using ETFs to allocate money for their clients,
Tammie J. Arnold, a Pimco managing director, said in an
interview.  ETF assets have surged more than 10-fold since 2001 to more
than $1 trillion as of May, according to the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute .  The funds hold baskets of securities while trading
throughout the day like stocks. Actively run versions seek to
combine the skill of a manager selecting investments with the
trading flexibility and tax advantages of ETFs, which typically
track an index. Thirty-four actively managed ETFs tracked by
Bloomberg collectively hold about $5.1 billion in assets. The
funds have an average expense ratio of 0.63 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  No Derivatives  Unlike the Total Return mutual fund, which uses a
combination of options, futures and swap agreements, Gross’s ETF
cannot invest in such derivatives. The SEC said in March 2010 it
wouldn’t approve new ETFs that make significant use of
derivatives, pending a review of the practice that is still
ongoing. Should the SEC lift the freeze, the Total Return ETF
would invest in derivatives, Pimco said in its April filing.  Pimco manages $3.4 billion globally in 18 ETFs, including
seven that are actively managed. In the U.S., Pimco has four
actively managed ETFs. Expense ratios for Pimco’s four actively
managed U.S. ETFs range from 0.35 percent to 0.45 percent,
according to the firm’s  website .  So far, Pimco’s actively managed ETFs have focused on
highly liquid markets, such as Treasuries, where other investors
mimicking the trades are less likely to affect prices. Fixed-
income investments are also more difficult to copy because
transactions don’t occur on an open exchange.  Pimco wasn’t very concerned that traders would try to mimic
Gross’s trades because his management style involves using a
“risk-based approach,” allowing him to use a range of
securities to achieve his investments goals, Arnold said.  “It is more of a concern in the active-equity space,”
Arnold said.  Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund will trade under
the ticker symbol TRXT, the firm said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  