-- 
Gulf Turmoil Sparks Boom for Private Bankers as Richest Protect Their Cash

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-07-07T07:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gulf-turmoil-sparks-boom-for-private-bankers-as-richest-protect-their-cash.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  are among banks boosting their wealth management
operations to attract Middle Eastern clients as the region’s
richest seek to protect their cash amid political turmoil.  Former Credit Agricole SA banker Albert Momdjian will join
UBS in August to head and expand its wealth unit in emerging
markets, while Coutts, the private banking unit of RBS, plans to
more than double its team over four years, Middle East managing
partner Chris Allen said in May. Julius Baer Group Ltd. last
month hired Credit Suisse AG’s Edmond Carton to head its Middle
East business and five bankers began work at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
Geneva this month to target  Middle East  clients.  “In the countries that saw the most turmoil, some private
savings have naturally been transferred abroad to international
banks and international banking centers,” said Florence Eid,
founder and chief executive officer of  Arabia Monitor , a London-
based research and advisory firm. “Arab private money has
always sought safe havens in times of turmoil.”  The regional unrest that has toppled presidents in Egypt
and  Tunisia  and has spread to Syria, Yemen and  Saudi Arabia , is
prompting wealthy people from the most troubled countries to
turn to more stable markets such as the  United Arab Emirates .
Deposits held by U.A.E. banks increased 7 percent to 1,123.5
billion dirhams ($306 billion) during the first five months of
the year, surpassing the increase for the whole of the previous
year, according to data from the U.A.E.’s central bank.  Vote of Confidence  “Many U.A.E. bankers report an increased level of business
with clients from countries most directly affected by the
political unrest” such as  Egypt , said Sven-Olaf Vathje, partner
and managing director of The  Boston Consulting Group  Middle
East. “This is a clear vote of confidence on the stability of
the U.A.E. as the region’s leading banking hub.”  Amid the turmoil, some governments, mainly in Western
Europe, have frozen the assets of political figures associated
with dictatorial regimes. The European Union, U.K. and U.S. have
frozen the  Libyan Investment Authority ’s assets to cut off
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime from access to funding after its forces
killed hundreds of civilians. This has also led to rise in
transactions, according to Boston Consulting Group.  “Many clients are concerned about the way offshore centers
might react to these developments,” Boston Consulting said in a
May report. “Under the mistaken belief that their own assets
could be in jeopardy, clients are transferring their wealth to
countries that have not taken such action against politically
exposed persons.”  Combined Wealth  Banks also consider the Middle East as a long-term growth
market where economic expansion and high  oil prices  are driving
prosperity. In the past three years, many international private
banks such as Zurich-based Clariden Leu AG have moved managers
from hubs such as  Switzerland  to Dubai and other Gulf cities.  The number of high-net-worth individuals in the Middle East
rose 10.4 percent to 400,000 last year, while their combined
wealth rose 12.5 percent to $1.7 trillion, according to the
 Capgemini and Merrill Lynch 2011 World Wealth Report . The rate
of growth in the size and wealth of the region’s high-net-worth
individual population was higher than any other regions,
according to the June 22 report. In 2009, growth in the Middle
East’s high-net-worth population lagged all other regions mainly
due to the financial crisis in Dubai and a decline in real
estate prices.  A high-net-worth individual is defined by the report as
someone with $1 million or more of financial assets.  Officials at  Julius Baer  and UBS couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment while a spokesman Barclays Wealth declined
to provide further details.  Basel Rules  Domestic banks are also competing for clients as global
banking regulators draw up new minimum liquidity rules as part
of last year’s Basel III rules that will more than triple the
amount of core capital lenders will have to hold. Wealth
management operations are attractive to banks because they
require less capital and provide funding for loans and generate
stable fees from investment services.  “The increased focus on wealth management by banks in
large part reflects a broader global trend towards businesses
with lower capital intensity as a result of post-crisis
regulatory changes,” said Gabriel Aractingi, managing director
of Morgan Stanley Private  Wealth Management  in Dubai.  U.A.E.-based banks faced a shortage of deposits from the
onset of the global financial crisis in September 2008 as
foreign investors speculating on a revaluation of the currency
pulled out and credit markets froze. The loan-to-deposits ratio
has declined to 93.4 percent in April this year, from 108
percent at the end of 2008. U.A.E.-based banks are also looking
at wealth management to lift revenue as income from  investment
banking  declined.  ‘Large Deposits’  “Many local banks are making a big push into private
banking,” Mark Stadler, global market head of  HSBC Private Bank 
in the Middle East and North Africa said in an interview May 30.
“They are looking at this as a way to address their asset
deposit ratio imbalances and get large deposits.”  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank,
may hire as many as 300 people for sales and private banking,
Jamal Bin Ghalaita, the lender’s deputy chief executive officer
said in December.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  plans to start an
Islamic private bank and wealth management division this year
and has hired former HSBC Private Bank regional CEO Stuart Crocker to head its operations, ADIB said in May.  “Until recently, the majority of the lending by banks in
the region was driven by ‘named based lending’ so there’s a
natural tendency for large family businesses to also turn to
local banks for their wealth management needs,” said Graham Hayward, head of Middle East region financial services for
 PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP in Bahrain. “The barriers to entry
for international banks are high, but the opportunities are a
lot higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  