-- 
Gulf Economies Lack of Diversification Hurts Banks, Moody’s Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-07T12:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/gulf-economies-lack-of-diversification-hurts-banks-moody-s-says.html
Gulf Cooperation Council nations’
banks will continue to face challenges with loan defaults
because the six economies aren’t diversified and a few companies
dominate many businesses, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The countries, which include  Saudi Arabia  and the  United
Arab Emirates , depend on oil and gas exports, which “magnifies
the impact of economic cycles on banks,” analysts led by  Khalid Howladar  said in a report e-mailed today. High  oil prices  from
2002 to 2008 boosted  government spending  to diversify the
economies and spurred the growth of the construction and real-
estate industries in these countries, the report said.  “The dominant role of governments and large family-owned
conglomerates in the region” also results in a concentration in
banks’ loan books and an outsized impact on loan quality if a
few large companies perform poorly or there is a decline in one
key sector, according to the report. Deteriorating credit
quality of the sizeable real-estate loans played a role across
the GCC in the past two years, according to the report.  The six GCC countries, which also include Qatar,  Kuwait ,
Bahrain and Oman, pump more than 20 percent of the world’s oil.
In 2010, lending to construction and real estate was a little
higher than 30 percent of bank loans in Bahrain and Kuwait and
about 20 percent in Qatar and the U.A.E., Moody’s said.  A more than 50 percent decline in property prices in Dubai
hurt state-owned Dubai World and other government-related
companies. Distressed loans to these companies made up 3 percent
or 4 percent or about half of Dubai’s banks total non-performing
loans ratio of 8 percent at the end of 2010, according to
Moody’s. In Saudi Arabia, defaults by the  Saad Group  and Ahmad
Hamad Al Gosaibi & Brothers Co. on at least $20 billion of loans
highlighted concentration risks, according to Moody’s.  “This overall lack of diversification makes the region,
and therefore its banks, more vulnerable to political, economic
and credit event risks,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  