-- 
Li Ning Plunges in Hong Kong After Company Says It Expects Sales Declines

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 
2011-07-07T12:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/li-ning-falls-most-in-6-months-in-hong-kong-after-saying-sales-to-decline.html
Li Ning  Co. slumped in Hong Kong
trading to its lowest close in more than two years after  China ’s
largest sportswear maker said it expects first-half sales and
profit margin to decline.  The shares fell 16 percent to HK$11.54 at the 4 p.m. close
in Hong Kong, the lowest since March 17, 2009. The company was
the worst performer in the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index.  Li Ning said its profit margin and sales in the six months
ended June 30 may have declined as competition intensified and
costs increased. First-half sales are expected to fall 5
percent, and the margin of profit attributable to equity holders
may narrow to as low as 6 percent from about 13 percent a year
earlier, the company said in a statement today.  “The expected margin is a lot worse than expected and
expenses are much higher,” said Forrest Chan, a Hong Kong-based
senior research analyst at CCB International Holding Ltd. He has
an “underperform” rating on the company.  Two calls to Chief Executive Officer Zhang Zhiyong at Li
Ning’s Shanghai office went unanswered.  The overall expense ratio will increase by 7 percentage
points in the first half from 32 percent a year earlier, Li Ning
said in the statement.  Olympic Gymnast  Li Ning, founded by the former Olympic gymnast of the same
name, said March 16 income growth in China “has not quite
translated into a sustainable increase in purchasing power for
sporting goods.”  Chinese competitors also followed Li Ning’s decline today.
 Anta Sports Products Ltd. (2020)  dropped 5.4 percent, the most in seven
months, to HK$13.58. Peak Sport Products Ltd. declined for a
second to HK$5.38 and  361 Degrees International Ltd. (1361)  fell 4.4
percent to HK$4.62. The  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.1 percent today.  Price-to-earnings ratios for the companies have fallen
because some investors are skeptical about the sustainability of
their growth, said Sarah Xing, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP
Paribas.  “There’s definitely problems within the industry,” said
Xing, who has a “hold” rating on both Li Ning and Anta Sports.  Anta’s sales volume for athletic footwear grew 9 percent in
the first quarter and the number of stores reached 7,625 at the
end of March, the company said in a May 13 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James in Hong Kong at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  