-- 
Liberal Fears Imperil Justice’s Job: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/liberal-fears-threaten-a-justice-s-job-commentary-by-stephen-l-carter.html

(Corrects second paragraph to indicate Breyer is second-oldest
among Democratic-appointed justices.)  On election night 1980, after the
scope of  Ronald Reagan ’s landslide became clear, a major
television network solemnly reported that Justice Thurgood
Marshall had told friends that he planned to step down from the
 Supreme Court  and allow the defeated president,  Jimmy Carter , to
nominate a successor. I was serving as a law clerk for Marshall
at the time, and can state categorically that nothing could have
been further from the truth.  This bit of history comes to mind because of the growing
chorus calling for Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  to step down. A
recent Associated Press  article  related what “Democrats and
liberals” consider a “nightmare vision of the Supreme Court’s
future” -- to wit, that President Obama loses his re-election
bid, and Ginsburg, now 78 and the oldest member of the court,
retires due to ill health. The horror story continues: “The new
Republican president appoints Ginsburg’s successor, cementing
conservative domination of the court.” The solution seems to be
that Ginsburg (and  Stephen Breyer , 72, second-oldest among the
justices appointed by Democrats) ought to leave the court now,
“for the good of the issues they believe in.”  The late constitutional scholar Alexander Bickel famously
referred to the Supreme Court as “the most extraordinarily
powerful court of law the world has ever known.” No surprise,
then, that the court evokes such extraordinarily powerful
passions in our politics. It always has. In every presidential
election year, candidates warn that their opponents will appoint
justices who will twist constitutional law in scary directions.
It is almost as though we are electing the justices along with
the chief executive.  A Creepy Pastime  Among the creepiest passions the Supreme Court evokes is
the deathwatch. The creepiness most commonly occurs when
activists whose party happens to be in power root all but openly
for the passing (euphemistically, the “retirement”) of
justices they consider unlikely to vote their way, before the
other party takes the reins.  Today’s pressure on Ginsburg, like yesterday’s pressure on
Marshall, represents an equally creepy passion: The insidious
hope that the justices one party likes will retire while their
side still has the opportunity to replace them.  Both passions arise from the same mistake -- the belief
that judges exist, in effect, to serve a constituency.  Ninety years ago, the British jurist James Bryce, in his
study of the American constitutional system,  noted  admiringly
that the justices of the Supreme Court were “firm to resist any
popular agitation.” Absent this ability to stand outside the
political battles, Bryce argued, there was no available response
to the charge that the justices were merely substituting their
own views for those of the legislature.  Fealty to Constitution  Indeed, the supposed impartiality of the justices is always
cited -- as it should be -- when critics complain about
decisions they dislike. “Impartiality” means not that members
of the court have no views, but that their ultimate fealty is to
the Constitution and the institution they serve, rather than to
particular issues or movements.  No doubt the Supreme Court’s ability to resist the sway of
the political moment is at least partly a myth. But the myth is
worth preserving, for if we once concede that the justices are
mere functionaries of political movements, the argument for
paying attention to their edicts is, at a stroke, eviscerated.  The justices understand this, which is why they tend to
view political pressure with aggravation. Consider again the
efforts to unseat Marshall in 1980. The story did not end on
election night. According to Marshall biographer Juan Williams,
Carter administration officials continued for weeks to pressure
the justice to resign. They believed that the defeated president
could nevertheless get his nominee confirmed by a Senate about
to flip from Democratic to Republican.  Marshall,  Williams says , not only resisted the pressure but
also was infuriated by it. As he should have been. It is no more
the business of the president to tell a justice when to step
down than it is the business of a justice to tell a president to
leave office. The authority of the executive branch over the
courts ends with nomination, and that of the legislative branch
ends with confirmation. After that, politicians are free to
complain about decisions they dislike, but they have no
constitutional business trying to rearrange the court’s
personnel to their liking.  The Real Boss  The justices should treat pressure from outside government
with the same disdain. According to the AP, Ginsburg intends to
ignore the calls for her to leave the court for the sake of
“the issues.” Good for her.  Here one might consider a story Justice William Douglas
loved to tell about Justice James McReynolds, who was, by
reputation, a brusque and unfriendly fellow. The court used to
hear arguments at noon. At two minutes of twelve one day, Chief
Justice Charles Evans Hughes noticed that McReynolds was not in
the robing room with the others, and sent a messenger to summon
him. The messenger told McReynolds that Hughes wanted him to
come at once. McReynolds famously replied, “Tell the Chief
Justice that I don’t work for him.”  If liberals calling for Ginsburg to step down believe that
she is somehow no longer up to the job, let them say so
forthrightly. Based on the best informed reports, such a claim
would be nonsense. If, on the other hand, they want Ginsburg to
stand aside to better serve the goals of their movement, then
she has an even better reason to ignore their plea: She doesn’t
work for them.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at Yale
and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the
Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column: Stephen L. Carter at
 stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column: Stacey Shick
at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 