-- 
Beware of Greeks Bearing New AAA-Rated Gifts: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/lies-con-games-and-greek-structured-finance-jonathan-weil.html
Structured finance helped turn  Greece 
into a disaster zone. It seems only natural that Greece would
look to structured finance once again to buy time.  The spark that accelerated Greece’s debt crisis early last
year was the revelation that Greek authorities had used some
fancy derivative trades a decade ago to mask the true size of
the country’s debt. Today it’s Greece’s creditors who are
dreaming up the wacky financial engineering, in hopes that the
European Union can keep pretending the nation isn’t bankrupt.  The term  structured finance  is simple to define, in spite
of the images of complexity it often evokes. It is the art of
making a transaction seem like something it isn’t, usually to
achieve some desired financial-reporting or tax result.  For example, when a publicly owned company needs cash but
doesn’t want to show more debt on its balance sheet, there’s a
good chance it can borrow the money and design the deal to look
like equity, even though in substance it’s a loan. Similarly,
Greece would like to find a way to pay its creditors less money
than it owes, while creating the appearance, in form, that it is
repaying them in full.  So here’s the  proposal  some French banks devised for a
“voluntary” rollover of Greek government debt. (“Voluntary,”
for these limited purposes, seems to be synonymous with
“coerced.”)  Under one option, creditors holding Greek bonds that mature
by June 2014 would invest at least 70 percent of their
redemption proceeds in new Greek bonds. The rest, as much as 30
percent, would be repaid in cash. The new bonds’ annual interest
rate would be 5.5 percent to 8 percent, depending on how well
Greece’s economy performs in a given year.  The Greek government would take 30 percent of the
bondholders’ investments and lend the money to a special-purpose
vehicle that would buy 30-year, AAA-rated zero-coupon  government
bonds . The special-purpose vehicle would guarantee the principal
on the new bonds in the event Greece can’t make good on them. In
essence, investors who own uncollateralized Greek bonds would
become subordinate to bondholders who own the new collateralized
version.  Under a second option, bondholders would invest at least 90
percent of their redemption proceeds in five-year Greek bonds
paying 5.5 percent annual interest. There would be no guarantee.  Both arrangements would constitute a default by any
objective measure. Getting new bonds from a basket case of a
country in lieu of cash isn’t what Greece’s creditors signed up
for originally. And who is still going to be AAA in a few years,
anyway? Even the U.S.’s AAA rating looks shaky.  Europe ’s leaders have been begging the credit-rating
companies to bless the rollover proposal, so far to no avail.
 Standard & Poor’s  has said it probably would treat the plan as a
default, although the designation might only be temporary.  Default Ratings  There would still be other options. The  European Central
Bank , itself a big holder of Greek government bonds, has long
said it would reject bonds with default ratings as collateral
for loans. It could always change that policy, so it could keep
lending to Greece’s banks and prevent them from collapsing.  Another player in this drama is the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association. This is the group of large banks that
determines when a default has occurred, for purposes of whether
to pay purchasers of credit-default swaps who bought insurance
on Greece’s bonds. The association’s general counsel in  London ,
David Geen, has said it probably wouldn’t treat a rollover as a
default. The association can decide however its members want, of
course. No doubt their collective self-interest will prevail.  Everybody knows the rules; there are no rules. Here
Europe’s political leaders have been trying desperately to pin
blame for the sovereign debt crisis on credit raters such as S&P
and Moody’s Investors Service. In May, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  sent the European
Union’s president a  letter  asking for an investigation of “the
possible role of the rating agencies in amplifying crises,” as
well as new proposals “to increase competition on the credit
rating market.”  The same politicians then backed the French banks’ rollover
plan, which depends on the ratings companies to determine the
collateral eligible for Greece’s bailout bonds. Not that Sarkozy
and his ilk care about logical consistencies. Their goal all
along has been to preserve the legal fiction of Greece’s
solvency, even if everyone knows it’s a lie.  Like all con games, structured finance works best when the
people doing it believe in the con. In this instance, they
clearly never did. Better to admit Greece can’t pay its debts
and then deal with the problem, rather than delay the reckoning.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  