-- 
Target, Limited Sales Beat Estimates in June Amid Discounts

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-07-07T20:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/limited-gap-retail-sales-beat-estimates-amid-discounts-lower-fuel-costs.html
Sales at U.S. retailers, led by
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and Limited Brands Inc., surpassed analysts’
estimates last month as discounts and lower  gas prices  in the
U.S. enticed consumers to spend. The companies’ shares surged.  Sales at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
climbed 4.5 percent, topping the average projection for a 3.1
percent gain from analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics Inc.
Limited, operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a 12
percent increase in same-store sales, surpassing the 4.4 percent
average estimate.  Shoppers took advantage of discounts that retailers
implemented in June to clear out inventory and make room for
back-to-school merchandise. Gas prices in the U.S. have declined
10 percent since a high of $3.99 for a gallon of unleaded on May
4, according to AAA.  “Consumers are beginning to feel incrementally more
comfortable and are being less cautious about their spending,”
said Steve Riordan, head of PRGX Global Inc.’s advisory services
unit, which consults for major retailers. “A higher level of
promotion is a new reality.”  Target, based in  Minneapolis , gained $3.23, or 6.7 percent,
to $51.67 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the largest gain since Aug. 18, 2009. Limited, based in
Columbus,  Ohio , rose $1.05, or 2.7 percent, to $40.36.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index surged 12.86
points, or 2.4 percent, to 557.26, the biggest gain since Nov.
24.  22nd Straight Gain  Sales for the 25 chains tracked by Retail Metrics climbed
7.2 percent, surpassing the average estimate for a 5.6 percent
increase. That marked the 22nd straight monthly gain from
September 2009 as 21 chains beat analysts’ projections.  “These sales were very robust,” said  Ken Perkins ,
president of Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics.
“Clearly, the promotions and great deals drove customers to
stores.”  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Victoria’s Secret, the lingerie retailer, led the gains at
Limited with a sales increase of 17 percent as the chain
conducted its semi-annual sale last month.  Target’s average transaction increased last month, and the
retailer said same-store sales may rise by as much as a mid-
single digit percentage rate in July.  Gap Rebounds  Gap Inc. (GPS) , which includes online revenue, increased sales 1
percent, beating projections for a drop of 2.4 percent, after
posting declines in three of the past four months. Revenue at
its Banana Republic chain in  North America , which discounted
heavily last month, rose 3 percent.  Costco Wholesale Group, the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, boosted sales 14 percent, topping projections for a gain
of 13.1 percent. Revenue excluding fluctuations in gasoline
prices and currencies rose 8 percent.  Last month included the Father’s Day holiday in the U.S.,
and Americans planned to spend an average of $106 on their dads,
a 13 percent increase from last year, according to the  National
Retail Federation .  While June’s sales topped expectations after a majority of
retailers missed projections in May, that doesn’t mean the back-
to-school season will be strong, says David Bassuk, head of the
global retail practice at AlixPartners in  New York . Retailers
will be trying to raise prices to offset higher input costs
while selling to consumers accustomed to discounts, he said.  “Not only are July and August critical months, it also
happens to be the height of when retailers are facing their
biggest price pressures,” Bassuk said. “It’s going to be a
painful margin time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  