-- 
INA Board Proposes $3.85 Billion in Development Investments

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-07-07T13:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ina-board-proposes-3-85-billion-in-development-investments-1-.html
INA  Industrija Nafte d.d., the energy
company controlled by Hungary’s Mol Nyrt., proposed spending 20
billion kuna ($3.85 billion) on investments by 2015, two-thirds
of which would stay in Croatia, a board member said.  Management is considering spending $1 billion on two
refineries including the development of the Rijeka refinery on
the Adriatic coast to European standards, Supervisory Board Vice
Chairman Gyorgy Mosonyi said in a statement today. INA’s second
refinery is in Sisak, 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of Zagreb.  Further developing the Sisak refinery would cost another $1
billion which “will never be a viable and profitable option,”
he said, adding that the board proposed to “analyze alternative
development scenarios to utilize Sisak in the future aiming to
safeguard the jobs.” He firmly rejected that there were plans
to close the Sisak refinery.  “Sisak is important for  Croatia , for the local economy and
for INA,” Mosonyi said. “It is one of INA’s strategic
assets.”  Croatia’s largest refiner is controlled by Mol, which holds
47.47 percent of the stock. Croatian government owns 44.84
percent. Tensions between the two have risen since Croatia said
it wants to review the contracts that have awarded management
rights to the Hungarian refiner.  Davor Stern, the chairman of the supervisory board who
represents the Croatian government, said in an interview today
that closing Sisak would “never go through, as long as this
board is in place.”  The management board will consult the strategy with
representatives of major shareholders and should approve the
mid-term strategy “as soon as possible,” Mosonyi said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon at   zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  