-- 
Inflation Bets Jumping to Four-Month High on Growth Outlook: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-07-07T21:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/inflation-bets-jump-to-four-month-high-on-growth-mexico-credit.html
Bond investors are raising their
estimates for Mexican inflation to a four-month high on
speculation quickening growth in the U.S., the nation’s biggest
trading partner, will drive up consumer demand.  The yield gap between inflation-linked debt due in 2014 and
similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, swelled 45 basis points, or
0.45 percentage point, in the past month to 414 yesterday, the
biggest since March 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In  Brazil , the so-called breakeven rate rose to a seven-week
high of 592 basis points.  Inflation in Mexico will quicken from an almost five-year
low as a resurgence in U.S. demand propels the expansion in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, according to Sergio Mendez, who helps manage 98.7 billion pesos ($8.5 billion) at
Afore XXI, Mexico’s sixth-largest pension fund. Consumer price
increases slowed to 3.2 percent in the 12 months through mid-
June and reached a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  “What we are seeing in the U.S. is a soft patch,” Mendez
said in a telephone interview in Mexico City. “The economy is
going to pick up speed again. All the conditions are set for the
drop in inflation to end.”  Mendez said he’s been buying inflation-linked debt and
plans to boost holdings further on a bet consumer price
increases will quicken to as much as 3.7 percent this year.  The yield on inflation-linked debt fell 50 basis points in
the past month to 1.69 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on fixed-rate notes dropped 5 basis points
to 5.83 percent.  ‘Upward Pressure’  Rising wages and credit expansion will cause inflation to
accelerate, said Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . The government increased the  minimum wage 
by 4 percent this year and credit offered by banks grew 13
percent in the 12 months through May, according to the Banking
and Securities Commission in Mexico City.  Mexico’s economy may grow as much as 5 percent this year,
after a 5.4 percent expansion in 2010 that was the fastest in a
decade, the central bank said on May 11. The U.S. buys about 80
percent of Mexico’s exports.  “The economy is growing well, there is credit growth and
wages are starting to show some signs of upward pressure,” de
la Fuente said.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.28 percent in June, the
central bank said today.  Prices in the U.S. increased 3.6 percent in the 12 months
ended May, the first time since 2007 that the country’s
inflation rate was above that of Mexico.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent
this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3
percent, based on the median range of projections from the
 Federal Reserve . Mexico’s economy, Latin America’s second-
largest, will grow 4.4 percent this year and 3.8 percent next
year, according to a survey from Banamex, Citigroup Inc.’s local
unit, released July 5.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 3 basis points
to 126 basis points at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JP
Morgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell two basis points to 105, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 11.541 per  U.S. dollar .  Futures Contracts  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February rose 1 basis point to 5.04 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month. Policy makers held the lending rate at a record low
4.5 percent last month, the only major Latin American country to
keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Evidence the U.S. economy is failing to gather steam means
inflation in Mexico is unlikely to pick up this year, according
to  Neil Shearing , an emerging-market analyst at  Capital
Economics  in  London .  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded at a slower pace in
June, a sign the world’s biggest economy cooled at the end of
the first half of 2011, the  Institute for Supply Management  said
yesterday.  ‘Pretty Weak’  “Some of the data has been pretty weak for the U.S., so
our view is that this is one of the reasons that we are a little
more downbeat on the consensus on  Mexico ,” Shearing said in a
telephone interview. “Although we are concerned about inflation
in some Latin American economies, Mexico is not one of them.”  A rebound in food prices will help spur inflation in
Mexico, according to UBS’s de la Fuente.  Prices for fruits and vegetables fell 9.7 percent in May
from a month earlier and 7.7 percent from 2010, according to the
central bank.  “This is an economy that is growing above potential, that
has enjoyed very low local food prices in recent months and
those prices should start to turn around over the course of the
next few months,” de la Fuente said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Andres R. Martinez in
Mexico City at   amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  