-- 
ING’s Macfarlane Says LNG to Provide Philippines Supply Security

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-07T08:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ing-s-macfarlane-says-lng-to-provide-philippines-supply-security.html
Bruce Macfarlane, ING Groep NV’s head
of natural resources advisory for  Asia , said liquefied natural
gas will boost the Philippines’ energy security. He commented on
the prospects for LNG at a talk with reporters in Manila today.  The Philippines relies solely on the Malampaya gas field,
off the western island of Palawan, for gas that’s used as fuel
by power plants that account for about a fifth of the country’s
generating capacity. The nation has yet to build a terminal to
receive, store and regassify LNG imports. The Department of
Energy said in May that about six companies were interested to
bid for LNG terminal and pipeline projects.  On why an LNG facility is important in the Philippines:  “In a market that already has gas, what it offers is
supply security. For the Philippines, it’s an advantage that you
got the Malampaya gas, which is a fantastic source. But it’s
also a disadvantage since it’s the sole source.  “If something happens to that supply, you lose the
feedstock that goes into  power plants  that produce 40 percent of
power for Luzon. You can’t afford that situation.  “Once you’ve built the LNG import infrastructure, you can
import LNG from Indonesia, Brunei,  Russia ,  Australia , the  Middle
East . You’ve got many options and you’re not exposed to that
single source.  “Gas is also important in your power mix. Hydropower is
cheap but it’s not reliable, while coal will always provide the
baseload. When you’ve got fluctuating demand, you turn to oil
and gas. Gas is the ideal substitute for oil. It’s considerably
cheaper than oil for providing that peak demand.”  On what would be the ideal LNG setup in the Philippines:  “The LNG structure is a natural monopoly so it would have
to be regulated. Some government involvement will need to be
there either through ownership or regulation.”  “There’s a very huge upfront investment. Depending on the
configuration, the terminal may cost $300 million to $450
million. LNG is loaded on specialized ships that cost about $250
million. There are ways to reduce that, such as a floating
facility where you store and regassify on board the ship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in  Singapore  at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 