-- 
Minnesota Shutdown May Cost State $23M Weekly

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-07T17:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/minnesota-shutdown-may-cost-state-economy-23-million-weekly-1-.html
Minnesota ’s economy may lose about
$23 million a week in spending power from public and private
workers idled by the shutdown of its government, according to
 Tom Stinson , the state’s economist.  The 23,000 state workers laid off in the wake of a partisan
budget dispute may get only about half their average $1,000
weekly salary in  unemployment benefits , Stinson said in a
telephone interview from Minneapolis. That, plus the additional
loss from employees of nonprofits and private construction
workers, may mean a total $18 million taken from the economy, he
said.  Stinson also estimated a secondary loss of as much as $5
million in weekly spending power by private workers, especially
in the leisure industry, as furloughed employees cut back on
spending if the closure drags on for a month or longer, he said.
Although the loss is a fraction of the $2.4 billion in weekly
state wages, the impact will become more noticeable the longer
the closure lasts, he said.  “This is not going to produce a recession in Minnesota or
anything like that, but it’s going to be a drag on the state’s
economic growth,” said Stinson, a professor in the department
of applied economics at the  University of Minnesota .  The state’s government shut down at 12:01 a.m. July 1 after
Democrat Mark Dayton, a first-term governor, and lawmakers
failed to reach a budget agreement. Dayton has said he doesn’t
want spending cuts alone to address a $5 billion deficit, and
Republicans oppose his plan for an income-tax increase.  Essential Services  The state will lose revenue including $52 million per month
because compliance officers at the Department of Revenue are
laid off and not completing audits, and $1.25 million a day in
lost lottery sales, said John Pollard, a spokesman with the
Minnesota Management and Budget office.  Tax collections continue, as does funding for critical
services including police and prisons, Pollard said in a
telephone interview from  St. Paul .  Ten-year general-obligation bonds from Minnesota issuers
yield 2.96 percent on average, or about 0.18 percentage point
more than the average top-rated debt of that maturity, according
to Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The yield difference is about
0.04 percentage point less than the six-month average, a sign
the shutdown, which enters its sixth day today, isn’t hurting
the state’s debt prices.  Holding Steady  The state won’t face pressure on its bond ratings, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a June 29 report. Moody’s said
Minnesota’s deficit represents about 15 percent of two-year
revenue of about $34 billion. It rates the state Aa1, its
second-highest grade, with a stable outlook.  Dayton’s talks with Republican legislative leaders ended
yesterday without a deal. Dayton made two new proposals to help
bridge what he said is a $1.4 billion gap between the two sides:
a temporary 2 percent income-tax surcharge on annual income of
more than $1 million, or increasing the 34.6 cent tax on a pack
of cigarettes by $1, according to a letter released by his
office.  Republican House Speaker Kurt Zellers called the
discussions “disappointing” and said “things went backwards
today,” according to the  Minneapolis  Star-Tribune.  Michael Brodkorb, a spokesman for Senate Republicans, sent
an e-mail to reporters today saying that Dayton classified his
chef and housekeeper/server as essential staff during the
shutdown. Katharine Tinucci, Dayton’s spokeswoman, didn’t have
an immediate response to an e-mail seeking comment.  Still Shovels  Besides the furlough of government employees and the
shutdown of an estimated 100 public highway, bridge and building
projects, as many as 10,000 construction workers could be
unemployed because privately funded projects will be delayed
with the furlough of state inspectors, David C. Semerad, chief
executive of the Associated General Contractors of Minnesota,
has said.  The state reached a deal with public-employee unions in
which it agreed not to pay severance packages with unpaid
vacation and sick time for laid-off workers in exchange for
continuing health-care benefits, Pollard said.  Still, the state is losing revenue during the shutdown, he
said. Besides the lost lottery and audit income, the
Transportation Department is not generating $40,000 to $50,000
per week on passes to use highway express lanes, Pollard said in
an e-mail. Lost revenue from not collecting parking fees plus
various health and teaching licenses have not yet been
estimated, he said.  “Nobody’s really claiming that a shutdown saves the state
money,” Pollard said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  