-- 
IRS Ends Investigation Into Gifts to Non-Profit Political Groups

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-07-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/irs-ends-investigation-into-gifts-made-to-political-groups-1-.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
dropping an inquiry involving five U.S. taxpayers who made gifts
to a type of nonprofit group used in recent elections to
underwrite advertising and other political expenses.  The IRS, which  said yesterday  it was ending the probe, had
sought to determine if the five taxpayers owed gift taxes for
donations to nonprofit groups organized under section 501(c)(4)
of the U.S. tax code. The IRS didn’t identify the donors.  Critics of the inquiry, especially Republican lawmakers,
said the scrutiny could chill political speech. While the IRS
has asserted the authority to collect gift taxes from the
groups, there’s little evidence it has collected the taxes over
the past 30 years.  The IRS decision offers lawmakers a chance to clarify rules
governing political giving, said Kip Dellinger, a Los Angeles
accountant who has written about the application of gift taxes
to political donations.  “There’s no doubt Congress should revisit the area of
political giving and exempt organizations,” Dellinger said.
“Things have changed so much in terms of the amount of money
flowing into these groups.” While Republicans took a high-
profile role in questioning the IRS’s investigation, both
parties are concerned about such questioning of donors, he said.  Not ‘Clear-Cut’  IRS spokesman Frank Keith said in a telephone interview
that investigations were opened by employees of the IRS gift tax
division who thought there were clear violations.  After consulting with “upper management and the counsel’s
office, they realized that it was not that clear-cut,” Keith
said. “There are compelling arguments on both sides.”  The nonprofit groups receiving the gifts are known as
social welfare organizations. They are allowed to participate in
political activity as long as that isn’t their primary purpose.  Social welfare groups are attractive vehicles for political
giving because they aren’t subject to contribution limits or
required to disclose the identity of donors.  In the 2010 election cycle, groups backing Republican
causes and candidates outspent groups that supported Democratic
candidates by a 7-to-1 ratio. At least one of the donations
under scrutiny was made in 2008, not 2010.  The agency’s action yesterday didn’t go far enough, said
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , who was among
at least seven lawmakers who complained about the inquiry to the
IRS after it became public in May. Six Republican members of the
Senate Finance Committee questioned the IRS action separately.  ‘Failed to Clarify’  Camp, a Michigan Republican, said in a statement yesterday
that he remains “troubled that the IRS has failed to explain
what prompted these audits in the first place.”  “Furthermore, the IRS has failed to clarify that the gift
tax will not apply to future political donations,” said Camp,
who said he would continue his investigation into why the IRS
launched its inquiry.  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee, said the IRS announcement leaves questions
unanswered.  “Retroactive enforcement of the gift tax in this highly
politicized environment raises legitimate concerns and demands
further explanation,” Hatch said in  a statement .  The IRS has maintained that politics played no role in the
decision to scrutinize the gift tax donors.  “All of the decisions in this matter were made by career
civil servants without regard to any outside influence,” Keith
said.  In its statement yesterday, the IRS said any future action
would come only after it has given public notice.  The IRS also posted  a memo  from Steven T. Miller, deputy
commissioner for services and enforcement, outlining the
agency’s reasoning for ending the probe.  “This is a difficult area with significant legal,
administrative and policy implications with respect to which we
have little enforcement history,” the memo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  