-- 
Israel 2-Year Bonds Climb on Bets Bank May Keep Rates on Hold

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-07T18:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/israel-2-year-bonds-climb-on-bets-bank-may-keep-rates-on-hold.html
Israeli two-year bonds posted the
biggest weekly gain since October on speculation the central
bank will keep rates on hold after Governor  Stanley Fischer  said
economic growth may be slower than forecast.  The yield on the 3.5 percent government bond due September
2013 dropped five basis points yesterday, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.9 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the
lowest level since March 17. The yield declined nine basis
points this week, the most since the week ending Oct. 7.  Fischer said today that this year’s economic expansion may
trail the bank’s 5.2 percent forecast because second-quarter
growth may have been slower than expected. The central bank kept
the benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent in June after four
increases this year, citing concern over slower U.S. economic
growth and the worsening of debt risks in  Europe .  “A lower forecast of economic growth is increasing the
likelihood that the Bank of  Israel  will leave interest rates
unchanged,” Ron Eichel, chief economist and strategist at
Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone.
“There are also concerns about the global economic recovery,
which has an impact on the local economy.”  The bank will probably keep rates on hold at its July 25
meeting, according to 13 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The remaining two predict the rate will increase a quarter-
percentage point to 3.5 percent.  “The 5.2 growth forecast we have for 2011 at the moment
probably has a bit more downside than upside because the second
quarter is probably going to be weaker than we expected only a
month ago,” Fischer said in an interview at the  Tel Aviv  Stock
Exchange conference in  London  today. The bank raised its 2011
growth forecast from 4.5 percent on June 1.  Shekel Gains  The shekel strengthened for a second day, increasing 0.2
percent to 3.4050 per dollar by 12:24 p.m. New York time.  The  Bank of Israel  bought between $50 million and $100
million to curb appreciation of the shekel, according to Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.
Central bank spokesperson Yossi Saadon declined to comment. The
Bank of Israel may “intervene” in the foreign-exchange market
if necessary, Fischer said today.  Foreign currency reserves increased to $77.4 billion in
June from $76.8 billion in May, matching the record level
reached in April, the Bank of Israel said today. The bank has
been buying foreign currency in most months since March 2008,
more than doubling reserves, in an effort to moderate the
shekel’s gains and boost exports, which make up about 40 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product.  Interest Rates   Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. are making investments
in higher-yielding securities more attractive as central banks
from  Brazil  to  China  raise borrowing costs, boosting their
currencies and hurting exporters by making their goods more
expensive in dollar terms.  “The increase in the currency reserves is an indication
that the central bank is still concerned about shekel
appreciation and will leave interest rates unchanged at the end
of the month,” Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal
Investment Management Ltd in Israel, said by telephone.  Israel started taxing foreign investors today as much as 24
percent on interest income from Makam bills, short-term notes
from the central bank, in an effort to curb a 14 percent gain in
the shekel over the past year.  The currency has gained 7.2 percent against the dollar
since the tax plans were announced Jan. 27, the best performer
among the 10 most-active currencies in emerging Europe, the
 Middle East , and  Africa , according to Bloomberg data.  Further Measures  There are no plans now for further measures to limit shekel
strength, Fischer said today. More shekel measures depend in
part on the performance of exports, he said.  The two-year  government bonds , which aren’t subject to the
new tax, were the second most actively traded in Tel Aviv with
1.01 billion shekels ($297 million) changing hands, according to
Bloomberg data.  The yield on the Bank of Israel’s Makam bill due June 2012
fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.53 percent,
the largest drop in three weeks. Overseas investors were net
sellers of $600 million of Makam bills in May, the central bank
said July 5.  The benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 fell for the first time in four days, pushing the yield up
two basis points to 5.11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  