-- 
Israel Bars 85 Pro-Palestinian Activists at Airport En Route to West Bank

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-07-08T19:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/israel-boosts-airport-security-awaiting-palestinian-protests.html
Israeli authorities denied entry to
85 pro-Palestinian activists at  Ben-Gurion International Airport 
today, while about 200 other passengers from American and
European cities were barred from flying to  Israel  after the
government provided foreign airlines with names of suspected
activists, police said.  Those barred include citizens of the U.S., Belgium and
 Germany , said the national police spokesman, Micky Rosenfeld.
Those who haven’t already been deported have been detained and
all will be flown out of Israel over the next 48 hours depending
on flight availability, he said.  Authorities arrested six Israeli activists who hoisted
banners and shouted pro-Palestinian slogans at the airport east
of  Tel Aviv , Rosenfeld said by phone. “They created a
disturbance and they were arrested by police,” he said.  Security personnel stood ready for activists from the U.S.
and  Europe  who were booked on flights arriving in Israel today.
The activists were planning to participate in a so-called
Welcome to  Palestine  week of events in the  West Bank , said the
organizers, who pledged to keep the activities non-violent.
Israel is a gateway for foreign visitors to Palestinian areas in
the West Bank, which can also be reached through Jordan.  “Every country has the basic right to stop the entry into
its territory of provocateurs,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters yesterday on a visit to  Bulgaria .
Netanyahu had inspected preparations at the airport July 6
before departing on a diplomatic swing through eastern Europe.  ‘Air Flotilla’  The Palestinian supporters’ action, described as an “air
flotilla,” follows the Greek authorities’ detention of a group
of boats planning to challenge Israel’s sea blockade of the  Gaza
Strip . Efforts to send a similar flotilla to Gaza last year
ended in violence when Israeli commandos dropped from
helicopters onto one of the ships that refused to stop and
opened fire, killing nine Turks. Israel says people onboard shot
first and attacked with iron bars, a charge they deny.  Israeli security forces have been deciding on an individual
basis whether travelers identified as activists will be
permitted into the country or detained for possible deportation,
Rosenfeld said.  As many as 1,000 travelers were expected to arrive at Ben-
Gurion airport today and tomorrow bound for the West Bank,
Israel Radio said.  Called ‘Pacifists’  Organizers of the pro-Palestinian events said the arriving
travelers are “pacifists” and that “rumors of planned
protests are false.” They will “simply tell the truth” that
they are arriving “to transit through Israel on their way to
Palestine,” according to an e-mailed statement by the Welcome
to Palestine movement.  An Israeli official, meanwhile, said the government would
issue a detailed criticism of a United Nations report about
violence on its border with Lebanon in May.  The report, written by the UN special coordinator for
Lebanon,  Michael Williams , concluded that Israel used
“disproportionate force” against Lebanese demonstrators
attempting to enter Israel, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz said
on July 6.  Israel’s UN delegation is writing a letter to UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in which it will respond to the
report, Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said in a phone
interview, without giving details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Jerusalem  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 