-- 
Mitra, Wahana, Panin, United Tractors: Indonesia Equity Preview

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-07-07T02:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mitra-wahana-panin-united-tractors-indonesia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in Indonesian trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and share prices are as of the previous close.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  fell 0.4 percent to 3,908.96.  PT Bank Internasional  Indonesia  (BNII IJ): The Indonesian
unit of Malayan Banking Bhd. is buying an 11.97 percent stake of
PT Wahana Ottomitra Multiartha (WOMF IJ) from International
Finance Corp., Investor Daily Indonesia reported, citing Bank
Internasional Director Rita Mirasari. The company will have a 62
percent stake in Wahana Ottomitra after the acquisition is
completed, the report said. Bank Internasional was unchanged at
570 rupiah. Wahana Ottomitra, a financing company, declined 1.3
percent to 390 rupiah.  PT Bank Pan Indonesia (PNBN IJ): The Indonesian lender is
selling a 15.36 percent stake in PT Jakarta Setiabudi
Internasional (JSPT IJ) to Nomura Singapore Ltd for 138 billion
rupiah ($16 million), Investor Daily Indonesia reported, citing
Asan Effendy, corporate secretary at Jakarta Setiabudi. Bank
Panin Vice President Director Roosniati Salihin said she wasn’t
aware of the transaction, the report said. Bank Panin was
unchanged at 890 rupiah and Jakarta Setiabudi fell 1.7 percent
to 590 rupiah when it last traded May 3.  PT Mitra International Resources (MIRA IJ): The energy and
transportation services provider will restructure $714 million
of debt this year, including debt used to acquire oil drilling
unit PT Apexindo Pratama Duta from PT Medco Energi
Internasional,  Bisnis Indonesia  reported, citing Director Inu
Dewanto Koentjaraningrat. Mitra was unchanged at 160 rupiah when
it last traded June 30.  PT United Tractors (UNTR IJ): PT Pamapersada Nusantara, a
unit of the company, spent $21 million to buy a 20 percent stake
in PT Bukit Enim Energi, Investor Daily Indonesia reported.
United Tractors, Indonesia’s biggest heavy equipment seller,
also plans to acquire another coal mining company, the report
said, citing Finance Director Gideon Hasan. United Tractors fell
1.2 percent to 24,650 rupiah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  