-- 
Nikkei Winning Streak Ends as Utilities Decline on Nuclear Stress Tests

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-07T07:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/japanese-stocks-drop-set-for-first-loss-in-eight-days-on-china-rate-hike.html
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped
for the first time in eight days after the government’s top
energy official said nuclear reactors may not be restarted until
stress tests are completed, driving down utilities and sparking
concern manufacturers may face power shortages.  Kansai Electric Power Co., a utility that generates almost
half of its power with nuclear plants, sank 8.4 percent after
Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said reactors will have to undergo
more safety checks following the earthquake disaster that
crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
Nissan Motor Corp., one of many manufacturers required to cut
power usage, led carmakers lower.  “The stress tests are going to keep reactors shut
longer,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.
“That’s going to raise costs for Japanese industry, not just
the utilities.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.1 percent to close at
10,071.14 after earlier dropping as much as 0.5 percent. The
gauge advanced 5.3 percent in the previous seven days, its
longest winning streak since July 2009, amid easing concern over
Europe’s debt crisis and as reports signaled stronger economic
recoveries at home and in the U.S. The Topix index dropped 0.4
percent today to 870.48.  Stress Tests  Utilities fell the most among the 33 industry groups on the
broader Topix after Kaieda said the country will conduct stress
checks on its nuclear plants to reassure local communities it’s
safe to restart idled reactors. Three weeks earlier, Kaieda said
plants were safe to restart.  Kansai Electric,  Japan ’s second-largest utility by sales,
tumbled 8.4 percent to 1,452 yen. Chubu Electric Power Co.,
owner of a nuclear plant shut because of safety, sank 7 percent
to 1,442 yen. Kyushu Electric Power Co. plunged 7.5 percent to
1,349 yen.  About two-thirds of Japan’s 54 reactors are shut, most for
routine maintenance and several because of the March disaster.
Reactors in Japan are shut down every 13 months for scheduled
checks and upkeep. Before the meltdowns at Fukushima Dai-Ichi,
nuclear power supplied about 30 percent of Japan’s electricity.  ‘Power Constraints’  The Trade Ministry this month ordered large companies in
Tokyo and areas around the capital to conserve power. The stress
tests proposed yesterday could extend the restrictions,
hampering production at manufacturers already facing lower
earnings because of supply-chain disruptions.  “Sluggish production due to nationwide power constraints
during the summer months” is one of the major risks to Japan’s
recovery, economists at  Barclays Capital  wrote in a note dated
July 6.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  fell 0.7 percent to 3,400 yen, while
Honda Motor Corp. dropped 0.9 percent to 3,215 yen. Nissan slid
1.6 percent to 863 yen. All of Japan’s carmakers have been
ordered to cut electricity consumption by 15 percent.  ‘Rolling Blackouts’  Nissan is moving production to weekends to cut power usage.
The company is also monitoring its factories and offices and
will stop some operations if power use exceeds targets,
spokesman Toshitake Inoshita said last week.  “Rolling blackouts may mean there’s another supply-chain
shock,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based
Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co. which oversees about $28
billion. “There’s a concern the recovery might be
interrupted.”  Still, a perception that stocks are cheap limited today’s
declines. An 11 percent drop in the Topix since this year’s peak
on Feb. 21, has cut the average price of shares on the index to
1.3 times book value, compared with 2.3 percent on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and 1.6 on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  About 60 percent of the companies on the Topix trade at
less than book value, meaning investors could theoretically buy
the firms at current prices and liquidate them at a profit.  “Japanese stocks are undervalued,” said Chuo Mitsui’s
Teraoka. “Shares should recover if investors see them lagging
behind other markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 