-- 
Japan’s Legally Safe Reactors Still at Risk, Regulator Says

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-07-07T09:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/japan-s-legally-safe-reactors-still-at-risk-regulator-says.html
Atomic reactors deemed safe by
 Japan ’s nuclear regulator are still at risk from temblors even
after safety measures taken following the worst atomic accident
in 25 years, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said.  Almost two-thirds of the nation’s 54 reactors are closed
after a March earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns at three
reactors at a plant in northern Japan operated by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. The government said yesterday restarts will be delayed
for more tests even though measures taken since the crisis mean
the plants meet legal standards to operate.  The so-called stress tests will enable regulators to more
accurately assess how plants will respond to an earthquake or
natural disaster, Yoshinori Moriyama, deputy director-general
for nuclear accident measures at Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency, told reporters today. The regulator said it also
regards the plants as already safe to run.  “It doesn’t mean that there is no risk at all,” Moriyama
said at a press conference in  Tokyo . “You would not be able to
deny the possibility of a serious accident occurring such as
damage to a reactor core.”  Kyushu Electric Power Co. was pushing to restart two idled
reactors at its Genkai plant in southwest Japan before the new
tests were announced. The Genkai reactors can’t come back online
without clarity in policy, the governor of the prefecture where
the plant is located said today.  Decision Reversed  The tests were announced almost three weeks after Trade
Minister  Banri Kaieda  declared the Genkai reactors safe to
operate. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday new nuclear
power plant safety guidelines are needed, and that Kaieda didn’t
consult Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission before announcing that
the country’s plants are safe.  From the regulator’s perspective, nuclear plants are safe
to operate if they comply with emergency safety requirements
introduced following the crisis at Fukushima, including keeping
backup electricity-generating vehicles on site, Moriyama said.  ‘All countries, including Japan and the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  have certain standards based on which a
plant is judged safe or not,’’ he said. “It is considered that
if those standards are met, a plant would be regarded as safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  