-- 
JBS Bets on Rising Beef Exports as Weak Dollar Makes U.S. More Competitive

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-07-07T18:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/jbs-bets-on-u-s-meat-export-rebound-amid-weak-dollar-as-brazil-costs-jump.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef
producer, is betting on a rebound in U.S. meat sales as a weak
dollar makes production in the country as competitive as in
emerging markets.  The U.S. is gaining market share of beef, pork and poultry
exports as labor, raw-material and other costs surge in  Brazil ,
Russia and other emerging markets, Chief Executive Officer
Wesley Batista said today in an interview. U.S. poultry, beef
and pork prices will increase “significantly” by year-end as
overseas demand rises, he said.  “For the first time in more than a hundred years, beef
production costs in the U.S. are the same as those in Brazil,”
Batista said at the Bloomberg office in Sao Paulo. “A weak
dollar is boosting U.S. exports and transforming the country
into a very competitive protein player.”  JBS became the world’s second-largest poultry producer and
the U.S.’s biggest pork company through 11 acquisitions since
2008, including  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  and Smithfield Foods Inc.
U.S. beef export volumes jumped 31 percent and pork exports rose
19 percent through April this year, the latest data available,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Emerging market currencies gained, on average, 13 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months, according to
JPMorgan Chase Bank.  Sara Lee  JBS is no longer seeking to buy  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  assets after
talks broke down earlier this year, he said. Sara Lee’s stock
traded at about $13 in September and has since surged above $19.  “Sara Lee became too expensive,” Batista said.  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee rejected approaches
for the company including one from JBS, according to people with
knowledge of the negotiations at that time.  Sao Paulo-based JBS is not “actively” seeking
acquisitions, but is “open to opportunities,” Batista said.  “Our focus is on organic growth, but I can’t ignore a good
opportunity,” he said.  JBS, which scrapped plans to sell shares of its U.S. unit
in January, said it doesn’t plan to do an initial public
offering this year as market conditions remain “unfavorable.”  “We still plan to do the IPO of JBS USA, but not this
year,” Batista said.  JBS fell 8 centavos, or 1.5 percent, to 5.29 reais at 2:01
p.m. New York time in  Sao Paulo  trading. Sara Lee rose 22 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $19.65, and Pilgrim’s Pride advanced 8 cents,
or 1.6 percent, to $5.01 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  