-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Decreased 14,000 Last Week to 418,000

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-07T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/jobless-claims-in-u-s-decreased-more-than-forecast-last-week-to-418-000.html
U.S. initial jobless claims fell for
the first time in three weeks, a sign the labor market is making
little headway.  Jobless claims fell by 14,000 to 418,000 in the week ended
July 2, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a drop to 420,000. The number of people on unemployment
benefit rolls and those getting extended payments also declined.  Supply-chain disruptions from  Japan ’s March earthquake,
European default concerns and gasoline prices that neared $4 a
gallon prompted some companies in recent weeks to fire workers,
further weighing on the  consumer spending  that makes up two
thirds of the economy. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the Labor Department will report tomorrow that the unemployment
rate in June held unchanged at 9.1 percent.  “Claims are still stuck at a level that’s too high,”
Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, said before the report. “A lot of companies aren’t
going to worry about hiring until they are certain the economic
recovery is self-sustaining. It’s still a soft-patch
environment.”  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 48 economists ranged
from 400,000 to 435,000.  Today’s data show the four-week moving average, a less
volatile measure than the weekly figures, fell to 424,750 last
week after 427,750 the previous week.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 43,000 in the week ended June 25 to 3.68 million.
They were forecast to decrease to 3.7 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended and emergency benefits under state
and federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
88,400 to 3.85 million in the week ended June 18.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, fell to 2.9 percent in
the week ended June 25, from 3.0 percent in the prior week.  Thirty-one states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while 22 reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Weekly Firings  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  The projected gain in June payrolls would be nearly double
the 54,000 reported in May, which was the fewest in eight
months. Economists forecast the unemployment rate will remain
unchanged at 9.1 percent.  The lack of a pickup in the labor market and an economy
that’s slowing reinforce the decision of Fed policy makers to
keep  interest rates  close to zero for an extended period.  “Recent labor market indicators have been weaker than
anticipated,” central bankers said in a statement on June 22
after a two-day meeting. “The slower pace of the recovery
reflects in part factors that are likely to be temporary,” such
as supply-chain disruptions stemming from the Japanese disaster.  Companies continue to cut jobs.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense contractor, plans to eliminate about
1,500 employees from its Aeronautics business unit that makes F-
35 jet fighters, the company said June 30.  Voluntary Retirement  Salaried employees will be offered a voluntary retirement
option, the company said. In the event the plan fails to achieve
the company’s goal of cutting 1,500 jobs, it will begin firing
people in mid-September, Lockheed said.  “We expect the greatest impact to be on employees in
higher-level labor grades,” the company said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, plans to cut 230 jobs in  New York , according to a June
29 filing the firm submitted to the state’s Department of Labor.  The positions, which weren’t identified, will be eliminated
for economic reasons between Sept. 26 and March 31, the filing
shows.  States and local governments are also cutting jobs as they
grapple with ballooning budget deficits. Facing a projected
budget shortfall of $587 million, Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel 
told city unions June 29 that he will fire 625 workers unless
they agree to work-rule changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  