-- 
Jobs for Unemployed Bankers Targeted in Delaware Tax Break Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/jobs-for-unemployed-bankers-targeted-in-delaware-tax-break-plan.html
Delaware Governor Jack Markell is
turning to tax incentives in an effort to create jobs in a state
where  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  and  HSBC Holdings PLC (HBC)  together laid off
more than 1,000 employees in the past year.  He pressed the state legislature to pass a  bill  that would
provide a $1,250-per-employee tax credit to financial
institutions that hire 200 or more state residents. The state
Senate passed the measure on June 21 without dissent, and the
House followed with a unanimous vote in the early-morning hours
of July 1. Markell signed it into law later that day.  The legislation, which also lowers the franchise tax paid
by banks already operating in the state, will result in an
estimated $3.4 million in forgone revenue in fiscal 2012 and
$8.5 million in fiscal 2013, according to the state’s controller
general. Markell said the credit is an effective way to use  tax
policy  to find jobs for Delaware’s residents.  “We want to send a very clear signal to people in this
industry that we’re going to do what we can to make them
successful because when they’re successful, they’re likely to
employ more people,” Markell told Bloomberg Government
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Desperate for jobs for residents, state legislatures are
developing targeted tax incentives to encourage companies to
move to their state or to discourage them from leaving.
 Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the world’s largest maker of plasma
televisions, received a $102 million tax credit from  New Jersey 
to stay there. The company said in April it plans to use the
credit to move from Secaucus to  Newark , less than 10 miles away.  Financial Services Hub  Delaware’s 8 percent unemployment rate is below the 9.1
percent national average. It has been a hub for the financial
services industry since the early 1980s when the state passed
legislation allowing banks to charge higher  interest rates . That
law eliminated barriers for out-of-state banks to enter
Delaware.  The industry diversified over the years and student lender
 SLM Corp. (SLM)  is now the state’s second largest company by revenue,
according to Bloomberg Government data.  The number of bank employees in Delaware peaked in 1999
when 30,100 residents were employed by a financial institution,
according to the state bank commissioner. The financial crisis
took a toll and 1,000 jobs were lost between 2008 and 2009.  Banks have continued to reduce their payrolls in Delaware.
HSBC said in January that it planned to eliminate 500 jobs in a
New Castle call center. Before M&T’s acquisition of Wilmington
Trust Corp. was completed in May, Buffalo, New York-based M&T
said it would cut 721 positions in the state. Philip Hosmer, a
spokesman for M&T, said yesterday 137 employees have moved into
other positions with the company, lowering the job cuts to 584.  ‘Steady Erosion’  “ Delaware  is very heavily into financial services and I
think the fear they’re seeing is a steady erosion of jobs in
that sector,” said Jim Butkiewicz, an economics professor at
the  University of Delaware  in Newark.  Markell said he doesn’t have an estimate for how many jobs
may be gained by the credit. Paul Merski, chief economist at the
 Independent Community Bankers of America , a Washington-based
trade association for small and mid-sized banks, said the tax
credit might not make up for the other costs associated with
hiring, particularly on the scale envisioned by Markell.  “In financial services, the business model is to be less
labor intensive and use more automation and computers,” he
said. “You don’t want to hire an $80,000 employee to save
$1,200. The incentive would have to be robust enough.”  Markell called the tax incentives “one component” in a
company’s decision to move to a new area. Quality schools and a
skilled workforce are other factors, he said.  “I cannot, in the case of the banks, say it’s going to
create a certain number of jobs,” he said. “It’s just one more
thing to make us competitive.”  North Carolina  Example  North Carolina weathered the banking crisis in relatively
good shape.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. bank by
assets, is based in  Charlotte . The state’s banking commissioner
said 47,469 residents were employed by financial institutions in
2010, a 4.2 percent increase from 2006.  Paul Stock, an executive vice president and counsel at the
North Carolina Bankers Association in Raleigh, said he wasn’t
concerned about losing employees because the state has
advantages, such as its quality higher-education system, that
others don’t match.  “Incentives and taxes are two pieces of the puzzle but so
are the amenities for the people that live there,” he said.
“There are many pieces that play into that puzzle.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  