-- 
John Mackey, NFL Hall of Fame Tight End, Union Leader, Dies at Age 69

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T14:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/john-mackey-nfl-hall-of-fame-tight-end-union-leader-dies-at-age-69.html
John Mackey, a Hall-of-Fame tight end
for the Baltimore Colts who served as president of the National
Football League Players Association, has died. He was 69.  Mackey died yesterday, Chad Steele, a spokesman for the
 Baltimore Ravens , confirmed in an e-mail. Details weren’t
immediately available. Mackey had battled dementia, according to
the NFLPA.  One of the first tight ends with the speed to run deep pass
routes, Mackey had 331 catches for 5,236 yards and 38 touchdowns
while playing nine seasons for the Colts and one with the  San
Diego Chargers . In  Super Bowl V , in 1971, Mackey helped the
Colts beat the  Dallas Cowboys  by catching a pass from Johnny Unitas that had been deflected off two other players for a 75-
yard touchdown.  Sports Illustrated in 2010  ranked  Mackey the third-best
tight end in NFL history, behind only Mike Ditka and Tony
Gonzalez. Mackey and Ditka “broke the mold of the tight end as
a sixth offensive lineman,” the magazine wrote. “Mackey might
be the greatest downfield tight end ever.”  A native of New York who played college football at
 Syracuse University , Mackey was enshrined in the Pro Football
Hall of Fame in 1992, the second tight end to gain induction.  As president of the players’ union in the early 1970s, he
fought to give players more rights as free agents. He brought a
successful antitrust challenge to a league rule that had
required teams that signed a free agent to compensate that
player’s former employer.  “John Mackey is still a leader,” players association
Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith  said in a Twitter post. “As
president of the NFLPA, he led the fight for fairness with
brilliance and ferocious drive. John Mackey has inspired me and
will continue to inspire our players and define our institution.
He will be missed but never forgotten.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  