-- 
JPMorgan to Pay $228 Million to Settle Muni Bid-Rigging Allegations by SEC

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-07T21:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/jpmorgan-to-pay-228-million-to-settle-muni-bid-rigging-allegations-by-sec.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a $228
million settlement on charges it conspired to rig the bidding on
investment contracts sold to state and local governments to
boost its profits at taxpayer expense.  The agreement ends investigations of the second-largest
 U.S. bank  by the  Justice Department , the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the attorneys general of 25 states including the
 District of Columbia , the Justice Department and SEC said today.  Federal investigators have probed for more than four years
how banks and financial advisers fixed bids on investment
contracts to let them pay governments below-market rates.
JPMorgan’s penalties are the largest yet to result from that
investigation, which also led to settlements with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets.  JPMorgan “improperly won bids by entering into secret
arrangements with bidding agents to get an illegal ‘last look’
at competitors’ bids,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s
enforcement division, said in a statement. “Municipal issuers
and investors didn’t stand a chance against the fraudulent
strategies,” he said.  Criminal charges have been brought against 18 finance-
industry employees in the past two years, nine of whom have
pleaded guilty, including James Hertz, a former JPMorgan banker.
Hertz is one of five former workers at the bank who received
letters informing them that they are targets of the Justice
Department probe, according to regulatory filings.  Wide-Ranging  Court documents filed by prosecutors point to wide-ranging
collusion by Wall Street banks, insurance companies and advisers
hired by public officials to guide their investments. Papers
entered in a case against CDR Financial Products Inc., an
advisory firm based in  Los Angeles , identified more than a dozen
banks and insurers as co-conspirators.  The accord marks the second for JPMorgan arising from its
municipal-derivatives business, which sold the investment
contracts as well as interest-rate swaps to state and local
governments, before the bank shut it down in 2008. In November
2009, the bank entered a $722 million accord with the SEC to end
a separate investigation over its sales of derivatives to
Jefferson County,  Alabama , where its bankers made undisclosed
payments to friends of county commissioners to win business.  Settlement Terms  As part of today’s settlement, JPMorgan took responsibility
for “illegal, anticompetitive conduct by its former
employees,” the Justice Department said. The SEC said the bank
neither admitted nor denied claims in the agency’s complaint.  The accord includes $92 million for the states and the
district, $35 million for the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, $51.2 million for the SEC and $50 million for the
 Internal Revenue Service . The agreement with the states provides
for $17 million of payments in connection with the federal
settlement. JPMorgan said the deal will lead to $211.2 million
in net payments.  The bank “doesn’t tolerate anticompetitive activity or
other violations of law,” JPMorgan said in the statement. “The
firm assisted the government agencies in their investigations
and is pleased to have resolved this matter with its
regulators,” the bank said.  JPMorgan has increased the number of legal and compliance
staff in its public-finance division and raised the level of
auditing, said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman. The bank also
has increased antitrust, ethics and other training, she said.  Shares Climb  The New York-based bank rose 76 cents, or 1.9 percent,
today on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 8.3
percent in the past year.  The investment contracts at the center of the charges are
purchased by states and cities with proceeds of money raised in
the $2.9 trillion municipal  bond market , allowing them to earn a
return until the cash is needed for public works projects.  While competitive bidding is meant to ensure local
governments get market rates on their investments, prosecutors
say bankers and brokers carved up the market among themselves.
Federal prosecutors say that inflated their earnings at the
expense of taxpayers and the Treasury, which collects levies on
investment earnings from tax-exempt bond proceeds.  The investigation is continuing and may result in
additional charges and settlements. To settle similar cases,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America in December
agreed to pay $137 million, and Zurich-based UBS agreed to pay
$160 million in May.  ‘Full Pipeline’  “We have a pretty full pipeline on post-crisis cases,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said today in an interview. “So I
think hopefully we’ll see some more activity.”  JPMorgan’s misconduct ranged from 1997 to 2005, the SEC
said. The agency’s charges say bankers there received tips from
brokers that enabled them to win deals, or adjust their bids to
make them more profitable, and then lied to cover their tracks.
The bank also submitted sham offers in auctions that were won by
rivals to give the appearance of competitive bidding.  The SEC said at least 11 different bidding agents, who ran
the auctions, also participated, and JPMorgan steered work to
those firms in return.  The conspiracy spanned at least 93 transactions related to
the proceeds of more than $14.3 billion raised by borrowers in
31 states, the SEC said in its complaint. The agency said the
trades produced “millions of dollars in ill-gotten gains.”  The settlement will provide cash to municipalities
victimized in the scheme.  Among them are the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
Cooperation Authority, which will get about $3.32 million, and
Philadelphia, in line for almost $1.38 million;  Chicago , which
will get about $1.32 million. The Orlando, Florida, airport
authority will receive more than $853,700, according to the
agreement between JPMorgan and the U.S. Comptroller’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  