-- 
JPMorgan Will Pay $228 Million to Settle Municipal Bond Bid-Rigging Claims

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-07T17:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/jpmorgan-will-pay-228-million-to-settle-municipal-bond-bid-rigging-claims.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay
$228 million to settle federal charges that the bank conspired
to rig the bidding on investment contracts sold to state and
local governments to boost its profits at taxpayer expense.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, agreed to pay $177
million to settle federal and state charges and to return $51.2
million to municipal borrowers affected by the conduct, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a statement.  The U.S. Justice Department and the SEC for more than four
years have been investigating how banks and financial advisers
fixed the bidding on investments sold to municipalities.
Prosecutors say the conspiracy cost taxpayers by allowing banks
to pay governments below-market rates. JPMorgan’s penalties are
the largest yet to result from the investigation, which also led
to settlements with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   JPMorgan “improperly won bids by entering into secret
arrangements with bidding agents to get an illegal ‘last look’
at competitors’ bids,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s
enforcement division, said in a statement. “Municipal issuers
and investors didn’t stand a chance against the fraudulent
strategies,” he said.  The Justice Department said the investigation is
continuing.  Second Settlement  The settlement marks the second that JPMorgan has reached
arising from its municipal derivatives business, which sold the
investment contracts as well as interest-rate swaps to state and
local governments, before the bank shut it down in 2008. In
November 2009, the bank agreed to a $722 million accord with the
SEC to end an investigation over its sales of derivatives to
Jefferson County,  Alabama , where its bankers made undisclosed
payments to friends of county commissioners to win business.  JPMorgan “doesn’t tolerate anticompetitive activity or
other violations of law,” the bank said in a statement. The
employees concealed their conduct from management, the bank
said.  “The firm assisted the government agencies in their
investigations and is pleased to have resolved this matter with
its regulators,” the statement said.  The investment contracts at the center of the charges are
purchased by states and cities with proceeds of money raised in
the $2.9 trillion municipal  debt market , allowing them to earn a
return until the cash is needed for public works projects.  Competitive Bidding  While competitive bidding is meant to ensure local
governments get market rates on their investments, prosecutors
say bankers and brokers carved up the market among themselves.
The U.S. says that inflated their earnings at the expense of
taxpayers and the Treasury, which taxes investment earnings from
tax-exempt bond proceeds.  The SEC  said  JPMorgan was involved in rigging the bidding
on 93 transactions in 31 states.  So far, 18 bankers and advisers have faced criminal
charges, nine of whom have pleaded guilty, the  Justice
Department  said. Among them are James Hertz, a former employee
of JPMorgan. Hertz is among five former JPMorgan bankers who
received letters informing them that they’re targets of the
Justice Department probe, according to employment records filed
with regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  