-- 
Juncker Urges More Efforts to Create European Rating Agency

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-07T15:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/juncker-urges-more-efforts-to-create-european-rating-agency-1-.html
Luxembourg’s Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said that European governments need to step up
their efforts to create a credit-rating company for  Europe  to
circumvent the “disastrous” influence of the existing firms.  A European rating company would be more in tune with reform
programs undertaken by governments in the region and so provide
more accurate assessments of creditworthiness, said Juncker, who
chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers.  “I’m really of the opinion that we should intensify our
efforts to create a European rating agency in order to be able
to better judge the medium-term outlook for the European
states,” Juncker said in an interview in Berlin today.  Juncker joins a barrage of criticism aimed at rating
companies after  Portugal  was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service on July 5. That came one day after  Standard & Poor’s 
upset French and German plans to encourage banks to roll over
Greek debt, saying that such a move might temporarily place
 Greece  in “selective default.”  “We shouldn’t only orient ourselves toward the verdicts of
the rating agencies,” Juncker said. “I’m saying this for the
commission, the council and partially also for the  European
Central Bank .”  Juncker, speaking later to reporters in Berlin, said the
rating companies’ influence is a “disastrous one” because
downgrades might discourage governments from taking further
reform steps. “So I’m calling them to a more responsible
behavior,” he said.  Juncker said he has urged a Europe-based rating agency
“for months.”  “This is a good idea but not an easy one to implement,”
he said. “So we have to work on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  