-- 
Kazakhs to Protect BTA Bank From Default, Wealth Fund Says

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-07-07T12:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kazakhstan-to-protect-bta-bank-from-default-wealth-fund-says.html
Kazakhstan ’s sovereign wealth fund
Samruk-Kazyna will inject cash into BTA Bank if the lender
requires financing to avoid a second default, an official said.  “I don’t think BTA Bank will have to restructure debt or
face bankruptcy, but we will provide financing to BTA if
needed,” Aidan Karibzhanov, a deputy chief executive officer at
Samruk-Kazyna, said in an interview in Astana. The fund hasn’t
considered how it would inject money into the lender, he said.  BTA was the nation’s biggest lender before it defaulted and
was taken over by the state in 2009 when credit markets froze
and Kazakhstan’s property bubble burst. Last year, the bank
restructured $16.7 billion of debt. BTA’s dollar-denominated
notes due in 2018 surged, pushing the yield 197 basis points
lower to 14.82 percent as of 6:10 p.m. in Almaty, the lowest
level in more than a month.  BTA creditors, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , last year agreed to reduce the
bank’s debt to $4.2 billion in exchange for cash and a stake in
the company. Bondholders also received 10-year “recovery
notes” under which they will receive 50 percent of anything BTA
recovers from impaired assets, including any award in a lawsuit
against the bank’s previous management.  Loan Provisions  The lender sued ex-Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov  and former
Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko in a U.K. court,
seeking the return of $4 billion it claims the men siphoned off
through fake loans. Ablyazov and Solodchenko, who now live
outside Kazakhstan, have denied the charges.  BTA Bank’s payments on liabilities exceeded income by 3
billion tenge ($21 million) a month this year and operating
expenses averaged 2 billion tenge a month, CEO Anvar Saidenov
said in a June 3 interview. The bank plans to offer its
borrowers new terms in an effort to increase repayments on 1
trillion tenge of loans, he said.  BTA provisions for bad loans totaled 911 billion tenge as
of June 1, according to Kazakhstan’s financial regulator.  “We expect a more effective business model from BTA Bank
and remain unhappy with the lack of profit at the lender,”
Karibzhanov said.  BTA is asking Samruk-Kazyna to accept a lower rate of
interest on money the fund has on deposit and on guarantees for
central bank repurchase operations, Saidenov said last month.
BTA also wants the fund to pay higher interest on bonds held by
the lender. While Samruk-Kazyna pays 4 percent, BTA’s auditor
believes the rate should be 6 percent, he said.  Samruk-Kazyna plans to “sort out the situation with the
bonds,” Karibzhanov said in the July 5 interview. “We will not
let the bank get into trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  