-- 
Kenmare Says Proposed Mozambique Law Unlikely to Affect Mine

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-07T16:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kenmare-says-mozambique-s-planned-mining-law-changes-won-t-affect-its-mine.html
Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR) , a minerals
producer in  Mozambique , said it understands mining-law revisions
won’t affect its current titanium operation in the country.  “We didn’t see anything that suggested that there was any
form of radical step-out from anything that had previously been
understood, anticipated and signaled,” Michael Carvill,
managing director of Kenmare, said today in a phone interview
from Dublin. “I don’t think the new mining law will have any
effect on our operations as we are presently operating.”  Mozambique’s government plans to revise the country’s
mining law and will seek to give the state a share of projects
in “strategic sectors” such as coal, Mineral Resources
Minister Esperanca Bias said at a conference yesterday. Kenmare
shares slumped 8.1 percent yesterday to a nine-month low.  “We have not heard any utterances from anyone that would
suggest it’s retrospective,” Carvill said, adding he wasn’t at
the conference in Maputo, attended by the company’s corporate
lawyer. “It might apply to our phase three. We could expect
that as we do phase three, that is a new project and therefore
the mining law would apply to that.”  Kenmare advanced 2.6 percent to 56.4 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London  after earlier declining as much as 3.3 percent.
The Dublin-based company has jumped 72 percent this year and has
a market value of 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion).  ‘Not Justified’  Yesterday’s decline in Kenmare’s share price “is not
justified given the strong outlook for mineral-sand prices,”
RBC Capital Markets analyst Des Kilalea said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “If there is a change in Mozambique’s mining laws,
it would only apply to new projects.”  Kenmare operates the Moma mine on the coast of Mozambique,
with an annual capacity of 800,000 metric tons of the titanium
mineral ilmenite, with associated production of zircon and
rutile, according to its website. Titanium dioxide pigment is
used in paint, paper and plastic production, it says.  Mozambique began a series of meetings with license holders
and other interested parties about its plans, Bias said
yesterday at the conference. The government won’t take any
decisions without discussing them with the companies, she said
in an interview after the speech.  Resource-rich African nations, including Namibia, Zimbabwe
and  Guinea , are planning to revise mineral laws to take
advantage of commodity prices that have surged on the global
economic recovery.  Vale SA (VALE5)  mines coal in Mozambique, while  Rio
Tinto Plc (RIO)  is buying Riversdale Mining Ltd., which operates in
the southern African country.  The changes will affect all mining industries, including
coal, gold and uranium, with any percentage of projects held by
the state still up for discussion, Bias said in the interview.
The law may be ready by the end of the year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  