-- 
Kenneth Fisher’s Firm Told to Pay $376,000 on Retiree Investment Losses

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-07-07T17:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kenneth-fisher-s-firm-must-pay-retiree-376-000.html
Fisher Investments Inc. , the firm run
by Forbes magazine columnist  Kenneth Fisher , may have to pay
damages of $376,075 for breaching its fiduciary duty to a
retired investor.  Sharyn Silverstein, 64, is entitled to out-of-pocket losses
she incurred as a result of Fisher Investments liquidating her
bond portfolio and investing 100 percent of the proceeds in
stocks, according to a copy of the interim arbitration award
obtained by Bloomberg News. Silverstein had invested with Fisher
in 2007 after multiple calls and visits from a Fisher outside
salesman, according to the award document. She had initially
contacted the firm after seeing a Fisher advertisement for a
complimentary book in  USA Today , the document said.  “She called Fisher to get a copy of a free book, with no
intention of doing business with Fisher, and ended up being
pressured and eventually persuaded, despite significant
resistance on her part and that of her husband, to turn over all
of her fixed-income securities to Fisher to be invested in
equities,” Karen Willcutts, the JAMS arbitrator for the case,
wrote in a 25-page interim award dated July 5. JAMS, based in
 Irvine ,  California , is a private forum for arbitration and
mediation. Some investment adviser firm agreements include a
clause that parties must resolve any disputes through private
arbitration.  “The decision was completely wrong on the law and the
facts. With more than 25,000 clients, losing an arbitration once
every seven years is a record far better than any major
competitor, which underscores the integrity of our firm,” said
David Eckerly, group vice president corporate communications for
Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments. Kenneth Fisher is
the firm’s founder and chief executive officer.  Manages $41 Billion  Fisher Investments manages more than $41 billion for almost
40,000 accounts, primarily for individual investors, according
to its most recent regulatory filings available on the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission website.  Joseph Peiffer , a New Orleans-based attorney with Fishman
Haygood Phelps Walmsley Willis & Swanson, LLP, who represents
Silverstein, declined to comment.  In conversations with Fisher representatives in 2007
Silverstein made it clear that she and her husband, Seth,
intended to take withdrawals from their investments after her
husband retired, which he was planning to do at the end of that
year, the document said. When her assigned investment counselor
with the firm drew up her recommended portfolio, using software
called the “Suitability Wizard,” he entered that she had no
income needs from her portfolio and that her only objective was
to increase the value of her investments at the time of her
death. The Silversteins have no children and therefore have no
need to leave an inheritance, the award said.  ‘Reasonable Inquiry’  “Fisher failed to make reasonable inquiry into Ms.
Silverstein’s financial situation, investment experience, and
investment objectives or ignored that information. Instead of
tailoring its recommendation to Ms. Silverstein’s circumstances
and needs, as it promised to do and had a duty to do, Fisher
simply made the same recommendation to Ms. Silverstein that it
makes to the vast majority of its clients: 100 percent equities
benchmarked to the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index,” Willcutts wrote.  About 80 percent of Fisher’s private clients are invested
100 percent in stocks, according to arbitration testimony from
Fisher Vice Chairman Andrew Teufel described in the document.
Teufel is a member of the five-person Investment Policy
Committee at the firm, according to its  website .  Lost Value  Sharyn Silverstein was invested with Fisher from about
September 2007 through October 2008, during which time her
initial investment of $876,357 in bonds lost about $376,075, the
award said. Over that period the MSCI World Index lost about 35
percent and the Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index of bonds
returned 2.4 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  After receiving Fisher’s investment recommendations the
Silversteins called their investment counselor repeatedly,
expressing concern over the 100 percent stocks allocation and
asking that the firm hold off on managing their account, the
document said. Following one of these calls the salesman they
had worked with called Sharyn Silverstein, “and expressed his
unhappiness with the Silversteins’ desire to quit and told her
that she would have to pay a fee if she quit, so she agreed to
allow Fisher to resume managing her account,” the award said.  In July 2008, after again telling their investment
counselor about their concerns over not holding any bonds, the
counselor “informed them that Fisher’s recommendation was still
100 percent equities, assured them that Fisher had a good track
record of predicting the market and could take defensive
measures to protect the Silversteins’ assets if necessary, and
also said that they could mandate something different,”
Willcutts wrote.  Attorney’s Fees  In addition to the $376,075 in out-of-pocket damages,
Silverstein may be awarded the costs of her attorney’s fees,
other expenses and interest, according to the interim award for
the case, which was arbitrated in  Dallas . JAMS awards are
generally not made public unless both parties agree to waive
confidentiality, according to JAMS spokeswoman Victoria Walsh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 