-- 
Kenya Says High Lending Rates Threaten to Undercut Banks’ ‘Huge Profits’

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-07-07T13:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kenya-says-high-lending-rates-threaten-to-undercut-banks-huge-profits-.html
Kenyan  central bank  Governor Njuguna
Ndung’u said commercial banks threaten to undercut their own
“huge profits” by demanding too much on loans in the East
African nation.  “It is payback time for the banks,” Ndung’u said in an
interview in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, today. If banks raise
rates “you are going to kill the goose that laid the golden
egg” as clients look elsewhere for loans.  Profit at banks and  financial institutions  in Kenya rose 70
percent to 57.6 billion shillings ($641.8 million) last year as
the economy expanded, lending grew and credit defaults fell, the
central bank said on July 1. Net non-performing loans declined
to 2.1 percent of gross loans in 2010, compared with 3.2 percent
in 2009, the  bank  said.  At least four Kenyan lenders have raised their base lending
rates over the past month, after the central bank increased its
benchmark interest rate in March and May to 6.25 percent, from a
record low in January.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , the country’s
largest lender by assets, and  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  this month raised
their base lending rates by 1.5 percentage points to 15 percent
and 16 percent, respectively.  Commercial banks shouldn’t use tighter monetary policy as
an “excuse” to raise rates because they didn’t give cheaper
credit after cuts to the official rates, Ndung’u told reporters
today in Nairobi.  Rates Dispute  The Central Bank of Kenya reduced the benchmark interest
rate eight times between December 2008 and January this year as
inflation eased. Lenders failed to match the reductions. The
average bank lending rate dipped to 14 percent in January 2011
from 14.2 percent two years earlier, central bank data showed.  “When  interest rates  and inflation were coming down not so
long ago, they didn’t lower their lending rates,” Ndung’u said.
“So they cannot use the same reason to raise their lending
rates.”  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki said last month there is an
“urgent need” for more affordable borrowing. The average
interest rate spread, or the difference between commercial bank
lending rates and deposit rates, is too wide, Kibaki said.  The interest rate spread narrowed to 10.5 percent in April,
from 10.6 percent in January, according to central bank data.  Currently, banks don’t have information about the borrower,
so “they more or less rely on a gut feeling,” Habil Olaka,
chief executive officer of  Kenya Bankers Association , told
reporters in Nairobi today. “So you loan on a risk margin based
on perception rather than actual information.”  Kenya’s inaugural credit information-sharing program that
began operating in July last year will help reduce the “ risk
premium ” and bring down borrowing costs over time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 