-- 
Kenya Prosecutor Has No Grounds to Arrest Ex-State Officials, Lawyer Says

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T13:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kenya-prosecutor-has-no-grounds-to-arrest-ex-state-officials-lawyer-says.html
Kenya’s state prosecutor has no
grounds to arrest former Energy Minister Chris Okemo and ex-
Kenya Power & Lighting Co. Chief Executive Officer Samuel
Gichuru, a lawyer representing the two men said.  Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko yesterday
sanctioned the arrest of the two men who are fighting
extradition to  Jersey  to face charges of money laundering and
corruption, the Standard, a Nairobi-based newspaper said today.  “We don’t believe there are any well-founded grounds for
the request for their arrest” because both men filed a petition
in June to appear in court, Tom Macharia, an advocate at Ngatia
& Associates in Nairobi, said in a phone interview.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki came to power in 2002 with a
pledge to fight graft. A previous attempt at addressing
corruption resulted in John Githongo, a former corruption
adviser to Kibaki, fleeing the country in 2005 after he received
death threats. Tobiko was sworn in on June 20 as the country’s
first director of public prosecutions, a position created under
a constitution enacted last year as part of wider changes that
aimed to avoid a repeat of post-election violence in 2008.  Okemo and Gichuru are accused of abusing their offices by
using proxy companies to misuse public funds more than 10 years
ago, the Standard said. Gichuru is wanted for nine offences and
Okemo six, it said, citing the chief justice of Jersey.  “We haven’t been filed with any papers and we don’t want
to be responding to any press reports,” Macharia said. “When we
get the papers, we’ll be in a position to respond. For now,
anything that appears in the papers is denied by both men.”  Government Corruption  Any prosecution of Okemo and Gichuru may expose other
corrupt practices that took place in past administrations, said
Ndung’u Wainaina, executive director of the International Center
for Policy and Conflict in Nairobi.  “These are very prominent personalities in the previous
regimes which makes it a high profile case in itself,” Wainaina
said in a phone interview today. “For the first time this will
be a case that really exposes the network of corruption and
money laundering in Kenyan history, at the top level.”  Kenya dropped 11 places from a year earlier to 159th out of
178 countries listed on the 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index 
compiled by  Transparency International , the Berlin-based group
that monitors graft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net . 