-- 
Khodorkovsky May Benefit From Kremlin Panel’s Proposal for Crime Amnesty

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-07-07T12:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kremlin-council-urges-amnesty-for-economic-crimes-khodorkovsky.html
The Kremlin’s human rights council
called for an amnesty for economic crimes that would apply to
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed former billionaire head of
Yukos Oil Co.  “An amnesty can’t exclude specific individuals,” Tamara
Morshchakova, a member of the council, set up in February by
President  Dmitry Medvedev , told reporters today in Moscow. “It
would apply to all people accused of these crimes.”  Khodorkovsky, Russia’s richest man when he was arrested
when on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in 2003, was convicted
of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and oil embezzlement in
December 2010, charges he says are politically motivated.
Medvedev, a former lawyer, has promised to uphold the rule of
law and fight corruption as he seeks to attract foreign
investment to boost growth to the level of  China  and  India .  Khodorkovsky will spend 13 years in prison, including eight
years he is serving on previous charges, after the Moscow City
Court rejected an appeal to overturn his conviction in May. He
was sent last month to a penal colony in Segezh in the Karelia
region, near  Finland , after previously serving his sentence in a
prison in the Chita region near the border with China.  Medvedev said May 18 that freeing Khodorkovsky wouldn’t be
“dangerous” for Russia as he called for faster action to
modernize the economy.  Amnesty ‘Unlikely’  A decision to amnesty the jailed ex-Yukos billionaire is
unlikely because it would bolster Medvedev at Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s expense in the run-up to presidential elections
next year, said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a member of the ruling
United Russia party.  Putin, 58, hasn’t ruled out a return to the Kremlin in
March 2012 elections. He stepped down in 2008 having served two
consecutive terms, the maximum permitted by the constitution,
and picked Medvedev, 45, to replace him. The president has also
said he may run in the elections.  “As a citizen, I would welcome it but I doubt this is
realistic,” said Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist who studies
Russia’s elites, of the amnesty proposal. “Ahead of the
elections, it would change the balance of power and strengthen
the position of Medvedev. It would be a bold step with far-
reaching consequences.”  Khodorkovsky, 47, whose fortune was once estimated at $15
billion by Forbes magazine, has accused Putin of persecuting him
in revenge for his financing of opposition parties. Putin has
denied any involvement in the case.  Tax Claims  Yukos, once  Russia ’s biggest oil company, was declared
bankrupt and sold off in pieces after facing $30 billion of tax
claims during Putin’s presidency. State-owned OAO Rosneft
controls most of its former assets.  Medvedev has also sought to simplify rules for small
businesses, which complain of routine extortion from local
officials who use complicated regulation to extract bribes and,
in some cases, force them to surrender ownership.  “There are statistics that show businesspeople have
suffered mass repression like no section of society since the
kulaks were wiped out,” said Morshchakova, referring to the
Stalin-era campaign against wealthy peasants.  As many as 300,000 businesspeople are currently in Russian
jails, equivalent to more than one in three prisoners, according
to Yana Yakovleva, head of Business Solidarity, a lobbying
group. One in six entrepreneurs have faced criminal proceedings,
she said by phone.  Lighter Penalties  Yakovleva, the co-owner of Moscow chemical distributor
 Sofex Co. , spent seven months in jail awaiting trial in 2006-
2007 before she was acquitted of trafficking in dangerous
substances.  Medvedev has promoted lighter penalties for white-collar
crimes, sought an end to pre-trial detention for those charged
with economic offenses and expanded the use of bail.  An amnesty for all those convicted of economic crimes would
be an essential starting point to change the behavior of law
enforcement agencies, said Morshchakova.  “The government can send a signal that we are starting
with a blank page by announcing an amnesty,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  