-- 
Kushner Said to Reach Agreement to Rescue Record-Setting Manhattan Tower

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-07T16:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kushner-said-to-reach-agreement-to-rescue-record-setting-manhattan-tower.html
Developer Jared Kushner has reached
an agreement to rescue 666 Fifth Avenue, the Manhattan tower he
purchased for a record $1.8 billion at the peak of the property
bubble, according to a people familiar with the negotiations.  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  is contributing about $100 million to
fund a reserve account to cover future costs and will gain a 50
percent stake in the 41-story building, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t complete.  Kushner, the son of New Jersey real estate developer
Charles Kushner and son-in-law of  Donald Trump , bought the
building in January 2007. With 30 percent of the property
vacant, it is now worth $1 billion to $1.1 billion, said one of
the people familiar with the agreement.  The deal shows how some borrowers who made big bets during
the boom are trying to salvage their investments as property
values in major markets recover. New York office prices jumped
24 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  The agreement was reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal.  Kushner estimated the building would have average revenue
of about $110 a square foot per year when he got a $1.2 billion
first mortgage from  Barclays Capital  to make the purchase,
according to loan documents. That’s more than double the average
of $48.99 a square foot tenants were paying in rent at the time
of the sale, the documents show.  A reserve account was set up to cover the difference until
rents reached their target. That never happened, and the
reserves were running low, according to one of the people with
knowledge of the deal.  LNR Corp.  The lender, represented by LNR Corp., is reducing interest
payments so the borrower can play catch-up, said the person.
Annual income on the building is currently $35 million and the
goal is to increase that to $75 million, the person said.  So-called pro forma loans, which were common as values
ballooned and rents rose, allowed borrowers to take on more debt
on the assumption that higher income in the future would cover
the interest and principal. The building ran into trouble as
vacancies climbed and rents plunged amid the economic slump.  Most of the loan was sold and put into a Wachovia Corp.
security, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commercial
mortgage-backed securities helped to finance the property boom
that ended in 2008.  Kushner was advised on the deal by Iron Hound Management
Co., the firm specializing in restructuring real estate debt
founded by Robert Verrone. Verrone ran the commercial-mortgage
lending group at Wachovia during the real estate boom.  Leasing Decisions  Vornado and Kushner will jointly operate the property and
control leasing decisions, said one of the people familiar with
the agreement.  The 1.5 million-square-foot (140,000-square-meter)
building, built in 1957, was known for its Top of the Sixes
penthouse restaurant until it closed in the 1990s. The tower is
located at Fifth Avenue and East 53rd Street, close to
Rockefeller Center, the Museum of  Modern Art , St. Patrick’s
Cathedral and the Cartier jewelry boutique.  Kushner sold a 49 percent stake in the building’s retail
portion in 2008 for $525 million, in part to help fund an
interest reserve. The buyers were  Carlyle Group  and Crown
Acquisitions. Kushner kept the remaining 51 percent.  Two years later, the parent of Japanese clothier Uniqlo Co.
agreed to lease one of the storefronts for a record $300 million
for 15 years. This March, Spanish retailer  Inditex SA (ITX) , owner of
the Zara clothing chain, bought another storefront for $324
million, or a record $8,300 a square foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net 
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  