-- 
Kuwait Must Form Company to Build New Refinery, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-07T13:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kuwait-must-form-company-to-build-new-refinery-lawmaker-says.html
A Kuwaiti opposition lawmaker said he
may seek to question the government if it fails to create a
public shareholding company to build the new Al-Zour refinery.  “The fuss over the fourth refinery is not yet over,”
Ahmed al-Saadoun told reporters in parliament today. The
government must set up a company to build the new refinery “as
there’s no alternative but to implement the law.” Al-Saadoun, a
former speaker of parliament, heads one of the opposition blocs
in parliament.  The Supreme Petroleum Council, the country’s highest
decision-making body for oil policy, approved last month
construction of the 615,000 barrel-a-day Al-Zour facility, Oil
Minister Mohammad al-Busairy said. The approval is “a very big
step. We now have to follow all legal procedures to implement
the project,” al-Busairy said in a June 28 interview.  The Al-Zour project was suspended by  Kuwait  in March 2009
after opposition lawmakers said the government had circumvented
the law in awarding contracts with foreign companies without
going through the Central Tenders Committee.  Lawmakers may question al-Busairy if the government decides
not to establish a company to build the refinery or may use the
issue as “another element” in their drive to question Prime
Minister Sheikh Nasser al-Mohammed al-Sabah, according to al-
Saadoun.  Kuwait awarded construction contracts for the refinery in
May 2008 to JGC Corp. of  Japan  and to  South Korea ’s  GS
Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360) , SK Engineering & Construction
Co., Daelim Industrial Co. and Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , based in Irving,  Texas , won a
consulting contract.  Kuwait is the fifth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumping 2.485 million barrels of
oil a day in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  