-- 
Kyushu Electric Leads Drop in Japan Utilities

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-07T01:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/kyushu-electric-leads-drop-in-japan-utilities.html
Kyushu Electric Power Co. paced
declines in Japanese utilities because of concern any restart of
idled nuclear reactors will be delayed by a government order for
further tests on all plants.  Kyushu Electric slumped as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest
decline in a month, after the Asahi newspaper reported the mayor
of Genkai may revoke a decision to let the utility restart a
nuclear plant in his town. The 17-member Topix Electric Power &
Gas Index fell 3.7 percent, the biggest decline of the subgroups
on  Japan ’s benchmark Topix index.  Almost two-thirds of Japan’s 54 reactors are closed after
the March earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns at three
reactors, leading the government to impose power restrictions
ahead of the peak summer demand season. Trade Minister  Banri
Kaieda  ordered the “stress tests” yesterday, almost three
weeks after the government declared nuclear reactors safe.  “It’s become very difficult for utilities to restart
nuclear plants before electricity demand reaches a peak in the
summer,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Hiroyuki Sakaida
wrote in a Japanese-language report dated yesterday. “Utilities
will unlikely be able to restart them before the stress tests
are over.”  Kansai Electric  Power Co. fell 6.3 percent to 1,485 yen,
the second-biggest mover after Kyushu Electric. Shares of  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co., the company at the center of the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, fell 1.2 percent.  Yasushi Furukawa, the governor of Saga prefecture, where
Kyushu Electric’s Genkai plant is located, said he won’t agree
to restarting idled reactors in his region until there is a
clear unified policy from central government.  Rating Cut  “Unless we get results of the stress tests, utilities
won’t be able to get agreement to restart nuclear plants from
local governments,” Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst Shigeki
Matsumoto wrote in a Japanese language report dated yesterday.
Matsumoto cut his rating on Kansai Electric to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Kaieda previously urged authorities in southwestern Japan
to agree to restart two reactors operated by Kyushu Electric
that were idled for maintenance and due to resume operations in
April. The stress tests will be carried out on the reactors
before they go back online, Kaieda said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday new nuclear power
plant safety guidelines are needed. Kaieda didn’t consult
Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission before making the announcement
that Japan’s plants are safe in June, he said.  Computer Simulations  Computer simulations will be used for the stress tests and
they won’t require reactor shutdowns, Tetsuya Yamamoto, the
director of the nuclear power inspection division of the Nuclear
and Industrial Safety Agency, known as NISA, said yesterday. He
declined to comment on how long they would take.  A Kyushu Electric affiliate asked staff members to send
comments supporting a restart of the utility’s nuclear reactors
to an Internet-broadcast show hosted by Japan’s Ministry of
Economy Trade and Industry,  Kyodo News  reported late yesterday,
citing President Toshio Manabe, who spoke to reporters in
Fukuoka, southwestern Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 