-- 
Neiman Marcus Leads Credit Swaps Rally on Retail Sales, Jobs

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T21:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/neiman-marcus-leads-credit-swaps-rally-on-retail-sales-jobs.html
Neiman-Marcus Group Inc. and Limited
Brands Inc. led declines in U.S. corporate credit risk as
reports on retail sales and jobs bolstered investor confidence
that companies can make debt payments.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 90.8 basis points as of 5:11 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from an eight-month high on June 24 of 101 basis points as
investors wager that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is being
contained and the economic recovery is intact.  There is “muted optimism,” said Noel Hebert, credit
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA in New York. “It’s
not a blowout that’s saying hey, everything is hunky-dory and
all is back to normal.”  U.S. same store sales excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc. rose
6.9 percent in June from a year earlier, according to the
 International Council of Shopping Centers .  Credit-default swaps on Dallas-based luxury fashion
retailer Neiman-Marcus, owned by TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus
LLC, fell 19 basis points to 333.8 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts have declined from 422 basis points on June
20, which was the highest level in two months.  Swaps on Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Brands dropped 14.8
basis points to 199.8 basis points, CMA data said.  Jobless Claims  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Companies in the U.S. added 157,000 workers to payrolls in
June, according to figures from ADP Employer Services. That’s
more than twice the 70,000 median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Initial jobless claims in the U.S. fell
by 14,000, more than the 12,000 median forecast of economists
polled by Bloomberg.  Investor reaction to today’s news will be “massively
overwhelmed by whatever tomorrow brings” when the Labor
Department releases non-farm payroll data, Hebert said. Payrolls
are expected to climb by 100,000 workers after a 54,000 increase
in May that was the smallest in eight months, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  