-- 
New York’s Attorney General Says He’s Investigating NFL PLayer Lockout

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-07T18:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/new-york-s-attorney-general-says-he-s-investigating-nfl-player-lockout.html
New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is investigating the legality of the  National
Football League ’s lockout against players, citing the importance
of the sport to the state’s economy.  Hotels, restaurants, transportation systems and other
companies will lose “substantial business” from the lockout,
while retailers will lose merchandising sales and thousands of
New Yorkers will lose jobs as ticket takers, parking attendants
and concession stand workers, Assistant Attorney General Richard Schwartz said in a July 5 letter to the NFL.  Schneiderman’s office is “deeply troubled” by the
antitrust implications of the lockout under the state’s Donnelly
Act, which gives the office the authority to investigate anti-
competitive conduct, Schwartz said.  “While we are hopeful that the NFL and its players will
reach an agreement to end the ongoing lockout in the near
future, this office will take all appropriate steps to protect
New Yorkers -- many of whom rely on the significant economic
activity generated by the NFL -- as well as state and local
governmental agencies,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  Owners of the NFL, the richest league in U.S. pro sports,
locked out players in March amid a dispute over how to split
$9 billion in revenue. Other issues include extending the 16-
game season by two games and adopting a salary cap for rookies.  The “damage has already begun,” Schwartz said in the
letter.  Jets Training Camp  He noted that the  New York  Jets canceled training camp at
the  State University of New York ’s Cortland campus that would
have brought millions of dollars into the region. The other New
York teams are the New York Giants and Buffalo Bills.  The official asked the NFL to provide information including
any analysis from 2008 to the present that demonstrates or
projects the impact of a lockout on the U.S. or New York. It
also is seeking documents on New Yorkers’ employment by the NFL
since 2008 and “all documents concerning the lockout.”  The NFL will review the letter with its attorneys and
respond to Schwartz,  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the league,
said in an e-mail.  Schneiderman’s office notified the NFL Players Association
of the inquiry and asked for similar documents. The organization
abandoned its role in collective bargaining in March and dropped
its status as a union, becoming a professional trade association
and allowing players to sue the league as individuals over the
contract impasse.  Players’ Lawsuit  Players including Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees  subsequently sued seeking
to end the lockout.  “The players have always been concerned with the impact of
a lockout on team cities and communities,” George Atallah, a
spokesman for the NFL Players Association, said in an e-mail.
“We take this issue seriously and will cooperate fully.”  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 