-- 
Murdoch’s Riskiest Scrape May Not End With Tabloid Shutdown

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-08T20:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/news-international-to-shut-news-of-the-world.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  Rupert Murdoch  has spent
years clashing with unions, rivals and governments. Now the
scandal at one of his London newspapers is threatening to become
the biggest crisis of the 80-year-old’s career.  “He’s been through lots of scrapes and likes to live on
the edge, but this must be the most complicated, fast-moving and
risky mess he’s been in,” said Charlie Beckett, director of the
media institute Polis at the  London School  of Economics.  News Corp. said yesterday it would close the 168-year-old
News of the World tabloid after allegations that its journalists
tapped the voice mails of murder victims and paid police
officers for stories. Murdoch acquired the paper in 1969 as he
expanded into the U.K. from  Australia .  The weekly newspaper’s closing may not be enough to end the
fallout from the four-year-old phone-hacking scandal, especially
with News Corp. trying to win government approval for the
acquisition of satellite-TV provider  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  With the growing public outcry, News Corp. may have
to take further steps such as firing Rebekah Brooks, a former
editor of the tabloid, said  Ken Doctor , a media analyst at
Outsell Inc. in  Santa Cruz ,  California .  “I think her position is unsustainable,” Doctor said in
an interview. “Given the gravity of what’s involved, she has to
take responsibility for that.”  BSkyB Bid  Brooks was editor of the News of the World in 2002 when a
private detective working for the newspaper allegedly deleted
messages from the voice mail of missing schoolgirl Milly Dowler,
later found murdered.  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  reiterated a
call for the resignation of Brooks, who is now chief executive
officer of News International, News Corp.’s U.K. publishing
unit. Murdoch said this week News International will continue
under her leadership.  News Corp., also owner of the Fox TV networks and film
studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book publisher
HarperCollins, fell 68 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $16.75 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Trinity Mirror  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , which publishes the rival Sunday and
Daily Mirror newspapers, closed up 4.2 percent to 50 pence in
London. BSkyB  fell 62 pence, or 7.6 percent, to 750 pence. The
stock has fallen 12 percent from a record of 850 pence on July 4
before reports of the new allegations.  News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) offer for
BSkyB has drawn more than 135,000 messages of objection a day
before a week-long consultation on additional conditions ends
today. U.K. lawmakers have called for the bid to be halted
pending a public inquiry. Regulator Ofcom, which monitors
broadcasters, can also intervene.  Closing the News of the World is an attempt to put the
scandal in the past and smooth the approval process for BSkyB,
said  Laura Martin , an analyst with Needham & Co. in  Los Angeles .  “They’re trying to increase the odds that it gets done
before Parliament breaks,” Martin said in an interview. “It
helps to shut down the enterprise that is morally questionable.
The only reason to do it with such haste is to make sure it
doesn’t derail the regulatory process.”  News Group Newspapers Ltd., the unit within News
International responsible for the News of the World and The Sun,
reported an operating profit of 18.2 million pounds in the year
ended June 27, 2010, compared with an operating loss of 15.3
million pounds a year earlier, according to accounts filed at
 Companies House . News Corp. reported revenue of $32.8 billion
for the year ended last June, with net income of $2.54 billion.  Tabloid’s History  “Financially, you wouldn’t even notice it in News Corp.,”
said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in  New York .  The News of the World, founded in 1843, has long been
Britain’s biggest-selling Sunday newspaper. It quickly
established a reputation in the Victorian era for its coverage
of sensational stories involving crime and sex.  That approach to news continued into the 20th century, and
in the years after World War II the newspaper sold around 8
million copies a week. Its circulation declined from more than 6
million in the 1960s to 2.66 million in May, according to data
from media researcher ABC.  From 2007, when one of its reporters was jailed for phone-
hacking, to 2010, News International denied there was any
widespread culture of illegality at the newspaper.  Jude Law  The balance tipped in January. With more celebrities such
as actor Jude Law and interior designer Kelly Hoppen suing the
paper, evidence came to light that led to the suspension of one
of the newspaper’s executives. In the following three weeks,
 Andy Coulson , a former editor, announced he was resigning from
his job in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office and News
International handed over a file of information to the police,
who opened a fresh investigation.  Coulson was arrested today as part of a probe into phone-
hacking at the tabloid newspaper, a person familiar with the
matter said.  “Putting it right for the prime minister means starting by
the appalling error of judgment he made in hiring Andy
Coulson,” Miliband said in a speech in London today.
“Apologizing for bringing him in to the center of the
government machine. Coming clean about what conversations he had
with Andy Coulson before and after his appointment about phone-
hacking.”  General Motors, Lloyds  In the wake of this week’s phone-hacking allegations,
companies including  General Motors Co. (GM) , Lloyds Banking Group
Plc,  RWE AG (RWE)  and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. have halted advertising.  Murdoch may seek to replace the revenue lost in the News of
the World shutdown by adding a Sunday edition of the Sun, said
Marc Mendoza, CEO of Media Planning Group, the media buying and
planning arm of Havas SA.  “They can’t just close News of the World and forgo all of
the advertising revenue that is now suddenly in limbo like it’s
not needed anymore,” Mendoza in an interview. “I think that
they will actually just sort of shove it across to an
alternative, similarly editorially focused title that’s not
sullied with the News of the World name. And The Sun hasn’t done
anything wrong ostensibly.”  A website titled  thesunonsunday.com  was registered July 5,
according to allwhois.com, a domain-name database search engine.  Public Outcry  Murdoch is no stranger to public outcry. In the 1980s,
Murdoch shifted production of News of the World and other
newspapers from Fleet Street in central  London  to Wapping in the
capital’s still underdeveloped Docklands. In doing so, he broke
the power of labor unions opposed to introducing new technology.
Police fought strikers nightly outside the Wapping plant as the
papers were printed.  Murdoch’s 2007 bid for Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The
Wall Street Journal, sparked a public debate over journalistic
values and standards. Some members of the Bancroft family that
had owned the paper sought other buyers. Eventually, Murdoch’s
offer was approved.  The allegations of phone-hacking and bribery will raise
further questions about the power of the media and the dangers
of media concentration, said Outsell’s Doctor.  “Abstract concern about the concentration of media power
is now fully formed,” he said. “You have a media power that
has engaged in alleged bribery and wiretapping. Then the
question of Murdoch’s tapping more power with the ascendant
media of the day, BSkyB, is no longer abstract.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  