-- 
News of World Closure Is Not Enough, Chief Brooks Must Go, Miliband Says

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-07T18:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/news-of-world-closure-is-not-enough-chief-brooks-must-go-miliband-says.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s decision to close
the News of the World is not enough and News International Chief
Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks should quit over phone-hacking
and payments to police, opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  said.  Brooks, who was editor of the News Corp.-owned British
tabloid newspaper when an investigator working for it is alleged
to have hacked into the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler, should be accountable for what happened on her watch,
Miliband said.  “She should go, she should take responsibility,” Miliband
told BBC television today. “It’s a big decision but I don’t
think it solves the problem. It’s a sign of what trouble News
International is in.”  As  News Corp. (NWSA)  attempts to win approval for taking full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , opponents have
sought to link the phone-hacking scandal to the deal. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  is also under pressure for hiring as his
communications chief former News of The World editor  Andy Coulson , who had already resigned over phone-hacking at the
newspaper and is now facing allegations over payments to police
officers.  Tom Watson  and  Chris Bryant , Labour lawmakers who led a
campaign against News Corp., said the closure of the paper,
announced today by Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch,
would not satisfy those whose privacy had been invaded by phone-
hacking.  ‘Heinous Attack’  “This paper has closed but the hacking saga has not,”
Watson told Sky News. “There are still people who did the most
egregious invasions of privacy to people suffering massive
amounts of grief. The anger will only subside when a very senior
executive in the company takes responsibility for this heinous
attack on British people.”  From 2007, when one of its reporters was jailed for phone-
hacking, to 2010, News International, News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing division, denied that there was any widespread
culture of illegality at the newspaper. The company was backed
in this by London’s Metropolitan Police, which said there wasn’t
enough evidence to support further prosecutions.  ‘On Her Watch’  The closure of the paper “is all to save Rebekah Brooks,
they are trying to draw a line under this,” Bryant, who is
suing the paper, said in a telephone interview. “It is
inconceivable for her to stay now and if she had a shred of
decency she would have resigned by now. These things happened on
her watch.”  James Murdoch , News Corp’s deputy chief operating officer,
said Brooks’s leadership has been crucial to the company’s
response to the scandal and he is satisfied she was not involved
in phone-hacking.  “She’s doing the right thing for the company, it’s her
leadership that has gotten to grips with this whole period in
the company’s history,” Murdoch told Sky News. “Her leadership
is actually crucial right now. It’s actually her moving a lot of
this forward.”  “I’m satisfied that she neither had knowledge of, nor
directed, those activities,” Murdoch said.  Former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said the
revelations should sway the government’s decision on whether to
allow the BSkyB takeover to go ahead.  ‘Concerned About Morality’  “The government is only concerned about plurality but can
I say that they should get concerned about morality,” Prescott
told the  BBC . “They are taking away the attention from the
massive criminal acts committed by people in Murdoch’s
company.”  Watson said Cameron, a personal friend of Brooks, is one of
her few remaining supporters.  “There are only two people in Britain today supporting
Rebekah Brooks -- Rupert Murdoch and David Cameron,” Watson
said. “This is a victory for decent people up and down the land
and I say good riddance to the News of the World.”  Illegal activity by journalists should be exposed and those
responsible must face justice, Cameron’s office said in response
to the newspaper’s closure.  “What matters is that all wrongdoing is exposed and those
responsible for these appalling acts are brought to justice,”
it said in an e-mailed statement. Cameron “is committed to
establishing rigorous public inquiries to make sure this never
happens in our country again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 