-- 
‘Quiet’ Electric Cars Will Sound Alerts Under Rule

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-07-08T01:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/nissan-toyota-quiet-cars-must-sound-alerts-under-u-s-rule.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and other makers of electric and hybrid vehicles will be
required by U.S. safety regulators to install warning systems
that will automatically sound alerts to pedestrians.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and
advocates for the blind have raised concerns for several years
about safety risks to pedestrians posed by hybrid and electric
vehicles that make little engine noise.  “Even as we make giant leaps forward with hybrid and
electric vehicles, we must remain laser focused on safety,”
NHTSA Administrator David Strickland said in a statement
yesterday announcing the start of a rule-making process. “With
more and more quiet vehicles on the road, we have to consider
their effect on pedestrians.”  Japan  in 2010 recommended that sound alerts be required on
hybrids that can run exclusively on electric motors, electric
vehicles and fuel-cell vehicles.  NHTSA by law must write a standard by July 4, 2012, for an
alert system that doesn’t require action by a driver or
pedestrian to activate it, the agency said in a  notice  published
on its website yesterday. All vehicles of the same make and
model must have the same alert sound, the notice said.  GM’s  Chevy Volt  and Nissan’s Leaf, both plug-in electric
vehicles, offer sound-alert systems. The Volt’s is activated
when the driver pulls the turn-signal handle, according to the
NHTSA notice and GM’s website.  Nissan, Toyota  Nissan’s new Infiniti M hybrid sedan also has audible
alerts, said Jeannine Ginivan, a spokeswoman for the automaker.  “As NHTSA moves toward regulation, Nissan will analyze the
details of NHTSA’s proposal and submit any appropriate comments
to the agency after evaluation,” she said.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest seller of hybrid
electric autos, later this year will include an audible
pedestrian alert on its new Prius v wagon that engages when the
car runs at low speed on battery power.  “Toyota has been cooperative with NHTSA, providing input
on their research,” said Cindy Knight, a Washington-based
spokeswoman for the carmaker. Toyota has also sought input on
the issue from the National Federation of the Blind for the past
four years, she said.  Along with the Prius v, Toyota will be adding audible
alerts to other new hybrid and battery-powered models, “ahead
of any regulatory action,” Knight said.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is developing sounds for its 2012 Focus
electric model, set to be introduced later this year, through
steps that include running a poll on Facebook to solicit
feedback, Wes Sherwood, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  NHTSA said its regulation will cover light and low-speed
vehicles, motorcycles, buses and heavy-duty trucks.  A final rule must be published by Jan. 4, 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  