-- 
North Sea Forties Crude Cargo Is Dropped From July Schedule

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-07-07T11:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/north-sea-forties-crude-cargo-is-dropped-from-july-schedule.html
One cargo of North Sea Forties crude
was dropped from the July export program, bringing the total
number of shipments for this month to 23, according to a revised
shipping schedule obtained by Bloomberg News.  The dropped cargo, with the parcel number of F0716, was
previously for loading July 25 to July 27, the plan showed. The
July loading plan originally comprised of 18 cargoes of 600,000
barrels. Over the past month, four shipments were deferred to
July from June and two were added.  Production at the Buzzard field, the biggest stream in the
Forties blend, has been less than normal in the past two months
because of maintenance and some technical problems, according to
operator  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   “Buzzard has been operating at reduced and variable rates
as we undergo maintenance work on the cooling system, commission
the fourth platform and manage production due to maintenance on
related third-party facilities,” Pierre Alvarez, a Calgary-
based spokesman for Nexen, said in an e-mail July 4.  “Over this past weekend the platform experienced a
temporary  power outage ,” he said. “Production was restarted
within hours.”  The share of Buzzard crude in the Forties oil blend rose to
22 percent last week from 21 percent a week earlier, BP Plc said
on its website on July 4. BP operates the Forties Pipeline
System. Forties is one of four North Sea crude grades used to
price Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of global
oil. The other blends are Brent, Ekofisk and Oseberg.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  