-- 
NYSE Euronext Shareholders Approve Takeover

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-07-07T13:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/nyse-euronext-holders-to-vote-on-deutsche-boerse-takeover.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shareholders approved
the company’s $9.43 billion takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ,
bringing the deal to create the world’s biggest bourse operator
a step closer to completion.  Owners holding 66 percent of NYSE Euronext shares backed
the agreement, surpassing the 50 percent needed to approve the
deal announced in February, according to preliminary figures
released after a meeting today in New York. The all-stock
transaction would give Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse 60
percent of the combined entity, while NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  will run the organization.  Approval clears one of three main obstacles for the
takeover. Also pending is the July 13 deadline for at least 75
percent of Deutsche Boerse holders to favor the plan. European
regulators, who set an initial deadline of Aug. 4 to rule on the
deal, are reviewing the transaction because it would unite
venues that handle more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives.  “This is the first concrete step in terms of getting the
deal consummated,” said Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-
based Aite Group LLC. “The next hurdle is on the Deutsche
Boerse side, which has a higher threshold. The most difficult
part would be the regulatory restrictions and haggling with
regulators to get this through.”  Dividend Enticement  To entice owners, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse have
agreed to pay a one-time dividend of 620 million euros ($888
million). The final NYSE Euronext vote is scheduled to be
announced tomorrow.  NYSE Euronext shares rose 2.3 percent to $35.14 at 9:32
a.m. in  New York , extending their gain since the companies
confirmed they were in merger discussions to 5.2 percent.
Deutsche Boerse advanced 2.3 percent to 54.46 euros, trimming
its decline in the past five months to 5.2 percent.  Today’s vote “gives us a lot of confidence” that Deutsche
Boerse holders will back the deal next week, Niederauer said at
the meeting. “Assuming that goes the way we think it will,
we’ll have the opportunity to spend the rest of the year trying
to get through the regulatory process and get down to the
business of creating value for shareholders.”  NYSE Euronext’s share of trading in NYSE-listed stocks has
shrunk to 35 percent from as much as 82 percent as technology
and regulatory changes enabled electronic competitors to grow.
The company is merging with Deutsche Boerse in an effort to
expand revenue from derivatives, such as options and interest-
rate swaps because they offer a higher profit margin.  Not Sad  “There’s this sentiment out there that we’re not what we
were, and that’s right, we’re not,” Niederauer said in a May 31
interview. “The NYSE doesn’t want to be what it was. The game
changed. We’re obliged to get into new services, new products,
new asset classes, new regions. If we do that successfully,
that’s a great story, not a sad story.”  There has been $37 billion of exchange merger announcements
since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  said Oct. 25 that it would pay
A$8.35 billion ($8.92 billion) for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , according to
Bloomberg data that include planned, unsolicited and terminated
bids. The Australian government rejected the Singapore deal in
April.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  dropped its 2.13 billion
pound ($3.41 billion) bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  last month, citing
a lack of shareholder support.  Board Membership  In late 2008, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse held talks
about a merger that ended without a deal. They restarted
negotiations in August 2010, according to regulatory filings.
The companies also aimed for a premium of 10 percent or more
than the NYSE Euronext stock price of $33.41 on Feb. 8, the
filings show.  The deal was recommended by Glass Lewis & Co. and ISS Proxy
Advisory Services, which last month said NYSE Euronext
shareholders should vote for the takeover because they will hold
“significant” board and management representation. Of 15
directors, six are set to be designated by NYSE Euronext.
Niederauer is slated to be CEO, while  Reto Francioni , the head
of the German company, will be chairman.  “The proposed transaction developed through a lengthy
process of sharpening the firm’s business strategy to anticipate
the evolution of the exchange industry,”  Stephen Farr , the
primary analyst for ISS, wrote in the report dated June 24.
“The deal will create the world leader in derivatives, capital
raising markets, and capital markets infrastructure services.”  Combined Results  The combined company would have operations in 11 countries
and generate 5.6 billion euros ($8 billion) in sales and 869
million euros in earnings annually, according to a regulatory
filing. Earnings before interest and taxes for the combined
exchange would have been 1.1 billion euros for the year that
ended Dec. 31.  NYSE Euronext- Deutsche Boerse  would own three of the nine
U.S. options exchanges, with 41 percent of the industry’s
volume, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC. In
addition to the three U.S. stock exchanges NYSE Euronext already
owns, the company would have a 32 percent stake in  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which runs two
markets, putting five of the nation’s 13 equity exchanges under
common ownership.  The deal may encounter resistance from European regulators,
who could take issue with giving one firm control of the Eurex
and NYSE Liffe derivatives markets, the two largest in  Europe .
Also, the joined entity would control about 29 percent of the
region’s stock trading, according to data compiled by Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats Global Markets.  Issues, Complaints  “There are issues with combining Liffe and Eurex and there
are some complaints on the equities side as well,” said  Larry Tabb , founder of Tabb Group LLC, a financial-market research and
advisory firm. “I’m not sure, if Deutsche Boerse and NYSE were
forced to spin off any one or more of their predominant
businesses, they’d continue with the merger.”  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse traded or cleared 4.8
billion futures and options contracts last year, according to
data including equity options and futures contracts from the
Washington-based Futures Industry Association. That was more
than Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which is in second place at
3.1 billion contracts.  The European Commission sent a survey with 165 questions to
Deutsche Boerse rivals and customers, asking if the deal would
reduce competition and what effect it would have on access to
market data. The deadline to reply is today. Last week, the EU’s
antitrust agency set the Aug. 4 deadline to rule on the deal.  “Europe remains the most significant regulatory hurdle to
the transaction as a result of the near monopoly that would
exist within the European interest-rate futures market,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based analyst at Jefferies Group Inc.,
wrote in a June 28 note. “A key consideration by European
regulators will be Europe’s global position within the
 derivatives market  post the transaction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  