-- 
Obama Administration Extends Foreclosure Programs for Unemployed

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-07-07T15:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/obama-administration-extends-foreclosure-programs-for-unemployed.html
Unemployed homeowners with mortgages
backed by the  Federal Housing Administration  or participating in
a federal foreclosure prevention program will be given up to a
year of forbearance on mortgage payments, the Obama
Administration announced today.  Banks must increase the amount of time delinquent
homeowners who are looking for work can gain relief from paying
their mortgage from three or four months to at least 12 months,
U.S. housing regulators said. Unemployment is a top reason
borrowers fall into arrears.  A few months is “inadequate for the majority of unemployed
borrowers,” Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan said. Sixty percent of the unemployed have been out of
work for more than three months and 45 percent have been out of
work for more than six, he said in a written statement.  The new rules apply to lenders who sell FHA-guaranteed
mortgages and servicers participating in the administration’s
Making Home Affordable foreclosure-prevention program.  The unpaid payments are added to the cost of the loan and
must be repaid with interest.  Donovan said he hoped the announcement would prompt all
loan servicers, including government-controlled  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , to extend longer forbearance to the unemployed.
“Our hope is that this will have broader effects,” Donovan
said in a conference call.  “What we’re trying to do here is set the right standard,”
Treasury Assistant Secretary Tim Massad said on the call.  President Barack Obama yesterday said the administration is
putting pressure on banks to modify more loans.  “The continuing decline in the housing market is something
that hasn’t bottomed out as quickly as we expected, and so
that’s continued to be a big drag on the economy,” Obama said
during a Twitter town hall forum.  The Labor Department today reported that initial jobless
claims fell by 14,000 to 418,000 in the week ended July 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 