-- 
Obama Shows That Ignoring a Chavez-like Dictator Is Best: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/obama-shows-that-ignoring-a-chavez-like-dictator-is-best-view.html
Experience has shown that Western
democracies often have difficulty dealing with dictators. We
suggest a simple formula:  When a dictator poses a threat to regional stability (such
as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of  Iran ) or is responsible for a great
number of human rights violations (such as  Muammar Qaddafi  of
 Libya ), the West should react strongly. But if the dictator does
neither of these things, then ignoring him may be the best way
to weaken him.  That has been the case with  Hugo Chavez , the leader of
Venezuela, who thrives on confrontation with the U.S. A look
back at Western dealings with Chavez over the past decade shows
the benefits of benign neglect.  Since being elected president in 1999, Chavez has ranted on
radio and television against the Venezuelan elite and the U.S.
Wrapping himself in the legacy of  Simon Bolivar , the revered
liberator of much of Latin America, he started the Bolivarian
Revolution, placing political power in a strong presidency and
preventing the Venezuelan Congress, news media and civil society
from stopping his disastrous policies. As a result, Venezuela
can no longer realistically be considered a democracy.  Internationally, Chavez has sought to unite  Latin America 
in opposition to the U.S., going so far as to refer to former
President  George W. Bush  as the devil during a 2006 speech to
the United Nations General Assembly.  The Bush administration often felt a need to respond. This
gave voice to American outrage, but it also elevated Chavez’s
importance, allowing him to focus attention on the history of
U.S. policy toward the region, rather than his own conduct. By
ignoring Chavez and working closely with more constructive Latin
American leaders such as the presidents of  Mexico , Colombia,
Chile and  Brazil , the Obama administration has made Chavez, not
the U.S., the subject of debate.  Representative Connie Mack, the chairman of the House
Western Hemisphere Subcommittee recently issued  a statement  that
Obama “continues to coddle this ruthless dictator.” But ignoring
Chavez is not the same as coddling him. By ignoring him, Obama
has contributed to the decline of Chavez’s popularity.  Latin Americans have increasingly grown tired of Chavez’s
act. Because  Venezuela ’s oil company  PDVSA  was once a center of
opposition to Chavez’s revolution, he made political loyalty,
not technical expertise, a requirement for employment there. As
a result, oil production has declined and Venezuela’s economy
has contracted -- by 3.3 percent in 2009 and 1.6 percent in
2010.  Venezuela’s crime rate has recently risen steeply, fueled
by drug violence and Chavez’s class warfare, as Bloomberg
Businessweek reported last month. The murder rate in Venezuela
is now more than 10 times that of the U.S.  Many Latin Americans see Brazil’s form of democracy, with
its pragmatic populism and high economic growth, as a more
attractive model. Chavez is now the second least popular Latin
American leader, after  Fidel Castro , according to a 2010 report
by the Chilean policy analysts Latinobarometro.  In Bolivia and Argentina -- countries that have close
relations with Venezuela -- less than 35 percent of those polled
had a positive view of Chavez. Even Ollanta Humala, Peru’s
leftist president-elect, has downplayed his ties to Chavez.  Although poor Venezuelans continue to support Chavez, his
approval ratings at home hover a little over 40 percent. If the
fractured opposition can coalesce around a single candidate,
next year’s presidential election might be very close.  Chavez, who was recently treated for cancer in Cuba, is
still a master showman. His July 4 “surprise” return to
Venezuela with a welcoming crowd in place was brilliant
political theater. But his ability to entertain does not obscure
the damage he has done to Venezuela’s economy and democratic
institutions.  Obama is wise to let this dictator’s record speak for
itself.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  