-- 
Obama Warns He Won’t Take Short-Term Debt Fix

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-07T23:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/obama-said-to-warn-he-won-t-accept-short-term-deficit-reduction-proposal.html
President  Barack Obama  told
congressional leaders in deficit-cutting talks that he won’t
sign any agreement that fails to raise the debt limit through
the 2012 election, said a congressional aide familiar with the
negotiations.  The president asked the leaders to come back for another
meeting July 10 with detailed ideas and to be prepared for a
long session, the aide said.  The White House and congressional leaders have signaled
fresh openness to a broad deal that might include entitlement
cuts and tax increases. Obama said he hopes the next meeting
will start the “hard bargaining” necessary to reach an
agreement. He called today’s meeting at the White House “very
constructive.”  “People were frank,” the president told reporters after
the approximately 90-minute session. “We discussed the various
options available to us. Everybody reconfirmed the importance of
completing our work.”  The president acknowledged the difficulty of achieving the
breakthrough that has eluded him and congressional leaders in
weeks of negotiating. They are seeking a deficit-slashing accord
to pave the way for a vote to increase the $14.3 trillion debt
limit, a move the Treasury Department says is needed by Aug. 2
to avert a default on the nation’s financial obligations.  ‘Still Far Apart’  “The parties are still far apart on a wide range of
issues,” Obama said. “And everybody acknowledged there’s going
to be pain involved politically on all sides.”  The congressional aide said Obama asked the leaders to
state their preference for the size of a deficit-cutting plan,
ranging from small, at $2 trillion to $2.5 trillion; medium, at
$3 trillion to $3.5 trillion, or large, at $4 trillion to $4.5
trillion. All of the congressional leaders chose either medium
or large, while Obama said he wanted a large deal, the aide
said.  There was no “breakthrough” at today’s session, said
White House press secretary  Jay Carney . Obama said White House
and congressional staff aides will work through the weekend on
elements of a possible accord.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  called
the meeting “a good conversation” and wouldn’t comment
further. Others who attended, including Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona ,
the second-ranking Republican, wouldn’t comment.  Social Security  Before the meeting, the White House and Democratic leaders
signaled openness to curbing the growth of entitlement programs
such as Social Security through a change in the way the
government measures inflation, which would cut future annual
benefit increases. Republicans had said they would consider
limiting certain tax breaks.  The president wants “to strengthen” Social Security
without making cuts that “slash benefits,” Carney said in an
e-mail earlier today. “The president has always said that while
Social Security is not a major driver of the deficit, we do need
to strengthen the program.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told Republicans at a
private caucus before the White House meeting that he was not
going “for a wimpy deal, so we’ll see,” said Republican
Representative Fred Upton of  Michigan , chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee.  ‘Skeletal Outline’  Both parties understand the “skeletal outline” needed for
a compromise, which can be reached if leaders have the
“political will” to act, Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the
second-ranking Democrat, said on Bloomberg Television before the
meeting.  Durbin, who like most Democrats has been skeptical of an
inflation-rate change that could limit the growth of entitlement
programs, said Social Security changes could be discussed as
long as savings are used to strengthen the retirement system.  “I’ll put Social Security on the table as long as several
things are clear: Number one, any savings in Social Security
goes to make Social Security stronger, longer,” Durbin said.
“We’ve got to make sure the benefits structure that people
really count on, those in lower and middle-income categories,
are going to be protected and enhanced.”  Yesterday the House’s second-ranking Republican, Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , said he would be willing to talk
about Obama’s call to limit some tax breaks, such as
depreciation on corporate jets, provided any savings are used to
finance other tax cuts.  ‘Glad to Talk Loopholes’  “If the president wants to talk loopholes, we will be glad
to talk loopholes,” Cantor told reporters in Washington
yesterday. Cantor had previously said any proposal that raised
taxes should be off-limits in the debt discussions, and should
only be contemplated as part of a broader tax overhaul.  Cantor also expressed optimism that a “blueprint” for
saving more than $2 trillion, produced in bipartisan debt-limit
talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden , may provide a basis for a
deal.  Those talks broke down last month after Cantor and the
other Republican participant, Kyl, withdrew because they refused
to consider tax increases. The framework is ‘still in the
works” and includes more than $400 billion in cuts to mandatory
health-care spending, Cantor said.  Measuring Inflation  The White House, in the Biden-led meetings, had been
willing to discuss the using the inflation-calculation change to
help shrink the deficit, according to people in both parties
familiar with the administration’s position who weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Two Democratic officials with knowledge of the negotiations
who briefed reporters yesterday said Social Security was among
the entitlement programs that might be discussed to get to a
larger deficit-reduction package.  The Senate -- which canceled a planned vacation this week
to focus on the debt impasse -- engaged in some partisan
posturing on the issue. The chamber voted 74-22 to advance a
Democratic non-binding measure that said people earning at least
$1 million a year should “make a more meaningful contribution
to the deficit reduction effort.” The measure is S. 1323.  The Social Security proposal and any move to include tax
increases are already sparking opposition from activists in both
parties. Many Democrats, including Reid and House Democratic
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , have repeatedly said Social
Security should be off the table in the debt talks.  Democratic activists expressed anger and alarm at the
suggestion that a debt deal would shrink entitlement benefits.  “If President Obama supports cuts to Medicare, Medicaid or
Social Security benefits, that will be a defining moment of
presidential weakness -- and put all Democrats facing re-
election in 2012 at risk,” Adam Green, co-founder of the
Progressive Change Campaign Committee, said in a statement.  Republicans, including Boehner and McConnell, say a plan
that includes more  tax revenue  won’t pass the Republican-run
House or the Democratic-controlled Senate, where Republicans
have enough votes to stall action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  