-- 
Obesity Rates Rise 90% in 17 States Since 1995, Adding Cost

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-07T15:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/obesity-rates-rise-90-in-17-states-since-1995-adding-to-costs.html
Obesity rates climbed at least 90
percent in 17 states from 1995 to last year, gains that have a
direct bearing on U.S. health spending, according to a  report .  Nine of the 10 states with the highest obesity rates are in
the U.S. South, led by  Mississippi  at 34 percent,  Alabama  and
 West Virginia , according to the report today by the  Trust for
America’s Health  and  Robert Wood Johnson Foundation . Those
states also lead the nation in diabetes and high  blood pressure ,
the report found. Michigan was listed as 10th at 31 percent.  Medicare and Medicaid, the  public health  plans, each spend
more than 20 percent of their budget to treat illnesses related
to obesity and smoking, avoidable medical risks. The report’s
authors called on U.S. lawmakers to refrain from cutting
programs to fight the condition.  “We can’t afford to ignore the impact obesity has on our
health and corresponding health-care spending,” said Jeff Levi,
executive director of the Trust for America’s Health, in a
statement accompanying the report.  The survey’s authors dubbed a swath of 644 counties in 15
mostly southern states the “diabetes belt,” as reported in the
Journal of Preventive Diseases.  Colorado , the slimmest state
with a 20 percent obesity rate, had the second-smallest rise
since 1995, though its rate is still higher than Mississippi’s
was at that time, according to the study.  Bigger Servings  Obesity is defined as having a body mass index above 30. A
six-foot-tall adult man weighing 221 pounds (100 kilograms) or
more is considered obese, as is an adult woman standing five
feet, six inches tall weighing 186 pounds or more, according to
the  U.S. National Institutes of Health . People with obesity are
at higher risk for diabetes and hypertension, according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Bigger servings and food that’s consumed on the go aren’t
helping, said Steven Gortmaker, a professor at the Harvard
University School of Public Health in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “It’s gotten easier and easier to consume lots of foods at
more times of the day,” he said in a telephone interview.
“That’s been the biggest shift in the last 20 years.”  U.S. lawmakers have considered using  tax policy  to
influence eating habits. A tax on sugar-sweetened beverages,
including products made by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and PepsiCo Inc., was
discussed and eventually rejected during debate on the 2010
health-care law.  Obesity Costs  Colorado Director of Prevention Services Chris Lindley said
that while his state is the slimmest, it has still lost ground.
“Just like the rest of the country, we’re continuing to grow,”
he said in a telephone interview. Obesity-related health
conditions cost the state more than $1 billion a year, he said.  Children get half their daily calories in school, said
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Senior Vice President James Marks
in discussing the report.  In response, Colorado and at least 34 other states have
made school and childhood nutrition a priority. Colorado
requires 30 minutes of physical activity a day for children,
encourages schools to buy locally grown food and make healthier
meals, and has hospitals encourage mothers to breast-feed during
the first six months of a baby’s life.  Lindley’s state is among the nation’s most physically
active, he said. “A lot of people move to Colorado to be active
and stay active, and that helps us out,” he said of the state’s
low obesity ranking.  Overweight Children  Similar efforts are taking place elsewhere in the U.S. The
nonprofit Partnership for a Healthier America in Washington
works with companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to sell
healthier food at the same cost as regular fare, and is helping
Bain Capital Inc.’s day-care company Bright Horizons make sure
children get exercise and don’t eat unhealthy foods.  The group also is involved with First Lady  Michelle Obama ’s
“Let’s Move!” campaign to reduce  childhood obesity .  The first lady has made fighting childhood obesity a top
priority. She’s pushed companies to make food labeling easier to
understand, reduce food advertising to children and to increase
exercise levels. The “Let’s Move” campaign, launched in 2010,
also seeks to get healthier meals in schools.  Levi, the study author, emphasized that it will take years
to get the obesity epidemic under control. “This is not a
national diet that will be over in a couple of months,” he said
on a conference call discussing the report. The goal is to get
Americans’ weight back to where it was in the 1970s, when
researchers started studying the country’s newly bulging
waistlines, he said.  Healthier Choices  A combination of fewer calories, healthier foods and more
physical activity is needed to start cutting pounds. Drastic
solutions like weight loss surgery and  prescription drugs  are
costly, last-ditch efforts meant only for people already
suffering complications from their weight, not a society-wide
solution, said Levi.  Instead, Americans need to be able to easily make healthier
choices, he and Gortmaker said. To that end, a food labeling
provision incorporated into the 2010 health-care overhaul
requires chain restaurants with more than 20 U.S. locations to
list calorie counts for items they serve. A 2008 rule in  New
York City  required restaurants to add calorie counts to menus.  Restaurants fought the New York rules, and movie theater
chains that serve snacks and drinks fought being included as
well. A serving of popcorn at the theater contains as many as
1,460 calories.  $833 Million in Cuts  The report’s authors urged lawmakers to restore $833
million in federal budget cuts in fiscal year 2011 to programs
designed to improve nutrition in child-care settings and
nutrition assistance programs.  Other recommendations include protecting the Centers for
Disease and Control budget from cuts that would hurt obesity
prevention, implementing suggested U.S. Department of
Agriculture rules for school health programs and the National
Physical Activity Plan, a program that includes a grassroots
advocacy effort.  “The overriding desire is to make the healthier choice the
easier choice,” said Larry Soler, the chief executive
officer of the anti-obesity group Partnership for a Healthier
America, by phone.  Soler said his organization is working with retailers to
get more fresh fruit and vegetables available in locations
without large grocery stores.  The easiest solution for many people is to simply eat less,
said Gortmaker. He recommends replacing soda and other sugared
drinks with water, especially for children.  To change a child’s balance between calories expended and
consumed during the day by 150, the child may either spend
almost two hours walking, or drink one less soda. “That’s one
of the easiest changes to make,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  Washington  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 