-- 
Money Rates Falling on Switch From European Banks, Belton Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-07T15:41:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/money-rates-falling-on-switch-from-european-banks-belton-says-tom-keene.html
Cash inflows from U.S. money market
funds as they reduce investments in European banks is driving
short-term  interest rates  lower, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Terry Belton.  “One of the sources of funding for European banks -- not
peripheral  Europe , but core Europe, banks in  France  and  Germany 
-- are the U.S. money funds,” Belton, the firm’s global head of
fixed-income and foreign-exchange research, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken
Prewitt. “As the markets become concerned around Europe, they
pull back a bit.”  The one-month Treasury bill rate fell below zero last week
for the first time since January 2010 as investors sought
safety. It touched negative 0.0101 percent today before trading
at 0.0152 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
rate rose to as high as 0.1562 percent this year on Jan. 20.  “Institutional money is leaving the prime money funds and
going into the Treasury market, into the short-term bills and
repo,” New York-based Belton said. “That is pushing those
rates lower.”  The 10 largest U.S. prime money market funds have about
half their assets invested in securities issued by European
banks,  Fitch Ratings  estimated in a June 21 report. Prime money
funds typically invest in commercial paper, bank certificates of
deposit and floating-rate notes issued by private firms.  Record Premium  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Portugal ’s 10-year
bonds over German bunds surged this week to a euro-era record
10.13 percentage points after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
Iberian nation’s credit rating to Ba2 on July 5, below
investment grade. The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond reached 5.19
percent, the highest level in three years.  While Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  last week won
lawmakers’ approval of a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
austerity package needed to qualify for further financial aid
from the European Union, the region’s leaders are still at odds
over how to tackle the debt crisis.  Negative Treasury bill rates mean investors are willing to
pay the government to hold their money, protecting them from the
potential losses of other investments.  Current money-market conditions are “nothing like the
stress level in 2007,” added Belton in the interview.  “That was a much more serious global banking crisis, with
banks undercapitalized,” Belton said. “But it could get that
way. What needs to happen is that the EU really needs to provide
the next round of funding to  Greece . If that happens, which we
expect it will, then Europe will become more of a back-burner
issue.”  Negative Average  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repurchase agreement market was negative last
week, at minus 0.005 percent on June 29, according to index data
provided by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was the
first time the index was negative. The DTCC provides data
through July 2010 on its website. The rate was 0.009 percent
yesterday, down from 0.101 percent at the start of the quarter.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general-
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  Overnight general collateral repo rates traded today at 0.1
percent, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker. That’s down from the about a quarter of a percentage
point rate that held at the start of the year.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage.  “We have overnight and short-term rates in Treasuries
trading near zero, as there is too much money flowing into
Treasuries and flowing away from the European dollar markets,”
Belton said. His fixed-income research group was No. 1 last year
in Institutional Investor magazine’s poll of U.S. money
managers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  