-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Rise as Banks Gain After China Rate Increase

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-07T09:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/hong-kong-stocks-rise-as-banks-gain-after-china-rate-increase.html
Hong Kong stocks advanced, led by
financial companies that may benefit from  China ’s decision to
raise  interest rates .  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)  and other
companies counting on mainland sales gained on speculation
yesterday’s increase may be this year’s last.  Bank of Communications Co. rose 1.2 percent after Barclays
Capital and Citigroup Inc. said higher rates would be positive
for bank margins. AIA Group Ltd. climbed 1.7 percent on
speculation insurers may get better returns on their investments.
China Resources Enterprise, which makes more than 90 percent of
its revenue in the mainland, surged 1.9 percent. Henderson Land
Development Co. led developers lower after Barclays Capital
recommended selling property stocks.  The Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent to 22,530.18 at the 4
p.m. close of trading in  Hong Kong  after China announced a
quarter-point boost to one-year lending and deposit rates to
tame inflation.  “We’ve seen a marked cooling in China’s growth recently
and the next reading on inflation should mark a peak,” said
Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management
globally. “That suggests that we’re coming close to the end of
China’s tightening cycle, and this should be positive for global
growth, earnings and investor sentiment.”  Chinese Banks  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’
H shares advanced 0.3 percent to 12,640.34.  Bank of Communications rose 1.2 percent to HK$7.46. AIA
Group gained 1.7 percent to HK$27.75. Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co., a Chinese insurer, rose 0.9 percent to HK$81.95.  China’s interest rate increases will benefit banks’ net-
interest margins by four basis points and boost earnings by 2.5
percent, according to Citigroup. The move may trigger a “short-
term” rally in the shares,  Barclays Capital  said.  Stocks dependant on China’s economic growth got a boost
from speculation the People’s Bank of China won’t undertake
further tightening. JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch say yesterday’s rate increase may
be the last this year, as inflation is coming under control.  China Resources Enterprise added 1.9 percent to HK$33.
 Belle International Holdings Ltd. (1880) , which sells women’s shoes in
China, gained 1.8 percent to HK$16.94. The company also had its
investment rating raised to “buy” from “hold” at UOB Kay
Hian Ltd.  ‘Last Move’  “Expectations are for a moderation of inflationary
pressures impacting China moving into the third and fourth
quarters of 2011,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion in global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne .
“As a result, it’s not unreasonable to expect this may be the
last interest-rate move for some time.”  Signs that  China’s economy  is cooling include a slide in a
manufacturing gauge to a 28-month low in June. Export orders and
output grew at a slower pace, according to the purchasing
managers’ index released by the statistics bureau and China’s
logistics federation.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index rose 0.4 percent to 22,550.
The HSI Volatility Index fell 1.3 percent to 17.57. The
benchmark gauge for Hong Kong stock options indicates traders
expect a swing of 5 percent in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  in the next
30 days.  Henderson Land Development, the builder controlled by
billionaire Lee Shau-kee, fell 1.3 percent to HK$49.90. Hang
Lung Properties Ltd. slid 0.5 percent to HK$32.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s decision to raise Hong Kong mortgage
rates from today is a “good opportunity” to sell developer
stocks, Barclays Capital said.  “Given its position as one of the largest mortgage lenders
in the Hong Kong market, we believe HSBC’s move signals another
round of rises in Hong Kong mortgage rates,”  Andrew Lawrence 
and Jonathan Hsu, analysts at Barclays Capital, wrote in a
report yesterday. “We expect other major lenders to follow
HSBC’s lead.”  The analysts said they expect further declines in
transaction volumes, and maintained their expectation of a 25
percent to 30 percent drop in property prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 