-- 
Hong Leong Financial Scouts for Takeovers

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-07-07T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/hong-leong-financial-scouts-for-takeovers.html
Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG) , the
Malaysian banking and insurance group controlled by billionaire
Quek Leng Chan, is seeking acquisitions in emerging markets as
it aims to triple its assets and profits in five years.  The group, which has a 20 percent stake in China’s Bank of
Chengdu Co. and a banking license in Vietnam, is looking for
targets in countries including Thailand and Indonesia, Chief
Executive Officer Raymond Choong, 55, said in an interview
yesterday. The Kuala Lumpur-based firm may also buy brokerages
in Malaysia, he said.  “The global market is now a borderless world,” Choong
said. “Being very successful in Malaysia doesn’t make you an
important player. China, Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia are
markets with high potential where we excel.”  Hong Leong is expanding abroad as competition increases in
its domestic market with the central bank granting more licenses
to international lenders including Bank of China Ltd. Its
banking unit,  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) , completed a $1.7 billion
takeover of domestic rival  EON Capital Bhd. (EON)  in May, enabling it
to overtake RHB Capital Bhd. as the nation’s fourth-biggest
bank.  Hong Leong Financial shares have climbed 52 percent this
year, and Hong Leong Bank rose 49 percent, making them the
biggest gainers on the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index.  Failed Merger  Quek, 70, is Malaysia’s fourth-richest man with a net worth
of $4.8 billion, according to a  Forbes  magazine calculation as
of  March. The billionaire, who inherited part of his fortune
from his father, also controls Hong Kong-listed investment
company Guoco Group Ltd. and has stakes in hotels and property
across  Southeast Asia , Forbes said on its website.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , the
nation’s two largest lenders, scrapped competing talks to
acquire Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Capital Bhd. last month after Abu
Dhabi’s Aabar Investments PJSC paid an 11 percent premium for a
25 percent stake in the nation’s fifth-biggest lender.  Maybank, as the nation’s largest lender is know, owns bank
stakes in Indonesia, Pakistan and Vietnam, and this year
acquired Kim Eng Holdings Ltd., a Singapore securities and
investment-banking group.  RHB said on June 23 it will focus on its own growth
strategies after the merger negotiations collapsed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  