-- 
OPEC Exports Little Changed Amid IEA Release, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-07T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/opec-exports-little-changed-amid-iea-release-oil-movements-says.html
OPEC crude shipments will be little
changed this month, indicating that the use of emergency
reserves by consuming nations may be curtailing demand for the
producer group’s oil, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will ship
22.66 million barrels a day in the four weeks to July 23,
compared with 22.68 during the period to June 25, the Halifax,
England-based consultant said today in a report. The data
excludes  Ecuador  and Angola. Exports typically climb during the
summer with increased demand for driving fuels.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency , an adviser to
28 oil-consuming nations, said June 23 its members will offer 60
million barrels of oil, the first deployment of strategic
stockpiles in five years, after OPEC failed on June 8 to
announce a plan on making up for halted Libyan exports. Saudi
Arabia pledged that day to keep consumers supplied in the
absence of an OPEC accord.  “There is incremental Middle East oil available but
there’s no sign that it’s moving,” Roy Mason, the founder of
Oil Movements, said by telephone. “Late July, early August is
the summer peak but there’s no sign of that in the tanker
market. If the IEA release has an immediate effect, it will be
to temporarily depress the market for long-haul crude.”  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will drop 0.1 percent to 17.41 million
barrels a day in the period, the report showed.  Crude on board tankers will average 479.42 million barrels
in the four weeks, down 2.6 percent from 492.46 million barrels
in the period to June 25, Oil Movements said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
 Kuwait ,  Libya ,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the group’s quota
system. The organization is next due to meet on Dec. 14 in
Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  