-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Collins to Lead Client-Solutions Group

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-07T16:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/morgan-stanley-names-collins-to-lead-client-solutions-group.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, named Wylie Collins to head its client-
solutions group after David Moffitt, who led some of the
businesses, left the firm.  Collins, a vice chairman in Morgan Stanley’s capital
markets unit, will oversee the group in the Americas, according
to an internal memo from capital markets head Raj Dhanda that
was obtained today by Bloomberg News. Mark Lake, a spokesman for
New York-based Morgan Stanley, confirmed the memo’s contents.  The client-solutions group has facilitated sales of
securitized assets, such as State Street Corp.’s divestiture of
$11 billion of mortgage-backed securities last year and private-
equity placements. Morgan Stanley generated $4.3 billion of
revenue from  investment banking  last year, which accounted for
26 percent of the institutional securities group’s revenue.  “Our investment in this business area further develops our
ability to cover institutional clients across asset classes and
better positions us in these growing segments of the capital
markets,” Dhanda wrote in the memo.  Collins was hired last year to develop corporate-client
relationships in the capital-markets business after more than
25 years at Merrill Lynch & Co., where he was head of Americas
debt capital markets.  Moffitt, 49, who was hired in November 2009 to lead the
credit-solutions business as Morgan Stanley prepared for a
pickup in securitized debt sales, left the firm, Lake said.
Moffitt previously oversaw structured-product sales in the
fixed-income division at Merrill Lynch.  Collins’s Oversight  Collins will oversee a business that includes the financial
-institutions solutions unit led by  Kevin Ryan  and Don Callahan,
the liability-management group headed by David Parsons and the
corporate-strategies and pension-solutions unit led by Caitlin Long, according to the memo. The credit-advisory group, headed
by Dotti Lee, and the closed-end funds unit, led by Sue
Portelli, will also report to Collins, according to the memo.  David Barrett, who leads the firm’s private capital markets
business, will also report to Collins, in addition to John Moore
and Paul Donahue, Morgan Stanley’s co-heads of  equity capital
markets , according to the memo. The bank is planning to add a
debt private-placement business by September, Dhanda said in the
memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  