-- 
Morgan Stanley Yoga-Troubadour-Crossword-Math Pro Muller Flees

-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/morgan-stanley-s-yoga-troubadour-crossword-math-pro-flees-with-20-returns.html
At  Caffe Vivaldi  in New York’s
 Greenwich Village , Peter Muller bangs out a repertoire full of
Carole King riffs on the piano along with his own soft-rock
compositions that draw on the likes of Van Morrison and Cat Stevens.  “It’s not the same anymore,” he croons. “I’m still looking
for my home.”  In the audience, couples sip house cabernet and applaud
politely. Some drop $10 tips into a metal bucket.  About 40 blocks uptown in a 42-story  skyscraper  overlooking
Duffy Square, straw-haired Muller, 47, performs for a tougher
crowd -- as the multimillionaire math whiz behind one of Wall
Street’s most secretive trading machines, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its August issue.  Muller is the founder of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Process Driven
Trading group, or PDT, a 70-person band of Ph.D.s and computer
jockeys. They use algorithm-rich programs to bet Morgan
Stanley’s money on pricing discrepancies in global markets.  Muller, who has had no outside investors to please, has
kept the strategies and performance of PDT under wraps, stoking
the curiosity and envy of rivals.  “They say: ‘I know him. He made a boatload of money for
Morgan Stanley,’” says Arjun Divecha, chairman of Boston-based
 GMO LLC , who manages about $18 billion using quantitative
techniques. “They don’t know how he’s done it.”  Muller makes no apologies for his obsessive secrecy.  Unlikely Executive  “I want my competitors to know absolutely nothing about
what we do,” Muller says in his corner office, which is
decorated with pictures of his wife, Jillian, and their two
children as well as a pair of battered  snowboards  he retired
years ago.  A troubadour, yoga enthusiast and math geek, Muller makes
an unlikely Morgan Stanley executive. The 5-foot-10-inch (1.78-
meter), 160-pound (73-kilogram) manager wears a handmade silver
amulet around his neck that incorporates Native American symbols
for sun, water and mountains. He practices  ashtanga yoga , a
style that incorporates synchronized breathing. He’s also a
champion Texas Hold ’em poker player and writes  New York  Times
crossword puzzles several times a year, garnering a core group
of online fans.  Since he started PDT in 1993, its investments have returned
an estimated annual average of more than 20 percent through
2010, according to a person close to the group. As a
proprietary-trading desk, PDT uses different accounting rules
than  hedge funds . Its return figure has been adjusted to
approximate its performance as if it were a hedge fund.  Top-Tier Quants  Hedge funds on average gained 10.4 percent annualized, net
of fees, from July 1, 1993, through 2010, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The person says PDT notched that
record with a Sharpe ratio of 3 to 4. The ratio measures risk-
adjusted performance, and on this basis PDT generated 10 times
the returns of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The index gained
about 8 percent annualized during that time.  “Wow,” says Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey, Quirk &
Associates LLC, a consulting firm in Darien,  Connecticut . “Those
numbers would put them in the top echelons of quant managers.”  After almost two decades at Morgan Stanley, Muller is about
to go out on his own, a move precipitated by the biggest
regulatory overhaul of Wall Street since the Great Depression.
Banks are jettisoning or closing groups like PDT as a result of
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act,
which President  Barack Obama  signed into law in July 2010.  The law’s Volcker rule, named for former  Federal Reserve 
Chairman Paul Volcker, bars banks from maintaining prop-trading
operations and restricts the amount they can invest in hedge and
private equity funds to 3 percent of their tier 1 capital. They
can also own no more than 3 percent of such funds.  Spinning Off PDT  In its 2010 annual report,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
disclosed it had liquidated most of its long-short prop desk
positions and was doing the same with its global macro group.
Morgan Stanley in March completed the spinning off of FrontPoint
Partners LLC, a hedge fund it acquired in 2006.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  disclosed in April a plan to sell its main private-equity
business to management.  Now, it’s PDT’s turn. In January, Morgan Stanley said it
would spin off the group at the end of 2012 as a separate
firm -- retaining an option to buy a preferred stock position in
the new company for undisclosed terms.  For decades, prop desks have played a crucial role in the
transformation of investment banks such as Morgan Stanley from
advisory and underwriting businesses to trading powerhouses that
bet huge amounts of their own firms’ money. Once the closely
held Wall Street partnerships began tapping the public markets
for capital, prop desks could wager with shareholders’ money.  Vanishing Profit Centers  By the mid-2000s, prop traders were at the center of the
exploding markets for collateralized debt obligations, or pools
of bonds, and derivatives, which are instruments that derive
their value from an underlying asset. These products were high-
octane fuel for the credit bubble that ultimately blew up Bear
Stearns Cos.,  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   As the curtain falls on prop trading at banks, their
profits may suffer. Morgan Stanley in 2008 began to pull back on
risk partly by reducing leverage, and since then its fixed
income trading revenue has been sluggish. Morgan Stanley’s net
income fell 45 percent in the first quarter of 2011 from $1.78
billion a year earlier. While firms don’t generally disclose
profits from prop trading, Goldman characterized it in 2010 as
constituting about 10 percent of revenue in most years.  Statistical Arbitrage  The loss of this profit engine, along with other Dodd-Frank
restrictions on products such as derivatives and debit cards,
will hurt Wall Street banks’ returns in coming years, says
Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New
York.  “It’s the cumulative effect of Dodd-Frank that will lower
expected returns,” Peabody says. “Just about every business is
facing some kind of crackdown.”  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, says the bank
won’t comment on PDT.  Prop traders aren’t going away; they’re just changing
addresses. Dodd-Frank only sought to end the practice in banks
to reduce risk. Traders have been relocating to hedge funds and
nonbank Wall Street firms such as KKR & Co.  PDT makes most of its money using statistical arbitrage, or
stat-arb, former Morgan Stanley employees say. When PDT’s
research suggests that a stock is temporarily overpriced based
on its trading history, the group bets against it while piling
into corresponding underpriced securities.  No Down Years  In a group of a dozen oil services stocks, six might be
rising on a given day and six falling. At some point, the trend
reverts: The gainers begin to fall and vice versa. For PDT,
figuring out the precise time to place its bets is the tricky
part.  PDT has lost money in only two quarters since its inception
and never in a calendar year, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Muller skippered PDT through the August 2007 quant
meltdown, when overleveraged hedge funds and other investors
lost billions of dollars during a four-day period. PDT, along
with other Morgan Stanley prop desks, lost $390 million in a
single day, according to Morgan Stanley filings. Yet it powered
back to finish the year in the black, people close to PDT say.
The group also lost heavily in the fourth quarter of 2008 amid
the global credit crash but still made money for the year.  “I think Peter is brilliant,” says Clifford Asness, co-
founder of AQR Capital Management LLC, a $39 billion
quantitative investment firm in Greenwich, Connecticut. “PDT
will be a top-quality firm.”  Pandit’s Probe  The AQR Global Risk Premium fund ranked sixth in Bloomberg
Markets’ February list of the top-performing large hedge funds,
with a return of 27.3 percent for the first 10 months of 2010.  With PDT off to a strong start in the mid-1990s,  Vikram Pandit , then Morgan Stanley’s head of institutional equity,
wanted to know more about the secretive trading group, says
Graham Giller, a researcher who worked with Muller. Giller says
Pandit told him to find out details about PDT’s strategies.  “He felt it was the intellectual property of Morgan
Stanley,” says Giller, who now runs Giller Investments ( New
Jersey ) LLC in Holmdel. Giller says Pandit never set up a
meeting at which Giller could inform him of what he had
discovered. Pandit,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s CEO since 2007, declined to
comment.  Wary of Quants  In going solo, Muller will have to drum up capital from
investors who have grown wary of quants, whose returns have
lagged behind those of other types of traditional managers for
more than six years.  Equity managers using quantitative strategies generated a
cumulative return of 37 percent from the start of 2005 through
April 2011 compared with 49 percent for equity managers
deploying traditional or combined approaches, according to
EVestment Alliance LLC, an Atlanta research firm.  The assets of quant funds were down 10 percent as of
December from their peak of $157.5 billion in 2007, as tracked
by research firm Lipper Inc. And new fund launches in 2010 were
less than half of the 2005 peak of 189.  “Quantitative managers have been losing market share, and
it’s fairly significant,” says Mark Thurston, head of global
equity research at  Russell Investments  in  Seattle .  The underperformance may be due to cyclical forces, as
beaten-down value stocks that many quant funds invest in have
tended to lag behind their more-expensive growth counterparts in
recent years. The decline may also stem from an abundance of
quant-managed money pursuing similar strategies.  “Watership Down”  “Everything goes in cycles,” Muller says. “Success creates
more competition.”  PDT keeps a low profile within Morgan Stanley’s
headquarters. In the elevator vestibule at its ninth-floor
offices, a plain, 7-inch-by-7-inch (18-centimeter-by-18-
centimeter) plastic sign reads “Process Driven Trading.”  Muller has created a distinctive corporate culture at PDT,
rejecting the eat-what-you-kill ethos practiced at some hedge
funds. He cites a childhood book, “Watership Down,” as informing
PDT’s environment.  The fantasy novel by Richard Adams tells the  story  of a
nest of rabbits on an odyssey to find a safer home in the
English countryside. Each of the principal rabbits -- with names
such as Bigwig and Fiver -- excels in some area: intelligence,
physical strength, intuition. After tribulations, they make it
to their new abode.  Wanted Ph.D.s  What does this tale have to do with PDT? “It’s a community
coming together with each individual contributing their unique
skills,” Muller says. “It’s the whole that benefits.”  PDT has operated as a quasi-independent group within Morgan
Stanley for almost 20 years, Muller says. Dede Welles, 41, is
the legal head; Amy Wong, 43, serves as operating chief; and
Eunice Baek, 41, runs human resources.  Baek canvasses schools such as  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  and California Institute of Technology for Ph.D.s in
math-heavy fields with an interest in applying research to the
real world.  “I had grown disillusioned with academia,” says Denis Dancanet, 43, PDT’s head of futures trading, who has a Ph.D. in
computer science from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
“Maybe three people care what you do.”  Eli Ofek, a former  New York University  finance professor,
also left academia for PDT. In 1998, Muller offered him a job
after attending a class taught by Ofek, who is PDT’s fundamental
research chief.  Paint Ball  In  Manhattan , researchers gather for free-roaming
discussions at the lunch table.  “The range is broad, from the technology to solve  Rubik’s
Cube , to sports, to politics, to the rate at which flesh-eating
bacteria can eat your arm,” says Tushar Shah, 40, PDT’s chief
scientist, who has a Ph.D. in physics from MIT and joined the
group in 2000.  Muller personally pays for weeklong vacations for the group
to locales such as Grenada and Jamaica to celebrate good years.
PDT off-site retreats have included white-water rafting in Maine
and a paint ball competition in upstate New York. Despite a
spate of new hires, Muller says employee tenure at PDT averages
7 1⁄2 years.  Researchers work in teams on PDT’s strategies, with Muller
and Shah meeting independently with each group. “There was a hub
and spoke structure,” says Giller, who has a Ph.D. in
experimental elementary particle physics from Oxford University
and worked at PDT from 1996 to 2000. “The ideas were funneled to
a central conduit.”  Discrete Markets  There, Muller and his closest cohorts use a program called
an optimizer to allocate assets among the different strategies
to generate the most profit with the least risk. Nobody else
knows its details.  PDT’s strategies often focus on discrete markets such as
U.K. equities, former employees say.  In the late 1990s, Shakil Ahmed, a Yale University computer
science Ph.D., worked on U.S. equity stat-arb strategies. Wong,
who has an M.S. in electrical engineering from MIT, oversaw
investments based on fundamentals, such as earnings. Giller
built a statistical method utilizing interest-rate forecasts.
And Mike Reed, a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from  Princeton
University , ran a U.K.-based stat-arb equity strategy.  All contributed to PDT’s reputation as a cauldron of white-
hot  quantitative talent .  Attracted to Puzzles  Muller says his group will expand after it’s spun off and
rechristened PDT Partners LLC. Ownership will be spread among 11
partners. They will pursue strategies that may be less
predictable than what Morgan Stanley is comfortable with.  “We have strategies that can take large amounts of
capital,” Muller says. “But they are not as consistent. They’ll
make money almost every year but not almost every quarter.”  A native of Philadelphia, Muller says he was born hard-
wired for math. His Austrian-born father, Kurt, was a chemical
engineer with Essex Chemical Corp. His mother, Eva, a native of
 Brazil , was one of the first women to practice medicine there
and later became a psychiatrist.  “I was attracted to puzzles and games,” Muller says.  The family moved into a shingled ranch house in the
New Jersey suburb of  Wayne , 21 miles (34 kilometers) west of New
York. At Wayne Valley High School, Muller was named one of two
class mathematicians.  “He was one of the top kids that came through Wayne Valley
High,” says John Gross, former chairman of the school math
department. “He was involved in everything.”  Heads West  Muller, a captain of both the Frisbee and Quiz Bowl clubs,
was also a member of the yearbook staff, German club, Honor
Society and Model UN club. Muller’s yearbook quote: “All men by
nature desire to know.”  At Princeton, Muller’s skill at frisbee caught the eye of
classmate Ken Nickerson, who would later help build PDT’s stat-
arb business. Muller was a star on the Ultimate Frisbee team in
1983 when it won the mid-Atlantic open championship.  He was a member of the Colonial Club, one of Princeton’s
famed eating clubs, founded in 1891 and housed in a sprawling
porticoed mansion. Muller would sit down in the club’s parlor
and play the grand piano, leading singalongs. He graduated in
1985 with honors and a B.A. in mathematics.  That summer, Muller drove across country to the San
Francisco Bay Area and soon took a job as a researcher and
programmer at Barra Inc. The pioneering quant firm in Berkeley
used complex mathematics to help active fund managers measure
and control risk. Muller was soon presenting papers at client
conferences, where he became a favorite, partly because he
incorporated cartoons into the slides.  Renaissance Technologies  He jogged once a month under the full moon with fellow
employees. One mentor, former research chief Richard Grinold,
recalls discovering a coding problem with Barra’s analytics.  “We thought it was going to take five to six months to
fix,” he says. “Peter came up with a solution: one person, two
days.”  Muller also worked on a problem for Renaissance
Technologies LLC, a Barra client. The hedge fund co-founded by
Jim Simons wanted to know which U.S. Treasury maturities would
be most efficient for it to park its excess cash in.  After the assignment, Renaissance offered Muller a job. But
at the time, Muller was under the spell of the efficient-market
hypothesis, which says beating the markets long term -- as
Renaissance sought to do -- wasn’t possible. Muller turned down
Renaissance’s offer.  Joins Morgan Stanley  By 1992, Muller was becoming restless and cooked up an idea
of using Barra’s quantitative techniques to forecast returns
rather than just model risk; Barra could manage money itself.
Management turned down Muller’s proposal, and the 28-year-old
decided it was time to move on.  A headhunter put Muller in touch with Morgan Stanley, which
was then looking for a quant strategist to drum up business.
Muller had bigger aspirations and cut a deal with Derek Bandeen,
a prop-trading executive. Muller had two years to get a
profitable trading system running. If he failed, he would
perform the strategist’s job. PDT was born.  In 1993, as Muller began building a team at Morgan
Stanley’s Sixth Avenue headquarters, his business model and
ethos mimicked Barra’s, not Wall Street’s.  “From the beginning, PDT had its own culture,” he says.
Muller’s first hire was Kim Elsesser, a Morgan Stanley
information technology specialist in its equity division.  “We clicked,” says Elsesser, 46, who, in addition to other
jobs, hired programmers to write code that Muller needed.  Money Machine  Within a year, Elsesser says, PDT was making serious money.
A computer monitor was set up to show real-time profits and
losses.  “We had a little party when we made our first million
dollars,” she says. “At the time, it seemed like a lot of
money.”  Muller struck an agreement with management. If PDT met its
profit targets for one week, PDT employees could dress casually
the next. By 1996, PDT was sizzling. “It was like an express
train,” marvels Giller, the former analyst. “It was generating
millions of dollars a day. It would just appear on the screen.
It was surreal.”  As profits grew, PDT employees talked often about splitting
off from Morgan Stanley. Muller says he negotiated with
management for a greater slice for himself and his colleagues.  “We don’t need to be paid as if we are running our own
hedge fund, but it needs to be close enough so we don’t feel
taken advantage of,” he says he told Morgan Stanley executives.  Subway Gigs  Muller could play hardball with compensation, which led to
a lot of back-and-forth negotiations. “It wasn’t specifically
based on the performance,” Giller says. “It was always an
unpleasant experience.”  By 1999, after seven years running the group, Muller was
burned out and negotiated a sabbatical with a steep pay cut.
Ahmed, who was managing stat-arb strategies, stepped in for the
founder. Muller traveled, kayaking in the Grand Canyon and
trekking to the kingdom of Bhutan.  The multimillionaire also took his electronic keyboard into
New York’s subways to busk -- performing for dollar bills and
change. “One of the things that makes me feel most alive is
performing live,” he says.  Muller returned to work a year later on a reduced schedule
while he recorded CDs and played in coffeehouses. Over the next
five years, Muller’s role evolved into that of a chairman.
During that time, he says, innovation slowed within the group.
There were fewer new hires developing fresh ideas and that
showed in the group’s returns, with competitors gaining on PDT.  Mack Backs PDT  “The gap between our results and those that we considered
the best was narrowing,” Muller says. “The pace of research and
innovation was not at a level that would keep us competitive.”  Ahmed declined to comment. A person close to the situation
disputed Muller’s view, saying under Ahmed there were new hires
and strategies and that relative performance was strong.  In 2006, Muller successfully lobbied management to
reinstate him as sole head of PDT. Ahmed left the group and
later joined Citigroup.  Muller pushed Morgan Stanley executives to hire new staff
and raise outside capital to invest alongside it. Muller says
then-CEO John Mack, who had rejoined Morgan Stanley the previous
year after a five-year hiatus, offered to furnish whatever
capital PDT felt it could handle. Mack, 66, declined to comment.  PDT’s Mistakes  In August 2007, Muller confronted the greatest financial
storm of his lifetime. Tightening credit markets triggered a
panic as leveraged  quant funds  tried to exit many of the same
positions.  “We were all trying to figure out how much selling pressure
there was and when it was going to abate,” Muller says.  The PDT founder says he wanted to hold on to his money-
losing positions, betting on a reversion. But ultimately Muller
agreed with Mack that PDT should reduce its leverage and
increase cash.  “If we had traded the model without cutting risk, we would
have had our best year ever,” Muller says.  The bank and PDT made a similar mistake the very next year,
as the subprime contagion morphed into a global rout in the
fourth quarter of 2008. Morgan Stanley cut back capital, and the
group lost money for the quarter.  In late 2009, Muller says, he approached then-co-president
James Gorman to ask for three changes at PDT: Employees should
be allowed to directly invest in its funds, PDT should be
permitted to employ new strategies to attract outside capital
and employees should own the group in whole or part.  Dodd-Frank Act  Gorman, 52, said he could work on addressing the first two
requests but resisted him on the third, people familiar with the
matter say. Gorman, who became CEO in January 2010, declined to
comment.  Today, as regulators write rules for the Dodd-Frank Act,
Muller is poised to see his third wish fulfilled. Regulators are
set to release a final proposal in October for implementing the
ban on prop trading at banks. The Federal Reserve said in
February that banks would generally have two years to comply
once the rule takes effect.  Quants are laying odds that PDT will prosper on its own.
“It’s an incredible opportunity to be spun out,” GMO’s Divecha
says. “They have this wonderful machine that prints money. Now,
they’ll be using it to print money for themselves rather than
Morgan Stanley.”  Spanish Conquistador  As investors still bruised from past losses steer clear of
quant funds, Muller is confident that PDT’s reputation will lure
money his way. People close to PDT say institutions looking to
make investments have already approached Muller.  Muller will also need to contend with critical matters
unrelated to trading -- accounting, legal, compliance -- and
build a marketing department.  “Anytime a manager goes from a proprietary-trading desk in
a large investment bank to an independent business, it can be
difficult,” says Robert Frey, who left Morgan Stanley in 1988 to
start Kepler Financial Management, a fund he later merged into
Renaissance Technologies. “It can be like taking a beautiful
hothouse flower and planting it outside.”  About a decade ago, Muller co-wrote the  song  “I Wish I Had
a Madman,” which could be the anthem for his new firm. It’s
about the Spanish conquistador Hernan Cortes, who torched most
of his fleet upon arrival in  Mexico  in 1519 to prevent his crew
from deserting him on his odyssey of epic plunder.  “The men knew they had to go forward,” Muller sings. “No
looking shoreward, forward to glory and gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 