-- 
JPMorgan, BofA, Morgan Stanley, NML Capital in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-07T12:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/morgan-stanley-allstate-nml-capital-hermitage-in-court-news.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America
Corp. and three other U.S. mortgage servicers are in advanced
talks to resolve state and federal claims over faulty
foreclosures, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Negotiators tentatively set a July 13 target for a
settlement, which may exceed $20 billion, the people said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. Some banks are briefing their boards on deal terms,
which would form state and federal funds to resolve claims and
provide relief to borrowers, they said. The target date may be
postponed as parties iron out details.  Attorneys general  and federal officials are negotiating
with the group of lenders -- also including Citigroup Inc.,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc. -- to resolve probes
into how banks treated borrowers during a surge in mortgage
defaults. A final agreement, setting standards for servicing
loans and processing foreclosures, may serve as a template for
claims against the rest of the industry.  The July 13 target corresponds with a separate deadline the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency set for banks to
submit an “action plan” for fixing deficiencies and
compensating people whose homes were improperly seized. If talks
aren’t done by then, the OCC may push back its date, the people
said.  “We are trying to integrate our settlement with the OCC
action plan,” said Geoff Greenwood, spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller, without commenting on the July 13 date.
“The action plan does not involve us, but we’re trying to work
together.”  Miller is leading the negotiations on the states’ behalf.  The proposed accord would require banks to set up a fund
for states to resolve civil mortgage complaints as well as a
separate federal account that would require them to provide a
specified amount of mortgage relief to borrowers, two people
said. Banks could get credit toward their relief obligation if
they write down principal and modify loans in their portfolio,
one of the people said. The exact mechanism to determine and
award credits is still being discussed, the person said.  Spokesmen for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, Detroit-based Ally and
New York-based Citigroup and JPMorgan said they couldn’t
comment. A spokesman for the OCC didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment yesterday.  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced an
investigation last year following claims of faulty foreclosure
practices by banks. At a May 24 meeting, state legal officers
told the banks they will face an estimated $17 billion in claims
if the inquiries result in civil lawsuits.  New Suits  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Sued by Allstate on Mortgage Fraud Claims  Morgan Stanley was sued for fraud by Allstate Insurance Co.
over residential mortgage-backed securities in which the insurer
invested, according to a complaint filed in  New York .  Allstate purchased more than $104 million in Morgan Stanley
residential mortgage-backed securities in six offerings between
2005 and 2007, based on registration statements, prospectuses
and other documents, as well as the “central role” that Morgan
Stanley played in creating and selling the securities, it said
in the suit filed July 5 in New York state Supreme Court.  Morgan Stanley told Allstate it had conducted due diligence
on the companies that originated the mortgages before turning
them into securities, and assured the Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer that the loans conformed with “conservative”
underwriting standards and that the appraisals of the mortgage
properties were accurate, the lawsuit says.  “As Allstate and the world would only later discover, the
originators whose loans collateralized the Morgan Stanley RMBS
purchased by Allstate were among the worst of the worst culprits
in the subprime lending industry,” Allstate said in the suit.
“Morgan Stanley knew or recklessly disregarded that those
lenders were issuing high-risk loans that did not conform to
their respective underwriting standards.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  Standard Chartered  Sued in Singapore Over Investment Products  Standard Chartered Bank Plc was sued by Thai businessman
Chatchai Yenbamroong in Singapore for $2 million, claiming the
bank gave him negligent and fraudulent investment information.  Yenbamroong invested the money in a U.S. dollar callable
note which the London-based bank had falsely misrepresented as a
principal-protected conservative investment, the Thai
businessman said in his lawsuit filed with the Singapore High
Court on June 29. The case is scheduled to have its first closed
hearing on Aug. 10.  The businessman was induced by his Standard Chartered
banker to sign a blank account opening form, according to the
claim. The bank didn’t provide him with terms and conditions or
ask him for an investor profile before he opened the account in
2009, said Yenbamroong.  Standard Chartered, which hasn’t filed its defense, denied
liability on June 10 through its lawyers at Allen & Gledhill LLP
according to the lawsuit. Ally Lim, a Singapore-based
spokeswoman at Standard Chartered, declined to comment as did
Niru Pillai, the lawyer acting for Yenbamroong.  The case is Chatchai Yenbamroong v. Standard Chartered Bank
S456/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Lehman Borrowed $18 Billion From Undisclosed Fed Program  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage borrowed as much
as $18 billion in four separate loans from a previously secret
program of the U.S.  Federal Reserve  in June 2008, three months
before its parent filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The program, which peaked at $80 billion in loans
outstanding, was known as the Fed’s single-tranche open-market
operations, or ST OMO. It made 28-day loans to units of 19 banks
between March 7, 2008, and Dec. 30, 2008. Bloomberg reported on
ST OMO in May, after the Fed released incomplete records on the
program. In response to a subsequent Freedom of Information Act
request for details, the central bank disclosed borrower names,
amounts borrowed and  interest rates .  The Lehman brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc ., tapped the ST
OMO program for as much as $5 billion in short term funding in
March 2008, and lower amounts at other times during the month.
It took as much as $10 billion in June as the credit crisis
worsened, according to Fed data. The maximum outstanding for any
period was $18 billion.  The brokerage agreed on Sept. 18, 2008, to pay outstanding
loans that day, the Fed said. It went into liquidation on Sept.
19, four days after its parent.  Separately, the Lehman parent then run by Chief Executive
Officer Richard Fuld had a $45 billion loan from the Fed’s so-
called Primary Dealer Credit Facility around the time of its
bankruptcy. An August 2009 article in a  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  publication said the Fed’s facility was expanded on
Sept. 14, 2008, in response to reports that Lehman was “only
days away” from bankruptcy, and might put other firms at risk.  The day before Lehman filed for bankruptcy, almost all of
its $41 billion cash pool was tied up at bank lenders including
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp.,
according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  Expanding its facility to lend to Lehman, the Fed took
previously unacceptable collateral for its loans, including non-
investment grade securities and equities, according to the
article, “The Federal Reserve’s Primary Dealer Credit
Facility.”  Concerned about the safety of the loan, the Fed told
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to take over the loan when it bought the defunct
investment bank’s North American business, according to court
testimony. Barclays closed its purchase of Lehman’s business a
week after Lehman’s Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy.  Separately, the U.K. bank’s Barclays Capital Inc. unit had
peak loans from the ST OMO program of $21.4 billion, Fed data
shows.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment. Michael O’Looney, a Barclays
spokesman, declined to comment.  The Lehman bankruptcy main case is In re Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  BofA Must Face Mortgage Modification Claims, Judge Rules  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  must face claims from homeowners who
accuse the biggest U.S. bank of failing to honor agreements for
modifying their mortgage loans, a federal judge ruled.  Homeowners who say they met requirements for permanent
modifications under contracts with the bank can proceed with
their cases, according a decision filed yesterday by U.S.
District Judge Rya Zobel in Boston. Zobel dismissed some claims
against the bank.  “The complaint meticulously details each plaintiff’s
initial and ongoing compliance with all conditions,” Zobel
wrote.  The complaint consolidates 26 cases originating in 19
states that were transferred to federal court in Boston,
according to Zobel’s decision. The homeowners sought loan
modifications from Bank of America under the federal
government’s Home Affordable Modification Program, which is
aimed to lower payments for borrowers and help them avoid
foreclosure.  “BOA’s general practice and culture is to string
homeowners along with no intention of providing actual and
permanent modifications,” according to the complaint.  Bank of America sought to dismiss the complaint.  Shirley
Norton , a bank spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that the bank is
pleased that four of eight counts in the complaints were
dismissed.  “The decision will give hundreds of thousands of families
a second chance at permanently lower mortgage payments,” Gary
Klein, a lawyer for the homeowners, said in an interview.  The case is In re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  TCW Must Face Gundlach’s Breach of Contract Claims at Trial  TCW Group Inc. must face claims at trial by its former
investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach , who said he was fired in 2009
so the company wouldn’t have pay him as much as $1.25 billion in
management and performance fees.  Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Carl West yesterday
denied TCW’s bid to bar Gundlach from pursuing breach-of-
contract claims because he wasn’t under contract at the time he
was fired. The judge ruled that a jury should decide whether TCW
and Gundlach made an oral agreement in 2007.  “There is conflicting evidence in the record which at
least raises a reasonable inference that the parties expressly
agreed to begin performing under the new deal despite the lack
of a signed agreement,” West said in his ruling.  Gundlach’s claims were filed in a countersuit against TCW
that contended he was dismissed so the company wouldn’t have to
pay $600 million to $1.25 billion in future management and
performance fees from the funds his group managed.  About a month earlier, in January 2010, TCW, the Los
Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA, sued Gundlach and
three other ex-employees after more than half of its fixed-
income professionals joined Gundlach’s new firm, DoubleLine
Capital Inc. TCW is seeking more than $200 million in damages,
claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets as he plotted to start
his own business.  The case is scheduled to go to trial on July 25.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Jeffrey Gundlach,
BC429385, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  For more, click here.  Gribkowsky Detention Deadline Expires in August  Prosecutors have until mid-August before they need to ask a
court to extend the pretrial detention of former Bayerische
Landesbank risk manager Gerhard Gribkowsky, a spokeswoman for
investigators said.  Gribkowsky has been held since his arrest on Jan. 5 over
allegations he may have received a $50 million kickback for
engineering the sale of BayernLB’s stake in Formula One racing.
While under German law a suspect can only be held for six months
unless found guilty at trial, a court can authorize longer
detention if it deems it necessary and not disproportionate.  “In Gribkowsky’s case, the deadline will only elapse in
mid-August because after finding new facts after his initial
arrest, we were able to get a second arrest warrant for
additional allegations,” Barbara Stockinger, the Munich
prosecutors’ spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday. “The
deadline thus started anew and only elapses next month.”  Prosecutors will decide by then whether to ask the court to
keep Gribkowsky, she said. The probe against him hasn’t been
completed she said, declining to say when charges may be
brought. If the court doesn’t grant the request, Gribkowsky must
be freed, though the probe can continue.  Gribkowsky’s attorney Reinhard Hoess didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Formula One Management Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Bernie
Ecclestone  is also a suspect of the investigation and being
probed over allegations he aided Gribkowsky. He was questioned
by Munich prosecutors in April. Prosecutors are looking into
whether Gribkowsky took the kickback for engineering the sale of
Formula One to CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  Ecclestone has denied the allegations. His German attorney,
Sven Thomas, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Legal Reviews  ABB, Nexans, Prysmian Get EU Complaints in Power-Cable Case  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ,  Nexans SA (NEX) ,  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  and as many as nine other
power-cable manufacturers received European Union antitrust
complaints over allegations of price-fixing for undersea and
underground high-voltage power cables.  The European Commission sent complaints to 12 companies
“that may have colluded to allocate markets and customers for
underground and submarine power cable projects and fix prices,”
it said in a statement yesterday.  “The price of such cables is therefore directly relevant
for electricity consumers,” the regulator said, without
identifying what companies were involved. Sumitomo Electric
Industries Ltd., Hitachi Cable Ltd. and  General Cable Corp. (BGC)  said
they also received EU complaints.  Prysmian outbid Paris-based Nexans last year to buy Dutch
rival  Draka Holding NV (DRAK) , creating the world’s biggest cable maker
in an effort to restore margins and counter competition from
South Korea. Nexans said in December that EU antitrust scrutiny
put European manufacturers at a disadvantage to rivals in Asia
or the Middle East, where sanctions are rare or don’t exist.  Regulators can fine companies as much as 10 percent of
yearly sales for colluding with rivals to fix prices. Companies
may defend themselves in writing or at an oral hearing before
the EU decides on possible fines.  ABB Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., based in Zurich, Switzerland
and the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission gear,  said
it received  a statement of objections from the commission and
had “a zero tolerance policy with respect to illegal or
unethical behavior.”  Prysmian, based in Milan, Italy, said July 5 that it
received an antitrust complaint and would defend itself. Nexans
 said  it would respond to regulators in the second half of 2011
after “an analysis of the numerous complex elements.”  NKT Holding A/S, based in Broendby, Denmark, said yesterday
that the company and its units also received a complaint and
they would review the EU’s complaint and “defend themselves in
this matter.”  General Cable Corp., based in Highland Heights, Kentucky,
 said  the EU statement alleged that two of its units “engaged in
violations of competition law for a limited period of time.”
The company said it would defend itself against the allegations.  “General Cable only recently entered the submarine power
cables business in March 2009 through its subsidiary in Germany,
Norddeutsche Seekabelwerke GmbH & Co, which was acquired in
2007,” the company said in a statement.  Verdicts/Settlement  BofA Settlement Raises ‘Serious Questions,’ Public Funds Say  A group of public pension funds has “serious questions”
about the fairness of Bank of America Corp.’s proposed $8.5
billion mortgage-bond settlement, saying it could give some
investors a windfall.  The public funds who asked to intervene in the case are the
Policemen’s Annuity & Benefit Fund of Chicago, the Westmoreland
County Employee Retirement System, City of Grand Rapids General
Retirement System, and City of Grand Rapids Police and Fire
Retirement System. They didn’t state the size of their
investments in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities.  “Public pension funds purchased billions of dollars of
Countrywide mortgage backed securities,” David Scott, a lawyer
for the funds, said yesterday in a statement. “They need to be
given a seat at the table to make sure that the settlement is
fair, reasonable and in the best interests of the entire class
of investors.”  Bank of America said June 29 that it had agreed to pay $8.5
billion to resolve claims by a group of 22 investors, including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which wanted the bank to buy back delinquent
home loans packaged into bonds by Countrywide Financial Corp.,
which Bank of America acquired in 2008.  The public pension funds said in a filing yesterday in New
York state court, where the agreement has been submitted for a
judge’s approval, that their interests may not “be directly
aligned” with those of the 22 corporate and hedge-fund
investors that negotiated the settlement.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the 22 investors, and
representatives of Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee
for the bonds that asked the New York court to approve the
settlement, didn’t return calls seeking comment after regular
business hours.  Shirley Norton, a Bank of America spokeswoman, didn’t
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  Argentina Loses Debt Immunity Suit in U.K. Supreme Court  Argentina’s state immunity can’t prevent an offshore trader
in distressed sovereign debt from using British courts to
enforce claims over the country’s 2001 default, the U.K. Supreme
Court ruled.  The decision in  London  yesterday, which reverses a lower
court ruling from last year, permits an affiliate of New York-
based hedge fund Elliott Associates LP to seize Argentina’s
assets in Britain using a $284 million U.S. court judgment it
has against the South American nation. Argentina had argued U.K.
courts didn’t have jurisdiction on the issue.  “It’s probably a good day for investors in sovereign
debt,” Philippa Charles, a lawyer with Mayer Brown in London,
said in an interview. “To make the bonds attractive, Argentina
had to waive some sovereign immunity rights and this case was
about the extent to which they’d done so.”  Four years after Argentina’s $95 billion default, then-
President Nestor Kirchner offered bondholders 30 cents on the
dollar for their debt -- a deal rejected by holders of about $20
billion of the bonds, including Cayman Islands-based NML Capital
Ltd., the Elliott affiliate in the U.K. case.  Kirchner’s wife and successor, President Cristina Fernandez
de Kirchner, last year held a second restructuring, exchanging
$12.9 billion of the debt that wasn’t swapped in the 2005
negotiation, bringing the total amount cleared to more than 92
percent of bonds outstanding.  Yesterday’s ruling could have implications for buyers of
European sovereign debt, since countries in Europe likely hold
significant assets in the U.K., Charles said.  The U.K. court “has rejected another of Argentina’s
desperate legal strategies contrived to avoid repaying holders
of its defaulted bonds,” Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for NML,
said yesterday in a statement.  A spokesman for Argentina’s Economy Ministry didn’t
immediately respond to a call and a text message sent to his
mobile phone.  The judgment comes a day after a federal appeals court in
New York ruled against NML and another bondholder in their bid
to seize $105 million of Argentine central bank assets held at
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  The U.K.  case  is NML Capital v. Argentina, U.K. Supreme
Court, (2011) UKSC 31.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Antitrust Chief Said to Leave  Justice Department  for Cravath  The top antitrust official at the U.S. Justice Department,
 Christine Varney , will leave her post next month for Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP, a person familiar with the matter said.  Varney, 55, who has made her career in private practice and
government in Washington, will work at the law firm’s New York
headquarters, the person said.  “I’ve let the attorney general know I will leave August 5
to return to private life and private practice,” Varney said in
a telephone interview yesterday, declining to comment on which
firm she will join.  She said she plans some time off before taking her next
position.  Varney, appointed by President Barack Obama in January
2009, vowed to step up antitrust enforcement as she came into
the office in April of that year. One of her first moves was to
retract Bush administration guidelines on monopolization
policies, saying they “raised too many hurdles” to curbing
anticompetitive practices.  “It’s been two and a half years, we’ve built a fantastic
team and we have fulfilled President Obama’s commitment to
reinvigorating the antitrust laws,” said Varney, a commissioner
at the Federal Trade Commission from 1994 to 1997, appointed by
President Bill Clinton. “It’s time to move on.”  Her replacement will selected by Attorney General Eric
Holder and Obama, Varney said.  Cravath has worked on some of the biggest antitrust cases,
including the defense of International Business Machines Corp.
against a government antitrust lawsuit filed in 1969.  A spokeswoman for the firm declined to comment on Varney.  For more, click here.  Kremlin Probe Says Hermitage Lawyer Beaten to Death in Jail  President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s human rights council said
Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer for Hermitage Capital Management Ltd.
who died in a Moscow prison in 2009, was probably beaten to
death.  Law enforcement agencies should probe the role of Russian
officials who denied Magnitsky medical care while he was in pre-
trial detention for almost a year, the council said in a  report 
posted yesterday on its website. The lawyer had accused Interior
Ministry officials of abuse to force him to drop allegations
that they committed a $230 million tax fraud, it said.  The Investigative Committee “hasn’t given proper attention
to investigating the officials’ guilt,” according to the
report. The council, set up by Medvedev in February to examine
human-rights violations, also says the lawyer was illegally
denied bail.  Medvedev said in May that all guilty parties in Magnitsky’s
“tragic” death should be punished. The president has made
fighting corruption and improving the rule of law key objectives
as he seeks to attract foreign investors. London-based Hermitage
founder  William Browder  accuses the Russian authorities of a
whitewash over Magnitsky’s death.  Russia put Browder on its international wanted list in
2009, seeking to question him on suspicion of conspiring with
Magnitsky to evade 500 million rubles ($18 million) of taxes.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  