-- 
Mortgage Rates in U.S. Increase to Highest Since May, Freddie Mac Says

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-07T14:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-increase-to-highest-since-may-freddie-mac-says.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. increased
to the highest level since May as demand for home loans slumps.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.6
percent in the week ended today from 4.51 percent, according to
Freddie Mac. The average 15-year rate rose to 3.75 percent from
3.69 percent a week ago, the McLean, Virginia-based company said
in a statement.  A drop in mortgage rates from this year’s high of 5.05
percent has done little to encourage demand for homes. Stricter
lending standards and unemployment close to 9 percent are
keeping buyers on the sidelines while mounting foreclosures,
which sell at a discount, drag down values of all houses.  “I’d argue higher rates are not undesirable,” Cameron Findlay, chief economist at Lendingtree Inc. in  Irvine ,
 California , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They
bring  price stability .”  Home prices  fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier,
the biggest drop in 17 months for the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 U.S. cities. Sales of previously owned
houses, which make up about 96 percent of the market, declined
in May to a six-month low, according to the National Association
of Realtors.  Applications for home loans loans decreased for the third
straight week, led by the biggest decline in refinancing since
the end of March, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said
yesterday. The Washington-based group’s refinancing measure
dropped 9.2 percent while its gauge of purchases climbed 4.8
percent. The index for all applications fell 5.2 percent.  The rate for a 30-year fixed loan is above where it was
last year at this time, when it averaged 4.57 percent, according
to  Freddie Mac . It fell to a record 4.17 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  