-- 
Most Interest-Rate Derivatives Able to Be Cleared, LCH Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-07-07T18:57:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/most-interest-rate-derivatives-are-able-to-be-cleared-lch-says.html
About 84 percent of interest-rate
derivatives, the largest part of the $601 trillion private
marketplace, will be able to be processed by clearinghouses by
year-end, according to LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  The assessment is more optimistic than a May report by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency that assumed 20
percent of OTC derivatives in the U.S. can be cleared. London-
based LCH.Clearnet, owner of the largest swaps clearinghouse,
already handles 52 percent of the interest-rate swap market,
according to a company analysis, and plans to accept forward-
rate agreements by year-end.  American and European regulators are writing rules to
require most swaps to be traded on exchanges or similar systems
and cleared after the contracts contributed to the financial
crisis.  Clearinghouses , capitalized by their members, lessen the
effects of a default, require margin to back trades and allow
regulators to monitor positions and market prices.  The amount of the market that ends up in a clearinghouse is
important because it will determine how expensive trading OTC
derivatives will be, said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at
the  University of Houston . Clearinghouses allow offsetting
positions to be netted when a long and short trade cancel each
other out, resulting in no margin being required because the
risk is eliminated.  Investors don’t yet know, however, how offsetting trades
that can’t be cleared will be treated, Pirrong said. Under the
new rules, margin must be posted for uncleared trades as well.  ‘Cut Different Ways’  “The netting is going to cut different ways,” he said.
There are also system-wide concerns created by concentrating
trades in clearinghouses, he said.  “From a systemic perspective, the clearinghouse is going
to potentially create huge demands for cash during periods of
market volatility,” Pirrong said. During such periods, access
to cash is usually tightest.  Interest-rate swaps constitute three-fifths of the OTC
derivatives market, with a notional value of $364 trillion as of
December,  according  to the  Bank for International Settlements .
Forward-rate agreements, where trading partners exchange a fixed
rate for a floating rate that’s paid on a specified date in the
future, totaled $51.6 trillion, according to BIS. Options on
interest-rate derivatives were $49.3 trillion.  Notional amounts don’t represent actual money that has
changed hands and are used to calculate periodic contract
payments.  The LCH.Clearnet analysis was based on a report titled
“OTC Derivatives Market Analysis Year-End 2010” by the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association , an industry
trade and lobbying group.  Exotic Swaps  About 68 percent of the interest-rate derivatives market
can be cleared now, according to LCH.Clearnet. Other trades,
consisting of exotic swaps that have customized features, will
never be eligible for clearing, according to LCH.Clearnet.  The OCC economic analysis that assumed 20 percent of OTC
derivatives could be cleared relied on several assumptions about
the market’s development and acknowledged the difficulty in
estimating the full effects of regulation.  The report “made very conservative estimates,” Robert Garsson, an OCC spokesman, said at the time.  Investor demand to net out as much collateral as possible
that backs swaps at clearinghouses will drive consolidation
within the industry, Pirrong said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s two credit-default swap
clearinghouses dominate the market, while  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Nymex
exchange and Intercontinental Exchange offer clearing services
for energy commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 