-- 
Tottenham Wants to Beat Arsenal to Sign Mata, Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-07T09:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/tottenham-wants-to-beat-arsenal-to-sign-mata-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Mata Fight  Tottenham wants to beat Arsenal to sign Valencia winger
Juan Mata, who may be worth about 21 million pounds ($34
million), the  Daily Mail  said.  The Gunners have already opened negations for the Spain
under-21 national team player, but Spurs are hoping to use Mata
to replace  Luka Modric , who is demanding to leave, the newspaper
said.  Modric Meltdown  Modric demanded Tottenham sell him to Chelsea in a stormy
meeting with chairman Daniel Levy,  the Sun said .  The club told the 25-year-old that he won’t be sold for any
price, dismissing a 22-million pound offer from Chelsea. The
Croat would earn 150,000 pounds a week in west London, four
times what he makes at Tottenham, the newspaper said.  Parker Bid  West Ham captain  Scott Parker  will meet with new coach Sam Allardyce today about his future with the just-relegated club,
 the Daily Star said.   While Tottenham is interested in signing the midfielder,
only  Turkey ’s Fenerbahce has made a bid, and Parker doesn’t want
to move abroad, the newspaper said.  Benzema for London  Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema may be bound for Arsenal
as manager  Arsene Wenger  tries to overcome the probable loss of
captain Cesc Fabregas and Samir Nasri, the Mail said.  Wenger will increase his offer to Nasri to 100,000 pounds a
week to try to keep the midfielder, the newspaper said, but will
attempt to buy Benzema for 27 million pounds to make supporters
forget about the players leaving the London club, the newspaper
said.  Hot Stuff  FIFA officials may decide to play three 30 minute periods
in the 2022  World Cup  should the temperature in Qatar rise about
40 degrees Celius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), the Telegraph said.  While stadiums will be air-conditioned, players’ health
would be in danger from the high temperatures and soccer’s
governing body would consider stopping matches and doing three
periods, according to Michael Beavon, a director of Arup
Associates, which is developing the air conditioning, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 