-- 
Palm Oil Advances as Crude Oil’s Gain Increases Biofuel Appeal

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-07-07T10:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/palm-oil-advances-as-crude-oil-s-gain-increases-biofuel-appeal.html
Palm oil  advanced for the first time
in three days as gains in crude oil lifted the appeal of the
vegetable oil as a biofuel feedstock.  The contract for September delivery climbed 0.9 percent to
3,055 ringgit ($1,014) per metric ton on the  Malaysia 
Derivatives Exchange, the highest close in a week. Futures
declined 0.4 percent yesterday and 0.3 percent on June 5.  “With the higher crude oil price, I think there’s more
chance for the market to move higher,” said Ryan Long, vice
president of futures & options at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.  Oil rose from a two-day low in  New York  as investors bet
that shrinking crude stockpiles and signs of economic recovery
in the U.S. indicated fuel demand is strengthening in the
world’s biggest crude consumer. An Energy Department report
today may show U.S. supplies slid 2.5 million barrels, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Crude for August delivery gained as much as $1.05 to $97.70
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  before trading at $97.32 a barrel. Prices are 31
percent higher in the past year.  “Short-covering can also be taken in to consideration
because the prices for palm oil have fallen drastically in the
near past,” Vimala Reddy, an analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd.,
said from the Indian city of Hyderabad. Short-covering refers to
investors reversing bets on declining prices.  Low Availability  Palm oil declined 11.7 percent in the past five weeks
through July 1 on concerns over increasing supplies and
expanding stockpiles in Malaysia, the second-largest grower. The
Malaysian Palm Oil Board is scheduled to release output,
inventory and export data for June on July 11.  “While this may weigh on palm oil prices in the short term,
low global availability of alternative vegetable oil stocks are
forecast to increase palm oil demand in the medium term,”
Rabobank Group wrote in a report e-mailed today.  Concern about weather conditions in the U.S. is pushing up
prices of soybeans, crushed to make a rival oil, Reddy said.
Drier weather could hurt soybean crops, she said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. maintained its recommendation to
buy November-delivery soybeans. “We see soybeans as likely to
remain in a deficit in 2011-2012 on strong demand and acreage
loss to corn,” according to a report e-mailed today. That trade
was first recommended by Goldman in November, according to the
report.  November-delivery soybeans increased as much as 0.4 percent
to $13.24 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, while  soybean
oil  for delivery in December gained as much as 0.5 percent to
56.69 cents a pound.  January-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
climbed 0.2 percent to close at 8,842 yuan ($1,367) a ton.
Soybean oil for delivery in the same month gained 0.8 percent to
close at 10,114 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  