-- 
Strauss-Kahn May Face Paris Attempted Rape Charges as Allegation Weighed

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-07T14:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/paris-prosecutor-may-decide-today-on-strauss-kahn-attempted-rape-claim.html
The Paris prosecutor may decide as
early as today whether to investigate an attempted rape
complaint by a French writer against  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , a
spokeswoman for the prosecution said.  The prosecutor received Tristane Banon’s complaint
yesterday and is reviewing it, according to spokeswoman Agnes
Labregere-Delorme. Banon claims the former International
Monetary Fund chief assaulted her in 2003 when she went to
interview him.  The prosecutor is “considering whether to dismiss the
claim, open an investigation, or refer it to a judge,”
Labregere-Delorme said in a telephone interview.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a New York hotel in
May. He was released last week from home confinement and had his
bail returned after local prosecutors uncovered evidence the 32-
year-old woman who accused him had lied about key aspects of her
life.  Banon’s claims are “imaginary,” said Henri Leclerc, a
lawyer for the former French finance minister. Strauss-Kahn
asked Leclerc to prepare a slander complaint against Banon,
“but it couldn’t be judged until after the decision on the
original complaint, so there is no urgency” to file, Leclerc
said.  Manhattan Meeting  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers in  New York  met with Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. yesterday to discuss the on-
going investigation. No decision was reached during the meeting,
and the next court hearing is scheduled for July 18.  The New York Times reported that defense lawyers said their
client won’t plead guilty to anything.  Benjamin Brafman , an
attorney for Strauss-Kahn, didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn’s accuser in
the New York case, yesterday sent a letter asking that Vance’s
office recuse itself, and saying the office was “responsible for
repeated and damaging leaks” intended to discredit and undermine
his client. He also said a prosecutor “screamed at” her.  “We strongly disagree with how the office and the work of
the assistant district attorneys have been characterized,”  Erin Duggan , Vance’s chief spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Any
suggestion that this office should be recused is wholly without
merit.”  Thompson also addressed a conversation that the accuser had
with a friend incarcerated in  Arizona , in which she talked about
the alleged attack and purportedly remarked on how much money
Strauss-Kahn had. In his letter, Thompson said he discussed the
phone call with Daniel Alonso, the chief assistant district
attorney.  Alonso said “that the victim’s description of the sexual
assault during that recorded call was consistent to what she has
told prosecutors,” Thompson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 