-- 
Pawlenty Aide Apologizes for Making ‘Sex Appeal’ Statement About Bachmann

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/pawlenty-aide-issues-apology-for-sex-appeal-bachmann-statement.html
A top adviser to  Tim Pawlenty ’s
campaign for the Republican presidential nomination apologized
for citing “sex appeal” as one of the assets enjoyed by a
rival for the White House, U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of  Minnesota .  Former Representative  Vin Weber  of Minnesota, who is
supporting his state’s former governor and is providing campaign
advice, made the comment in an  interview  yesterday with The Hill
newspaper as he noted how hard Bachmann will be to beat in the
Iowa caucuses, the first step on the road to the nomination.  “She’s got hometown appeal, she’s got ideological
appeal,” Weber said. “And, I hate to say it, but she’s got a
little sex appeal, too.”  He apologized for the comment in a statement shared by
Pawlenty’s campaign.  “I made a mistake that was disrespectful to my friend
Congresswoman Bachmann,” Weber said. “I’ve been a Bachmann
supporter in her congressional bids and I apologize. I was not
speaking on behalf of Governor Pawlenty’s campaign but
nevertheless, it was inappropriate and I’m sorry.”  Pawlenty, 50, made no mention of the matter during a
dinnertime speech yesterday before about 75 Republican activists
in Ames,  Iowa . Asked about the statement after his appearance,
Pawlenty called it inappropriate.  “That was a wrong statement and he apologized and I’m glad
that he did,” Pawlenty said. “He shouldn’t have been making
that reference.”  Bachmann, 55, a native of Waterloo, Iowa, formally entered
the Republican presidential race on June 27. Asked about Weber’s
remark, Alice Stewart, her spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Ames, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  