-- 
Pay Clawback, Basel Bank Failure, OSC Probe, Banks Stress Test: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-07T12:32:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/pay-clawback-basel-bank-failure-osc-probe-compliance.html
Regulators would be able to claw back
some of the pay of top U.S. financial executives if their
company were liquidated by the government, under a rule adopted
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  FDIC board members voted unanimously yesterday to finalize
the rule, which is part of the agency’s expanded authority under
the Dodd-Frank Act to resolve the largest financial firms.  The FDIC rule authorizes the agency to recover pay from
senior executives and directors “substantially responsible”
for a failure for the two-year period preceding the agency’s
appointment as receiver.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
July, expanded the FDIC’s resolution authority from winding down
failed banks to also untangling the affairs of systemically
important nonbanks when they collapse. Congress sought the
liquidation authority after the September 2008 bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  exacerbated the credit crisis and
highlighted the interconnectedness of the largest financial
companies.  The clawback provision was adopted as part of a broader
rule aimed at setting the framework for the FDIC’s orderly
liquidation powers. The final rule included provisions laying
out the order in which creditors would be paid in the event of a
resolution.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Regulators Lack Power to Shut Down Failing Banks, Basel Says  Bank regulators need greater powers to close failing banks
in an orderly fashion so that taxpayers don’t have to bear the
costs of rescuing lenders during a crisis, global regulators
said.  Governments need to “accelerate” changes to national
rules to prevent banks from becoming too big to fail, ensure
that lenders’ essential operations can continue in a crisis, and
require that bank creditors contribute to shoring up firms’
finances before public money is used, the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision said yesterday on its website.  Banks are warning that plans by regulators for new rules to
end the need for bailouts during a crisis may harm the economic
recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
published plans in January to impose losses on failed banks’
senior bondholders -- a step that lenders including  Citigroup
Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have said may make it more
expensive for banks to attract funding.  Barnier, who leads work on financial regulation for the
European Commission, has also proposed that regulators should be
empowered to impose “structural changes” on firms to ensure
they can be closed down in a crisis.  Regulators’ arrangements for dealing with  bank failures 
continue to differ in terms of “legal powers, the ranking of
depositor and other creditor claims, and the capacity of
national authorities to share information,” the Basel committee
said. Such differences may undermine efforts for an orderly
shutdown of a failing bank, it said.  Yesterday’s report assesses how well nations have
implemented recommendations that the Basel committee made in
March last year on how to ensure that bank failures can be
handled in an orderly way.  For more, click here.  Stress Tests May Show 26 Rated Banks Need Aid, Moody’s Says  European stress tests may show that 26 rated banks of the
91 lenders being examined by the  European Banking Authority 
could need financial support, Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday in a statement.  Ninety-one banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA has said. This year’s exams, which may be
published as soon as next week, will include a review of how
lenders would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the
euro area in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets
as well as possible trading losses on sovereign debt.  Moody’s said the stress test of European banks is likely
“to have limited rating implications” and a “variety of
positive effects” for banks, including prompting banks to
strengthen capital and disclose sovereign exposure -- even
though the tests “fail to examine a national default.”  Compliance Action  Ontario Securities Watchdog Probing Emerging-Market Stocks  Canada’s main securities regulator, which is already
reviewing Sino-Forest Inc., said it has begun a “targeted
review” of companies that operate in emerging markets and trade
on the country’s exchanges.  The Ontario Securities Commission will examine the
disclosures, auditing and underwriting of Ontario companies
listed on Canadian markets that have a significant emerging-
markets presence, the OSC said in a statement yesterday, a month
after research company Muddy Waters LLC asserted that Sino-
Forest manipulated financial data. The OSC didn’t mention the
Chinese timber company, which is based in  Hong Kong  and
Mississauga, Ontario, in its statement.  The OSC is “investigating matters related to Sino-
Forest,” Wendy Dey, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in
an e-mail on June 8.  The Ontario securities regulator will decide after its
review what law changes might be necessary to protect investors,
the commission said. It didn’t say how long it expects the probe
to last. The Toronto-based regulator didn’t mention any
countries or other companies in its statement. Dylan Rae, an OSC
spokesman, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment July
5.  Chinese and U.S. officials will meet next week to discuss
giving American securities regulators the right to investigate
companies within  China  for the first time, said two Chinese
officials with direct knowledge of the plans.  For more, click here.  Separately, Sino-Forest postponed an analyst tour of its
Chinese operations until an independent committee has reported
on allegations it overstated production.  Sino-Forest said yesterday in a  letter  to investors and
analysts that it will wait for the committee’s report. “Many”
of the analysts who follow Sino-Forest aren’t able to resume
coverage or comment publicly until then, the company said. The
committee will likely require two to three months to finish its
task.  For more, click here.  Ex-Commerzbank Metals Trader Challenges FSA Market-Abuse Ban  Jason Anthony Geddis, a former metals trader at  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) ’s Dresdner Kleinwort unit, is challenging the U.K. finance
regulator’s decision to ban him from working in the industry for
allegedly committing market abuse.  Geddis will argue that his misconduct was negligible and
not deliberate, Clare McMullen, a lawyer for the Financial
Services Authority, told a tribunal in  London  yesterday.  He built a dominant trading position in a specific type of
lead warrants on the London Metal Exchange throughout a morning
in November 2008, McMullen said. The agency told Geddis in June
last year that it would fine him 25,000 pounds ($40,000) and ban
him.  The FSA banned 71 people from working in the industry and
issued fines of 98.5 million pounds in the year that ended March
31, 2011, according to the regulator’s annual report. Geddis
committed market abuse and violated LME trading guidelines by
building a position of more than 90 percent of warrants for lead
stockpiles, without lending back to the market, McMullen said.  The LME fined Dresdner 150,000 pounds for Geddis’s actions,
an amount that was reduced because the bank cooperated with the
exchange and reduced their position that day.  A lawyer for Geddis will present his argument later in the
hearing, which is scheduled to last three days.  Spain’s Regulator Approves Delisting of Befesa Medio Ambiente  Spain’s stock market regulator CNMV approved the delisting
of  Befesa Medio Ambiente SA (BMA) , it said in a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Madrid-based Befesa Medio Ambiente treats and recycles
industrial waste. The company is a unit of  Abengoa SA. (ABG)   J-Power Systems, Furukawa Electric Get EU Antitrust Complaints  J-Power Systems Corp. said it was sent a complaint from
European Union antitrust authorities concerning a possible
cartel for power cables.  The company “confirms it received the statement of
objections,” Satoru Takagi, an official in its compliance
office, said in an e-mail.  Separately, Furukawa Electric Co. received an EU antitrust
complaint over allegations of price-fixing for undersea and
underground high-voltage power cables,  Osamu Suzuki , senior
manager in the company’s investor and public relations unit,
said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  The Tokyo, Japan-based Furukawa Electric manufactures
wires, cables, and metal products.  French Banks Slash Bank Card Fees to Settle Antitrust Probe  The group that governs France’s bank-card industry agreed
to cut by as much as 36 percent interbank fees for bank card
transactions to settle a competition regulator’s investigation.  The  Groupement des Cartes Bancaires CB , which represents
banks including  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, will cut the interbank fee charged on a retail
transaction using a card with the CB logo by 36 percent, the
Competition Authority said today. The interbank withdrawal fee
will be reduced by 21 percent and fees for cards seized by cash
machines will drop by half. The new rates take effect Oct. 1.  The drop in fees should lead to a reduction in the fees
banks charge to customers, Competition Authority President Bruno
Lasserre said in a statement on the regulator’s website.  The CB cards, which link to customers’ bank accounts, are
more popular in France than credit cards, representing 80
percent of card transactions in 2007, according to the Bank of
France. The country is currently eighth in Europe for the fees
charged between a cardholder’s and retailer’s bank, the
regulator said.  A separate investigation is under way into interbank fees
for independent credit cards and other non-cash payments, such
as automatic withdrawals and transfers, the regulator said
today.  Japan Watchdog Probes Elpida Insider Trading, Nikkei Says  Japanese investigators are probing a government official
for suspected trading of  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  stock in 2009 based
on undisclosed information about a state-led bailout, the Nikkei
newspaper reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
investigating whether the official -- a deputy director general
at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry when Elpida was
applying for government assistance two years ago -- bought
shares of the chipmaker through a third-party account before the
ministry announced the approval of an aid package on June 30,
2009, according to the report. The aid enabled the company to
raise money through the sale of preferred shares and the receipt
of loans. Elpida posted a net loss that year. The shares rose
1.7 percent the day after the approval.  Tatsushi Terada, a director at Japan’s SESC, Hiroshi
Chishima, an assistant director at METI and Takehiro Fukuda, a
Tokyo-based spokesman at Elpida, declined to comment.  Courts  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Sued by Allstate on Mortgage Fraud Claims  Morgan Stanley was sued for fraud by Allstate Insurance Co.
over residential mortgage-backed securities in which the insurer
invested, according to a complaint filed in  New York .  Allstate purchased more than $104 million in Morgan Stanley
residential mortgage-backed securities in six offerings between
2005 and 2007, based on registration statements, prospectuses
and other documents, as well as the “central role” that Morgan
Stanley played in creating and selling the securities, it said
in the suit filed July 5 in New York state Supreme Court.  Morgan Stanley told Allstate it had conducted due diligence
on the companies that originated the mortgages before turning
them into securities, and assured the Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer that the loans conformed with “conservative”
underwriting standards and that the appraisals of the mortgage
properties were accurate, the lawsuit says.  Allstate says in the lawsuit that Morgan Stanley “knew or
recklessly disregarded” that those lenders were issuing high-
risk loans’’ that did not conform to underwriting standards.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  Argentina Loses Debt Immunity Suit in U.K. Supreme Court  Argentina’s state immunity can’t prevent an offshore trader
in distressed sovereign debt from using British courts to
enforce claims over the country’s 2001 default, the U.K. Supreme
Court ruled in London yesterday.  The decision, which reverses a lower court ruling from last
year, permits an affiliate of New York-based hedge fund Elliott
Associates LP to seize Argentina’s assets in Britain using a
$284 million U.S. court judgment it has against the South
American nation. Argentina had argued U.K. courts didn’t have
jurisdiction on the issue.  A spokesman for Argentina’s Economy Ministry didn’t
immediately respond to a call and a text message sent to his
mobile phone.  The judgment comes a day after a federal appeals court in
New York ruled against Cayman Island-based NML Capital Ltd., the
Elliott affiliate in the U.K. case, and another bondholder. They
failed in their bid to seize $105 million of Argentine central
bank assets held at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  The court said the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act bars
NML and EM Ltd., which hold almost $2.4 billion in judgments
against Argentina, from collecting funds belonging to Banco
Central de la Republica Argentina.  Argentine central bank President Mercedes Marco Del Pont
praised yesterday’s decision while saying she expects it to be
appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  The U.K.  case  is NML Capital v. Argentina, U.K. Supreme
Court, (2011) UKSC 31.  Interviews  EU Seeks to Curb Big Ratings Firms After Portugal Downgrade  European policy makers lashed out at rating companies after
Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s debt to junk, reviving
calls to curtail their clout.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the grip of
the big three rating companies had to be broken when asked about
Moody’s downgrade. There’s a need to “break up” the companies’
dominance, he said in Berlin yesterday.  Moody’s four-level cut of Portugal’s credit rating
yesterday cited French-led plans aimed at letting creditors of
Greece cover part of the funding of a new rescue plan.  Standard
& Poor’s  said a day earlier that it would rate Greece in partial
default at least temporarily if those plans were implemented, a
move that could put Greek banks at risk. The third big rating
company is  Fitch Ratings .  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he
“deeply” regrets the timing and magnitude of Portugal’s
downgrade by Moody’s and said proposals for increasing
regulation of the rating companies in Europe would come out this
year. The moves by Moody’s “do not provide for more clarity.
They rather add another speculative element to the situation,”
Barroso told reporters in Strasbourg yesterday.  The commission, the European Union’s executive arm, “is
looking into the regulation of rating agencies,” he said.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday urged the
commission, the European Central Bank and the  International
Monetary Fund  not to leave judgments on creditworthiness solely
to the rating firms.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 