-- 
The Perils of Economic Populism in the Mideast: Steffen Hertog

-- B y   S t e f f e n   H e r t o g
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/perils-of-economic-populism-in-the-mideast-commentary-by-steffen-hertog.html
The first signs of a post-
revolutionary hangover are everywhere in the Arab world. Where
unity of purpose once defined the reform movements in Egypt and
 Tunisia , now particular interests are coming to the fore. Forces
for change are fracturing.  Conflicts revolve not just around the constitutional
framework of the transition away from dictatorship or the place
of Islam in public life, but increasingly around bread and
butter issues. Demands for jobs, higher wages and lower prices
are becoming more prominent, and they often come from specific
and sometimes rival constituencies.  It is socio-economic frustration that made the Arab Spring
a mass movement. This same frustration could now lead the Arab
world in a fatally wrong direction as weak governments, in
revolutionary and anciens regimes, respond to popular demands
with ill-conceived economic populism.  Austerity isn’t an option, politically or morally. However,
the wrong kinds of spending not only undermine fiscal
sustainability, but also tend to widen income disparities and
set the stage for zero-sum struggles over the resources of the
state. Unfortunately, this is what is happening across the Arab
world.  Buying of Patronage  At the heart of the matter is the buying of patronage --
something that is typically accomplished in the region by
creating surplus jobs in the public sector and subsidizing
transport fuel and electricity. Yet it is hard to imagine more
inadequate tools of welfare. Surplus public sector jobs are an
exclusive good -- allocated to some, not to others, and often
according to political or personal preference. They distort
private labor markets and often reduce the efficacy of already
bloated bureaucracies.  Energy subsidies encourage overconsumption and waste, with
limited benefit to individuals but at huge expense to the state.
They usually cost more than other, potentially more defensible
subsidies of food or transportation, more even than conventional
welfare programs. The  International Monetary Fund estimates  the
total cost of energy subsidies in  Egypt  at more than 5 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product -- exceeding the
government’s entire public investment expenditure as well as its
budgets for health and education. Also, energy subsidies
disproportionately benefit richer households, which tend to
consume more; they are equivalent to a regressive tax.  Despite these perverse outcomes, Arab governments have
reacted to popular pressure by drastically expanding existing
subsidies. On June 22, the Egyptian transitional government,
trying to avoid the need for an IMF loan, put forward a second
budget for 2011-12. This slimmed down version included a 35
percent increase in fuel subsidies and 23 percent growth in
public salary outlays.  The provisional Tunisian government has also created new
public sector jobs as a sop to protesters. Its budget for 2011
is 11 percent larger than the one originally planned under the
regime of deposed President Zine El Abidine ben Ali, largely due
to increased subsidies. Both Egypt and Tunisia expect to run
large deficits in 2011.  The reaction to popular pressure by incumbent authoritarian
regimes has been similar.  The Syrian government  has
substantially increased its heating oil allowance for public
workers and has given state employees their biggest raise in
four decades.  Jordan has increased  fuel and food subsidies as
well as public-sector salaries and pensions.  Morocco has  almost
doubled its subsidy budget . On the Arabian Peninsula,  where
energy is already cheap, regimes have stepped up the pace of
public  job creation .  Social Security Needed  So how should Arab governments use public money to promote
the general welfare? Instead of adding to an unsustainable
payroll, governments should focus on creating meaningful social
security systems. This would include unemployment assistance and
minimum-income guarantees for the less fortunate. Governments
could enact wage subsidies for the private sector to make the
low salaries there acceptable to more people. In the long term,
re-engineering Arab public sectors from bloated tools of income
redistribution to lean and efficient administrations would
significantly improve the business climate.  Energy subsidies should also be phased out. They could be
replaced by direct cash grants. Such grants could be means-
tested or unconditional -- either would be fairer and less
regressive than the system used now. Alternatively, the money
could be used to boost general social security and income
maintenance systems. Ironically, it is populist  Iran  that has
taken the lead on this. It is replacing subsidized domestic
energy with a system of unconditional cash grants to all Iranian
households, a policy that will potentially deliver huge savings
to the government.  A Quick Solution  How do you scale down regressive, and entrenched,
patronage? The quickest solution, and one with wide political
resonance, would be unconditional cash grants to all citizens.
Such payouts could be supplemented by more sophisticated means-
tested support programs.  Latin America , another region with huge
problems of poverty and inequality, has had encouraging
experiences with direct cash grants to poor families. These are
conditional, tied to sending a child to school or getting
regular medical checkups.  Compensation for reducing old-school patronage will need to
be offered right away and not as part of a distant vision of
social modernization. It will also require money.  This is where Western partners could make a real difference
through targeted financial support. Significant aid payments
have already been pledged, and some could be earmarked for the
purpose of setting up more equitable and less distorting social
support systems. The means for foreign powers to assist in
democratic transitions are usually limited. Re-engineering the
distributional bargain in the Arab world is one area where the
West could have a large and beneficial impact.  (Steffen Hertog is a lecturer at the  London School  of
Economics and the author of “Princes, Brokers and Bureaucrats:
Oil and the State in  Saudi Arabia .” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds.  