-- 
Peru May Hold 4.25% Rate for Second Month as GDP Slows Over Humala Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-07T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/peru-may-hold-4-25-rate-for-second-month-as-gdp-slows-over-humala-concern.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark lending rate unchanged for a second month as
inflation and economic growth slow on concern President-elect
Ollanta Humala’s policies may damp investment in  Latin America ’s
sixth-biggest economy.  The seven-member board will keep the overnight rate at 4.25
percent today, according to 16 of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, after unexpectedly holding the rate unchanged at last
month’s meeting for the first time this year. One analyst
predicts a quarter-point increase to 4.50 percent. The board
will announce its decision at about 7 p.m. New York time.  Since quickening to a two-year high of 3.3 percent in April,
annual inflation decelerated to 2.9 percent in June, within the
central bank’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent. At the
same time, reduced spending by companies and consumers both
before and after the June 5 election has helped cool growth in
the $153 billion economy for three straight months to its
slowest pace since February 2010.  “GDP isn’t poised to grow any faster because private
investment is falling and that’s reining in inflation,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “There’s no sign of a rebound in
demand.”  Economic growth has “practically stagnated” and the speed
at which it revives will depend on the policies Humala adopts,
Lima-based Banco de Credito del Peru, the nation’s largest bank,
said in a June 22 report.  Private investment drove Peru’s economy to expand 8.8
percent in the first quarter, leading the central bank to raise
rates to a two-year high in May.  ‘Investors Are Waiting’  Economic expansion probably slowed to an annual pace of
about 6.5 percent in the second quarter, the lowest in a year,
as electricity output and cement sales eased, Finance Minister
Ismael Benavides told reporters in  Lima  yesterday.  Companies have scaled back spending since April amid
concern Humala’s pledges to increase mining royalties and
enlarge state companies may deter the foreign investment that
fueled the region’s fastest growth of the last decade.  Though investment will probably recover after the new
government takes office and clarifies its policy on mining taxes,
the central bank cut its growth forecast to 6.5 percent from 7
percent previously, Velarde said June 17.  “Investors are waiting to see what Humala is going to
propose in terms of economic and labor policy,” Benavides said.  Mining projects will account for almost half the $47.5
billion of private investment expected in Peru from 2011 to 2013,
according to the central bank.  Factories, Food, Prices  Peru’s factories are using less installed capacity as
domestic demand pressures ease, Lima-based  BBVA Banco
Continental , Peru’s second-largest bank, said in a July 1 report.  “This leaves less room for higher costs to be passed
through in higher prices or second-round effects,” wrote
analysts Franciso Grippa and Isaac Foinquinos.  A jump of at least 47 percent in the international price of
corn, wheat and soybean in the last year propelled Peruvian food
price inflation to a three-year high in March.  The annual inflation rate fell to 2.9 percent in June from
3.1 percent in May and 3.3 percent in April as lower food prices
offset the higher cost of gasoline. Prices will rise as much as
0.3 percent in July, after a 0.1 percent increase last month,
because of seasonal reasons, Benavides said.  The central bank expects consumer prices to rise about 3
percent this year, the least in the region.  Bets the central bank will extend last month’s pause led
the yield on the nation’s 9.91 percent sol-denominated bond due
May 2015 to drop 42 basis points, or 0.41 percentage point, in
the past month to 5.45 percent yesterday.  Regional Response  With last month’s pause, Peru’s central bank has bucked the
regional trend.  Brazil ’s central bank has indicated it will increase
 interest rates  for a fifth month in July as it seeks to curb
demand, while Chilean policy makers said last month they will
probably need to continue to raise rates after the economy
expanded at its fastest pace since 1995 in the first quarter.  Colombia ’s central bank may use other monetary instruments
instead of raising rates to contain demand for credit, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Alberto Ramos .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 