-- 
Peru Miners, Humala to Discuss Windfall Tax ‘In Coming Days’

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-07-07T20:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/peru-miners-humala-to-meet-in-coming-days-martinez-says.html
Peru ’s President-Elect Ollanta Humala
will meet with mining companies “in coming days” to discuss a
windfall tax, said  Pedro Martinez , president of the National
Society of Mining, Petroleum & Energy.  Representatives from the industry group will meet with
Humala’s advisers to reach a “technical” solution that won’t
make Peru less competitive than nations like Chile and Canada,
Martinez said. Humala, who pledged to raise taxes after copper
and gold rose to records this year, will take office July 28.  “We must be very careful with  tax policy  as the key for
investors is confidence,” Martinez told reporters today in
 Lima . “If we don’t send clear signals to investors that this
growth model will continue, we’ll be shooting ourselves in the
foot.”  Investment has slowed over the past three months in Peru,
the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer, amid concern
over Humala’s proposals, Martinez said. As much as $42 billion
in planned mining investment may be derailed if Humala changes
investment rules,  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  Chief Executive Officer
Oscar Gonzalez Rocha said June 14.  Mining Revenue  Peru’s mining export revenue jumped 27 percent to $21
billion last year as copper tripled from 2008 and gold jumped 76
percent. Copper futures for September delivery rose 10.7 cents,
or 2.5 percent, to $4.442 a pound on the Comex in  New York . Gold
for August delivery gained $1.40, or 0.1 percent, to $1,530.60
an ounce.  The government’s cancellation last month of  Bear Creek
Mining Corp. (BCM) ’s silver concession sent “a bad signal” to
investors, Martinez said. Peru withdrew permits for Vancouver-
based Bear Creek’s $30 million Santa Ana project after protests
in the southern highland region of Puno left six people dead, 30
injured and caused $2 million of damage at the region’s airport
and government offices.  The company may take legal action against Peru, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Swarthout said in a June 27 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  