-- 
Peru Central Bank Buys Dollars as Sol Rises to Highest Since ‘08

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-07T20:41:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/peru-central-bank-buys-dollars-as-sol-rises-to-highest-since-08.html
Peru ’s central bank bought dollars
for the first time in more than a month after the sol rose to
its strongest level since 2008 on capital inflows and record
exports.  The central bank bought $15 million in the spot currency
market, paying an average 2.7424 soles per dollar, it said on
its website, the bank’s first purchase since May 26.  The sol rose 0.1 percent to 2.7440 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, the strongest since at least December 2008, from
2.7460 yesterday, according to prices from Deutsche Bank’s local
unit.  The currency advanced as Peruvian banks sold dollar
holdings that have been boosted by higher inflows from rising
exports and foreign investors taking advantage of the interest-
rate differential between Peru and the U.S., said Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader at  Banco Santander  in  Lima . The sol
also gained after a report showed U.S. companies added more jobs
than forecast in June, spurring demand for higher yielding,
emerging-market assets.  “Though investment flows slowed after the election, Peru
still has a strong  trade surplus , significant remittances, and
an interest-rate differential,” Navarro said.  Peru’s exports surged 62 percent in May from a year earlier
to a record $3.8 billion after metal prices rose, the government
said July 5.  The central bank purchased a record $9 billion in the spot
currency market last year after foreign inflows pushed the
Peruvian sol to its strongest since 2008.  Currency Performance  Peruvian companies have scaled back spending since April
amid concern President-elect Ollanta Humala’s pledges to
increase mining royalties and enlarge state companies may deter
foreign investment.  Still investors have been encouraged by the former army
rebel’s “conciliatory discourse” since being elected, Lima-
based brokerage Inteligo SAB said in an e-mailed report to
clients yesterday.  Humala will improve trade relations with the U.S. during
his government and use the nations’ free-trade agreement to
increase economic output, the president-elect said yesterday in
 Washington  after a meeting with President Barack Obama.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 6.28 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  