-- 
PetroVietnam’s Crude Oil Output to Rise as New Fields Start

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T06:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/petrovietnam-s-crude-oil-output-to-rise-as-new-fields-start-1-.html
Vietnam  Oil & Gas Group expects crude
oil production to increase by about 8 percent to 7.8 million
metric tons in the second half as it starts five new fields.  Production may rise from 7.23 million tons, including 0.34
million tons from overseas fields, in the first half, according
to a statement on the company’s website. Gas production was 4.7
billion cubic meters in the January to June period, it said. Gas
output may total 3.5 billion cubic meters in the second half,
according to the statement.  The state-owned oil producer, known as PetroVietnam, is
trying to boost output and lift earnings from crude exports,
Vietnam’s second-biggest foreign-currency earner, by
accelerating operations at new domestic and overseas fields. The
nation’s largest field of Bach Ho is aging after more than two
decades in operation.  PetroVietnam is scheduled to start commercial operations at
oil blocks Te Giac Trang, Dai Hung-Phase 2 and  Malaysia ’s Dana-
SK305 block next month, Chim Sao in September and  Russia ’s
Visovoi-Nhennhexky this month, according to the statement.  Revenue may total 300 trillion dong ($14.6 billion) in the
second half, after sales reached 340 trillion dong in the first
six months, PetroVietnam said in the statement. Pretax profit
was 50 trillion dong in the period, up 44 percent from a year
earlier, it said.  PetroVietnam aims to start building the country’s second
oil refinery at Nghi Son in the northern Thanh Hoa province in
the third quarter this year, it said. Its Dung Quat refinery
produced 3 million tons of petroleum products in the first half.  The Hanoi-based company said its ship Binh Minh 02 will
continue with the seismic survey it was conducting after it was
interrupted on June 9. Chinese vessels on May 26 cut cables of
the Binh Minh 02, when the ship was conducting a seismic survey
within the nation’s continental shelf, according to Ministry of
Foreign Affairs spokeswoman Nguyen Phuong Nga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Uyen Nguyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  