-- 
Pfizer Narrows Unit Sale Review to Animal Health, Baby Food

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-07-07T20:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/pfizer-says-it-may-sell-animal-health-nutrition-businesses-after-review.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, narrowed its plans to sell or spin off businesses,
saying today it would divest only the Animal Health and Baby
Food units, with combined annual sales of $5.5 billion.  The company’s shares fell 2.7 percent, as Pfizer said it
will keep the larger established products and consumer health
units within the parent company. Those businesses had revenue of
$12.9 billion last year. Investors have been pressing Chief
Executive Officer Ian Read to slim the drugmaker and focus on
developing new medicines.  Read said on Feb. 1 he was reviewing each of the four
business areas that aren’t involved in drug discovery as the
company faces loss of exclusivity for its biggest product, the
Lipitor cholesterol pill. Since then, Pfizer shares climbed 14
percent before today as investors anticipated the benefits from
sales and spinoffs.  “It doesn’t transform Pfizer, it only adjusts it,” said
 Erik Gordon , a University of Michigan business professor in Ann
Arbor who studies the biomedical industry. “Shedding the
consumer business would have been more interesting.”  Pfizer fell 55 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $20.23 at 4 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 38 percent in the past 12 months.  “The plan is to enhance the value of established products
and consumer health care within Pfizer,” said Joan Campion, a
spokeswoman for Pfizer. “That said, as is typical of global
companies our size, we will continue to assess our businesses
and assets on a regular ongoing basis.”  Share Repurchases  Pfizer said it doesn’t anticipate making more announcements
about the alternatives for the two units until sometime in 2012,
and that any transaction could take as many as 24 months to
complete. Read said in a May 3 interview he plans to use
proceeds from the sales to buy back shares. The company sold
Capsugel, a hard-capsules business, to KKR & Co. in April for
$2.38 billion.  J.P. Morgan will advise on the  Animal Health  business,
while Morgan Stanley and Centerview Partners are advisers on the
Nutrition unit, Pfizer said.  “From a credit standpoint, we view the news as a negative,
with the likely separation of two growing and healthy units,”
said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York, in an e-mail.
He said the moves may lead to “negative rating actions” at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  No Immediate Impact  While today’s moves are negative for Pfizer’s credit
standing, Moody’s Investors Service doesn’t have any immediate
plans to lower the drugmaker’s rating, said Michael Levesque, a
Moody’s analyst, in a statement.  Pfizer was smart to keep the established products unit,
which makes generic drugs and medicines that have lost patent
exclusivity, said  David Maris , an analyst with CLSA in New York.
Read said in May that about $915 million of the unit’s $2.37
billion in first-quarter sales were in emerging markets, an area
where the company plans to grow.  “To give up emerging markets is a silly proposition,
because that is the future,” Maris said in a telephone
interview. “I’m sure there was some subset of investors that
was still hoping for established products to be divested. We’ve
said for a long time that wouldn’t make sense.”  Various Buyers  Maris said the animal health and baby food units will
attract a variety of potential buyers, including private equity
and pharmaceutical companies hoping to diversify their product
offerings or gain market share in animal medicines or infant
formula sales. He said a spinoff of either unit is possible,
though a sale is more likely.  Tim Anderson, the Sanford C. Bernstein analyst whose March
14 research report drove up Pfizer shares on speculation the
company may halve its revenue base, said the company might take
different approaches to each unit.  “Our best guess is that animal health could be a spin-out,
a tax-free transaction like Bristol-Myers Squibb did with Mead Johnson in 2009, and that Nutrition could be sold,” Anderson
said in a note to clients today.  Pfizer had 28 divestitures completed in the last five
years, with an average deal size of $1.8 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s biggest was the $16.6
billion sale of its consumer products business to  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  in June 2006.  Lipitor Sales  Lipitor had sales of $10.7 billion last year, accounting
for about 16 percent of the company’s revenue, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Pfizer forecasts revenue may fall as much as 6.9
percent in two years as the pipeline of experimental drugs fails
to offset lower sales of Lipitor.  Pfizer acquired the nutrition unit in the 2009 purchase of
Wyeth. It makes the Gold line of products for infants and
children and Enercal supplements for adults. The unit sells food
replacement and supplement products in more than 80 countries,
according to the company’s website.  Overall sales of baby food and milk formula in  Asia ,  Latin
America  and Eastern Europe more than doubled from 2005 to 2010,
according to Euromonitor, a London-based research firm.  Nestle
SA (NESN)  of Vevey, Switzerland, and Paris-based  Danone (BN)  are the market
leaders for infant formula in those markets, Euromonitor said.  In 2009, Pfizer bought Wyeth to add biologic drugs,
consumer and animal health products, and baby formula. The
company expanded sales in emerging markets such as  China ,  India 
and  Brazil  to 18 percent of the company’s revenue under Jeffrey Kindler, who was CEO from July 2006 until Read replaced him in
December.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-formula maker that
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  took public in February 2009, had sales
of $3.14 billion last year, led by Enfamil infant formula. The
Glenview, Illinois-based company has more than doubled since the
initial public offering.  Abbott’s Similac  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , had
nutritional sales of $5.53 billion last year. The company sells
Similac baby formula.  Pfizer’s consumer unit, which sells the over-the-counter
brands Advil and Centrum, drew $2.8 billion in 2010 revenue,
making it the fifth-largest over-the-counter health products
business worldwide, Pfizer said in a February regulatory filing.
In addition to Advil and Centrum for pain management and dietary
supplementation, the unit sells the cough syrup Robitussin and
personal-care items including ChapStick and Preparation H.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 