-- 
Pinera Approval Falls to New Low as Chile Students Protest

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-07T17:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/pinera-approval-falls-to-new-low-as-chile-students-protest-1-.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera’s
approval rating in June fell to a new low for his administration
as students stage protests throughout the South American country
for education reforms.  Pinera’s approval rating fell to 31 percent in June from 36
percent in May and 63 percent in October, when the government
rescued 33 trapped miners in the country’s north, Santiago-based
research group Adimark GfK said in a report on its website
today. The June 6-30 poll of 1,104 people had a margin of error
of 3 percentage points, Adimark said.  The decline in Pinera’s approval comes as tens of thousands
of protesters marched throughout Chile in June to pressure
authorities to overhaul the education system. The unrest and
falling approval rating could complicate Pinera’s efforts to
pass legislation through Congress, Risa Grais-Targow, Latin
America associate at Eurasia Group, said.  “He’s really going to struggle to move forward with his
agenda,” Grais-Targow said before today’s report was published.
“We’ve already kind of seen that he’s stopped putting things
forward because that seems to be the tactic to avoid
confrontation or basically failing.”  Congress this week  rejected  a government proposal to
increase the minimum wage and hasn’t approved legislation the
administration fast-tracked in September last year to clarify
the tax treatment of derivatives and promote currency hedging.  Campus Unrest  Pinera plans to present bills this year to overhaul the
education system as part of a series of measures that includes
creating a $4 billion fund to increase the number of
scholarships in the country, he said in a televised address to
the nation July 5.  The proposals are intended to end protests and advance
negotiations with students and teachers, he said.  “I will take all measures necessary and introduce as many
bills as it takes to implement the agreement,” he said of his
education proposal. “I emphatically call on my compatriots to
join with enthusiasm and commitment this noble, urgent and
needed mission.”  Chile ’s student confederation, known as Confech, and the
teachers’ union will protest for additional reforms outside the
presidential palace and public squares throughout the country
today, according to a  statement  posted on the website of the
University of Chile student federation Fech.  Protesters will pretend they’re at the beach after
Education Minister Joaquin Lavin decided to call early winter
vacations so students wouldn’t miss additional classes during
June demonstrations.  The student demonstrations followed street marches in May
by opponents of a Patagonian hydroelectric project. Workers at
Codelco, Chile’s state-owned copper company, announced a 24-hour
strike for July 11 to protest job cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  