-- 
Chicago Trading Firm’s Lawsuit Claims Banks Conspired to Manipulate Libor

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-07-07T21:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/trading-firm-lawsuit-claims-banks-conspired-to-manipulate-libor.html
A Chicago trading firm accused  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  of conspiring to manipulate the London interbank offered
rate.  The banks drove down Libor to generate billions of dollars
in profits from swaps, loans, interest rate derivatives and
other financial instruments whose value depended on the rate,
Eldorado Trading Group LLC said in a complaint filed July 5 in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  The civil lawsuit is one of several filed in response to
probes by the U.S. Justice Department, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission related to
whether there were improper attempts to manipulate Libor. The
rate, at which banks borrow from one another in the London
interbank market, is a short-term, international benchmark.  The banks “had a substantial incentive to manipulate, and
in fact did manipulate, Libor downward, in order to increase the
income from its interest rate derivatives and similar
instruments,” according to Eldorado’s complaint. “This
manipulation resulted in billions of dollars in revenue.”  Eldorado owned futures and options contracts based on
Eurodollar deposits traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
from August 2007 to December 2009, according to the complaint.
It seeks to represent similar owners of contracts traded on the
Chicago exchange.  U.S. Probes  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, said the Zurich-based bank
is cooperating with the U.S. probes, and has also gotten
requests for information from the Japan Financial Services
Agency and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  “We believe this suit is without merit,” Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
e-mail.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment. Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, declined
to comment.  The case is Eldorado Trading Group LLC v. Bank of America
Corp., 11-cv-3847, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 