-- 
Treasuries Snap Two-Day Rally as Employment Outlook Boosts Bets on Economy

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-07T21:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/treasuries-halt-two-day-advance-before-continuing-jobless-claims-figures.html
Treasuries ended a two-day rally as a
private report said U.S. companies added more jobs than forecast
and economists said government data tomorrow will show nonfarm
payrolls gained, fueling bets economic growth is accelerating.  Ten-year yields rose from a one-week low as stocks climbed
after the  European Central Bank  signaled it will ease Portugal’s
access to emergency funds. ADP Employer Services said U.S.
firms’ payrolls increased by 157,000 jobs in June, and
unemployment claims fell for the first time in three weeks. The
U.S. said it will sell $66 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “It’s all about the data,” Siddharth Joshi, an interest-
rate strategist in New York at Citigroup Inc., said in an
interview. The firm is one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the  Federal Reserve . “People are waiting for a good number on
NFP and if so, we’ll see a sharp sell-off.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes increased three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.14 percent at 5 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Earlier
they rose as much as seven basis points. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 7/8.  The 10-year note yields touched 3.07 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since June 29. Two-year note yields climbed five
basis points to 0.47 percent today and touched 0.48 percent, the
highest since July 1. They fell to 0.32 percent on June 24, a
seven-month low.  Treasuries have returned 2.6 percent this year after
gaining 5.9 percent in 2010, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  Stocks, Commodities Gain  Stocks and commodities rose. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 1.1 percent and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials climbed 1.8 percent.  “There’s been a return to risk assets, with equities doing
better,” said Dan Mulholland, a trader in New York at  RBC
Capital Markets , the investment-banking arm of  Canada ’s biggest
bank. “We’ve had better-than-expected data.”  ADP’s job-growth estimate for June was more than double the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for an
increase of 70,000 positions.  Initial claims for jobless benefits fell by 14,000 to
418,000 in the week ended July 2, Labor Department figures
showed in  Washington . The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to 420,000.  “The market had a little bit of a back-up on it,” said
Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc., a primary dealer. “The economy is not on
the verge of collapsing.”  Nonfarm Payrolls  U.S. employers added 105,000 jobs last month after an
increase of 54,000 in May, according to the median forecast of
85 economists in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor
Department’s nonfarm payrolls report tomorrow. The  unemployment
rate  held at 9.1 percent, another survey projected.  “There is more potential for Treasuries to sell off than
to rally given an equal NFP surprise on either side,”
Citigroup’s Joshi wrote in a note to clients.  If payrolls rise by 50,000, 10-year yields will increase by
10 basis points; if payrolls drop by 50,000, 10-year yields will
fall by about five basis points, he wrote.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , the central bank’s
longest-serving policy maker, said U.S. economic growth will
probably persist while facing risks from the federal deficit and
Europe’s debt crisis.  “We are finishing our second year for recovery,” Hoenig
said today in a speech in Ada,  Oklahoma . “The outlook for
recovery continues to be positive.”  Collateral Rules  The ECB’s decision to suspend the minimum collateral rules
for Portuguese government debt in the central bank’s refinancing
operations followed waivers of minimum thresholds for Greek and
Irish bonds. All three nations, starting with  Greece , had to
seek international bailout packages.  “That is telling you clearly that  Portugal  is as much of a
concern as Greece and Ireland,” said Jason Rogan, director of
U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-
based brokerage for institutional investors. “That’s brought in
dip-buying.”  The ECB also increased its benchmark interest rate to 1.5
percent, the highest level since March 2009, from 1.25 percent.
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled he may raise rates
again in coming months.  Treasury Auctions  With less than a month to go before the Treasury Department
says the government won’t be able to pay its debt, the U.S. said
it will sell next week $32 billion of three-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds. The
sizes of the daily auctions, which begin July 12, are unchanged
from the last time the Treasury sold the securities in June.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and congressional
leaders are seeking an accord to increase the $14.3 trillion
federal debt before Aug. 2, the Treasury’s projected date for
expiration of its borrowing authority.  Cash inflows from U.S. money market funds as they reduce
investments in European banks is driving short-term  interest
rates  lower, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Terry Belton.  “One of the sources of funding for European banks -- not
peripheral  Europe , but core Europe, banks in  France  and  Germany 
-- are the U.S. money funds,” Belton, the firm’s global head of
fixed-income and foreign-exchange research, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “As the markets become concerned around Europe, they
pull back a bit.”  The one-month Treasury bill rate fell below zero last week
for the first time since January 2010 as investors sought
safety. It touched negative 0.0101 percent today before trading
at 0.0203 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  