-- 
Reds Unchanged for Super Rugby Final; Crusaders’ Ellis Faces Fitness Test

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-07T01:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/reds-unchanged-for-super-rugby-final-crusaders-ellis-faces-fitness-test.html
The  Queensland Reds  named their first
unchanged squad of the season for the July 9 Super Rugby final
against the Canterbury Crusaders in Brisbane.  The Reds retained the same 22-man squad that beat the
Auckland Blues to qualify for the team’s first final in the
prefessional rugby era. Coach Ewen McKenzie only named the same
starting 15 once before this year, against the Crusaders in
round 13 of the regular season.  “At this stage you benefit greatly from continuity,”
McKenzie said in a team statement. “We’ve benefited from a
whole squad effort in 2011 but feel we have the right mix of
experience and talent to be successful on Saturday night.”  The Crusaders, seeking a record-extending eighth southern
hemisphere provincial rugby championship, also named an
unchanged lineup from their semifinal win over the Stormers,
though scrum-half Andy Ellis and reserve forward Luke Romano
face fitness tests that may rule them out of the match at
Suncorp Stadium.  QUEENSLAND REDS: Jono Lance, Rod Davies, Anthony Faingaa,
Ben Tapuai, Digby Ioane, Quade Cooper, Will Genia, Radike Samo,
Beau Robinson, Scott Higginbotham, James Horwill (captain),  Rob
Simmons , Greg Holmes, Saia Faingaa, Ben Daley.  Reserves: James Hanson, Guy Shepherdson, Adam Wallace-
Harrison, Jake Schatz, Liam Gill, Ian Prior, Will Chambers.  CRUSADERS: Tom Marshall, Sean Maitland, Robbie Fruean, 
Sonny Bill Williams, Zac Guildford,  Dan Carter , Andy Ellis/
Kahn Fotuali'i, Kieran Read,  Richie McCaw  (captain), George 
Whitelock, Sam Whitelock, Brad Thorn, Owen Franks, Corey Flynn, 
Wyatt Crockett.  Reserves: Quentin MacDonald,  Ben Franks , Luke Romano/
Chris Jack, Matt Todd, Kahn Fotuali’i/Willi Heinz, Matt Berquist, 
Ryan Crotty.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  