-- 
Republican Fundraising Slow for 2012 Presidential Candidates

-- B y   J e a n n e   C u m m i n g s
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/republican-fundraising-slow-for-2012-presidential-candidates.html
In the first test of the 2012
presidential campaign, the Republican field of candidates is
lagging behind the fundraising pace of both Democratic and
Republican contenders at the start of the 2008 campaign.  Indicating a sign of possible difficulty, the Republican
candidates are beginning their campaigns with less money than
the front-runners reported at this time four years ago.  This month, just one Republican --  Mitt Romney  -- announced
that he had raised close to the range of money achieved by
candidates from both parties at this point in the last
presidential election cycle. Still, his $18.3 million take fell
short of the $23 million he reported on his first disclosure
form in 2007 and below the $26 million and $25 million raised at
the start of that cycle by Democrats  Hillary Clinton  and Barack Obama, respectively.  The message from the first round of Republican disclosures
for the 2012 cycle is that unlike prior campaigns, when
candidates strove to post big numbers early to intimidate
rivals, the early reports provide evidence of weakness.  Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , viewed by some
Republicans as the leading alternative to Romney, said he had
collected $4.3 million -- about $200,000 less than Texas
Representative  Ron Paul , a Republican with libertarian views.  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who stepped down as
Obama’s ambassador to  China  earlier this year, said his
donations totaled about $4.1 million -- about half of it his own
money. Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , whose fundraising for
a network of think tanks raised expectations about his ability
to raise campaign cash, reported being $1 million in debt.  Polls Show Wariness  The fundraising reflects what public opinion polls have
shown: a desire among Republican activists for new entries in
the primaries. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted last month
found that more than half of Republicans were dissatisfied with
the current field.  Fundraisers who have not signed on with a candidate may
also wait, in case the cast of characters changes.  “For the big money to start coming in, the momentum money,
that tends to follow a candidate who seems like a likely winner
early on,” said Anthony Corrado, a government professor at
Colby College in Waterville,  Maine , and an expert on campaign
fundraising. “None of these candidates have been able to cast
that kind of profile.”  The Republican field’s fundraising is likely to lag behind
Obama’s. The president’s campaign set a second-quarter goal to
raise a joint $60 million for the  Democratic National Committee 
and the  Obama re-election campaign .  No Obama Announcement  It’s unclear how the money would be divided, and Obama’s
re-election campaign has not announced its fundraising results.
 Ben LaBolt , a campaign spokesman, said the campaign doesn’t plan
to telegraph the day it will reveal its donation totals.  Not all of the Republican presidential candidates have
announced their fundraising totals for the second quarter, which
ended June 30. The disclosure reports, which will provide such
added information as campaign debt, will be released publicly by
the  Federal Election Commission  on July 15.  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who
entered the Republican contest last month, has not announced a
quarterly total. She had just weeks to raise money before the
quarter ended, so she isn’t expected to have much.  Fundraising Prowess  Given the amounts raised by her rivals, Bachmann will be a
candidate to watch, since she is one of the leading fundraisers
in the House. In 2010, she raised about half of her $13 million
from small donors, according to an analysis by the  Campaign
Finance Institute , a  Washington  think tank that studies
campaign finance policy and tracks political giving.  If she can harness that strength, Bachmann could replicate
Obama’s 2008 campaign launch in the third quarter of 2011.  In the crowded Democratic primary in 2007, Obama -- then a
first-term senator from  Illinois  -- upended conventional wisdom
about the race when his first-quarter total essentially matched
that of Clinton, then a second-term New York senator and former
first lady who had been viewed as the unrivaled front-runner.
Four years earlier, then-Senator  John Edwards  of  North Carolina 
orchestrated a similar strong first-quarter fundraising finish
that moved him into the top tier of candidates in the Democratic
primaries.  “The interesting thing is who emerges from the pack in
second place, and nobody has done that now,” said Michael Malbin, executive director of the Campaign Finance Institute.
Overall, “the Republican numbers are low,” he said.  Giuliani and McCain  In the 2007 first quarter, Romney, former New York Mayor
 Rudy Giuliani  and Arizona Senator  John McCain  raised a combined
$53 million for their Republican primary bids. Based on data
provided by the campaigns, this year’s field of candidates
raised just $33 million in their first active quarter.  Republican campaign officials cite various reasons for
their low totals. The economy is a primary culprit, according to
officials from both the Romney and Pawlenty camps. Another
factor is the late start of the primary season itself, which
reduced the amount of time the candidates had to organize and
attend fundraising events. Finally, some major fundraisers have
opted to sit out the summer after favored candidates, such as
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , decided not to run.  Of all the campaigns, Romney’s was the one expected to be
least affected by those trends. In the years between his 2008
bid and this cycle, he kept his core fundraising operation
intact by using it to generate cash for his political action
committee,  Free and Strong America PAC .  A $10-Million Day  Romney raised expectations for a strong fundraising quarter
when he organized a dialing-for-dollars event in  Las Vegas  that
generated $10 million in pledges in a single day.  When his donors began predicting totals in the $50 million
range, the campaign tamped down such talk. Still, Romney was
expected to match or exceed the $23 million he raised in his
first quarter as a candidate in 2007 -- a total that included $2
million from his own bank account.  Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, said the
campaign is confident about its position. “We intend to raise
$50 million or more for the primary campaign as a whole, and
we’re off to a good start,” she said.  Of course, money doesn’t guarantee success.  Romney and Giuliani were the top two Republican fundraisers
in 2007. Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who had raised
just $1.3 million by June 2007, went on to perform better in
primary balloting, and McCain, whose campaign twice ran out of
cash during the primary, won the nomination.  A Slow Start  Todd Harris, a Republican strategist, said fundraising does
appear to be slow at the start of the cycle. Whether it is still
so during the general election may not matter since the party’s
nominee may not need as much money to be competitive with the
Obama re-election campaign, Harris said.  “ Barack Obama  outspent John McCain by hundreds of millions
of dollars, but the truth is, that’s not why he won. Even if
they had both spent equally, Obama would have probably still
won,” said Harris. “And, conversely, in a bad economic
environment where his re-election will be a referendum on his
successes or lack thereof, he may well need every single penny
of his record-breaking war chest in order to be competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanne Cummings in Washington at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  