-- 
Trichet Communes With Charlemagne Before Exorcising Lehman Ghost

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/trichet-communes-with-charlemagne.html
As European officials haggled over
the latest solution to  Greece ’s debt crisis last month, Jean- Claude Trichet circled the 1,200 year-old marble throne of
Charlemagne in the German city of Aachen.  Hours before Moody’s Investors Service raised Greece’s
default risk to 50 percent on June 1, the European Central Bank
president gazed at the symbol of unity used by the Holy Roman
Empire’s founder and 30 of his successors. The next day, Trichet
called for  “historical perspective”  when addressing the
turmoil afflicting Europe’s common currency.  In his final four months in office, Trichet, 68, is
battling politicians he sees as too ready to ignore the lessons
of history and contemplate a Greek default, threatening the euro
project he helped create in three decades at the pinnacle of
global finance. With Greece’s fate still in play, Trichet may
need to show similar resolve to August 2007 when he opened
liquidity taps after the collapse of three BNP Paribas SA funds.  “In the same spirit he showed at the start of the crisis
in 2007, Trichet’s the only one talking about big initiatives,”
 Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in
an interview. “Others are happy to try and keep it together,
whereas Trichet wants a more durable, longer-lasting union. It
will come but I wouldn’t assume the path isn’t messy.”  ‘No Default’  As German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  flirts with solutions to
the Greek crisis that rating companies say would amount to a
default, Trichet says leaders can’t repeat the mistakes made by
U.S. officials when they let Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. fail.  “No credit event, no selective default, no default,” he
said at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday.  That warning underpins the vision he has set out of the
future after he leaves in four months, that the euro needs
economic union and a finance ministry if it’s ever to work.  An architect of the euro’s founding treaty, Trichet has led
the fight against a global credit rout that started in the U.S.
subprime market and morphed into a European debt crisis. On Aug.
9, 2007 he broke off his vacation to pump 94.8 billion euros
($136 billion) into markets just days after then Treasury
Secretary Henry Paulson said the mortgage crisis was
“contained.”  Paralysis  On May 7, 2010, Trichet travelled to Brussels as  Europe ’s
debt crisis threatened to rip the euro apart, and warned
politicians about the dangers of dithering on creating a bailout
fund. He stretched the mandate of his own institution, allowing
the ECB to buy  government bonds  even though the bank’s policy
makers were split on the matter.  “Without the involvement of the ECB, it’s unclear how
leaders would have found a solution,” said  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in  London . “Trichet
delivered a quick response while politicians were watching the
situation deteriorate in paralysis.”  Now Trichet says that the credibility of the ECB, and by
extension the euro itself, must be defended and is signaling
that the ECB would have to consider preventing banks from using
Greek debt as collateral in its money-market operations if the
nation defaults. While his stance initially forced a retreat
from Merkel, the German government hasn’t yet abandoned the idea
of allowing Greece to extend the maturities on Greek bonds, a
move that could trigger a default.  ECB Danger  “The ECB is in an increasingly difficult and dangerous
situation,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “There’s hardly any room for rates,
they already stuffed their balance sheet with a lot of periphery
bonds and used the option of providing unlimited liquidity. They
don’t want an intensifying financial crisis in the first place
but what’s even worse is to be short of weapons.”  Bond purchases by the ECB and the region’s national central
banks mean they could face losses of up to 10 billion euros, one
eighth of their capital, in the event of a Greek default,
according to calculations by UBS AG economist Stephane Deo in
London. A further danger to the ECB’s balance sheet is posed by
the Greek collateral parked with the central bank by financial
institutions during money market operations.  “The risk in a case of a Greek default would be that Greek
banks default as well, leaving the ECB with the collateral,”
Deo said.  Trichet’s tussle with governments is coming to a head as
politicians try to craft a second Greek bailout that is both
partly funded by bondholders and avoids triggering a default.  Greek Swap  Merkel’s officials on July 6 revived a proposal for a swap
that would involve a voluntary exchange of Greek debt against
bonds of longer maturity. A German official conceded it would
create a  credit event  albeit for a short period.  Another plan would see banks and insurers roll over at
least 30 billion euros of Greek bonds, a move which could give
the ECB some room for maneuver. While  Standard & Poor’s  said
July 4 that it could brand the step as a “selective default,”
 Fitch Ratings  signaled on June 15 it would likely steer clear of
slapping a default rating on Greek government debt.  The ECB typically uses the best  credit rating  from four
companies -- S&P, Fitch, Moody’s Investor Service and DBRS Inc.
-- to determine the quality of collateral it accepts. In
addition, the ECB has suspended its rules for Greece,
potentially giving Trichet the final say over what to do with
Greek collateral. DBRS doesn’t currently have a public rating on
Greece.  Actors  For now, Trichet is telling governments the ECB has done
all it can to help Greece and they need to step up to the plate.  “We are not the decision makers and we do not want to
substitute for decision makers,” he said yesterday. “We are
not the actors. The governments and authorities are the
actors.”  Leaders will have to decide how far they are willing to
gamble and rely on Trichet accepting the hand Fitch has offered
and bending the rules again as he did for Greece in May 2010
just four months after saying he wouldn’t do so.  “The ECB will play hardball,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European Economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“Trichet has made his position very, very clear, he hasn’t left
anyone in any doubt and my gut feeling is that European leaders
will not take the risk of frustrating him and the ECB further.”  Trichet learned his trade climbing the ranks of French
politics after graduating from the Ecole Nationale
d’Administration, a breeding ground for future leaders. As the
French Treasury’s international affairs chief in 1985, he
chaired the Paris Club, the group of sovereign creditors that
rescheduled debt for governments from Russia to Latin America.  German Mantra  Extolling the German mantra of low inflation and budget
discipline to France’s elite as head of the French Treasury and,
later, as central bank governor, Trichet led France into the
euro in 1999. That set him up to succeed  Wim Duisenberg  as
second ECB president and ushered him into the inner circle of
international policy making.  “Jean-Claude has been a pillar of the global financial
system for a full generation,” former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said on June 19 in Kiel, Germany. “He’s seen
and done it all, with his unique combination of high rectitude,
keen insight and great diplomacy.”  While Trichet has established investors’ respect for the
currency’s stability, he will have to leave it to somebody else
to lead the euro out of its biggest crisis yet. When he retires
in October, it will fall to  Mario Draghi  to shape the ECB’s
response to Greece’s crisis that may still shatter the common
European project.  Charlemagne’s Rule  “It’s unfortunate for Trichet that he didn’t retire
earlier,” said  David Owen , an economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London. “In general, history will write
him up as being a very good ECB president. But he hasn’t
resolved the crisis.”  For Trichet, the splits and delays that have hobbled
European leaders’ response to the Greek crisis in the past 18
months highlight a design flaw in the euro and called for the
creation of a unified  finance ministry . Trichet may be conscious
of the legacy of the rule of Charlemagne, who left an empire
that was divided by his bickering successors within three
decades of his death.  Receiving the Charlemagne Prize for services to European
unity on June 2, Trichet dared governments to give up at least
some of their sovereignty to prevent a repeat of the region’s
current financial turmoil.  “Economic and Monetary Union is itself an unprecedented
achievement in the history of sovereign nations -- a goal to
which generations of Europeans have aspired,” he said. “It is
vital that all nations engage fully in the European historical
endeavor and look with confidence to the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  