-- 
Trichet Signals Further ECB Rate Increase

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-07T14:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/trichet-raises-rate-for-second-time-this-year-to-highest-level-since-2009.html
European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet signaled he may raise  interest rates  again in
coming months and will ease  Portugal ’s access to emergency funds
as officials battle both faster inflation and the debt crisis.  The ECB increased its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to
1.5 percent today, the second increase in three months. The
decision on Portugal came after Moody’s Investors Service
sparked a renewed selloff in euro region bond markets, saying on
July 5 the country may need a second bailout package.  “Our monetary policy stance remains accommodative,”
Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt. “It is
essential recent price developments do not give rise to broad
based inflation pressures over the medium term.”  Policy makers are trying to balance the risks of further
turmoil in debt markets against the danger that  Germany ’s
export-led recovery will fuel a wage-price spiral. While the
yield on Greek, Irish and Portuguese two-year bonds all exceed
15 percent, inflation across the region has breached the central
bank’s 2 percent limit for the past seven months.  Trichet said the ECB will suspend its minimum credit-rating
threshold on Portuguese bonds after Moody’s lowered the
country’s debt to junk. The suspension will be maintained
“until further notice,” he said. This follows the ECB waiving
minimum threshold for Greek and Irish bonds.  Portuguese Plan  “The  Portuguese government  has approved an economic and
financial adjustment program which has been negotiated with the
European Commission, in liaison with us, and the  International
Monetary Fund ,” he said. “The Governing Council has assessed
the program and considers it appropriate.”  The euro erased its decline against the dollar after
Trichet’s remarks and traded at $1.4324 as of 3:12 p.m. in
London, little changed since yesterday. European stocks rose to
a one-month high, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 index surging as
much as 1.1 percent to 278.01. The Stoxx 50 gained 0.9 percent.  European bond yields have risen to a record on renewed
concern that the debt crisis is spreading across the region.
Trichet is at odds with European leaders over how to contain the
debt crisis, saying it’s up to nations to plug budget gaps as
policy makers fight price gains.  “I have a lot of questions on Ireland, Portugal, Greece,”
Trichet said in response to reporters at the press conference
today. “Shall I remind you that we’re responsible for  price
stability  for the euro area as a whole. Those issues which
you’re addressing constantly should be addressed to governments,
they’re responsible.”  Default Risk  European finance ministers earlier this month authorized an
8.7 billion-euro ($12 billion) loan payout to  Greece  in an
attempt to avert the region’s first sovereign default. Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have both indicated they would cut
Greece to default if leaders went ahead with a plan to ask
creditors to roll over expiring Greek bonds into new debt.  “We say ‘no’ to selective default or credit event,”
Trichet said. He declined to comment on whether the ECB would
use its own judgment or rely on ratings companies to determine
if there is a default.  Trichet also said that inflation, which was 2.7 percent in
June, is likely to remain above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling in
the coming months. He declined to say whether today’s decision
is the beginning of a rate-hiking cycle, saying the central bank
is never “pre-commited” on decisions.  ‘Door Open’  Trichet’s statement “leaves the door open to more hikes,”
said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  London . While Trichet’s language may hint at an
increase in September, the ECB could also wait until the
following month, he said.  The  Bank of England  kept borrowing costs at 0.5 percent in
London today. In  Sweden , the Riksbank raised its benchmark
repurchase rate to 2 percent on July 5, the seventh increase in
a year. The People’s Bank of  China  yesterday raised key rates
for the third time this year.  While leaders are still seeking ways to fight the crisis,
Europe’s recovery is already losing momentum. Services and
manufacturing growth slowed more than estimated in June and
economic confidence weakened. In Germany, Europe’s largest
economy which has powered the region’s recovery, investor
sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2-year low last month.  “As expected, recent economic data indicate some
deceleration in the pace of economic growth in the second
quarter,” Trichet said. “While the underlying momentum of
economic growth in the euro area continues to be positive,
uncertainty remains elevated.”  The ECB last month forecast euro-region growth to slow to
1.7 percent next year from 1.9 percent in 2011. The inflation
rate may fall below its 2 percent ceiling in 2012, averaging 1.7
percent, the central bank estimated.  Trichet was a “little bit dovish on the growth outlook,”
said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Munich. Still, “it is obvious that the ECB has further to
go, there will be one more rate hike at least this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  