-- 
River Road Hotel Lenders Chapter 11 Plan Confirmed by Bankruptcy Judge

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-07T22:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/river-road-hotel-lenders-chapter-11-plan-confirmed-by-bankruptcy-judge.html
A liquidation plan proposed by the
secured lenders of River Road Hotel Partners LLC, the bankrupt
operator of an InterContinental Hotel near  Chicago ’s O’Hare
International Airport, was approved by a federal judge a week
after an appeals court ruled in the lenders’ favor.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce Black signed an order today
confirming the plan proposed by lenders led by Amalgamated Bank,
according to a filing in federal court in Chicago.  Black in October denied a River Road motion that would have
prevented Amalgamated from bidding for the company’s assets
using what it’s owed, known as a credit bid, instead of cash.
River Road appealed Black’s decision to the 7th Circuit Court of
Appeals.  The company lost that appeal on June 28, when the judges
ruled that the lenders could make a credit bid for the
properties. Other appeals court rulings have denied credit bids,
which left open the possibility of the case being heard by the
U.S.  Supreme Court .  David Neff, a lawyer for River Road, said in a telephone
interview that the judge’s order today applied only to the
O’Hare property and not to another property in the bankruptcy
case, a Radisson Hotel at Los Angeles International Airport.
River Road is considering whether to file a Chapter 11 plan for
the Radisson property, he said.  Radisson LAX  “The confirmation of the plan has no impact on the
companion case involving the Radisson LAX and its ability to be
appealed to the Supreme Court,” Neff said. “The lenders
haven’t filed a plan in that case.”  Amalgamated, the principal lender and agent for more than
$162 million in loans to construct the O’Hare hotel, proposed
its own Chapter 11 plan after River Road asked the court several
times to extend the period of time during which it could
exclusively file a plan.  River Road planned to sell the hotel and other assets at an
auction. Och-Ziff Real Estate Acquisitions LP offered a starting
bid of $42 million in cash. Amalgamated opposed the plan because
the bid was only 26 percent of what River Road owed at the time
of the Chapter 11 filing.  River Road filed for Chapter 11 creditor protection in
August 2009. The economic recession had a “devastating impact
on the entire hotel industry,” the company said in court
papers.  The InterContinental Chicago O’Hare, with 556 guest rooms,
opened in September 2008, 10 days before  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed for bankruptcy. “Corporations severely cut
back their travel and meeting budgets,” River Road said in
court filings.  The case is In re River Road Hotel Partners LLC, 09-30029,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  