-- 
Rory McIlroy Says He Needed to Take Break After Record U.S. Open Victory

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-07T13:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/rory-mcilroy-says-he-needed-to-take-break-after-record-u-s-open-victory.html
Rory McIlroy defended his decision
not to play competitive golf between his record-setting  U.S.
Open  victory last month and next week’s British Open.  The 22-year-old from  Northern Ireland  decided on the break
after the fanfare of his eight-shot victory at Congressional
Golf Club in Maryland, where he set 12 tournament records.
Former European Ryder Cup captain Colin Montgomerie was among
those who questioned the strategy of taking off the entire time
between the two majors.  “Some people may have wondered why I chose to go straight
from one major to another without anything in between and the
answer is simple,” McIlroy said on his  website . “Because of
what happened at Congressional and the way it became such a big
deal, I wanted to get everything out of the way and sorted out
so that when I did start playing again I could just concentrate
on golf.”  McIlroy said the break gave him a chance “to do some
things I wouldn’t normally have done.” Among them was watching
friend  Rafael Nadal  play at Wimbledon and attending the Wladimir Klitschko-David Haye heavyweight title fight in  Germany .  He said he didn’t touch a golf club for 10 days after the
U.S. Open, then just hit balls on the range. After practicing
the past two days at the British Open site at Royal St. George’s
in Sandwich,  England , he’s ready for the challenge of being a
major winner.  “It’s back to business from now on and time to forget all
about my U.S. Open victory,” he said. “I honestly don’t really
know what to expect at Sandwich because it will be the first
time I have played anywhere as a major champion. It will be
interesting and I’m really looking forward to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  