-- 
Deutsche Bank China Property Trust’s Liquidation May be Delayed by Lawsuit

-- B y   J o s h   F e l l m a n   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-07-08T09:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/rreef-cct-says-deutsche-bank-reit-manager-trustee-sued.html
RREEF China Commercial Trust (625)  said its
planned liquidation and delisting may be delayed after a former
building owner sued, accusing the trust manager and its parent
Deutsche Bank AG of intimidation and deceit.  Tin Lik, who sold the Gateway Plaza in Beijing to the
trust, accused investment bankers at Deutsche Bank of devising a
scheme to inflate rents and said they later “coerced” him into
paying HK$279 million ($36 million) to cover the shortfall,
according to a complaint filed in the  High Court  in  Hong Kong  on
July 5. Tin is seeking to recover the money.  Deutsche Bank and Deutsche Management representatives, to
protect themselves from regulatory investigations, lied to
“entrap” Tin into taking responsibility for the scheme, the
former owner claimed in the court documents.  Deutsche Bank, RREEF CCT and the trustee,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , which was also named as a defendant, denied any wrongdoing
yesterday in an RREEF filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  RREEF China REIT Management Ltd. said it had discovered in
2007 a discrepancy between rents set out in leases and the
amount of money actually received by the trust.  “An independent investigation clearly established that a
complex fraud was perpetrated against RREEF CCT and in September
2007 Tin Lik willingly paid HK$278,526,708 in compensation for
that fraud,” Michael West, a Deutsche Bank spokesman said in an
e-mail yesterday. “No action has been taken by Tin Lik in
respect of this payment in the intervening four years.”  RREEF said February 2010 it would sell Gateway Plaza, its
only material asset, for HK$1.9 billion plus HK$181.1 million
owed by the project and bank debt. It also said it would
terminate the trust and delist. The lawsuit may delay that plan
and result in additional costs, RREEF said.  The defendants are formulating their formal response to the
claims, RREEF said.  The case is Tin Lik and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , RREEF China REIT
Management Ltd., HSBC Institutional Trust Services ( Asia ) Ltd.,
HCCL17/2011, in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  