-- 
Russian Consumer Confidence Rose Last Quarter on Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-07T12:57:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/russian-consumer-confidence-rose-last-quarter-on-inflation-1-.html
Russian consumer  confidence  rose in
the second quarter as inflation stabilized and the  unemployment 
 rate  plunged to the lowest level since the global financial
crisis roiled the world’s biggest energy exporter in 2008.  Confidence in the economy improved 4 points to minus 9, the
highest level since a year earlier, after a three-point drop in
the first quarter, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
today in an e-mailed  statement . Improvements were seen across
all of the index’s components, it said.  “The consumer side is very strong,” Aurelija Augulyte, an
emerging-market analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said
today by telephone. “Now that food-price inflation has slowed,
consumers are getting more positive and optimistic.”  Domestic demand recovered as  inflation  slowed in June to
the lowest level this year, lifting purchasing power and
allowing households to sustain spending. Nominal wage growth of
as much as 20 percent in some private businesses and a surge in
retail lending are improving the outlook for the economy among
consumers, Augulyte said.  The inflation rate fell to 9.4 percent in June from a year
earlier, from 9.6 percent in the previous month. The central
bank is targeting a year-end rate of 6 percent to 7 percent,
which would be the lowest since the collapse of the  Soviet Union 
in 1991.  One in five Russians expects the economy to worsen in the
next 12 months, down from 25 percent in the first quarter, the
report said. Twenty-two percent expect an improvement over the
same period, compared with 21 percent three months ago.  Gross domestic product rose 4.1 percent in the first
quarter, from 4.5 percent in the previous three months and less
than the government’s forecast of 4.2 percent for the year.  Russian  consumer confidence  fell to as low as minus 35 in
the first quarter of 2009. The index has only been positive
three times  since 1998 , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 