-- 
Saleh Sends Defiant Message in First TV Address Since Yemen Blast Injury

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-08T10:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/saleh-sends-defiant-message-in-first-address-since-injury-in-yemen-blast.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh,
recovering in a Saudi hospital after an attack on his compound
last month, called on the opposition to sit down for talks while
offering no hint he’ll meet their demands for his resignation.  “Yemen’s people are defiant and will remain defiant
against all challenges that threaten its stability and security,
freedom and democracy,” Saleh said in a videotaped address from
the military hospital in  Riyadh  where he was admitted June 4, a
day after what Yemeni officials called an assassination attempt.
His face was scorched and right arm bandaged in the video aired
late yesterday by state television.  In his first public comments since being injured in an
explosion at a mosque that left 11 people dead in the
presidential palace, Saleh offered encouragement to his
supporters amid growing turmoil and advances by al-Qaeda-linked
militants in parts of the country.  At least 11 people were killed and about 200 wounded in
incidents involving gunfire yesterday after Saleh’s address.
Three died when government supporters fired at protesters
camping at Change Square in the city of Ibb, activist Mukhtar
al-Badani said by telephone. Most of the others who died had
been hit by bullets fired into the air by Saleh loyalists
celebrating his television appearance, medics said.  Saleh left his deputy, Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi, in charge,
though state media has said the president sends cables to heads
of state and has discussed a plan for the transition of power
proposed by the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council.  ‘Scaring People’  Saleh made no mention of a possible transition and urged
his opponents to halt their protests.  “We welcome partnerships based on the constitution, the
constitution that ensures freedom of opinion,” he said in the
address. “But blocking roads and scaring people is not what it
meant, everyone needs to reconsider their position,”  Hasan Zaid, a leader of the opposition coalition known as
the Joint Meeting Parties, said the speech was “an introduction
for positive steps” and that it appeared Saleh was giving Hadi
authorization to take over.  Khalid al-Anisi, a leader in the youth-led protest
movement, described the speech as “challenging.” It showed
Saleh’s “neglect to the demands of the people,” he said by
telephone.  In Sana’a, the capital, one protester was killed and seven
were wounded in a bombing at a protest camp, said Abdulaziz al-
Tharhani, a doctor at a field clinic. About 35 others were
wounded by celebratory gunfire at the camp, set up outside a
university where thousands have held a sit-in since February.
Mohammed Kamal, a doctor at al-Jumhuri hospital put the Sana’a
toll at about five dead and 100 wounded.  In Hajja, one protester was killed and three were wounded
when Saleh supporters fired at their protest camp and into the
air, Ibrahim Muthana, a protest activist, said by phone.  In the port city of Hodiedah, one person died and about 20
were wounded when Saleh supporters fired guns to celebrate his
television appearance, said Abdulhafiz Mujib, a protest
activist.  Eight Operations  There have been conflicting reports on the severity of
Saleh’s wounds, the type of assault that took place at the
palace in the capital and when the president will return.  Saleh yesterday said he has undergone eight operations and
that they were all successful. He thanked those who supported
him, adding that 87 people were injured in the attack by
“terrorist elements.”  Pro-democracy protesters have called for an end to Saleh’s
almost 33-year rule since January. Hundreds of people have died
in the clashes between activists and government forces, while
Yemen’s economy and security deteriorate.  The first three months of unrest cost Yemen, the poorest
Arab state, $4 billion, Industry and Trade Minister Hisham Sharaf said May 24. The cost has increased and the economy “is
functioning at about 60 percent,” he said June 27.  The U.S., which has been the target of al-Qaeda attacks
organized from the group’s Yemen base, is pressing for Yemen to
move ahead with the GCC’s plan to start a process of reform.  Al-Qaeda Threat  Saleh’s government has said the rising social unrest
threatens to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by
the U.S. Yemeni forces killed about 20 suspected members of al-
Qaeda during clashes in the southern province of Abyan, Ahmed Ghalib al-Rahwi, the provincial deputy governor, said in a
telephone interview June 21.  Saleh’s son, Ahmad Ali Abdullah Saleh, speaking in his
capacity as commander of Yemen’s Republican Guard, said June 26
that the armed forces are committed to implementing Hadi’s
directives, the state news agency Saba reported. He added that
the armed forces will continue to respond to any “hostile”
actions.  “Where are the enlightened men and why aren’t they open to
negotiations?” the president said in his speech. “We are not
against a partnership, but it has to be according to an
agreement with all people, you can’t enforce your ideas on
everybody, the arm-twisting policy is wrong and backward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 