-- 
San Miguel Gains After Naming Banks for Unit IPO

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-07-08T09:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/san-miguel-taps-goldman-ubs-in-energy-unit-listing-ang-says.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  rose to the
highest in three months in Manila trading after naming four
banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  to handle
the initial public offering of an energy unit.  The stock climbed 1.3 percent to 127.50 pesos at the
midday close of the Philippine Stock Exchange. It was the
highest close since April 12 for the country’s largest listed
company.  San Miguel’s energy subsidiary, which accounts for more
than a fifth of the nation’s power capacity, plans to sell
shares this year, while the parent has said it will bid for
power plants to be auctioned by the government. The offering
would be the Philippines’ second completed in 2011 and the
first arranged by banks based outside the country, according
to Bloomberg data.  ATR Kim Eng Financial Corp. (ATRK)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
were invited to help arrange the SMC Global Power Holdings
Corp. share sale, the company said. San Miguel President
Ramon Ang didn’t reply when asked how much San Miguel intends
to raise.  San Miguel, a century-old brewer, more than doubled its
market value last year and has expanded into oil, mining,
power and infrastructure, aiming to boost return on equity to
three times the 7 percent level it earns from its food and
drinks businesses.  The energy unit had operating income of 3.4 billion
pesos ($79 million) in the first quarter, according to San
Miguel. Group profit in the first quarter rose to 7.14
billion pesos from 2.9 billion pesos a year earlier, boosted
by the company’s energy investments.  Lauro Baja, chief representative of UBS in  Manila ,
declined to comment when reached via mobile phone. ATR
President Manuel Tordesillas and StanChart Philippines
corporate affairs head Maria Regina Cruz were unavailable for
comment. Edward Naylor, a Goldman Sachs spokesman in Hong
Kong, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on his
office phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  