-- 
Scene Last Night: DJ Cassidy, Russell Simmons, Doug E. Fresh

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-07T16:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/scene-last-night-dj-cassidy-russell-simmons-doug-e-fresh.html
In a bright yellow suit and matching
bow tie,  DJ Cassidy  took a bite of his five-foot-tall 30th-
birthday cake in the shape of a bottle of Hennessy Black and
gave some instructions to the guests on the dance floor.  “I’ll need a little path, so just let me by,” Cassidy
said last night from the stage in the cavernous -- and slightly
too warm --  Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum .  A minute later, the sweaty sea of guests -- including
singer-songwriter Shontelle, who co-wrote Rihanna’s hit “Man
Down” -- parted obediently, and Cassidy, surrounded by
bodyguards and photographers, made his way to join Russell Simmons, Grandmaster Flash and Tyson Beckford on the VIP white
couches.  This is where he watched a reunited New Edition complete
with Bobby Brown bounce all over the stage with such finesse it
was hard to believe the band’s glory days were in the 1980s.  DJ Cassidy, born in 1981, just two years before New Edition
released “Candy Girl,” got his first turntables as a gift from
his mother on his 10th birthday. He’s deejayed for President
 Barack Obama  at one of his inaugural balls,  Kanye West , Jay-Z
and  Oprah Winfrey , at a party to celebrate the opening of her
Leadership Academy for Girls.  ‘The Love Boat’  Last night, flanked by models wearing short shorts and
captain’s hats (think Gavin MacLeod on “The Love Boat”), he
announced he was feeling “bittersweet” as he’d decided his
30th-birthday party would be his last. Apparently it cannot be
topped.  He made the most of the night, directing Doug E. Fresh to
add some reggae to his beatboxing and welcoming Swizz Beatz and
Q-Tip to the stage.  Around the Intrepid, waiters passed grilled cheese
sandwiches and miniature chocolate ice cream cones. The drinks,
from the party’s sponsor, Hennessy, included shots, cocktails
and Hennessy Black poured over shaved ice.  From the turntables came impressive samples of 1980s tunes,
from Men at Work’s “Down Under” to Joan Jett’s “I Love Rock
N’ Roll.”  Michael Jackson  -- alone and with the Jackson 5 -- and
hip-hop classics dominated.  “We’re going to play everything because DJ Cassidy plays
everything,” Doug E. Fresh said. “This is a real birthday
party. How many people came to celebrate the birthday and not
network?”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 