-- 
Senate Panel Backs S. Korea Trade Pact

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-07-07T18:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/senate-republicans-press-to-strip-worker-aid-from-trade-accords.html
The Senate Finance Committee backed
legislation for a free-trade agreement with  South Korea  without
support from Republicans, who object to using the accord to
renew aid for workers who lose their jobs to global competition.  The House Ways and Means Committee endorsed a separate bill
on South Korea that didn’t provide for renewal of the Trade
Adjustment Assistance program sought by the Obama
administration. The panels also backed an agreement with  Panama ,
and the Senate supported a deal with  Colombia . House action on
Colombia is set later today.  The meetings were “mock markups” that give lawmakers a
chance to make amendments before legislation is submitted by the
president. Free-trade accords are covered by fast-track rules.
Once the president sends a bill, the process provides limits on
debate and amendments before an up-or-down vote.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the senior Republican on the
Finance committee, led lawmakers in opposing the Korea deal with
worker aid added. The bill was backed on a 13-11 party-line
vote. In the House, the Korea accord vote was 22-15.  “Placing the TAA spending program in the South Korea bill
was not an acceptable outcome,” Hatch said before losing a vote
to amend the measure.  The South Korea deal would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion a year when in full effect, and the accord with
Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  President  Barack Obama  reworked the three free-trade
agreements in response to concerns among Democrats on issues
such as labor rights. The administration has been pushing to get
the deals approved by Congress before a recess next month.  ‘All Options’  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and Finance
committee chairman, said he wouldn’t demand that Obama send
a South Korea bill that includes worker aid, as long as Congress
renews the program as it approves measures for the three trade
agreements.  “It’s up to the president what he sends up,” Baucus told
reporters after the hearing. “I’m open to all options, so long
as the result is getting all four passed.”  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of the stimulus legislation in
2009, it was expanded to include service workers such as call-
center employees. The added benefits expired in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  