-- 
Senate Panel Studying How Companies May Use Cash Brought Onshore

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-08T19:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/senate-panel-studying-how-companies-may-use-cash-brought-onshore.html
The Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations is reviewing how companies might use offshore
cash they are seeking to transmit to the U.S. at a low tax rate.  Companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
are pressing Congress to approve a repatriation holiday that
would allow them to transfer overseas profits to the U.S. and
pay a tax levy that is less than the current 35 percent
statutory rate. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and
chairman of the subcommittee, sent surveys to DuPont Co. and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  seeking information on how the companies
might use repatriated funds.  “The  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations  is currently
reviewing matters relating to the repatriation of offshore
funds,” Levin wrote in a letter to DuPont chief executive  Ellen Kullman  dated June 29 and obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday.
“The subcommittee seeks information about your company’s plans
if Congress enacted the proposed tax repatriation.”  Elise Bean, the subcommittee’s staff director, wouldn’t
comment on the letter. Representatives for DuPont, a chemical
and life sciences company, weren’t available to comment. John Earnhardt, a spokesman for Cisco, confirmed in an e-mail today
that the company had received the letter and is reviewing it.  Foreign Earnings  The survey seeks details about the companies’ undistributed
accumulated foreign earnings, including how much money the
company holds offshore, where the money is held, the name of
each “controlled foreign corporation” that held earnings at
the end of fiscal 2010 and how much money those entities held.  Levin also requested information about which financial
institutions hold the offshore earnings, the type of accounts in
which the earnings are held, how much money is held in U.S.
dollars and whether those earnings were used to purchase assets
or make investments in the U.S.  He asked the companies to respond by July 20. It was
unclear which companies beyond DuPont and Cisco received the
letter.  DuPont had $12.6 billion in earnings held outside the U.S.
as of Dec. 31, 2010, according to the company’s annual filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company isn’t
part of the  coalition  lobbying for a repatriation holiday.  Cisco, which is lobbying for the holiday, has $31.6 billion
invested outside the country, according to its  SEC filing .  Tax Investigations  Levin has shown an interest in using his panel, part of the
Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, to
probe tax issues. In July 2008, he called on the  Internal
Revenue Service  to crack down on businesses that owe employment
taxes. A year later, he was critical of the U.S.-Swiss agreement
to divulge information on 4,450 UBS AG accounts to the IRS.  The corporate push for a repatriation holiday has gained
momentum in recent weeks as senior Democrats, including Senator
 Charles Schumer  of  New York , have signaled a willingness to
consider the idea as long as there is a tie to  job creation .
Schumer said on June 22 that Senate Democrats were open to a
repatriation holiday if the  tax revenue  pays for infrastructure.  Schumer was one of 48 members of the Senate Democratic
caucus to oppose a repatriation holiday proposed in 2009.  Brady Bill  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, introduced
legislation in May that would allow companies to repatriate
profits at a 5.25 percent  tax rate . The bill includes what he
has called a “disincentive” to job cuts through a provision
that would require companies to add $25,000 to their taxable
income each time they reduce their total workforce below the
company’s average.  With a 35 percent tax rate, the provision would increase a
company’s tax bill by $8,750 for each job reduction.  Brady said in an interview today that Congress shouldn’t
try to micromanage companies’ use of their cash.  “No one yet has explained why a dollar of American profits
left overseas is better than a dollar of American profits
brought back here -- for any reason,” he said.  The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has said a
tax holiday would cost $78.7 billion over 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  