-- 
Serbia Cuts Benchmark Rate to 11.75% as Inflation Pressures Ease

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-07T15:38:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/serbia-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-11-75-as-inflation-pressures-ease.html
Serbia ’s central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate, the second highest in  Europe , by a
quarter-point after inflation pressures eased and domestic
demand remained weak.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije lowered the two-
week repurchase rate to 11.75 percent, the second decrease in as
many months, matching the expectations of seven of 21 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Six expected a move to 11.5 percent and
eight saw the bank keeping its interest rate unchanged.  Considering that demand is weak and inflationary
expectations are gradually declining, the bank “decided to
lower the rate “so inflation nears the target without major
oscillations in the first half” of 2012, it said in an e-mail
announcing the decision. The pace of further policy easing will
depend on risks, “especially in the field of fiscal policy.”  Policy makers in Belgrade have lowered borrowing costs by
three-quarters of a percentage point in the past two months on
the assumption that price growth has peaked and the inflation
rate may fall below the target in the medium term. The move
contrasts with central banks including Russia, Poland and
 Sweden , which have raised interest rates in recent months to
stem inflation sparked by high global food and energy costs.  Inflation Impact  Price pressures fuelled by food costs are slowing and may
have “a negative impact on inflation” in the coming months as
the new agricultural season starts, the bank said in the e-mail.
Lower global wheat and maize prices will also “spill over” and
ease cost pressures, it said.  Inflationary expectations, one of the elements watched by
the central bank in setting monetary policy, remain unchanged at
8 percent for the year ahead, the survey showed. The central
bank targets inflation in 2011 of 4.5 percent plus or minus 1.5
percentage points and 5 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage
points next year. The  consumer price index  eased to 13.4 percent
in May from 14.7 percent in April.  The bank raised the repurchase rate from 8 percent in July
last year as inflation accelerated. High interest rates
attracted foreign bond investors and pushed the dinar up 4.9
percent up against the euro, making it the world’s sixth-best
currency performer this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Dinar Weakens  Any further reduction in the benchmark rate is likely to be
accompanied by dinar weakening. The currency traded at 101.49 to
the euro at 4:43 p.m. in Belgrade, down 0.96 percent from
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  “Looking forward, we are not changing our policy rate
forecasts based on today’s decision,” analysts of London-based
 Barclays Capital  said in a note. “We still expect the NBS to
cut the policy rate further in the coming months, by at least
200 basis points by end-2011.”  On the foreign-exchange side, Barclays said it “prefers to
wait until more policy cuts materialize and volatility risks
abate before rolling back” into long dinar positions.  Core inflation , which excludes regulated prices and more
volatile  crude oil , fruit and vegetable prices, soared past the
headline figure for the first time since February 2009. Core
inflation rose to 13.8 percent in May, the highest level since
July 2008.  Rate-setters expect inflation to slow significantly as of
August on base effects and see the headline figure falling
within the target range in the first half of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at   acrosby1@bloomberg.net  