-- 
Sinopec, Henan Coal Win China Shale Gas Exploration Blocks, Ministry Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T07:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sinopec-henan-coal-win-china-shale-gas-exploration-blocks-ministry-says.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and
Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co.
won rights to explore two areas in the country’s first auction
of shale-gas blocks, the Ministry of Land and Resources said.  Sinopec, as  China  Petroleum is known, has been “initially
selected” to explore the Nanchuan block, the ministry said in a
statement on its  website  today. Henan Coal Seam Gas is to search
for shale gas at the Xiushan block, according to the statement.  China, aiming to triple the use of gas to about 10 percent
of energy consumption by 2020, held its first shale-gas auction
on June 27 to accelerate development. The country may hold 1,275
trillion cubic feet of shale gas, 48 percent more than the U.S.,
the Energy Information Administration said in a  report  in April.  Sinopec may invest 591.1 million yuan ($91 million) to
explore the Nanchuan block, while Henan Coal Seam Gas will spend
247.6 million yuan, according to the land ministry.  The Nanchuan block, an area of 2,198 square kilometers (848
square miles), straddles Chongqing municipality and Guizhou
province in the southwest, while Xiushan, spanning Chongqing,
Guizhou and Hunan, has an area of 2,039 square kilometers, the
land ministry said on June 29.  The government aims to sign contracts with Chinese
explorers this month to develop two blocks offered in the
auction, and a second sale is planned later this year, Zhang
Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas strategy research at the
Ministry of Land and Resources, said in a telephone interview
from Beijing on July 5.  Foreign Participation  Overseas explorers, barred from bidding in Chinese auctions
of shale areas, are in discussions to form local ventures.
Chevron Corp. and BP Plc are in talks with China Petrochemical
Corp. and its unit Sinopec. Norway’s Statoil ASA is in
negotiations to buy stakes in shale-gas assets in China. Shell
is currently exploring the Jinqiu block in southwestern Sichuan
province with China National Petroleum Corp.  Foreign companies will likely continue to be excluded from
the second auction planned for later this year, the land
ministry’s Zhang said, without giving a schedule for the sale.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Mike Anderson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 