-- 
SKS Microfinance Says Proposed Bill Positive for Industry

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 
2011-07-07T06:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sks-microfinance-says-proposed-bill-positive-for-industry-1-.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. (SKSM) ,  India ’s
largest listed lender to the poor, says a proposed bill to have
the central bank regulate the industry will help ensure orderly
sector growth, according to its chief financial officer.  It’s “hugely positive” for the country’s microfinance
lenders, CFO Dilli Raj said at a televised press conference
today in Hyderabad, where the company is based.  The bill would take microfinance companies outside the
auspice of state regulations, averting crackdowns like one in
the southern state of Andhra Pradesh last year that saw
microfinance lenders’ debt collections fall to below 20 percent.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Seshadri K Sen predict that
loan recoveries from the state, the industry’s largest market,
are unlikely even if the new bill is passed.  “This could be positive for SKS given severe operational
restrictions under”  Andhra Pradesh ’s microfinance act, JPMorgan
said in a July 7 note to clients, maintaining an “underweight”
rating, citing “fundamental flaws” in the business.  Shares of SKS rose 20 percent to 411 rupees at 12:21 p.m.
in Mumbai, the most since they were listed last August. The
shares have fallen 62 percent since the listing.  The Micro Finance Institutions (Development and Regulation)
 Bill , dated June 20, will make it necessary for all micro
lenders to register with the  Reserve Bank  of India, create a
 reserve fund  from profits, and audit their results each year.  “Another important point is that microfinance is exempted
from the definition of money lending,” Raj said. “What it
implies is that microfinance will be out of the purview of
various state legislations on money lending. This reinforces the
concept of a sole regulator.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  