-- 
Social Security Cuts Weighed by Lawmakers Under Change in Inflation Gauge

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-07T17:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/social-security-cuts-weighed-by-lawmakers-under-change-in-inflation-gauge.html
President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers
are considering cutting Social Security and increasing revenue
by changing the way the government measures inflation.  Four senior congressional aides said lawmakers are
discussing using an alternative yardstick to gauge inflation,
known as the “chained  consumer price index ,” to determine
annual cost-of-living adjustments for millions of Americans.  The idea may rile both Democrats and Republicans, because
it could mean paring Social Security by $112 billion over 10
years, raising taxes by $60 billion and cutting pension and
veterans’ disability payments by $24 billion, according to
estimates by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  and the
Joint Committee on Taxation.  Advocates say the change is needed because the government’s
current measure of inflation overstates how quickly prices rise.  “There hasn’t been any economist anywhere that says we
shouldn’t do that,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican who was one of the so-called Gang of Six lawmakers
that tried to develop a long-term debt plan. “We need a CPI
that truly reflects what’s happening in the economy, not what’s
good for the politicians.”  The idea, which was discussed both as part of a series of
debt talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden  and by the Gang of
Six, resurfaced yesterday during a meeting between Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and House Democrats, according to a
congressional aide. Democrats pressed Geithner on the issue and
he didn’t rule it out, according to the aide.  Meeting Today  Obama met today with congressional leaders as they push to
hash out a deficit-reduction plan that would ease passage of a
debt-limit increase by an Aug. 2 deadline. Obama called the
meeting “constructive” and “frank,” though he said they
remain “far apart on a wide range of issues.”  The president said aides would work through the weekend and
lawmakers would reconvene on July 10 so “the parties will at
least know where each other’s bottom lines are and will
hopefully be in a position to then start engaging in the hard
bargaining that’s necessary.”  Representative Xavier Becerra, speaking on C-Span today,
said the chained index proposal may be an Obama negotiating
tactic. “He has tried many ways to get our Republican
colleagues to come to some middle ground and hasn’t succeeded,”
said Becerra, a California Democrat who opposes benefit cuts.
“I suspect he’s saying, ‘Look I’ll put everything on the table,
let’s see what sticks.’”  ‘Zero Appetite’  Representative Jared Polis, a Colorado Democrat, said
“there is a zero appetite in the Democratic caucus for looking
at entitlement programs unless there is substantial revenue on
the table.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  downplayed the
significance of any changes in Social Security, saying in a
statement: “The president has always said that while Social
Security is not a major driver of the deficit, we do need to
strengthen the program.” He said Obama wants to work with both
parties to do that “in a balanced way that preserves the
promise of the program and doesn’t slash benefits.”  Social Security and other government benefits along with
much of the  tax code  are automatically adjusted for inflation so
Americans don’t fall behind as prices rise. Yet economists say
the government’s inflation measure exaggerates how quickly
prices increase, which means it’s paying too much for annual
cost-of-living gains while collecting too little tax revenue.  Cutting Benefits  Democrats such as Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of  Illinois 
say the alternative index, which she called the “chainsaw
CPI,” would mean cuts in Social Security benefits. Over 10
years, using the alternative index would reduce projected Social
Security spending by 1.2 percent, according to the Congressional
Budget Office.  Schakowsky said the current inflation measure already
understates the cost-of-living increases facing seniors because
they spend more on medical care than the average American.  “Seniors get the double whammy -- higher health-care costs
and deeper benefit cuts,” she said.  Even Democrats like Senator  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska , who’s
often voted with Republicans, rejected the idea.      “At some
point we have to look at Social Security, but that’s not part of
this process,” he said today.  A. Barry Rand, head of the AARP, the advocacy group for the
elderly, said: “Reducing the COLA by even a small amount is a
harmful cut for many retirees.”  Stealth Tax Increase  Grover Norquist , head of the anti-tax Americans for  Tax
Reform , called the idea “effort number 27” to dress up a tax
increase in the guise of good government.  “This is one of those things invented by people who are
trying to raise taxes and pretend they’re not,” he said. “If
you change the law to get more money, that’s a tax increase --
doesn’t matter how you do it or what you call it.”  Senator John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, said he
supports applying the chained index to benefits programs, though
not to taxes.  “Taxes are entirely different,” said Thune. “That would
be a license to steal for the federal government if you just
locked in tax increases every year based on what some index
is.”  Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, released a study
yesterday that said the tax increases would hurt the middle
class.  Technical Change  Advocates say switching index measures would be a technical
change, not a tax increase.  “I don’t see how anybody can argue against having accurate
formulas,” said Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican who was
a member of the Gang of Six.  Coburn said the Gang of Six agreed on the chained index
before he dropped out of the negotiations in a separate dispute.
Another group of lawmakers led by Biden was debating the idea
before their talks fell apart, said Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and a participant in
that group.  Inflation is a general rise in the price of goods and
services, and the government measures it by surveying thousands
of Americans on what they buy and where they shop.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics each month sends 400 price
collectors to 26,000 stores in 87 cities to record the prices of
breakfast cereals, bus tickets, haircuts, toys, funerals, dental
fillings, jewelry and 80,000 other products and services. It
uses that information to devise a basket of goods the typical
family buys each month in order to track prices.  Missing Consumer Response  There is a “pretty widely held” consensus among
economists that the bureau’s methodology exaggerates inflation
because it doesn’t fully account for how individuals respond to
rising prices, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s
Analytics.  It accounts for those who buy cheaper brands of wine or
steak when those prices rise, though not for those who opt
instead for beer or chicken. That means it overestimates
inflation, which leads to cost-of-living increases for Social
Security beneficiaries, veterans and federal retirees that are
bigger than necessary to maintain their purchasing power. It
also affects the number of Americans who qualify for  food stamps 
and other aid to the poor with eligibility criteria tied to
federal poverty guidelines.  It means the thresholds at which higher income tax rates
begin to apply to individual taxpayers rise faster than
necessary to prevent so-called “bracket creep,” which means
less  tax revenue  pouring into the Treasury.  The chained index accounts for the belt-tightening chicken
eaters and beer drinkers. Over the past decade, the alternative
index has grown more slowly than the current inflation measure
by an average 0.3 percentage points a year, the CBO says.  “It’s a no-brainer,” said Marc Goldwein, former associate
director of the administration’s deficit commission. “We’re
measuring inflation wrong now and it’s obvious we should measure
it right -- especially if it’s going to reduce the deficit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  