-- 
SodaStream’s Kitchen Appliance Fizzes Up Shares Amid U.S. Push

-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sodastream-s-kitchen-appliance-fizzes-up-shares-amid-u-s-push.html
When London gin distiller George
Gilbey began selling British aristocrats do-it-yourself gadgets
to carbonate tap water in 1903, the emphasis was on function,
not style. Even by 1955, when the first mass-market version was
introduced, the soda machine resembled a miniature scuba tank.  No longer.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , a successor to
Gilbey’s venerable enterprise, last year pumped up its marketing
in the U.S. of sleek countertop versions, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its July 11 issue.  Buzz about the $80-$200 appliances, which can turn tap
water into over 100 flavors of soda in refillable bottles, has
helped drive up SodaStream’s share price almost 200 percent
since its initial public offering in November. The shares fell
$4.71 to $71.87 yesterday on the Nasdaq stock market.  “In 20 years,” said Chief Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum, “the soda industry will not be the same.”  Persuading the masses to embrace homemade soda will take
some doing. Selling the appliance is one thing; getting people
to keep buying syrup refills and carbon dioxide canisters is
another. As with razors, refills are where the real money lies.
Men have to shave. They don’t have to drink soda.  SodaStream, based in Airport City,  Israel , is now in 4.5
million homes in 41 countries. After stepping up distribution in
the U.S. last year, its updated soda makers sold out during the
holidays at some  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  stores.  No 24-Pack  “It’s fantastic,” said Jim Sinclair, a financial planner
in Tybee Island,  Georgia , who received a SodaStream appliance in
December. “If you have guests coming over, you don’t have to
buy a 24-pack to keep them happy.”  Although SodaStream’s concept is more than a century old,
over the years its popularity has waxed and waned, peaking in
the 1970s and 1980s. By the late 2000s, SodaStream had won a
solid niche in Europe and was making headway in the U.S.  That’s when Israeli private equity firm Fortissimo Capital
got interested, seeing a way to profit from converging trends: a
backlash against plastic bottle waste, resistance to empty
calories and childhood obesity, and recession-induced cost-
cutting. So Fortissimo pumped $17 million into SodaStream and
hired Birnbaum, a former marketer at  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , and Pillsbury Co., to revamp the company.  He added a lower-cost device while maintaining designs that
appeal to style-conscious consumers.  “The kitchen counter is precious real estate,” Birnbaum
said. “To earn a space you have to look dynamite.” They also
made the gadget simple to use: Just push a button to inject
water with carbon dioxide and add flavored drops or syrup.  Environmental Pitch  The syrups were reformulated with all-natural ingredients,
without high fructose corn syrup, and with less sugar. Birnbaum
also boosted the environmental pitch, telling consumers that
buying SodaStream products means fewer plastic bottles and
aluminum cans in landfills. (A counter on the company’s website
claims SodaStream use has saved the world 1.28 billion bottles.)  The strategy helped boost global first-quarter sales 50
percent to $64 million.  Still, Richard J. George, a food marketing professor at
Saint Joseph’s University in Philadelphia, says soda appliances
may have limited appeal because consumers like freshness and
convenience, both of which already have been perfected by big
beverage makers at a reasonable price.  “You just reach in your refrigerator and grab your soft
drink,” he said.  Exchange Canisters  It may be especially hard to persuade convenience-addicted
Americans to get into the habit of reordering syrups and
exchanging carbonation cylinders once they run out of gas. Of
6,000 SodaStream retail locations in the U.S. (there are 45,000
worldwide), just 3,000 currently exchange CO2 canisters, though
customers can reorder online.  Nor can SodaStream boast a significant price advantage: Two
liters of its drinks cost about $1.30, compared with about $1.50
(full-price) for the same amount of Coke.  “We don’t want to be the poor man’s water,” Birnbaum
said. “We’re not a cheap alternative.”  Birnbaum says his company will never overtake giants Coca-
Cola Co. and PepsiCo Inc. Instead, he would like to co-brand
soda that could be delivered in SodaStream machines -- a strategy
that has worked handsomely for  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters
Inc. (GMCR)  and its Keurig brewing system.  For now, Birnbaum wants to develop a device for offices,
and brand restaurant soda fountains and table carafes with the
SodaStream logo--and then supply healthy syrups. He also wants
U.S. grocery and drugstores to carry SodaStream syrups, as they
do in some European markets.  First, he’ll have to win more of that precious kitchen
counter space.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  