-- 
Anglo, Xstrata in Wage Dispute in South Africa

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   M k h u l u l i   M a n c o t y w a
-- 
2011-07-07T17:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/south-african-coal-miners-declare-wage-dispute-with-producers.html
(Corrects to show non-resolution certificate can be issued
on or after July 20 in fifth paragraph.)  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
other coal producers are in a dispute over wages with South
African workers who have threatened to strike at mines that
supply coal to Europe, India and  China .  There is a “formal” dispute after negotiations failed
today, “paving the way for a massive strike action,”  Lesiba
Seshoka , spokesman for the  National Union of Mineworkers , South
Africa’s largest labor union, said in a phone message today.  NUM is one of three unions disputing the Johannesburg-based
Chamber of Mines’ proposal to raise coal miners’ wages by 5
percent to 6 percent, depending on skills, the chamber said in a
separate e-mailed statement. The body negotiates on behalf of
Anglo’s thermal coal unit, Xstrata,  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ,
 Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  and Kangra Coal, spokesman Jabu Maphalala
said by phone from Johannesburg today.  The union is demanding a 14 percent wage increase. That’s
three times the consumer inflation rate of 4.6 percent for May.  The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
may issue a certificate of non-resolution on or after July 20,
Seshoka said. Obtaining the certificate is a procedural step
necessary before unions are allowed to strike in South Africa,
the world’s largest platinum producer and a coal supplier to
power plants in Europe.  July 20 is when the CCMA will host a meeting between labor
representatives and the companies, the chamber said.  Following separate negotiations with Anglo’s platinum unit
today, NUM said it will ask members for a mandate to call a
strike after it rejected Anglo American Platinum Ltd.’s offer to
raise pay by 4.6 percent. The company, which mines almost all of
its platinum in  South Africa , is the world’s largest producer.  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Mkhululi Mancotywa in Johannesburg at 
 mmancotywa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  