-- 
South African Yields Fall to One-Month Low on Pared Bets of Rate Increases

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-07T14:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/south-african-yields-fall-to-one-month-low-on-pared-bets-of-rate-increases.html
South African bonds gained, sending
yields to the lowest in almost a month, and investors pared bets
that the central bank will raise rates as a recovery in  Africa ’s
biggest economy isn’t strong enough to stoke inflation.  The government’s 7.25 percent notes due 2020 advanced 30
cents to 93.820 rand, driving the yield down five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.276 percent, the lowest level
since June 9, as of 4:24 p.m. in Johannesburg. Six-month
forward-rate agreements, which investors use to speculate on
interest rates, fell two basis points to 5.915 percent, the
lowest since May 10.  South Africa’s economic recovery is not yet sustainable and
is still “highly dependent” on expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies, Deputy Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said
yesterday. Growth in manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of
the economy, slowed to an annual 0.4 percent in April from 4.9
percent the previous month. Pick n Pay Stores Ltd.,  South
Africa ’s second-biggest grocer, may fire about 8.6 percent of
its workforce after profit slumped and the retailer prepares for
competition from Wal-Mart Stores Inc., it said yesterday.  “The local economy remains anemic,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote
in a research report today. “Once the transitory nature of the
soft patch in global growth is questioned, interest-rate
expectations are expected to moderate further.” Pick and Pay’s
announcement highlighted “that the monetary environment is not
one conducive to accelerating consumer price inflation or strong
growth.”  Reserves Data  Rising food and fuel prices helped boost inflation to 4.6
percent in May from 4.2 percent. South Africa’s central bank has
an inflation target of between 3 percent and 6 percent. The
nation’s benchmark interest rate is at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent.  South African net gold and currency reserves rose 2.8
percent last month, the highest on record, as the central bank
accumulated more foreign currency. Net reserves climbed to $47.2
billion from $45.9 billion in May, the Pretoria-based  Reserve
Bank  said on its website today. That was in line with the median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  South African antitrust authorities approved Wal-Mart’s
16.5 billion-rand ($2.5 billion) purchase of a 51 percent stake
in Massmart Holdings Ltd. on May 31.  “Apart from the Massmart flows, it appears that the SARB
was not active in the market in June,”  John Cairns  and Nema
Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Rand Gains  The rand strengthened for the first day in three, gaining
0.7 percent to 6.6863 per dollar. The currency appreciated for a
sixth day against the euro, gaining 0.7 percent to 9.5855.  The  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 1.5 percent, the highest in
more than two years, to keep up its fight against inflation.
That was in line with the expectations of all 55 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  South Africa’s currency extended gains after companies in
the U.S. added 157,000 workers to their payrolls in June,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services, bolstering
confidence in tomorrow’s Labor Department job report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  