-- 
South Sudanese Are Attacked as They Wait to Move South, Refugee Group Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-07T08:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/south-sudanese-are-attacked-as-they-wait-to-move-south-refugee-group-says.html
Thousands of Southern Sudanese people
in Sudan’s north have been attacked by militias, harassed by
local communities and endured “despicable conditions” as they
await transportation to the south ahead of its independence on
July 9,  Refugees International  said.  Among the Southern Sudanese trying to reach the south are
about 17,000 who are crowded into 13 assembly points in Sudan’s
capital, Khartoum, without access to toilets or clean water, the
Washington-based group, which assists displaced people in 22
countries, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Southerners in the north are feeling increasingly
discriminated against, which is undoubtedly putting pressure on
people to get to the south,” Andrea Lari, director of regional
programs for Refugees International, said in the statement. The
organization called on the Southern Sudanese government to work
with aid groups to urgently transport those southerners who are
trying to return to the south, which they fled amid a civil war.  The Southern Sudanese will lose their Sudanese citizenship
when the south is declared independent. Southerners who remain
in the north after July 9 will have six months to a year to move
south or will be considered foreigners, the government in
Khartoum said.  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose to
secede from  Sudan  and form an independent country in a January
referendum. The balloting was the centerpiece of a 2005 peace
agreement that ended the two-decade civil war between the north
and south. Thousands have already moved to the south in
anticipation of independence.  Trains carrying southerners to the south have been attacked
by northern militias, Refugees International said, urging the
Sudanese government to protect the returnees. In Kosti, in the
northern Sudanese state of White Nile, 15,000 southerners are
waiting for transportation at an assembly point designed to hold
only 800, the organization said.  Other groups of southerners have been attacked after
crossing into the south by the Southern Sudanese army, called
the Sudan People’s Liberation Army, Refugees International said.  “As thousands of people continue to move across the border,
the government of  Southern Sudan  must ensure that SPLA officers
better control the behavior of their troops,” the group said.  Calls for comment made to the mobile phones of Mohamed al-
Hafez, Khartoum’s police chief, and the Sudanese police
spokesman, Hashem Ali, weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 