-- 
Spain Fends Off Criticism on Banks

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/spain-fends-off-criticism-on-banks.html
Spain  blunted European Union
criticism of its handling of savings banks and  tax policy ,
persuading the EU to water down judgments issued as part of a
new economic-policing system.  The non-binding recommendations, to be issued by EU finance
ministers on July 12 in Brussels, urge Spain to “monitor
closely” the reorganization of savings banks, softening an
earlier plea to “reinforce” the restructuring, documents
obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Spain’s case, and concessions to  Belgium , France, Malta and
Cyprus, show the obstacles faced by central EU authorities in
putting their stamp on national economic policies, even as they
struggle to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  “National interests tend to dominate the debate,” said
 Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London . “Governments are not doing a good job convincing
markets that they will do whatever is necessary to stabilize the
situation.”  The first draft of the recommendations was issued by the
 European Commission , the bloc’s central regulator, on June 7 and
endorsed in principle by government leaders at a June 24 summit.  The detailed recommendations, capping the bloc’s first-ever
 “European Semester”  of policy coordination, weren’t completed
by government representatives until yesterday and are set to be
rubber-stamped next week.  Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  didn’t immediately
reply to a voicemail seeking comment. A Spanish Finance Ministry
spokesman who declined to be named said Spain had made its
arguments to the commission.  ‘Positive Consequences’  In Spain’s case, the EU’s original doubts about a Feb. 18
law on savings-bank consolidation were scaled back, replaced
with praise for the law’s “positive consequences” for the
banks’ balance sheets.  The EU also ditched a call for a cut in Spain’s social-
security premiums in order to make hiring more attractive,
replacing it with an appeal to improve “the efficiency of the
tax system.”  That reflected lobbying by Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado , who said lower premiums would undermine the pension
system and an offsetting value-added tax increase would sting
 consumer spending .  Spain and France also persuaded the EU to soften the
criticisms of the economic growth assumptions to be used in
their 2012 budgets, upgrading them to “favorable” from “too
favorable.”  Belgium succeeded in getting a numerical target for deficit
cuts excised from the text, arguing that its caretaker leaders
aren’t able to make commitments for future governments.  Belgium has been without a fully empowered government for
more than a year. The odds of forming a new coalition receded
yesterday when the largest party in the northern Flanders
region, the N-VA, balked at a proposal for nine-party talks.  The final version pushes Belgium to get its deficit under
the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, and
warns that  France  may need further cuts to do so by 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  