-- 
Standard Chartered, DBS, IFC to Fund Techno Electric Wind Farm

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T10:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/standard-chartered-dbs-ifc-to-fund-techno-electric-wind-farm.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and the World Bank’s private-sector financing arm
loaned $80 million to Techno Electric & Engineering Co. for a
wind farm in southern India.  The 101-megawatt project is Techno Electric’s first wind
farm to get project financing, Pradeep Kumar Lohia, the Kolkata-
based company’s president of finance, said by phone yesterday.  Standard Chartered  and International Finance Corp., a World
Bank unit, are lending $30 million each and DBS $20 million.
Techno Electric will pay an interest rate of 3.25 percentage
points above the London interbank offered rate, Lohia said.  The IFC also paid 225 million rupees ($5 million) for 3.38
percent of the Simran Wind Project Pvt. unit developing the
farm, Techno Electric Management Executive Ankit Gupta said by
phone, valuing the developer at $148 million.  Techno Electric, which will retain the rest of Simran Wind,
bought the company in 2009 from Tulsi Tanti, chairman of  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest wind-turbine maker, Gupta said.  The 6-billion-rupee project in Tirunaveli and Coimbatore in
Tamil Nadu state will raise Techno Electric’s wind capacity 75
percent to 236 megawatts. The half-built project is due to be
completed by the end of the month, with Suzlon 1.5-megawatt and
2.1-megawatt turbines being installed at the site, Gupta said.  Vedanta, Tata, CLP  Companies owning wind farms in the southern state, home to
40 percent of India’s wind capacity, include  Hindustan Zinc
Ltd. (HZ) , a unit of billionaire Anil Agrawal’s  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , the local unit of  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , Hong Kong’s biggest
electricity producer, and Tata Power Co., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  India  has set a goal
of achieving 54,000 megawatts of renewable-energy capacity,
excluding solar, by 2022. It opened the industry to 100 percent
foreign direct investment in December 2009 to attract funding.  Techno Electric will register its project for renewable-
energy credits tradable on India’s power exchanges. The project
is also claiming a government subsidy that pays wind farms 500
rupees for every megawatt-hour fed to the grid, Gupta said.  The company, which operates mainly as a power plant
contractor, plans to add a further 200 megawatts of wind
capacity by April 2012 and may consider sites in India’s
Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka states, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 