-- 
Sudan Quits Peace Talks on Southern Kordofan, President Bashir Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T10:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sudan-quits-peace-talks-on-southern-kordofan-president-bashir-says.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
quit talks in Ethiopia to end clashes in the northern oil-
producing state of Southern Kordofan, two days before South
Sudan becomes independent.  ”There will be no more negotiations outside Sudan,” Al-
Bashir told a rally today in White Nile state in a speech
televised live on the state Sudan TV station.  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and troops loyal
to Southern Sudan’s army in Southern Kordofan have forced more
than 73,000 people to flee their homes since June 5, according
to the United Nations. The fighting there and in the disputed
border region of Abyei raised concern about the possible
resumption of a two-decade civil war that ended in 2005.  Southern Kordofan remains “tense” and “volatile,” the UN
said today. Heavy gunfire and aerial bombardments took place
around the state capital, Kadugli, each day from June 30 to July
5, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
said in an e-mailed report. It also said helicopter gunships
“engaged in offensive air operations” west of Kadugli on July 4.  Former South African president Thabo Mbeki traveled to
Sudan yesterday from Ethiopia, where he was mediating
negotiations on Southern Kordofan, state-run SUNA news agency
reported. Mbeki held talks with al-Bashir, SUNA said, without
giving details.  Mbeki Failed  Mbeki, the head of the African Union High-Level
Implementation Panel on Sudan, said negotiators had reached a
“framework agreement” on June 28 to end the violence in Southern
Kordofan.  “Unfortunately, President Mbeki failed in his mission with
President Bashir,” Yasser Arman, the secretary-general of the
northern branch of Southern Sudan’s ruling party, told reporters
today in Addis Ababa. “President Bashir wants to continue a new
war in the north and it’s known there are a lot of atrocities,
especially in Southern Kordofan and there is an ethnic
cleansing.”  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern Sudan, which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent. The crude is pumped mainly by  China
National Petroleum Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Civil War Legacy  The Sudanese government had said northern fighters from
Southern Kordofan state, who were allied with the south in the
civil war, must be integrated into the army.  The Sudanese army will continue its military operations
against what it describes as ”rebels” in Southern Kordofan, as
”no cease-fire agreement has been signed yet,” Sudanese army
spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said by phone yesterday.  The U.S. is “concerned that President Bashir has raised
objections to the political and security framework agreement,”
the State Department said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It
urged the government to work with the African Union panel “to
overcome any objections so the vitally important discussions
called for in that agreement can proceed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 