-- 
Sudan Braces for Protests, Violence as Oil-Rich South Becomes Independent

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-08T07:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sudan-braces-for-protests-violence-as-oil-rich-south-secedes.html
The secession of  Sudan ’s oil-rich
southern region tomorrow may rekindle unrest over soaring prices
and stoke violence in outlying regions against President Umar al-Bashir’s northern government in Khartoum.  “Austerity measures are likely to fuel discontent,” Jean-
Baptiste Gallopin, the  Control Risks  associate analyst on the
Middle East & North Africa, said in a phone interview from
 London . “Bashir is in a very tricky position.”  While the south’s independence ends a rebellion against
Khartoum that lasted almost 50 years, northern insurgents are
still fighting government forces in the western region of Darfur
and unrest has exploded in recent weeks in other states such as
Southern Kordofan. At the same time, the opposition in Khartoum
is threatening to renew protests over spending cuts that were
violently put down earlier this year.  Al-Bashir’s announcement in a televised speech yesterday
that he was quitting negotiations in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , to
end clashes in the north’s only oil-producing state, Southern
Kordofan, dashed chances of a quick cease-fire.  “His speech shows a president who is imposing his positions
with force rather than using logic,”  Fouad Hikmat , Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group ’s special adviser on Sudan,
said today by phone from Nairobi,  Kenya . “There is a lack of
strategic vision on how to deal with the challenges.”  War Crimes   The fighting in Southern Kordofan, which borders  Southern
Sudan , started when Sudanese troops tried to disarm members of
the Nuba ethnic group who fought alongside the southern army
during the civil war, according to Southern Sudan’s ruling
party. Al-Bashir, 67, and his governor in Southern Kordofan,
 Ahmed Haroun , are wanted by the  International Criminal Court 
over allegations they were involved in war crimes in Darfur.  Southern Sudan will assume control of about 75 percent of
Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels when it becomes
independent. The crude is pumped mainly by  China National
Petroleum Corp. , Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Clashes in Southern Kordofan, including artillery and
aerial bombardments, have forced more than 73,000 people to flee
their homes since June 5, according to the  United Nations .  Aerial Bombardments  The state remains “tense” and “volatile,” the UN said
yesterday. Heavy gunfire and aerial bombardments took place
around the state capital, Kadugli, each day from June 30 to July
5, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
said in an e-mailed report.  Sudan’s army seized the main town in the nearby disputed
border area of  Abyei  on May 21. While negotiators from the north
and the south agreed last month to withdraw their forces and
allow Ethiopian peacekeepers to deploy in the area, the pullout
hasn’t happened.  The economy must cope with losing control of almost three-
quarters Sudan’s current daily crude production. Oil provides
about 45 percent of its revenue and most of its foreign currency
earnings.  While the south will pay the north for the use of its
export pipeline and port, al-Bashir has said his government is
planning to follow up austerity measures, including the partial
lifting of fuel subsidies, in January with new spending cuts to
cope with the revenue loss. Sudan’s annual headline inflation
rate rose to 16.8 percent in May from 9.8 percent in November.  Economic Growth  The country’s $68 billion economy will probably grow by 3
percent to 4 percent this year, central bank Governor Mohamed
Khair al-Zubair said on June 29, lower than the budget’s target
of 5 percent. The economy grew by 3 percent last year, half of
the government’s target of 6 percent, al-Zubair said on June 13.  Sudan, which is denied access to international markets
because of U.S sanctions, hasn’t been able to borrow from the
 World Bank  since 1993 because it failed to make payments on its
debt and has arrears of about $30 billion, according to the
Washington-based  Center for Global Development , an aid research
group.  In northern Sudan, 46.5 percent of the people live under
poverty line, on less than $1 a day, and 31.8 percent of
children under 5 years are malnourished, according to the  United
Nations Development Programme .  “The disenfranchised are so ripe to be recruited against
the center because people are desperate,” Hikmat said. “The
hardships of life are going to be more serious.”  Arab Uprising  The government used police armed with sticks and rubber
truncheons to put down protests from January to March, inspired
by uprisings in North Africa and the  Middle East . Rabie Abdel
Ati, a senior member of al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party ,
said the government wouldn’t tolerate future demonstrations that
it didn’t approve.  “Rules will be stricter than previously; there is no real
presence for these opposition groups on the ground,” Abdel Ati
said June 6 in a telephone interview. ”Protests will be allowed
if they get legal authorization.”  The Popular Congress Party and other opposition groups say
they are planning street protests ”to topple the regime” after
July 9.  ”We have no option; elections are rigged,” Kamal Omar,
the party’s political secretary, said July 6 by phone from
Khartoum. “So we started preparations to take to the streets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 