-- 
Sugar Surges Most in Nine Months on Dim Outlook for Brazil Crop

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-07T18:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sugar-surges-most-in-nine-months-on-dim-outlook-for-brazil-crop.html
Sugar jumped the most since October
after an industry group said output would decline in  Brazil , the
world’s biggest grower.  Production in the Center South, Brazil’s largest growing
area, may drop by as much as 1 million metrics in the current
season compared with a year earlier, Unica said today. The
sweetener has gained 73 percent in the past 12 months.  “People are getting extremely pessimistic about the
Brazilian crop,” said Bruno Lima, a risk-management consultant
at FCStone Group Inc. in Campinas, Brazil.  Raw sugar for October delivery climbed 1.84 cents, or 6.6
percent, to settle at 29.52 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest gain since Oct. 7.  “Funds are back in the market,” said Jeff Bauml, a senior
vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in  New
York . Prices will rise to 32 cents this month, he said.  Cane processing will total 535 million metric tons in the
2011-2012 season, or 40 million tons less than the previous
estimate and below last year’s harvest of 557 million,  C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd . said in a report yesterday. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said today that the revised output estimate
represents an “upside risk” to the bank’s three-month price
forecast of 25 cents.  Production in the Center South region has declined almost
25 percent this season from a year earlier, according to Unica.  “Persistently weak crushing data out of Center South
Brazil has supported prices as the market begins to price in a
full-year cane crush below 540 million metric tons,” Morgan
Stanley analyst  Hussein Allidina  wrote in a report dated
yesterday.  In  London , refined-sugar futures surged 5.5 percent to $745
a metric ton on NYSE Liffe. That’s the largest advance since
Nov. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  