-- 
Sun Art Said to Seek $1.05 Billion, Pricing Hong Kong IPO at Top of Range

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-07-08T02:52:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sun-art-said-to-plan-h-k-ipo-price-at-top-of-range.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd., China’s
largest hypermarket operator, raised HK$8.2 billion ($1.1
billion) selling shares at the top end of a range in a Hong Kong
initial public offering, people with knowledge of the deal said.  The Shanghai-based company, which competes with  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  in China, sold shares at HK$7.20 apiece, said the
two people. They declined to be identified as the process is
private.  Sun Art braved a slump in demand for new equity that caused
seven companies to cancel or postpone IPOs in Hong Kong in the
past three months. The sale was the second of city’s six
billion-dollar-plus IPOs this year to be priced at the top end
of its marketed range, valuing Sun Art at 31.5 times estimated
2011 earnings.  “Investors are being selective in the absence of strong
 market sentiment , allowing only quality companies to have high
valuations in IPOs,” said Nelson Yan, who helps oversee $90
million as investment manager at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group,
which subscribed for Sun Art shares in the IPO.  Sun Art originally offered the shares for HK$5.65 to
HK$7.20 each, according to its IPO prospectus. Yan said the
final valuation for Sun Art is “marginally acceptable, given
that the company is well-managed with strong growth prospects.”  Casino venture MGM China Holdings Ltd. was the only other
 Hong Kong  IPO of at least $1 billion to receive the maximum
valuation sought, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profit Forecast  Sun Art, backed by France’s Groupe Auchan SA, is the
largest hypermarket operator in China, with a 12 percent share
of sales last year compared with Wal-Mart’s 11.2 percent,
according to Euromonitor International Ltd. Hypermarket sales in
China rose 17 percent last year, Euromonitor data show.  The IPO may lead to tougher competition for Wal-Mart in
China. Sun Art plans to use about half of the proceeds to cement
its leading position by opening new outlets, and 30 percent to
repay bank loans, according to the IPO prospectus. Groupe Auchan
will own 62 percent of Sun Art after the offering.  Sun Art forecasts 2011 profit of at least 1.4 billion yuan
($216 million), according to the prospectus. Based on that level,
the sale gives Sun Art a price-earnings ratio of 40.  Hong Kong-listed  Wumart Stores Inc. (8277)  and Lianhua Supermarket
Holdings Co., which run hypermarkets, supermarkets and
 convenience stores  in China, trade at 30.4 times and 21.8 times
projected full-year profit respectively based on yesterday’s
closing prices, Bloomberg data show.  GIC Invests  About half the stock sold in the IPO will go to nine so-
called cornerstone investors, including Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. and Tiger Global Management LLC, which agreed
to invest $40 million each, according to the prospectus.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , HSBC Holdings Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing
the offering as global coordinators, while  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, China
International Capital Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are joint bookrunners, the prospectus shows. Sun Art
will start trading in Hong Kong on July 15.  Sun Art posted profit of 1 billion yuan last year on sales
of 56.2 billion yuan, the prospectus shows. First-quarter profit
surged 32 percent to 522 million yuan from a year earlier while
sales rose 27 percent to 19.8 billion yuan.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales, has
annual revenue of $7.5 billion in  China ,  Scott Price , its chief
executive officer for Asia, said in March. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer may buy more land in China, which it
said may be the world’s largest grocery market by 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  