-- 
Sun Valley Fantasy, Imaginary Moguls Speak Out, Tell Tales: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/sun-valley-fantasy-imaginary-moguls-speak-out-tell-forum-tales-view.html
Several media moguls were found
yesterday wandering aimlessly around Denver International
Airport, complaining that they had no next conference to go to.
One of them said he had not been home since the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos in January.  “After Davos there was TED, then that cute Southwest
thing that’s so hot. I know I was on a panel about convergence
(or was it convection?) at the Aspen Ideas Festival. Bilderburg
is in there somewhere. And, of course, the Allen & Co. retreat.
Then yesterday I hitched a ride on the last corporate jet out of
Sun Valley, found myself here, looked at my BlackBerry, and
discovered to my horror that I had no place to go next.  “What do they expect me to do?” he asked plaintively. “Go
into the office or something?”  This man -- who preferred not to be identified (“Just
describe me as a very important media executive,” he said
humbly.) -- reported that his corporate staff was working
overtime to find him a conference, or even a trade show, to
attend.  “They only need to fill in the gap between now and the
Bohemian Grove,” he sighed. “No wonder the Chinese are eating
our lunch. By the way, where is our lunch? Do they expect us to
get up, order it and pay for it? What kind of conference is
this? Oh, yes, it’s not a conference. It’s the airport.”  A fellow sufferer joined the conversation, chewing on an
Auntie Anne’s pretzel and saying, “I haven’t had a decent canape
for a day and a half.” He went on: “My staff even tried to book
me into the Salzburg Festival, claiming it was a conference on
music and public education. How big a fool do they think I am?”  “Actually,” he confided conspiratorially, “I happen to know
that there is a small but promising convocation on Civility in
Politics and Cable Television at Hilton Head the first week in
August. And there’s another one on Civil Discourse in the Public
Square over Labor Day weekend. “It’s dog-eat-dog in the civility
business these days,” he said cheerily, “but it can keep your
dance card filled.”  A third man’s story was perhaps the most poignant. “I was
never a mogul,” he confessed. “I was just an ordinary journalist
on the ‘ideas’ beat. I even won a Pulitzer for my article,
‘Ideas Gaining Influence, Experts Say.’ And another one the next
year for ‘Role of Ideas Shrinking, Analysts Contend.’ Then one
day my editor sent me to Sundance. That was two years ago, and I
haven’t been home since.  “All these festivals and conferences start out saying they
don’t want any press,” he explained. “They want it to be a
totally private affair, where moguls can kick off their shoes,
divvy up markets, engage in conspiracies in restraint of trade,
and generally play capitalism like a board game, without any
busybodies looking over their shoulders. Nobody says this
explicitly, of course. It’s all in code words like ‘rafting’ and
‘fly-fishing’ and ‘quality time with the kids.’  “But it turns out that many of these moguls LIKE having a
few journalists around. So they invite one or two, who write
about how exclusive the event is. And the more they write about
it, the less true it is. And pretty soon you’ve got a media
circus.” He smiled ruefully, hands gripping a  Sun Valley  gift
bag. “Which is maybe what everyone secretly wanted all along.”  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 