-- 
Suspended Bin Hammam Said to Decline Meeting With FIFA Bribe Investigators

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-07T10:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/suspended-bin-hammam-said-to-decline-meeting-with-fifa-bribe-investigators.html
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  refused to meet
with investigators probing accusations that the suspended head
of Asian soccer tried to bribe voters in FIFA’s presidential
election, according to two people familiar with the situation.  Bin Hammam, 62, said in a letter that he wouldn’t meet
Louis Freeh, the former head of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , according to the people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t permitted to discuss it publicly.
FIFA hired Freeh to look into allegations that Bin Hammam
offered $40,000 each to Caribbean officials in exchange for
their support in his challenge to FIFA President  Sepp Blatter .  Bin Hammam, ex-FIFA Vice President  Jack Warner  and two
Caribbean officials were suspended in May by the Zurich-based
governing body. The inquiry into Warner was dropped when he
resigned from all his soccer posts on June 20.  FIFA  said yesterday Freeh’s six-week investigation is
complete and it sent the report to Bin Hammam ahead of a hearing
on July 22 and 23 in Zurich. The Qatari may be banned from all
soccer activities if found guilty.  The files include testimony supporting details in FIFA’s
provisional review of the case in May, the two people said. The
preliminary report that was compiled in May said there was
“overwhelming” and “compelling” evidence of bribery. Bin
Hammam has denied all the claims against him.  “I am still looking for and hoping to receive a fair
hearing - one which will not be influenced by any political
agenda or motivation,” he wrote today on his  personal blog . “I
hope that the decision will be made solely by the members of
this committee and based solely on the facts presented and not
based on assumptions or the wishes of people outside the
committee.”  Accepted Money  Freeh got testimony from the Bahamas,  Bermuda ,  Cayman
Islands , Turks & Caicos Islands,  Puerto Rico ,  Suriname , Grenada,
Aruba and Curacao that they were either offered money or
accepted money at a meeting of the  Caribbean Football Union  at
Port of  Spain ’s Hyatt Regency hotel, where Warner arranged for
Bin Hammam to address officials in May, the people said. Twelve
associations declined to assist the investigation.  FIFA’s initial report said witnesses from the Bahamas,
Bermuda and the Turks and Caicos provided “credible and
correspondent” testimony that they were handed brown envelopes
containing $40,000 in four stacks of $10,000 made up of $100
bills. Fred Lunn, a soccer official in the Bahamas, photographed
the cash and submitted the pictures to FIFA.  The ethics committee reached a primary conclusion that Bin
Hammam wanted to influence CFU member associations’ votes in his
favor in the FIFA presidential election on June 1 by the alleged
gifts.  “These proceedings were initiated based on the allegations
of vote buying,” Bin Hammam said. “I hope that, by now, the
investigation has identified whether or not there had been
attempts by me - directly or indirectly - to buy votes,
particularly from those who claimed to have received these
monies.”  ‘I’d Rather Die’  Warner also didn’t assist the inquiry. He told Bloomberg
News in an interview after he resigned that he would “rather
die first” than meet with Freeh and said the process against
him was “designed as a fait accompli.”  Bin Hammam had proposed offering gifts of silver plates but
Warner told CFU members he told him to bring cash instead, one
of the people familiar with the testimonies said. The report
also said the money couldn’t have come from the CFU because the
organization had a deficit of $242,000, and owed Warner, who was
also president of regional soccer body  Concacaf , $376,000 for a
loan he’d made. Warner didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Warner last month said that although he was unaware of Bin
Hammam offering money to officials, cash gifts had been part of
FIFA’s history for at least the 30 years he’d been with the
organization.  “It’s not unusual for such things to happen and gifts have
been around throughout the history of FIFA,” Warner said.
“What’s happening now for me is hypocrisy at the highest
level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  