-- 
Swiss Biotech IPOs May Revive Health-Care Industry Starved of Investment

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/swiss-biotech-ipos-may-revive-industry-starved-of-investment.html
Swiss biotechnology share sales may
help kick-start an industry where investment has slumped by more
than two-thirds in the past four years.  Molecular Partners , a Zurich-based firm with an
experimental eye medicine in mid-stage testing, is among the
companies tipped by analysts for  Switzerland ’s first biotech
initial public offering in four years. The closely held company,
formed by a group of researchers from the University of Zurich,
started operations in 2005 and counts Johnson & Johnson’s
venture-capital arm among its investors.  “There is no plan or pressure to go public, but as the
company grows that’s clearly something we would consider at some
point if a window were to open,” said Christian Zahnd, the 35-
year-old chief executive officer of Molecular Partners.  Investor interest in the Swiss biotech hub that emerged out
of the success of  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s
biggest drugmakers by sales, has receded after setbacks in
developing new medicines. Positive test data on a successor to
 Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ’s best-selling lung medicine may reopen the window
for IPOs and reverse a decline in Swiss biotech stocks.  “A lot depends on the outcome of Actelion’s pipeline,”
said Daniel Koller, a Zurich-based  fund manager  at  BB Biotech ,
which owns a stake in Molecular Partners through its private-
equity arm. “If Actelion can successfully show that it has a
future, whether it in the end gets bought or continues to remain
a standalone, you will see a widening of the sector.”  ‘IPO Candidate’  Molecular Partners’ IPO credentials are strengthened by its
partnership with Roche and a board that includes Goran Ando,
vice chairman of Novo Nordisk A/S, the world’s biggest maker of
diabetes treatments, and  Kevin Johnson , former CEO of
PanGenetics BV, said Samir Devani, an analyst at Nomura Code
Securities in  London .  “The company has a technology platform that could be used
across an array of therapeutic areas,” Devani said. “It has to
be a candidate for an IPO.”  The industry has seen just two IPOs since 2006 when there
were public offerings from Santhera Pharmaceuticals Holding AG,
 Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN)  and Bioxell SpA, according to the
Swiss Biotech Report.  “Below the surface there are really interesting second-
generation companies that have a lot of potential,” said Jean- Philippe Tripet, managing partner at venture capital company
Aravis Biotechnology in Zurich. “They’re not just one-product,
pass-or-fail types of companies.”  Investment Slump  Pevion Biotech Ltd., a Basel-based start-up that is working
with Mymetics Corp. on vaccines to combat malaria and HIV, is
another IPO candidate, according to analysts.  “I’m not sure that we’ll see one this year, but a few
Swiss companies at least are considering an IPO,” said Juerg
Zuercher, head of Ernst & Young AG’s biotech unit for Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Investment in the Swiss biotech industry fell to 255
million Swiss francs ($304 million) in 2010, from 370 million
francs the previous year and a peak of 885 million francs in
2007, according to the  Swiss Biotech Report  published in April.  That decline follows industry reversals with  Basilea
Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  Ltd.’s experimental antibiotic being rejected by
U.S. and European regulators and  Addex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (ADXN) 
halting development of its most-advanced product because of
safety concerns.  Those setbacks saw Basilea’s market value slump 71 percent
to about 601 million francs since the end of 2007. Addex, whose
2007 IPO was the last by a Swiss start-up and the largest by a
European biotech in three years, has dropped about 65 percent
over the same period.  Acquisition Boost  Actelion, founded in 1997 by Jean-Paul Clozel, his wife
Martine and three other drug industry executives to develop
medicines that Roche had given up on, may hold the key to
reviving investor interest. The biotech prevailed in May in a
tussle at its annual shareholder meeting with Elliott Advisors
(UK) Ltd., after the hedge fund tried to oust several board
members and force Actelion to consider options including a sale.  A positive result in the macitentan study is likely to draw
suitors to Actelion, the third best-performing stock in the 17-
member Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index over the past five
years, after Danish drugmaker Novo Nordisk A/S and  Spain ’s
Grifols SA. The test results are due later this year or early in
2012.  Amgen, the world’s biggest biotech, has considered a
takeover offer for Actelion, two people familiar with the
situation said in November. Clozel has said Actelion should
remain independent.  ‘Biotech Cluster’  An acquisition of Actelion, Europe’s biggest biotech, may
boost the Basel hub, said Tripet of Aravis.  “If a U.S. company were to take over Actelion, they’d
probably keep the offices and a lot of the research and would
concentrate some of their European activities there,” he said.
“The biotech cluster in Basel would benefit from it and other
examples have shown that acquisitions can be positive.”  While Actelion’s takeover would deprive the Swiss bourse of
its bellwether biotech stock, it may to free up capital and
increase overall interest in the life sciences industry.  “In the short to mid-term, we’ve seen that M&A plays have
been very helpful to local areas,” Koller said. “Selling a
company has benefits because investors have money to allocate to
other names and because it may also attract more interest to the
sector in general.”  Switzerland’s experienced investor base, the presence of
strong drug companies and a “large talent pool” for hiring
make the Alpine country a good base, said Zahnd of Molecular
Partners.  “Switzerland is still an exciting place for biotech,” he
said. “Considering the small size of the country, there’s a
surprising depth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  