-- 
U.K. House Prices Decline to Lowest Level in 17 Months, Acadametrics Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-k-house-prices-fall-to-lowest-in-17-months-acadametrics-says.html
U.K.  house prices  dropped for a third
month in June to their lowest level in 1 1/2 years as a
purchase-tax increase and a lack of mortgage finance deterred
buyers, Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in  England  and  Wales  fell 0.8
percent to 219,365 pounds ($350,500) from May, when it also
decreased 0.8 percent, the groups said in an e-mailed report in
 London  today. Prices fell 1.4 percent from a year earlier.  The decline partly reflected a drop in demand for homes
worth more than 1 million pounds after the government raised
stamp duty, a property-transfer tax, in April to help tackle the
 budget deficit . The housing market may struggle to gain momentum
this year as banks restrict lending and inflation outpaces
growth in wages.  “The modest gains in house prices over the last 18 months
have disappeared,” Peter Williams, chairman of Acadametrics,
said in the report. “A significant squeeze on household budgets
is under way given high inflation, rising taxation and falling
real incomes. If the economy’s growth slows as many expect,
these pressures will intensify.”  Out of the 10 regions tracked, eight posted falls in the
past three months compared with a year earlier. Prices in
northwest England led declines with a 4.8 percent drop, while
London posted a 5 percent gain. In May, values in the capital
decreased 1.4 percent on the month.  “Putting the fall down solely to high-value homes would
ignore the weakness in the present market,” said David Newnes,
managing director of LSL. The regional declines in the past
three months indicate “the impact of the continuing shortage of
mortgage finance,” he said.  The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent yesterday as the threat to the
recovery took precedence over an inflation rate that is more
than double the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Acadametrics and LSL estimate the number of transactions in
June rose 20 percent to 61,000 from an “unusually low” May.  The groups combine initial transaction data from the U.K.
Land Registry and results from other price measures for an
estimate for the most recent month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  