-- 
U.K. Owed Iraqis Independent Inquiry of Deaths, Court Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-07T14:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-k-owed-iraqis-independent-inquiries-into-deaths-court-says.html
The U.K. should have conducted an
independent investigation into the deaths of five Iraqi
civilians in 2003 when it was occupying the southeastern part of
the country,  Europe ’s human rights court said.  The deaths were either investigated by the military or by
units that weren’t independent of the military at the time, and
therefore violated the rights of victims’ relatives to get an
effective investigation, the  European Court of Human Rights 
ruled today.  “It was particularly important that the investigating
authority was, and was seen to be, operationally independent of
the military chain of command,” the Strasbourg, France-based
court said in an e-mailed statement.  Most U.K. forces pulled out of  Iraq  in 2009, six years
after the start of the war that toppled  Saddam Hussein . The
government opened a public inquiry into the war in November of
that year, led by a retired civil servant.  Tony Blair , who was
U.K. prime minister at the time, sent more than 40,000 troops to
back the U.S.-led invasion. The move cost him popularity and
helped prompt his resignation.  The five victims’ families were today awarded 17,000 euros
($24,200) each, and 50,000 euros jointly for costs by the court.  Historic Allegations  The U.K. Defense Ministry said it was disappointed with the
ruling.  “We have set up the Iraq Historic Allegations Team as an
independent body in order to investigate claims of abuse by
British service personnel in Iraq,” the ministry said in an e-
mailed statement. “The standards of conduct required of U.K.
forces are, and have always been, in accordance with the
relevant international law, and the domestic criminal law that
applies to U.K. forces at all times.”  The investigation into the death of Baha Mousa, the 26-
year-old son of a Basra police colonel, was found to be adequate
because a public inquiry was opened in 2008, the court said.
Mousa was arrested by the Royal Military Police in September
2003 and killed while in custody. A Special Investigation Branch
of the U.K. police initially investigated the killing. The
public inquiry is nearing completion and therefore Mousa “was
no longer a victim of any breach” of procedure, the court said.  The court separately awarded another Iraqi, arrested by
U.S. soldiers and held for three years in a Basra prison run by
British forces, 25,000 euros in damages and 40,000 euros for
costs. The court said no United Nations resolution allowed the
U.K. to hold someone in “indefinite detention without charge.”  The  European Court  of Human Rights cases are: Al-Skeini and
Others v. the  United Kingdom , no. 55721/07, and Al-Jedda v. the
UK, no. 27021/08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  