-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending July 5 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-07T12:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-july-5-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   With the main storm track over the northern states, strong high
pressure in the upper levels of the atmosphere dominated the
southern U.S. during this U.S. Drought Monitor (USDM) week.
Weak fronts that penetrated into the Southeast stalled out and
provided an instability zone for scattered showers and
thunderstorms.  Convective showers benefited  Florida  while
Tropical Storm Arlene rain brushed Deep South  Texas  and monsoon
showers picked up over parts of the Southwest.  Most of the
southern Plains continued hot and dry, with much above-normal
temperatures spreading across the central half of the country.  The Upper Midwest, Northeast, and Mid-Atlantic: The last 30 days
have been drier than normal for much of western  New York ,
western  Pennsylvania , and central  Maryland  to  Delaware  and
southern  New Jersey . But the dryness over the Maryland-Delaware
area extended further back in time, so D0 expanded in central
Maryland, northern Virginia, and adjoining south central
Pennsylvania, and a spot of D2 was added to Maryland’s
southeastern shore to reflect the greatest precipitation
deficits and low groundwater.  An A impacts designation was
placed over the Maryland D0 with AH impacts over the DelMarVa
D1-D2 and the rest of  Virginia , leaving the southern New Jersey
D0 area free of an impacts designator.  Southeast: Beneficial (1 to 4+ inch) rains prompted the
contraction of D0 in northwest Alabama, the pullback of D3 over
southeast Alabama and D4 over southeast Georgia, and improvement
of D3 in northern Florida and D1-D2-D3-D4 in coastal central to
southern Florida.  But conditions deteriorated over the
Carolinas, where D3 was added along the  North Carolina  coastal
plain and D2-D3 expanded from southern coastal North Carolina
and parts of coastal  South Carolina .  D1 expanded across most of
South Carolina and into the Catawba Basin of western North
Carolina, with minor expansion of D0 in western North Carolina.
The H impacts area from northern  Alabama  to North Carolina was
reconfigured to accommodate expanded AH impacts in North
Carolina.  The Plains: Improvement of the D3 and D4 areas occurred over
southern Texas where a month?s worth of rain fell this week,
especially in the Brownsville area.  D0 and D2 were pulled back
in the Wise and Upshur county areas, respectively, where locally
beneficial rains fell.  But conditions deteriorated elsewhere in
Texas with D4 expanding to cover all of the panhandle as well as
expanding in Harrison and Bosque counties, and D3 expanding in
central Texas.  In Oklahoma, the D0 hole was filled in over
Garfield County, D1 expanded across eastern Oklahoma and
adjoining southwest  Arkansas , and D2-D3 expanded in south
central to Southeast  Oklahoma .  D0 expanded in southeast  Kansas 
where rainfall has been below normal and temperatures above
normal for the last 1 to 4 weeks.  The West: Although streamflows were fine, D0 expanded in
southeast  Utah  to reflect precipitation deficits and satellite-
observed impacts on vegetation.  In  Colorado , a spot of D4 was
added to Alamosa County were precipitation deficits were most
severe, and D0-D1-D2 in Cheyenne County expanded to reflect
worsening local impacts.  Hawaii, Alaska and Puerto Rico: Above-normal precipitation at
many time scales and above-normal streamflow prompted the
pullback of D0 in central Alaska.  Northwest Puerto Rico has
been dry for the last 7 to 30 days, but wet at longer periods.
However, low streamflows coupled with the below-normal
precipitation prompted the addition of D0H to that area.  No
changes were made to the Hawaiian depiction this week.  Looking Ahead: The weather pattern of the last few weeks will
continue for the next two weeks, with an upper-level ridge over
the south and the storm track keeping to the northern states.
Cool fronts will weaken as they try to penetrate the southern
high pressure, providing instability zones for showers.  Monsoon
rain is expected for the Southwest and summertime convection
should bring rain to Florida. For the next 5 days (July 6-11),
an inch or more of rain is expected in a band from the central
Rockies to central Plains, across parts of the Southeast to Mid-
Atlantic coast, and over much of the Florida peninsula.  Monsoon
showers may drop up to half an inch of rain in parts of the
Southwest, with other parts of the Southeast drought areas
possibly receiving a quarter inch to an inch of rain.  The
northern Plains to western  Great Lakes  could see half an inch of
rain, while the southern Plains should remain mostly rain-free.
Temperatures are expected to be above normal for much of the
country.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook and 8-14 day outlook indicate above-
normal precipitation will fall over the Rockies, central and
northern Great Plains, southern Great Lakes, and Florida
peninsula into the Southeast, while dry weather should dominate
across parts of the Southwest, Mid-Atlantic, and much of the
southern Plains.  Below-normal temperatures are expected along
the west coast while warmer-than-normal temperatures should
dominate across most of the country east of the Rockies.
Northern  Alaska  is expected to be dry and southern Alaska cool
and wet.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  