-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 1 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-07T15:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-july-1-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.3 million barrels per
day during the week ending July 1, 68 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 88.4
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.5 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.4 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 9.9 million barrels per
day last week, up by 976 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 9.1 million barrels per day, 546 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 700 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 123 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 0.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 358.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
0.6 million barrels last week and are in the lower limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 0.2 million barrels last week and
are near the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 2.3 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 0.5
million barrels last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  