-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for July 7 to Sept. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-07-07T13:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-july-7-to-sept-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - ENSO-neutral conditions developed
during the first part of June, but in the wake of the 2010-2011
La Nina, widespread drought developed and persisted across the
southern tier of the U.S. Significantly, over 65 percent of the
current drought areas are extreme or exceptional, with many
areas experiencing record precipitation deficits. During the
previous three weeks, drought generally persisted or expanded
across portions of the southern Plains, lower Mississippi
Valley, and the southern Atlantic states. Several thunderstorm
complexes and the outer bands of Tropical Storm Arlene brought
localized relief to eastern and far southern Texas, while
unseasonably hot, dry weather sparked a flash drought in eastern
 Oklahoma  and southern  Arkansas . During the previous week,
monsoon thunderstorms began firing across the Four Corners
states, while consistent thunderstorm activity across southern
Florida indicated the beginning of the delayed rainy season.
Drought improvement is expected across much of the Southwest and
Florida during the upcoming three months as seasonal
thunderstorm activity continues. Enhanced chances of above-
median rainfall across the southern Atlantic states also favors
drought amelioration. In contrast, a dry climatology and
expected above-median temperatures during the summer months
across the southern Plains and lower Mississippi Valley limits
opportunities for drought reduction, with further development
possible across portions of Texas and Arkansas where abnormal
dryness is already present. Across the remainder of the
Southeast, some improvement is possible under a summertime
convective regime, although rainfall deficits are substantial
and long-term in some areas, particularly across Louisiana. The
prospect of tropical cyclones, with an expected above-normal
season peaking in September, adds to the forecast uncertainty.
Across  Hawaii , leeward drought persistence is expected under the
summer trade wind regime.  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for July
2011 and the long lead forecast for July - September 2011,
various medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the
6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the soil moisture tools based
on the GFS model and the Constructed Analogue on Soil (CAS)
moisture, the Climate Forecast System (CFS) seasonal
precipitation forecasts, the four-month Palmer drought
termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology, and
initial conditions.  Widespread drought conditions generally persisted or intensified
across the southern Plains during the previous 30 days, as much
of western  Texas  and eastern Oklahoma received less than 25
percent of normal precipitation. In contrast, heavy rain from
thunderstorm complexes brought localized relief to northeastern
Texas, while thunderstorms associated with an upper level
disturbance followed by the outer bands of Tropical Storm Arlene
reduced drought intensity across far southern Texas. In eastern
Oklahoma and southern Arkansas, abnormal dryness coupled with
high temperatures caused a rapid deterioration of drought
conditions. Drier weather is typical across the eastern half of
Texas and the lower Mississippi Valley during July and August,
with mean precipitation increasing substantially in September
across southern Texas. The climatologically drier summer pattern
limits opportunities for substantial drought reduction across
Texas, Oklahoma, and the Mississippi Delta region, while
increased rains in September boost chances of drought
improvement for southern Texas. Summertime convection and the
potential for tropical cyclone activity may ameliorate some of
the drought closer to the western  Gulf coast . Persistence is
indicated across central and northeastern Texas, central
Oklahoma, and northern  Louisiana , while some improvement or
improvement are expected across far southern Texas and the
western  Gulf Coast . In southern Arkansas, recent heat and
dryness coupled with the relatively dry climatology support a
forecast for drought development, particularly in the short
term. Forecast confidence for the southern Plains and
Mississippi Delta is moderate.  Below-average rainfall prevailed across the far southwestern
 United States  during the previous 30 days, allowing drought
areas to persist or intensify, though monsoon thunderstorms have
commenced during the previous week. As of June 28, exceptional
drought covered nearly 50 percent of  New Mexico , including
nearly all of the state’s southern half. During July, the North
American Monsoon shifts northward from  Mexico ’s Sierra Madres
into the southwestern United States, bringing scattered showers
and thunderstorms which account for a significant portion of the
annual rainfall. The monsoon typically peaks in July and August
before decaying in September. Both the updated CPC July
precipitation outlook and the July - September seasonal outlook
indicate equal chances of above or below median rainfall across
the core monsoon region. This outlook, therefore, favors
climatology, with the North American monsoon bringing drought
improvement to  Arizona , western New Mexico, and portions of
 Colorado  and northwestern  Kansas . Note that drought improvement
as defined in this outlook verifies as a one-category reduction
on the U.S. Drought Monitor, rather than total drought
elimination or substantial amelioration of impacts. Improvement
is less certain across the eastern flank of the monsoon region,
which includes eastern New Mexico and the Texas Panhandle
region, where drought is more entrenched. Forecast confidence
for the southwestern United States is low to moderate.  Generally below average rainfall continued across the Deep South
and southern Atlantic coastal Plain during the previous 30 days,
with precipitation deficits exceeding two inches across portions
of Louisiana, the southern border of Mississippi and  Alabama ,
southwestern  Georgia , the eastern  Florida  panhandle, and the
eastern Carolinas. Drought expanded across the Carolinas and
northern Georgia and intensified along the Gulf Coast, where
exceptional drought covered nearly 64 percent of Louisiana and
extended eastward into the  Florida Panhandle  and much of
southern Georgia. Scattered showers and thunderstorms typically
occur across the Southeast during the summer months, with the
southern Atlantic coastline receiving 30 to 40 percent of its
annual rainfall during the July - September period. Tropical
cyclones or their remnants can also bring substantial rainfall
to the Southeast during the summer or early autumn months. The
CPC July - September seasonal outlook calls for increased odds
of above-median rainfall across the southeastern coastal Plain
and piedmont regions. Since these improved rainfall chances
occur during a climatologically wet time of year for the
Southeast, improvement is indicated in this outlook from the
eastern Gulf Coast through the Delmarva Peninsula. Some
improvement is maintained across the remainder of the Deep
South. Forecast confidence for the Southeast and southern
Atlantic is high.  The Florida peninsula’s seabreeze convergence driven rainy
season, which typically begins in late May, was delayed for much
of June, leading to a substantial deterioration of long-standing
drought conditions across southern Florida and increasing
wildfires. During the previous week, however, widespread and
sustained thunderstorm activity commenced, beginning the rainy
season and providing some initial short term relief. Extreme
drought conditions continue across much of southeastern and far
southwestern Florida, while exceptional drought remains
entrenched across the Broward and southern Palm Beach County
metropolitan areas. The southern half of the Florida peninsula
typically receives 40 to 45 percent of its annual rainfall
during the July - September period, and the CPC July - September
seasonal outlook indicates enhanced odds of above-median
precipitation. Therefore, further drought improvement is likely
as the rainy season continues through the summer months. The
Florida peninsula is also prone to tropical cyclone landfalls,
which can bring substantial rainfall in short periods of time.
The climatological peak of  hurricane season  falls in early
September. Forecast confidence for the Florida peninsula is
high.  In Hawaii, the CPC July - September seasonal outlook indicates
enhanced chances of below-median rainfall. This, coupled with
the summer trade wind regime, which favors dryness on the lee
sides of the islands, favors persistence of the existing drought
areas in the state. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is moderate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  