-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Plans to Write Rules for Mortgage Servicers

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-consumer-bureau-plans-to-write-rules-for-mortgage-servicers.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau is preparing to impose rules on U.S. mortgage servicing
firms, said Raj Date, the bureau’s associate director.  When the bureau begins formal operation July 21, “mortgage
servicing will be one of CFPB’s priorities,” Date said in
testimony prepared for delivery to members of the House
Financial Services Committee today.  The $10.4 trillion industry has structural features “that
make it especially prone to the risk of consumer harm,” one of
which is lack of consumer choice, Date said. A homeowner doesn’t
have the option of shopping for a better or more competent
provider, he said.  “I get to choose my pharmacist. I don’t typically get to
choose my mortgage servicer,” Date said.  Members of the financial services and oversight
subcommittees of the House panel are examining lapses and gaps
in mortgage servicing regulation.  State attorneys general and the  Justice Department  are
advanced talks with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and three other servicers on a $20 billion settlement to resolve
state and federal claims over botched foreclosures, faulty
paperwork and inadequate staffing by the industry, according to
two people briefed on the matter.  In remarks prepared for delivery at today’s hearing,
oversight subcommittee chairman Randy Neugebauer, a Texas
Republican, called the proposed settlement an attempt to
legislate through enforcement.  OCC Settlement  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Office of
Thrift Supervision,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. reached an accord with the 14 largest servicers
in April, requiring them to improve foreclosure, loan-
modification and refinancing procedures. The settlement covers
firms that handle nearly 70 percent of all mortgages.  The Dodd-Frank Act that became law a year ago gave the
consumer bureau authority to impose standards on non-bank
servicers that aren’t subject to traditional federal banking
regulation. In May, the Government Accountability Office said
federal oversight of the industry has been “limited and
fragmented.”  Date said the bureau is working with other agencies,
including the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees
mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , to establish
industry standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 