-- 
U.S. Consumer Loan Delinquencies Rose in First Quarter, ABA Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-07T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-consumer-loan-delinquencies-rose-in-first-quarter-aba-says.html
U.S. consumer-loan delinquencies rose
in the first quarter as high gas prices and unemployment
stretched the budgets of consumers, the  American Bankers
Association  said.  Overall delinquencies across eight loan categories rose to
2.71 percent of all accounts in the three months ending March 31
from 2.68 percent in the prior quarter, the ABA said today in
its Consumer Credit Delinquency Bulletin. Overdue payments on
credit cards rose by 12 basis points, to 3.4 percent, after
delinquencies dropped last quarter to the lowest level in almost
a decade.  “It’s hard to see dramatic improvements in delinquency
rates when the economy still is barely moving forward,” James Chessen, the Washington-based group’s chief economist, said in a
statement. “Until the economy shifts up a gear, employment
improves and food and gas prices stabilize, some people will
struggle to make ends meet.”  Employers created fewer jobs than forecast in May as the
U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent, from 9 percent in
April and 8.8 percent in March, according to Labor Department
figures.  More than two years after the 18-month recession ended in
June 2009, economic growth is “continuing at a moderate pace,
though somewhat more slowly” than anticipated, Federal Reserve
policy makers led by  Ben S. Bernanke , the central bank chairman,
said on June 22 after a two-day meeting in  Washington .  That “reflects, in part, factors that are likely to be
temporary, including the damping effect of higher food and
energy prices on consumer purchasing power and spending, as well
as supply-chain disruptions associated with the tragic events in
 Japan ,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  