-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: World Food Prices Advance on Sugar

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-07T11:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-world-food-prices-advance-on-sugar.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  World Food Prices Climb as Sugar, Dairy Provide No Break (2)  World food prices rose in June as the cost of sugar, meat
and dairy increased, adding to inflationary pressure that has
prompted central banks across the world to raise interest rates.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  BioVerde Expanding From Biodiesel to Chemicals Made From Plants  BioVerde Industria e Comercio de Biocombustiveis SA, a
biodiesel company that’s building Brazil’s biggest refinery, is
seeking to become the country’s top providers of specialty
chemicals produced from renewable sources.  Standard Chartered , DBS, IFC to Fund Techno Electric Wind Farm  Standard Chartered Plc, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and the
 World Bank ’s private-sector financing arm loaned $80 million to
Techno Electric & Engineering Co. for a wind farm in southern
 India .  Qatar Offers First Naphtha Shipments From Pearl GTL Plant (1)  Qatar has started selling naphtha cargoes from the Pearl
gas-to-liquids plant, the world’s largest facility that converts
natural gas into liquid fuels.  India’s Mines Ministry Seeks Rollback of Profit-Share Demand (1)  India’s mines ministry is seeking to scrap proposals in a
draft bill that would force mining companies to share profits
with local communities, payments that had been opposed by an
industry lobby group.  Coal Worst Quarter of 2011 Looms on  China , Japan: Energy Markets  Coal may extend declines from the highest since 2008,
putting it on course for the weakest quarter of the year, as
China boosts hydropower use and Japan struggles to start damaged
plants against a backdrop of slowing growth.  China’s $70 Billion Fund Managers Rush to Buy Into Gold ETFs (1)  China’s asset managers, who have been approved to raise $70
billion for allocation overseas, are seeking additional funds to
invest in gold and precious metals as soaring inflation spurs
interest in alternative assets as a way to protect wealth.  African Barrick Shares Hit as Mining Boom Triggers Tax Grab (1)  African countries are moving to grab a bigger slice of
their commodity wealth as rivalry for the world’s remaining
reserves of  iron ore , uranium and gold sap the bargaining power
of companies such as Anglo American Plc.  Airlines Prepare to Take Off on Fuel Made From Algae, Wood Chips  After decades of waiting, commercial airlines have been
given the go-ahead to use fuel made from algae, wood chips and
other plants with obscure names.  Diamonds Lure Insurance Investor Cowdery as Returns Outpace Gold  Clive Cowdery, the Resolution Ltd. founder who made about
$240 million buying and selling insurers, is betting on diamonds
after prices rose five times faster than gold this year on
surging demand from China and India.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises to 11-Week High as Weather Fuels Supply Concern  Copper rose to an 11-week high in  London  on concern about
supply stoked by adverse weather in  Chile , the world’s biggest
producer of the metal, and a strike at the Grasberg mine in
 Indonesia .  Goldman, Morgan Stanley Stay Bullish on Oil, Copper on Demand  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley kept their
bullish view on oil and copper, predicting a global recovery in
the second half that will push up prices.  Copper Fees May Stay High on  Japan  Quake, China Imports Drop (1)  Processing fees to turn copper ore into metal will likely
be sustained at high levels next year after an earthquake in
Japan shut smelting capacity and China imported less of the raw
material, said Japan’s top smelter.  MINING:  Kenmare Says Proposed  Mozambique  Law Unlikely to Affect Mine (1)  Kenmare Resources Plc, a minerals producer in Mozambique,
said it understands plans to revise mining laws won’t affect its
existing titanium operation in the southern African nation.  India’s Mines Ministry Seeks Rollback of Profit-Sharing Demand  India’s mines ministry is seeking to scrap proposals in a
draft bill that would force mining companies to share profits
with local communities, payments that had been opposed by an
industry lobby group.  African Taxes Weigh on Mining Shares Even as Commodities Gain  African countries are moving to grab a bigger slice of
their commodity wealth as rivalry for the world’s remaining
reserves of iron ore, uranium and gold sap the bargaining power
of companies such as Anglo American Plc.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Decline as Investors Sell After Rally to Two-Week High  Gold may decline for the first time this week in London as
some investors sell the metal after its rally to a two-week high
and as gains in other commodities cut demand for an alternative
investment.  China’s $70 Billion Fund Managers Rush to Boost Gold Investment  China’s asset managers, who have been approved to raise $70
billion for allocation overseas, are seeking additional funds to
invest in gold and precious metals as soaring inflation spurs
interest in alternative assets as a way to protect wealth.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Drops for Second Day as Weather Conditions in U.S. Improve  Wheat declined for a second day as weather conditions
improved in growing areas including the U.S. and as  Russia  was
set to return to the export market, increasing supplies. Rice
futures advanced.  India Issues Permits to Export 158,461 Metric Tons of Cotton  Louis Dreyfus Commodities, the top trader of cotton, and
Cargill Inc. are among companies that won permits to export
158,461 metric tons from India, the trade ministry said today.  Rubber Declines as China Rate Increase Reduces Demand Outlook  Rubber declined for the second time this week as China’s
interest rate increase and  Europe ’s debt problems spurred
concern that global growth may slow, weakening demand for the
commodity.  Jordan Buys 150,000 Tons of Wheat From Russia, Other Origins  Jordan bought 150,000 metric tons of wheat, including
50,000 tons from Russia, the Ministry of Industry and Trade
said.  China Corn Purchases Not Enough to Spur Rally, Cofco VP Says  The bearish outlook for corn after U.S. increased planting
and inventory estimates will offset any support for prices from
possible buying by China, said an executive at Cofco Ltd., the
country’s largest grains trader.  Sugar Climbs as  Brazil ’s Crop May Miss Estimate; Cocoa Retreats  Sugar climbed in London, paring yesterday’s losses, on
concerns the crop in top producer Brazil will be smaller than
initially estimated. Cocoa fell.  SHIPPING:  Vale Building Program for Largest Iron-Ore Carriers Is Unchanged  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron ore producer, is keeping
to its original schedule for building a fleet of the biggest-
ever ships to carry the commodity.  ECONOMIES:  Corporate Yield Gap at Post-Lehman High on Curbs: China Credit  The premium investors demand to hold China’s corporate
bonds rather than sovereign debt rose to the highest level since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed as central bank policies
curb economic growth and earnings.  Chinese Stocks to Rally on Policy Easing, Deutsche Bank Says (1)  The MSCI China Index will rally 20 percent over the next 12
months on increasing prospects for an easing of monetary policy
by the Chinese central bank from the end of the third quarter,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  China May Pause on Rates as Wen Bets Prices ‘Controllable’ (1)  China may limit interest-rate increases for the rest of
this year as Premier Wen Jiabao bets that a slowing economy will
help tame inflation after five moves since mid-October.  Trichet Fights a War on Two Fronts as Rate Increase Looms (1)  European Central Bank  President Jean- Claude Trichet is
fighting a war on two fronts as he seeks to contain price
pressures while the Greek crisis threatens to blow the euro area
apart.  King Diverges Further From Europe as BOE to Hold Key Rate (1)  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King’s monetary policy may
diverge further from the rest of Europe today as officials keep
record-low  interest rates  to aid the recovery and guard against
threats from the Greek crisis.  U.K. May Manufacturing Output Rises Most Since March 2010 (2)  U.K. manufacturing rose at the fastest pace in more than a
year in May as factories rebounded from the impact of an extra
public holiday in April and the Japanese earthquake.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Commodities Rise Before Jobs Data; Debt Risk Climbs  Stocks, U.S. index futures and commodities rose before a
report that will probably show America’s jobless claims
declined. Italian bonds fell and sovereign debt insurance costs
climbed to records on concern higher interest rates will
exacerbate Europe’s credit crisis.  Euro Falls to Week Low Versus Dollar Before ECB Rate Decision  The euro touched a one-week low against the dollar as
concern that  Greece  may become the currency region’s first
default outweighed prospects for higher interest rates from the
European Central Bank.  Aussie Dollar Gains as Employers Added More Jobs Than Forecast  The Australian dollar rose for a second day after a report
showed employers added more jobs in June than economists
forecast, easing concern that the nation’s economy is losing
momentum.  European Stocks Climb for Eighth Day in Nine; Man Group Gains  European stocks advanced for the eighth time in nine days
before a report that may show the number of Americans filing
claims for jobless benefits fell. Asian shares were little
changed and U.S. index futures gained.  Chinese Stocks to Rally on Policy Easing, Deutsche Bank Says (2)  The MSCI China Index will rally 20 percent over the next 12
months on increasing prospects for an easing of monetary policy
by the Chinese central bank from the end of the third quarter,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Oil Futures Rise on Signs U.S. Crude Inventories are Declining  Oil rose as investors bet declining stockpiles and signs of
economic recovery in the U.S. indicate fuel demand is
strengthening in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Murdoch Gets Dangerous for Cameron Amid Phone-Hack Scandal (4)  For three decades, Britain’s powerful have sought close
relations with  Rupert Murdoch  and his newspapers. Now
politicians, police and businesses are all finding that
closeness is becoming dangerous.  U.K. Watchdog Slams Cameron Move to Cut Back Aircraft Carriers  Britain’s government spending watchdog criticized Prime
Minister David Cameron’s decision to scale back plans for new
aircraft carriers, saying it raises questions over affordability
and loss of expertise in operating the ships.  Netanyahu Sees ‘No Reason’ for Humanitarian Flotillas to Gaza  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there is no
ban on shipments of food and medicines to the Hamas-controlled
 Gaza Strip  and there was no need for flotillas of vessels
carrying humanitrian aid.  SPORTS:  Twente Stadium Partially Collapses, People Trapped, ANP Reports  Part of the stadium of Dutch soccer club  FC Twente  in the
eastern city of Enschede has collapsed and people are trapped
under the debris, news agency ANP reported today, citing police.  Bin Hammam Said to Decline Meeting With Bribe Investigator (1)  Mohamed Bin Hammam refused to meet with investigators
probing accusations that the suspended head of Asian soccer
tried to bribe voters in FIFA’s presidential election, according
to two people familiar with the situation.  Tottenham Wants to Beat Arsenal to Sign Mata, Mail Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  