-- 
U.S. Troop Extension in Iraq Hinges on Iranian Attacks

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-07T19:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/u-s-troop-extension-in-iraq-hinges-on-reducing-iranian-attacks.html
Any U.S. agreement to keep troops in
 Iraq  beyond the planned Dec. 31 withdrawal should be contingent
on Iraqi authorities cutting off the flow of Iranian weapons and
training to the militias killing American soldiers, said Admiral
Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  U.S. officials have said they would consider an Iraqi
government request to keep some of the almost 50,000 troops in
the country longer, to help secure air space and improve the
Iraqi security force’s capabilities.  Mullen repeated former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ’s
assertion last week that Iran, which is predominately Shiite
Muslim, is furnishing new, more deadly weapons to Shiite
militias targeting U.S. troops across the border in Iraq, after
a lull since 2008. The result has been a spike in U.S. troop
deaths, Gates said in an interview before leaving office last
week.  “ Iran  is very directly supporting extremist Shia groups
which are killing our troops” in Iraq, Mullen told reporters at
the Pentagon. Any extension of the U.S. troop presence “has to
be done in conjunction with control of Iran in that regard.”  The condition for a U.S. troop extension poses a challenge
to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, whose Shiite Muslim
political party has struggled to manage Iran’s political and
military influence.  Iranian Denials  Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi
denied Gates’s allegations, calling them repeated lies and
saying U.S. officials should review their policies in the
region, the state-run Fars news agency reported on July 2.  The highest levels of the Iranian regime know about the aid
to Iraqi militias, Mullen said. He declined to say they were
encouraging the moves.  “There’s no question they want influence, particularly in
the south,” Mullen said. Forensics prove that “they are
shipping high-tech weapons in there,” he said. “That has to be
dealt with, not just now, but obviously in the future as well.”  About 40 percent of the deaths of American soldiers in Iraq
since the official end of U.S. combat operations almost 10
months ago have occurred in the past few weeks as a result of
the attacks, Gates said in an interview before leaving office
last week.  ‘More Lethal’  The technology Iran is providing is “more lethal” than
what it furnished the militias in 2006 and 2007, Mullen said.  The Iranians “make conscious choices about this,” he
said. “They decided in 2008 that they were going to back off.
They had. We are now seeing it increase.”  Iran is supplying a “significant” number of weapons,
including “more lethal” bombs called “improvised rocket-
assisted munitions,” Mullen said. IRAMs are more powerful than
a conventional mortar shell. He also cited “explosively formed
penetrators,” an armor-piercing type of roadside bomb that
Gates said are now bigger than before.  The U.S. also is concerned about growing supplies of
advanced rocket-propelled grenades, Gates said. The weapons,
popular with insurgent groups, are effective against U.S. armor.  Mullen left open the possibility that the U.S. would take
action itself to eliminate the threat.  “Anything we do would be very clearly focused on the
inherent right of self-defense,” he said. “There’s a formal
end to combat operations. There’s never a formal end to self-
defense, and being able to respond and defend yourself is very
much a part” of the mission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 