-- 
Ugandan Shilling Falls for Third Day as Kampala Strike Continues

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-07-07T14:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/ugandan-shilling-falls-for-third-day-as-strike-by-kampala-traders-goes-on.html
Uganda ’s shilling fell for a third
consecutive trading day amid a strike by retail traders in the
capital, Kampala, over the impact that accelerating inflation
and the weakening currency are having on their businesses.  The currency of  Africa ’s second-biggest coffee producer
depreciated 0.9 percent to 2,595 per dollar at 5:19 p.m. in
Kampala, bringing its loss to 11 percent so far this year. The
currency closed at 2,572.50 yesterday.  “There was limited trading because of the strike,” Taib
Lubega, a dealer at Stanbic Bank Uganda Ltd. in Kampala, said in
a phone interview. The shilling is expected to come under
renewed pressure tomorrow because of piled up demand for
dollars,” he said.  Inflation in the East African country slowed to 15.8
percent in June after reaching a 17-year high of 16 percent in
May, while the shilling slumped to an 18-year low last month.
The work stoppage, which began yesterday, continued today after
the government failed to meet demands to address the weakening
shilling, Kampala City Traders Association spokesman Issa
Sekitto said in an interview today.  The strike brought business in the city to a standstill
yesterday, the Daily Monitor, a Kampala-based newspaper,
reported.  The Ugandan government is doing “everything possible” to
curb inflation, while the Bank of Uganda is continuing to
“cautiously intervene” in domestic money markets to ensure the
 exchange rate  doesn’t spiral out of control, Information
Minister Mary Karooro Okurut said in an e-mailed statement.  “The bank will continue to support stability in the
exchange rate other than supporting a specific exchange rate,”
Okurut said in a phone interview.  Uganda, East Africa’s third-biggest economy, is scheduled
to become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  is
expected to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert
Basin. The country has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil,
with about 1 billion barrels in proven reserves, according to
Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 