-- 
Humane Society, Egg Group Propose Cage, Hen Treatment Laws

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-07T19:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/humane-society-egg-group-propose-cage-hen-treatment-laws-1-.html
The  Humane Society of the U.S.  and
the  United Egg Producers  said they agreed to urge U.S. lawmakers
to enact national standards for the treatment and living
conditions of hens, including more cage space.  The agreement calls for new “enriched housing systems”
that offer nearly double the amount of space provided for birds
in conventional cages used in more than 90 percent of the egg-
producing industry, the groups said today in a joint  statement .
The change will cost the industry $4 billion over the next 15
years, according to the groups.  “We strongly believe our commitment to a national standard
for hen welfare is in the best interest of our animals,
customers and consumers,” Bob Krouse, an Indiana egg farmer and
chairman of the UEP, said in the statement. “We are committed
to working together for the good of the hens in our care and
believe a national standard is far superior than a patchwork of
state laws and regulations.”  Planned ballot measures related to egg-laying hens in
Washington and  Oregon  will be placed on hold because the
agreement helps clear the way for more comprehensive federal
legislation, the groups said in the statement.  Pork-Producer Opposition  The proposal drew opposition from the  National Pork
Producers Council , which expressed concern with a “one-size-
fits-all approach” for the livestock industry that may create
uncertainty for hog producers who use a variety of housing
systems for animals.  “Legislation pre-empting state laws on egg-production
systems would set a dangerous precedent for allowing the federal
government to dictate how livestock and poultry producers raise
and care for their animals,” Doug Wolf, the council’s
president, said in an e-mailed  statement .  The U.S. pork industry is committed to animal well-being,
he said.  Other parts of the proposal include labeling on egg cartons
to inform consumers of how the eggs were produced, such as
“eggs from caged hens,” and standards approved by the American
Veterinary Medical Association for euthanasia for hens.  The UEP is a farmer cooperative that represents owners of
about 80 percent of the nation’s egg-laying hens. The  Humane
Society  is the largest U.S. animal-protection organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 