-- 
Unemployment Rate Won’t Hobble Re-Election, David Plouffe Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/unemployment-rate-won-t-hobble-re-election-david-plouffe-says.html
The White House’s top political
adviser, downplaying the significance of the unemployment rate
in the 2012 election, said the Republican candidates are
offering the same policies that caused the economic crisis and
targeted one potential opponent --  Mitt Romney .  “So all of them are basically just bringing out the same
old war horses,” senior adviser  David Plouffe  said yesterday at
a Bloomberg Breakfast in  Washington . “Let Wall Street kind of
run amok, cut taxes for the wealthy, starve investment in things
like education, research and development.”  Plouffe, who ran Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign,
previewed the arguments the president and his team will sound 16
months before an election that could be a referendum on Obama’s
handling of the economy. While history has shown the
unemployment rate to be a leading indicator of an incumbent’s
success, Plouffe said Americans won’t base their votes on it.  “The average American does not view the economy through
the prism of GDP or unemployment rates or even monthly jobs
numbers,” Plouffe said. “People won’t vote based on the
unemployment rate, they’re going to vote based on: ‘How do I
feel about my own situation? Do I believe the president makes
decisions based on me and my family?’”  Election Day Unemployment  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg puts the unemployment rate at 8.2 percent in the third
quarter of next year.  “Their decision next year will be based upon two things,”
Plouffe said. “How do I feel about things right now and then,
ultimately, campaigns are always much more about the future and
who do I think has got the best idea, the best vision for where
to take the country?”  Still, the White House is aware of its vulnerabilities
regarding the economy. Without prompting, Plouffe singled out
Romney, the presumed Republican presidential frontrunner, and
defended Obama against criticism the former Massachusetts
governor has lodged about the president’s handling of the
economy.  “Governor Romney has reminded us that he’s a world-class
political contortionist,” Plouffe said. “He’s kind of been all
over the map on the president’s leadership on the economy.”  Democrats have accused Romney of contradicting his own
attacks -- by first saying Obama’s policies made the recession
worse and then telling reporters he hadn’t said it.  ‘Greatest Job Terminator’’  Romney’s campaign responded, saying Obama is challenging
former President  Herbert Hoover  as the “greatest job terminator
in U.S. history.”  “Mr. Plouffe has our deepest sympathies,” said Matt
Rhoades, a campaign spokesman. “If he’d like his candidate to
discuss real issues, Mitt Romney will debate President Obama any
time, any place.”  Plouffe spent most of the breakfast with reporters
discussing the ongoing negotiations over a deficit reduction
plan and a vote to raise the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling.
He said voters want to see lawmakers come together and reach a
long-term deal to cut the nation’s deficit.  While he downplayed the effect of the national employment
rate on voter behavior, Plouffe said Americans are beginning to
see the consequences of state and local government budget-cuts.  “School hours being shortened, they’re paying for
extracurricular activities, public safety,” Plouffe said.
“These things have been hemmed in.”  Swing State Governors  Those cuts are driving down the approval ratings of newly
elected Republican governors, several of whom are based in
presidential election swing states.  Asked about how significant their standing will be in the
2012 campaign, Plouffe paused and then referenced the low
approval ratings of Florida’s Governor  Rick Scott .  “If the governor of Florida’s approval rating is at 30 or
32 percent, that will provide a challenge for the Republican
nominee,” he said.  Plouffe said the campaign will be a “street fight for the
presidency,” waged state by state. He said the president will
have to work harder for important “focus groups,” including
Hispanic and suburban voters.  “It will be a closer race than last time,” he said.
“They will run a better race than last time, whoever it is.”  Building Momentum  Plouffe said he’s confident in Obama’s ability to replicate
the grassroots enthusiasm of 2008 by re-engaging the party’s
base as well as new and young voters. He also cited momentum
building in key states like  Florida , Virginia and  Colorado .  “There’s not a lot of navel gazing going on,” he said.  Plouffe said that as Republicans battle for their party’s
nomination and offer mixed prescriptions for the economy, Obama
will continue to strike many of the same themes aimed at middle
class voters that he used in his 2008 campaign.  “Until then, we’re just going to be quietly building the
campaign and they’ll have their fight,” Plouffe said. “The
Republicans will decide who’s going to face off against us and
we’ll be ready for whoever comes out the other end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  