-- 
Vienna Rockers Blast Away Mozart, Strauss in Underground Movie

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/vienna-rockers-blast-away-mozart-strauss-as-movie-fetes-underground-bands.html
Forget Viennese waltzes. A film that
premieres today shows how techno, experimental and thrash-punk
bands are boosting the Austrian capital’s rock scene.  Briton Andrew Standen-Raz wrote and directed “ Vinyl: Tales
from the Vienna Underground ,” which pushes Vienna’s musical
reputation beyond Mozart and Strauss.  The 78-minute documentary is being shown at the
MuseumsQuartier, the former royal stables that now houses two
art museums and theater stages. Bands appearing in the film,
including underground performers Rokko Anal and avant-garde-pop
singer  AVaspo , will perform after the screening.  “A city builds a history and can either learn from it or
sink under its weight,” Standen-Raz said in an interview. “As
a storyteller you are looking for contrasts that potentially set
up conflict. In Vienna you have those extremes.”  The movie, made over three years, captures a pierced and
painted tribe who rebel against the heritage of a city that
 attracts millions  of classical-music tourists a year.  “It’s going to take us at least another 200 or 300 years
more to convey a modern image of Vienna,” quips DJ Heinz Reich
in one scene.  They struggle to find acceptance even as Vienna turns
former Nazi bunkers into  art installations  rather than tearing
them down to make space for a new generation of artists. The
bands’ hopes for the uniting power of music contrast with the
demagogy of  Austria ’s nationalist parties, who are the subject
of a second Standen-Raz movie to be released in January.  Stark Contrast  “Growing up in  England , we didn’t have a very positive
view of Austria,” said Standen-Raz, 40, sitting in the basement
of Celeste, a jazz club near the Secession Museum.  He managed foreign-rights film distribution at 20th Century
Fox before dropping out in 2001, “burned out by  Los Angeles ,”
and returned to his native  London  to plan an independent career.  A 5,000 euro ($7,180) Austrian grant in 2007, along with
donated equipment and volunteer labor, helped launch the
documentary and convinced him to move to Vienna.  “The Austrian system gives assistance to artists,” he
said, casually dressed and with three-day stubble. “There’s no
endless supply of money but access is easier than in other
cities.”  Standen-Raz, who has a film degree from New York
University’s  Tisch School , used in-camera special effects to
paint over and accentuate his outsider’s impressions of Vienna.
The technique tries to capture “the blurring of musical
boundaries that makes the city so fascinating,” he said.  Obtaining the music-licensing rights among the more than 30
acts who perform on film, including dub artists like  Peter
Kruder  and Richard Dorfmeister, was the hardest part of the
project, Standen-Raz said.  “Vinyl” also showed at this year’s  Karlovy Vary Film
Festival  in the  Czech Republic , which runs until tomorrow when
its awards will be announced. The festival, central and eastern
 Europe ’s premier movie showcase, previously screened the 2008
Oscar-winning documentary “Man on Wire” and launched feature
films such as “ Amelie ” and “ Terribly Happy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 