-- 
Viral Video Says It All About Japan’s Economy: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-07-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/viral-video-says-it-all-about-japan-s-economy-william-pesek.html
If a poll were taken to pick the most
reviled man in  Japan , Ryu Matsumoto would win hands down.  Until Tuesday, he had Japan’s second-most important job:
reconstruction minister. Four months after the earthquake and
tsunami, no issue looms larger than how Japan rebuilds, boosts
growth and reassesses its nuclear industry.  On July 3, a week into the job, Matsumoto headed north to
check the devastation. There, he rebuked Miyagi Governor
Yoshihiro Murai for being a few moments late for a meeting. If
anyone deserves some slack, it’s a leader in a region where
civilization was almost wiped out. The local infrastructure is
the world’s biggest junk heap, and 22,000 people are dead or
missing.  Matsumoto wasn’t having any of it. He refused to shake the
governor’s hand and dressed him down publically, jabbing his
finger provocatively and waving his arms. What’s more, Matsumoto
said it was up to the young governor to lead his own rebuilding
effort, not Matsumoto. In top-down Japan? Really?  Once the video went viral on YouTube, Matsumoto was forced
to resign. This was instantly seen as a setback for Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan . That’s hardly the case. The imperious and
arrogant Matsumoto would have been a pathetic steward of Japan’s
revival. The country is lucky to have disposed of him so
quickly.  What makes this affair worth exploring is that it perfectly
encapsulates so much of what’s wrong with Japan’s political
system and why the economic outlook seems gloomier by the day.  Japan is a nation of obsessively polite people. Harmony, or
“wa,” is favored over confrontation. In the days after the
earthquake, Kan was derided for acting too “Western.” He
publically took on the incompetents running Tokyo Electric Power
Co., demanding faster action and greater transparency as
radiation clouds drifted toward  Tokyo . As he rolled up his
sleeves and became an active manager, the press howled that he
lacked respect for the Japanese way of doing things.  That’s why many were aghast at Matsumoto’s boorish
 behavior . The breach of etiquette might have been acceptable had
he proposed solutions. But offering an overburdened official
nothing but a berating veered into counterproductive territory.  Governors in Japan’s northeast Tohoku need a number. How
much will Tokyo provide to fix ports, roads, bridges,
telecommunications, schools, hospitals, airports, train
stations, seawalls and houses? Until local leaders get a figure,
nothing much will happen and investors will be even more in the
dark on Japan’s outlook. Tokyo, instead, is obsessed with
political infighting.  Course Correction  There was an expectation in the days after the disaster
that it would lead to change. Observers have said for a decade
or more that only a crisis would drive the course correction the
aging, risk-averse and highly indebted nation needs. The hope
was that the earthquake would compel leaders to find new sources
of growth, rely less on nuclear power and rediscover the
entrepreneurial verve that gave us the Walkman and some of the
world’s most reliable cars.  I’m having deep doubts. The bullish case for change is
eloquently spelled out in a new book, “ Reimagining Japan ,” in
which McKinsey & Co. asked more than 80 global leaders and
experts to consider a Japanese renaissance. History does indeed
show Japan’s amazing capacity to regroup and surprise the
naysayers.  And then I look at the discourse in Tokyo, which suggests
it’s business as usual. Anyone who thinks otherwise should
consider two movements in Tokyo: the self-defeating drive to
change prime ministers and the clout of the nuclear-industrial
complex, Japan’s answer to the U.S.’s military-industrial
complex.  Kan’s response to Japan’s worst crisis since World War II
hasn’t been state of the art. But to say he’s been a worse
leader than the five before him requires a selective reading of
the past. His predecessors tended to stick around for a year and
then step aside for the next guy to repeat the cycle of
mediocrity. Four of them hailed from the  Liberal Democratic
Party  that created the system that enabled Tepco to fudge safety
reports and put the nation and its 127 million people at risk.  Yet Japan’s docile media is dutifully spinning the Kan-
must-go tale 24/7. One reason the establishment fears Kan so
much is that he wants to wrest power from the government
bureaucrats who seem to exist just to thwart progress. Kan also
is a threat to Japan’s powerful  nuclear industry , as evidenced
by his call in May to close other nuclear  power plants  like the
one in Hamaoka, 125 miles (200 kilometers) southwest of Tokyo.  Tepco is held in contempt in Japan because of its
mishandling of the nuclear accident and the protection it
received through its incestuous ties with bureaucrats. Now, it’s
trying to rally the rest of the industry to support nuclear
power, defying growing public opposition to atomic energy after
the worst radiation release in 25 years.  I’m sorry, but the only thing Tepco should be allowed to
lead is a march toward bankruptcy. The only public role
Matsumoto should ever be allowed to play is as an example of how
not to lead. And the only thing economists eyeing Japan can do
is scratch their heads at the lack of urgency in Tokyo.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 