-- 
Vodafone Trying to Intimidate, India Attorney General Says

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 
2011-07-07T09:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/vodafone-tax-criticism-is-attempt-at-intimidation-india-prosecutor-says.html
A  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  official’s
comment that retroactive taxes discourage foreign investments in
India is an “attempt at intimidation” over a $2.5 billion
payment dispute, Attorney General Goolam Vahanvati said.  Vodafone is waiting for India’s top court to rule on a
government claim that it owes taxes on its 2007 purchase of a 67
percent stake in Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s Indian unit. The tax
bill could rise to $5 billion including penalties, Vodafone
Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford told reporters in New Delhi
last week.  Such amounts “are quite big uncertainties if you are
looking to invest in other countries,” Halford said. Companies
should wait to see how the dispute is resolved before making new
investments in  India , he said.  The comments from Vodafone, which said it doesn’t owe the
Indian government taxes, come amid a backlog of commercial
disputes in courts and efforts to fight corruption as
investments from overseas fall. Foreign direct investment in
India dropped 10 percent to $7.1 billion in the first four
months of the year, based on latest available government data.  India’s rule of law means “foreign investors never have to
worry about their money being confiscated,” Vahanvati said in
an interview in New Delhi July 5. The Supreme Court, where
Vahanvati is representing the government in the matter, will
decide the case, not politicians, he said.  ‘Commonly Held’ View  Vodafone was expressing a “commonly held” view and has
made “no attempt to intimidate the system,”  Ben Padovan , a
spokesman at the Newbury, England-based company, said by e-mail.
“We have done no more than state publicly known facts
surrounding the case and give our opinion on those facts.”  Vodafone rose 0.1 percent to 164.90 pence as of 9:23 a.m.
in London trading. The stock has gained 16 percent in the past
12 months.  To further improve the foreign-investment climate, the
government plans to boost staffing at the  Central Bureau of
Investigation , India’s federal investigative agency, to fight
corruption and set up special courts to deal with corporate
disputes, Vahanvati said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  held all-party negotiations
last week on the creation of an independent,  anti-graft body 
known as Lokpal, in response to a public anti-corruption
campaign.  Revenue Investigation  The  Supreme Court  is already monitoring an investigation
into the possible loss of revenue to the government of as much
as $31 billion because of a 2008 sale of airwaves that India’s
Comptroller and Auditor General said was conducted at
“unbelievably low” prices. The court appointed a panel July 4
to oversee Singh’s attempts to recover “black money,” or
illegal funds from companies and individuals stashed in overseas
bank accounts.  “Internal pressures from civil society and the
international trend of greater enforcement against corruption
means that the Indian government is being squeezed from all
sides into responding to the issues,” said  Andrew Martin , a
Singapore-based partner at Baker & McKenzie LLP’s India Focus
unit.  Vahanvati dismissed a suggestion that the courts were
forcing the government to act on corruption, blaming the
“misimpression” on inaccurate media coverage.  “The Supreme Court is not at odds with the government, and
the government is not at odds with the Supreme Court,” he said.  Lokpal’s Authority  The government hasn’t decided whether Lokpal would work
independently of the CBI or would absorb the CBI as an
investigative authority, Vahanvati said. The government is keen
on a strong Lokpal bill, “but it has to be within the framework
of the constitution,” he said.  The CBI had 9,636 cases awaiting trial at the end of 2009,
up from 9,475 the year before, the latest periods for which
comparable data is available. Out of the 302 positions in the
CBI’s law office, 149 jobs were vacant, forcing the agency to
hire 46 special prosecutors on contract as a “stop-gap
arrangement,” it  said  in July.  “We will never be able to pay government lawyers the kind
of fees that private companies can consider, but we should at
least pay a decent amount,” Vahanvati said.  To speed up the resolution of commercial disputes,
parliament is considering a bill that would create a special
Commercial Courts Division, with judges trained in business
matters, he said. A current backlog of 31 million cases, or an
an average of 2,100 cases per judge, would take more than 300
years to resolve, the Supreme Court estimated in 2010.  “I am very concerned about how slow the system is, and we
are trying our best to reduce the arrears,” Vahanvati said.
“But there is no magic wand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  