-- 
MetLife, Pacific Life Said to Beat Out Banks on Tower Loan

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-07-07T18:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/vornado-said-to-tap-pacific-life-metlife-for-loan-on-san-francisco-tower.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  is close to
obtaining a loan on 555 California St., the home of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s San Francisco headquarters, as competition heats
up among lenders for high-profile assignments.  Pacific Life Insurance Co. and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  are poised to
beat out a field of  Wall Street  banks that were aiming to
package the loan for sale as securities, according to three
people with knowledge of the bidding process. They asked not to
be identified because the negotiations are private.  Banks are battling with insurers to lend on the highest-
quality U.S. properties as values in large, coastal cities
increase. Non-distressed buildings in six major markets have
recovered more than half of their post-peak losses, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a June 22 statement. Office values in
 San Francisco  rose 9.6 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, according to Moody’s.  The 555 California St. skyscraper, totaling 1.5 million
square feet (139,300 square meters), was constructed in 1969 and
served as the entrance area for the 1974 film Towering Inferno,
according to  Emporis.com , a property database. The 52-story
building is the fifth-tallest on the U.S. West Coast, Emporis
data show.  Insurer Competition  Wall Street banks have been struggling to land loans on
top-tier buildings to bundle into bonds as insurers bid
aggressively on the best properties, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
led by Harris Trifon said yesterday in a note to clients.
MetLife, based in New York, also wrote a $372 million loan on
1285 Avenue of the Americas, a 42-story tower in midtown
 Manhattan , according to a statement this week from HFF Inc.,
which arranged the refinancing.  “We’re going to continue to focus on high-quality assets
in top-tier markets,” MetLife’s Robert Merck, senior managing
director and head of real estate investments, said at a March 21
investor conference. “There’s a real difference between the
core primary markets like New York, D.C., San Francisco, L.A.”
and property in smaller cities, he said.  Wendy Silverstein, an executive vice president at  New York- 
based Vornado, said last month that “virtually every” bank on
Wall Street was bidding for the 555 California loan. The banks
were willing to lend as much as $650 million against the tower,
which is worth about $1 billion, she said, speaking at a
conference for the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts on June 8.  Spokespeople for Vornado and MetLife declined to comment.
Tennyson Oyler, a spokesman for  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Life, confirmed the company’s participation on the deal.  Mortgage Maturing  Vornado is seeking a loan to pay off a $520 million
mortgage maturing in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That loan, originated in 2004 by Bank of America, was
packaged and sold as securities, the data show.  Banks have arranged $15.6 billion in commercial mortgage
bond sales this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
report yesterday that sales may climb to $35 billion. Offerings
plummeted from a record $230 billion in 2007, choking off
funding to borrowers with maturing loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  