-- 
VTB’s Bank of Moscow Takeover Raises Debt Risk, UniCredit Says

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-07-07T16:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/vtb-s-bank-of-moscow-takeover-raises-debt-risk-unicredit-says.html
VTB Group’s takeover of Bank of
Moscow puts  Russia ’s second-biggest lender at risk of a default
on two bonds, UniCredit SpA said in a report today.  Bank of Moscow would become “a principal subsidiary” of
VTB after consolidation of 75 percent of the city lender, wrote
Rustam Botashev, deputy head of research at UniCredit in Moscow.
Financial assistance to Bank of Moscow and a capital injection
from VTB may be defined as financial rehabilitation under the
terms of the loan participation notes, UniCredit said.  UniCredit said two notes, one maturing in October this year
and another in June 2035, with $450 million and $693 million
outstanding, respectively, may be in default as soon as the
rehabilitation of Bank of Moscow starts, potentially leading to
“a cross default on some other VTB debt.” A cross default is a
stipulation in a loan agreement that puts the borrower in
default if it defaults on another obligation.  A VTB spokeswoman didn’t pick up her mobile phone and there
was no answer from VTB’s press office when Bloomberg News
called. VTB disagrees that the situation with Bank of Moscow
could be defined as “a financial rehabilitation” and therefore
could become a default trigger, Botashev wrote.  VTB bought the city government’s 46.5 percent-stake in the
bank after President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired Moscow Mayor Yury
Luzhkov in September amid allegations he showed favoritism in
awarding contracts to his developer wife.  The Russian company is ready to provide financing to deal
with bad debt inherited from Bank of Moscow,  Andrei Kostin ,
VTB’s chief executive officer, said on June 28. VTB is boosting
Bank of Moscow’s charter capital by 100 billion rubles ($3.6
billion), Bank Rossii said.  The bank will get a total of 395 billion rubles including a
10-year loan of 295 billion rubles from the Deposit Insurance
Agency at an interest rate of 0.51 percent, the central bank
said in a statement on its website on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  