-- 
Watson Wins Ruling Over Reckitt’s Patent Claims on Mucinex

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-07T20:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/watson-wins-ruling-over-reckitt-s-patent-claims-on-mucinex-1-.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  won an
appeals court ruling that clears a hurdle in the company’s
effort to sell a generic version of  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/) ’s Mucinex cough medicine.  Watson’s version of the drug wouldn’t infringe a patent
owned by Reckitt, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington   said  today. The court upheld a trial
judge’s ruling, saying Reckitt’s patent requires multiple layers
of the sustained-release formula for Mucinex tablets, while
Watson’s version is made with a single layer.  “We are carefully reviewing the decision to determine our
next steps,” said Caroline Hey, a spokeswoman for Reckitt.  Watson still needs U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell a copy of Mucinex, Mucinex D and Mucinex DM.
The medicines generated about $500 million in U.S. sales last
year for Slough, England-based Reckitt, Watson said in February,
citing researcher IMS Health Inc.  “We’re pleased with the decision and are awaiting final
approval from the FDA,” said Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson.  The active ingredient in Mucinex, guaifenesin, has been on
the market since 1952. The Reckitt patent is for an extended
release formula of the chemical compound. Reckitt got Mucinex as
part of its 2008 purchase of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc.  The case is Reckitt Benckiser Inc. v. Watson Laboratories
Inc.  Florida , 2011-1231, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Reckitt Benckiser
Inc. v. Watson Laboratories Inc., 09cv60609, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  