-- 
Weidmann Says ECB’s Interest Rates Are Still ‘Relatively Low’

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/weidmann-says-ecb-s-interest-rates-are-still-relatively-low-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said  interest rates  in the 17-
nation currency region are “still relatively low,” indicating
he sees further room to tighten policy.  “Rates are still relatively low, when one looks for
example” at “the difference between short-term interest rates
and inflation rates,” Weidmann told German broadcaster ARD in
an interview in  Frankfurt  today. While the bank is never pre-
commited on future policy moves, it’s “committed on its primary
goal, which is  price stability ,” he said.  The ECB today raised interest rates for the second time in
three months, increasing the benchmark by 25 basis points to 1.5
percent, and eased  Portugal ’s access to emergency funds to
balance the risks of further turmoil with the danger of price
pressures. While the yield on Greek, Irish and Portuguese two-
year bonds all exceed 15 percent, inflation has breached the
central bank’s 2 percent limit for the past seven months.  “Since last autumn, inflation expectations have risen
slightly but steadily and these expectations are of a decisive
nature for monetary policy,” said Weidmann, who is also head of
 Germany ’s Bundesbank. At the same time, the euro-region economy
is growing “quite dynamically,” which can “contribute to
higher prices,” he added.  The Frankfurt-based central bank in June forecast inflation
to average 2.6 percent this year before decelerating to 1.7
percent in 2012. The 17-member euro-region economy may grow 1.9
percent this year and 1.7 percent next, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  