-- 
Wells Fargo to Pay $125 Million to Settle Mortgage-Backed Securities Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-07T20:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/wells-fargo-to-pay-125-million-to-settle-mortgage-backed-securities-case.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay
$125 million to settle accusations by investors that the bank
misled them about the risks of mortgage-backed securities it
sold.  The plaintiffs in the consolidated group case, or class
action, include the General Retirement System of Detroit, New
Orleans Employees’ Retirement System and other public pensions,
according to the proposed settlement filed yesterday in federal
court in  San Jose , California.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, and several
investment banks that underwrote the securities were sued in
2009 over alleged violations of securities laws in connection
with sales of $36 billion in mortgage pass-through certificates
in 2005 and 2006.  The securities were backed by pools of  mortgage loans  that
Wells Fargo or its affiliates originated or purchased. In 28
offerings, the bank misrepresented the quality of the loans,
failing to disclose that it hadn’t followed appropriate
underwriting standards and loans were made based on inflated
appraisals, investors said in a complaint.  The bank and the underwriters deny wrongdoing, according to
the proposed accord, which is subject to a judge’s approval.  “The proposed settlement agreement is a negotiated
resolution as to all named defendants and is intended to avoid
the distraction and expense of litigation,” Ancel Martinez, a
Wells Fargo spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  State Court Claims  The bank still faces claims in state courts in California,
 Illinois  and  Indiana  filed by individual investors and federal
home loan banks seeking to rescind billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities purchases.  “It’s a very favorable outcome and will be significant for
investors,” David Stickney, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreed on June 29 to pay
$8.5 billion to resolve investor claims over sales of bonds
backed by home loans by Countrywide Financial Corp., which it
had acquired in 2008. The settlement covers 530 mortgage trusts
with an original loan balance of $424 billion, the bank said.  The case is In Re Wells Fargo Mortgage-Backed Certificates
Litigation, 09-1376, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 