-- 
Obama Summons Lawmakers for ‘Hard Bargaining’ on Broad Debt-Reduction Deal

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-08T14:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/white-house-republicans-signal-debt-opening.html
President  Barack Obama  is summoning
top congressional Republicans and Democrats to a rare Sunday
meeting at the White House to begin “hard bargaining” on a
broad debt-reduction deal.  At the July 10 session Obama will make his latest bid to
break a partisan impasse over whether to include cuts in
entitlement programs and tax increases in an agreement. Both
sides in the debate are signaling openness to compromise on each
front.  Republicans, pressed by Obama to consider raising taxes to
reduce the debt, are weighing whether to close loopholes and
eliminate some tax breaks in exchange for a commitment from
Democrats that Congress will act later on a broad overhaul that
lowers tax rates, a Republican congressional aide said.  Democrats said they are considering a proposal to curb the
growth of entitlement programs including Social Security through
a change in the way the government measures inflation, which
would cut future annual benefit increases.  House Speaker  John Boehner  cautioned today that there is
“no imminent deal about to happen” because “there are serious
disagreements” about resolving “this very serious problem.”  “We are this far apart,” the Ohio Republican said,
spreading his arms wide in front of him. The speaker said he
didn’t think the gap “has narrowed in the last several days.”  His assessment reflected the one Obama gave reporters
yesterday after a 90-minute White House session with
congressional leaders -- a meeting the president termed “very
constructive.”  Political ‘Pain’  “Everybody acknowledged there’s going to be pain involved
politically on all sides” for an accord to be achieved, the
president said after the talks with leaders.  Obama was meeting today with House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , who said yesterday that Democrats in
Congress won’t support any cuts in Social Security or Medicare
benefits.  At his weekly press conference today, Boehner said that
even if an agreement were reached, “we’ve got to have a bill
that can pass through the House and the Senate,” which is
controlled by Democrats. “This is a Rubik’s Cube we haven’t
quite worked at yet,” the speaker said.  Staff aides will prepare possible compromises to be
considered at the next meeting, the president said.  Seeking a Deal  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deficit-
slashing deal to pave the way for a vote in Congress to increase
the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, a move the Treasury
Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a default on the
nation’s financial obligations.  Behind closed doors in his Cabinet Room yesterday, Obama
told the lawmakers he won’t sign any agreement that fails to
raise the debt limit through the 2012 election, said a
congressional aide familiar with the negotiations who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  He polled those gathered about their preferences on the
scale of a deficit-cutting plan, ranging from small, which he
defined as $2 trillion to $2.5 trillion; medium, at $3 trillion
to $3.5 trillion; or large, at $4 trillion to $4.5 trillion, the
aide said. All present chose either medium or large while Obama
said he wanted a large deal, according to the aide.  Obama asked the leaders to return in three days with
detailed ideas and to be prepared for a long meeting, the aide
said. In public, the president said he hoped participants would
be ready for a round of “hard bargaining.”  Tax Preferences  One option Republicans are considering involves closing
some tax loopholes or ending preferences in return for a
deadline for Congress to overhaul the  tax code  and lower rates,
possibly for both corporations and individuals, according to a
Republican congressional aide who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The aide didn’t say when the loopholes would be
closed or whether Republicans would insist that such a plan not
create any additional revenue for the government.  Republicans will only consider such moves if Democrats
agree to bargain on changes to Social Security that could result
in future benefit cuts, the aide said.  “They’re looking at the concept of tax reform in the debt
agreement,” said Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. He
wouldn’t provide details. “If there is a tax agreement in the
debt ceiling, we’ll be prepared to move forward with that,” he
said.  The White House and some congressional Democrats have been
willing discuss such changes, though they insist that any Social
Security savings be plowed back into the program.  Senators’ Group  Separately, the five remaining members of a bipartisan
group of senators whose efforts to reach a debt-reduction
compromise fell apart earlier this year may offer their ideas
soon, Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho  said in an interview this
week.  The team led by Democrat Mark Warner of  Virginia  and
Republican  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia  has discussed setting
benchmarks for cutting future debt and deficits, enforced by the
threat of automatic spending cuts and tax increases if the
savings were not achieved.  Boehner told Republican lawmakers on his way into
yesterday’s meeting that he put the odds of a broad debt
reduction deal at “maybe 50-50.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  called
the meeting “a good conversation,” and wouldn’t comment
further. Nor would others who attended, including Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the second-ranking Republican. The White House
would provide no details on what was discussed.  Obstacles to Agreement  Democratic and Republican leaders alike face substantial
obstacles to an agreement, with both parties’ base supporters
opposed to compromises that would pave the way for a deal.  Some Democrats and groups that support them reacted with
anger and alarm to word that the White House was open to the
inflation adjustment for Social Security.  Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of Illinois said in an
interview she reminded fellow House Democrats at a closed-door
meeting that “Social Security has nothing to do with the
deficit, nothing to do with the debt, nothing to do with
anything, so it should simply not be part of this.”  Liberal groups pressured Democrats to resist such cuts.  ‘Plain Wrong’  Justin Ruben of MoveOn.org issued a statement saying the
group’s “members, who worked tirelessly to elect the president,
could not be more clear: Balancing the budget by cutting Social
Security or Medicare benefits is just plain wrong.”  One leading Republican publicly rejected the idea of
closing tax loopholes and eliminating incentives as part of a
debt agreement.  That “should happen in a conversation about broad based
 tax reform  -- reform that flattens the code while lowering
rates,” said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on
the Finance Committee. “The president has chosen instead to
target tax expenditures willy nilly with little regard for the
policy implications of these tax hikes.”  He said “conservative Republicans” have promised never to
back a “net tax increase” and will stick to that pledge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  