-- 
With Wal-Mart’s Sex Suit Win, the Joke’s on Women: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/with-wal-mart-s-sex-suit-win-the-joke-s-on-women-susan-antilla.html
For a moment, I wondered if my
phone had gone dead.  I was talking to Deondrea Thomas, who works as a sales
associate in the shoe department at the Duncanville, Texas,
Wal-Mart. She’d been chatting away for 10 minutes when I
asked whether she’d ever used Wal-Mart’s “Open Door” policy
for employees who have a complaint about their job.  Suddenly, there was dead air. Then, a burst of
nervous laughter. “Nobody likes that policy,” she said, her
cheerful tone turning abruptly dark. Take a concern to
management and “your hours will be cut or there will be
some kind of retaliation.”  Wal-Mart women aren’t doing a lot of laughing since
the Supreme Court banished their class-action sex
discrimination  suit  to a litigation dumpster. On June 20,
the court said that the million-and-a-half women suing for
pay and promotion discrimination could not proceed as a
single class.  Individual women, 12,000 of whom contacted lawyers
after the case was filed in 2001, can still carry on with
lawsuits or complaints to the  Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission . Smaller groups may also band together against a
store or a region. But the high impact of a single court
case -- a public affair that would shine a spotlight on the
grisly anecdotes and the out-of-proportion statistics --
will never happen.  ‘Wal-Mart Effect’  If there was any question that the little gal has been
squashed to the benefit of big-company interests, consider
the exuberance of Larry Kudlow, the ferocious booster of
capitalism at CNBC. “Today’s stock market rally was the
Wal-Mart effect,” he wrote of the 76-point rise in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  on the day the women lost. Noting
that business would save “billions and billions of dollars”
as a result, Kudlow declared the decision a “huge defeat
for frivolous class action lawsuits.”  It’s a partisan stretch to suggest that the Wal-Mart
suit, with its stack of persuasive  affidavits  and trove of
gender-lopsided statistics, was frivolous. But I can’t
argue with the notion that it’s a coup for business.
Companies, in fact, get a double win. There is the giant
reduction in lawsuit risk that’s been the focus of many a
headline. Equally important to the corporate bottom line:
Employers can continue to tap a huge pool of female labor
at a discount to the market price for men.  Fallen Short  Here are some of the statistics that the court
dismissed as having fallen “well short” of showing that
managers were exercising pay and promotion discretion in a
common way, which the women needed to prove to proceed as a
class. When the suit was filed, women filled 65 percent of
the hourly jobs, but only 14 percent of store manager
positions. It took 4.4 years for the average woman to
advance to assistant manager, while men got there in 2.9
years. Among those in hourly jobs, men made $1,100 a year
more than women in similar positions. Among salaried
managers, men out-earned women by $14,500 a year.  Along with the tooth fairy, we can now believe in the
notion that those “Little Janie Q’s,” as the Wal-Mart women
were called by male co-workers, wound up with inferior
paychecks by way of some fluky black swan event at the big
box store.  Wal-Mart spokesman Greg Rossiter says the anti-
discrimination policy is “part of the company’s culture”
and breaching the rules can lead to punishments “up to
suspension or termination.”  Wal-Mart Argument  A key Wal-Mart argument was that its individual store
managers, bestowed with abundant authority to make pay and
promotion decisions without policy guidance from
headquarters, couldn’t possibly have all been
discriminating against women. Well, don’t be so sure about
that.  The court minority of three women and one man
referenced social science research that gave a clear
example of how male bosses can overlook women during the
hiring process. In a footnote, the four offered the example
of a study that examined hiring by symphony orchestras.
When judges were able to see the musician during an
audition, fewer women were hired. When musicians played
behind screens, and only musical abilities entered into the
decision, suddenly more women made the cut.  Out-of-Touch  Studies like that could have played a part in shaping
the court’s thinking, but instead, the majority had its own
take on management behavior that must have seemed out-of-
touch to any victim of sex discrimination. My personal
favorite: That, “left to their own devices most managers in
any corporation -- and surely most managers in a
corporation that forbids sex discrimination -- would select
sex-neutral, performance-based criteria for hiring and
promotion that produce no actionable disparity at all.”
Float that idea around the water cooler in the morning and
stand back for the guffaws from your female co-workers.  If you take the time to flip through the 120
affidavits that accompanied the plaintiffs’ complaint, you
will enter a world where a boss’s hunting and fishing buddy
gets on the fast track, where multiple complaints about a
sexual harasser are received with advice to “grin and bear
it,” and where a black woman is advised: “We’re all
rednecks here, so you might as well get used to it.”  Katheryn Johnson, who was hired at the Troy,  Alabama ,
Wal-Mart in 1999, couldn’t even get her district manager to
read her application for the management training program.
She buttonholed him at work one day to ask if he’d read it
yet. “Naw, Shug, I sure haven’t,” he said. She quit, and
then called the 1-800-WALMART line to complain about how
she’d been treated, according to her affidavit.  The ruling makes it difficult to bring class-action
discrimination cases in the future, says Melissa Hart,
associate professor at the  University of Colorado  School of
Law. “One of the things that’s troubling about the decision
is they seem to say you have to prove discrimination
occurred in order to get certified,” she says. “It flips
the order of things.”  Hart is referring to the part of the decision
discussing the need for “significant proof” that an
employer had operated under a policy of discrimination.
Hart says that language came from the footnote of an
earlier ruling that has never been considered a requirement
for proving commonality of a class.  Knowing that fewer
women will be allowed to fight as a class, she predicts
companies will monitor their diversity standards less.  Women’s groups and labor unions are mobilizing to
promote two politically unpopular fixes that would outrage
business: passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would
lift the cap on damages in pay discrimination suits and ban
companies from penalizing workers who share salary
information, and a fresh push for a union at Wal-Mart.  Already, a worker support group, Organization United
for Respect at Wal-Mart, or OUR Wal-Mart, has attracted
former employees like Dawn Littman, who says she’s ready to
assist. If a Wal-Mart woman ran into difficulties at work,
“I’d tell them I’m part of an organization, Our Wal-Mart,
and if you have problems, here’s my phone number.’’  Ernestine Bassett, an Our Wal-Mart member who works at
the Laurel, Maryland, store, said in an e-mail that members
pay $5 a month to belong. Although she said the group is
not a union recruiting attempt, Our Wal-Mart received seed
money -- it won’t disclose how much -- from the United Food
and Commercial Workers International Union, and individual
members including Bassett have supported unionization.
Thomas, the Duncanville, Texas, sales associate, said a
union tried to organize at her store several years ago, but
didn’t get enough signatures. “I did sign last time,” she
said. “And if they came again, I’d sign again.”  ‘War on Women’  To bolster the union efforts, National Organization
for Women president Terry O’Neill is talking to the UFCW
“about going into specific stores and getting community
support through NOW chapters.” O’Neill is furious about the
 Supreme Court  decision, which she calls the latest attack
in “a war on women that’s absolutely raging at the moment.”  NOW’s 500,000 members will be learning that what
happened to Wal-Mart’s Janie Q’s could happen to them, too.
If the group gets its way with legislation and a new union
push, maybe the joke won’t wind up being on women after
all.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From
the Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at
financial companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View  columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  at  santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 