-- 
World’s First Laboratory-Grown Windpipe Is Transplanted in Patient

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-07-07T20:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/world-s-first-laboratory-grown-windpipe-is-transplanted-in-patient.html
The first successful transplant of a
synthetic windpipe grown from a patient’s stem cells has saved
the life of a 36-year-old African man, surgeons announced today.  The patient, Andemariam Teklesenbet Beyene of Eritrea, will
be released from the hospital tomorrow just a month after being
told he would die from tracheal cancer. The tumor growing in his
windpipe had become too large to remove and Beyene couldn’t wait
for a donated organ. That’s when surgeon Paolo Macchiarini
suggested a novel approach using a synthetic organ made from a
spongy polymer.  “He was already refused by every surgeon in the world, and
they asked me whether there was a solution,” said Macchiarini,
a professor at Karolinska University  Hospital  in  Stockholm , in
an interview. “He had no other chance, except to die, and
therefore we did it.”  Stem cells taken from Beyene’s hip were used to grow cells
on the synthetic windpipe, and his body didn’t reject the
device, unlike donated tracheas that require immunosuppressive
drugs. The 14-hour surgery was performed on June 9, the surgeon
said.  Harvard Bioscience Inc. (HBIO)  created the synthetic windpipe,
according to a statement from the Holliston, Massachusetts-based
company.  “This was done essentially on an emergency basis,” said
David Green, president of Harvard Bioscience, in a telephone
interview today. “The next step is more formal trials.”  Harvard Bioscience rose 23 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $5.73
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading.  The application may help children, who lack as many donated
organs as adults. The next patient who will receive a similar
procedure is a young girl, who was born without a trachea,
Macchiarini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 