-- 
Yihaodian Plans IPO as Online Chinese Retailer Backed by Wal-Mart Expands

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/yihaodian-may-sell-shares-as-wal-mart-backed-online-china-retailer-expands.html
Yihaodian , the online supermarket
whose investors include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , may choose the U.S.
for an initial public offering as it expands to challenge
Chinese rivals including Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Taobao.  The Shanghai-based retailer aims to break even in three
years and will “most likely” sell shares to the public in the
U.S., said Chairman Yu Gang, who co-founded the company in 2008
after working as a supply chain executive at Dell Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc. There is no timetable for the sale, he said.  Yu expects to conclude the Wal-Mart investment agreement
this month as Yihaodian aims for a larger slice of China’s
online commerce market, which CLSA Ltd. estimates will almost
double to 904 billion yuan ($140 billion) next year. Baidu Inc.,
 China ’s most popular search engine operator, and Sina Corp.,
which owns the nation’s third most-visited website, are among
China-based companies that have chosen the U.S. for initial
public offerings.  “We’ll do whatever it costs to secure a bigger slice of
the market,” Yu, 52, said in a July 1 interview. “Market share
is our top priority.”  To take on  Taobao Mall , a unit of China’s biggest online
commerce company, Yihaodian is expanding its workforce to about
3,000 employees by the end of this year from 2,000 now and
adding a fifth warehouse this year, Yu said in Shanghai.  Quadrupling Sales  Sales at  Yihaodian , which offers consumers 100,000 types of
products from mayonnaise to disposable diapers, tablet computers
and mobile phones, will almost quadruple this year to as much as
3 billion yuan from 805 million yuan in 2010, he said. Sales
have been increasing about 28 percent a month on average, a pace
Yu said he expects the company to keep.  Even at that rate, the online retailer has far to go to
catch the market leaders, said Jim Tang, an analyst at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai .  “The rule for the e-commerce sector is that only the big
get bigger,” Tang said by telephone. The challenge for
Yihaodian is to boost its transaction volume and grab a bigger
market share so that it can control costs, including purchasing,
marketing and logistics, he said.  China’s Online Leaders  Taobao Mall led China’s business-to-consumer online market
with 30 billion yuan of transactions in 2010, followed by 360buy
Jingdong Mall with 10 billion yuan, according to IResearch Inc.
Yihaodian ranks 10th, data from the Beijing-based research
company shows.  Among China-based companies listed on U.S. exchanges, the
four largest by market value are Internet businesses, Baidu,
Sina, Netease.com Inc. and Ctrip.com International Ltd.,
according to Bloomberg data.  Yu founded Yihaodian with former Dell colleague Liu Junling,
now the Chinese retailer’s chief executive officer. The two
started the venture with their own savings.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, agreed in May to
buy an unspecified minority stake in Yihaodian to tap growth in
China, the world’s fastest growing major economy. The companies
didn’t disclose financial details.  --Michael Wei, Editor: Dave McCombs, Lena Lee  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  