-- 
Lynas, Siemens Form Rare Earths Joint Venture Pact

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-07T22:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-07/lynas-siemens-in-rare-earths-supply-and-joint-venture-pact.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show that Lynas is supplying
rare earths to the joint venture in story moved on July 7.)  Lynas Corp., an Australian rare
earths developer, and  Siemens AG (SIE)  have signed a pact that will
see Lynas supply minerals used in magnets to  Europe ’s largest
engineering company under a joint venture agreement.  Lynas, which last week agreed to meet additional safety
requirements at its upcoming Malaysian refinery, will own 45
percent of the venture, the Sydney-based company said in a
statement. Siemens will hold the remaining stake.  “This fits the strategy of Lynas, which is really designed
to encourage continued stable and safe growth of these rare
earths for new technologies,” Lynas Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Curtis said in a phone interview. “We’re not
necessarily thinking short-term offtake contracts, we’re more
thinking strategic relationship with a key end user to give them
the security they need for their supply chain.”  Prices of rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements used
in lasers, plasma televisions and hybrid cars, have more than
doubled since the first quarter.  China , which controls more than
90 percent of the global market, has restricted rare-earth
mining and cut exports to conserve resources and protect the
environment.  The refinery, which would be the world’s largest for rare
earths, may be commissioned by the end of this year and start
production by the second half of 2012, Lynas said. The project
will miss an earlier September start date, following
recommendations to the Malaysian government by the  International
Atomic Energy Agency .  Vote of Confidence  The venture with Siemens was a “vote of confidence,”
Curtis said. Local residents in  Malaysia ’s eastern Pahang state
and non-governmental organizations have lobbied to stop Lynas
from operating the plant because of radiation fears.  “This planned joint venture would be an important
strategic pillar for us to pursue a long-term and stable supply
with high performance magnets,” Ralf-Michael Franke, chief
executive officer of the Siemens Drive Technologies Division,
said in the statement.  Lynas fell 3.2 percent to A$1.84 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading. The stock has fallen 11 percent since the start
of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  