-- 
Rihanna to Help Sell Budweiser to Brazil as AB Inbev Aims for Margin Boost

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/ab-inbev-uses-rihanna-nightclubs-to-sell-budweiser-to-brazil.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
world’s largest brewer, will take its Budweiser brand to
nightclubs and American-inspired restaurants in Brazil as it
aims to get drinkers there buying more expensive brands.  Budweiser, which was introduced in Brazil on Aug. 31, will
be promoted at the venues with displays featuring the brand’s
bow-tie shaped emblem, and advertised with the slogan “Great
Times Are Coming,” Chris Burggraeve, AB InBev’s chief marketing
officer, said in an interview in  New York . He declined to
comment on the amount spent introducing the brand.  AB InBev is aiming to increase its dominance in a country
where it already controls about 70 percent of the market with
the cheaper Skol and  Brahma  brands. So-called premium beers
represent only 5 percent of the Brazilian market, according to
AB InBev, compared with an average of 13 percent globally.
Budweiser will appeal to consumers who are prepared to pay more
to try beers from different countries, Burggraeve said.  “Many Brazilians have never been abroad,” he said.
“We’re bringing abroad to them. They’re hungry for the world.”  AB InBev will also promote Budweiser through sponsorship of
music events including concerts by singer Rihanna, and will work
with so-called “Buddies,” well-known Brazilians, to help raise
awareness of the brand, according to Burggraeve.  Budweiser is priced about 15 percent higher than Skol and
Brahma and may appeal to drinkers who have higher disposable
incomes as the local economy grows.  Brazil ’s gross domestic
product is forecast to expand 3.8 percent in 2012 compared with
2.2 percent in the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  ‘No Crisis’  Burggraeve said there’s “no crisis” in the country, where
AB InBev sold 2.6 percent less beer in the second quarter
because of weaker growth in disposable incomes and the strength
of a comparable period that included the soccer  World Cup .  Planned minimum wage increases will lead to faster growth
in  consumer confidence , while the 2014 World Cup, which is being
played in Brazil and will count Budweiser among its sponsors,
should provide a further boost to the economy, he said.  A booming population and relatively low consumption rates
may also spur beer sales in the Latin American country. The
quantity of beer consumed in Brazil was about 65 liters per unit
of population in 2010, AB InBev said, citing data from research
company Plato Logic, compared with about 146 liters in the  Czech
Republic , the highest beer consumption in the world.  Growth in more-profitable premium beers won’t come at the
expense of brands such as Skol and Brahma, said Burggraeve,
though he expects Skol drinkers in particular -- and customers
of its competitors -- to “trade up” and try Budweiser.  Expansion Plans  “The premium market is one that we can, and will, shape,”
he said, declining to comment on the company’s targets for
volume growth or market share growth.  AB InBev, which will open a new brewery in Pernambuco,
northeast Brazil, in the fourth quarter of this year, plans to
spend about $3.1 billion this year on expansion in “key growth
markets” including Brazil and  China , the company said in
August. It started selling Budweiser in  Russia  last year, and
the brand now has about 1 percent of the local market.  AB InBev aims to make Budweiser the “first and only true
global beer brand,” Burggraeve said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 