-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Spending on Soccer and Skyscrapers Masks Slower Times at Home

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-21T21:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/abu-dhabi-s-spending-on-soccer-and-skyscrapers-masks-slower-times-at-home.html
Ramy Kaddourah got the keys to his
apartment in  Abu Dhabi ’s  Raha Beach  development two years late
as the boom in the United Arab Emirates capital started to wane.  “Everyone got really excited about the plans to build up
Abu Dhabi, then out of nowhere everything came to a stop,” said
Kaddourah, 31, who runs a local private hospital and invests in
property to rent. “If this can happen here, I don’t want to
imagine what’s happening in the rest of the world.”  Abu Dhabi internationally is the oil-rich emirate spending
billions of petrodollars on English soccer team Manchester City,
the iconic Chrysler Building in  New York  and  London ’s Gatwick
Airport. Yet that image is masking pressure at home as the
government supports its six neighboring emirates while financing
a  $500 billion development plan .  In a year that saw uprisings in almost a dozen Arab
countries, citizens in the U.A.E. will head to the polls for
only the second time in the country’s 40-year history on Sept.
24 to choose members of a council that will advise the sheikhs
in control. In the background are deteriorating infrastructure
and rising unemployment in the northern emirates and an end to
the breakneck investment in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.  “We’re starting to see chinks in the armor,” Christopher Davidson, author of “Power and Politics in the Persian Gulf
Monarchies.” “The bottom line is they can’t keep distributing
the wealth to an ever-growing, ever-developing population.”  Property Market  Rents in Abu Dhabi have fallen 40 percent since the
market’s peak as many foreigners left, leaving a number of
properties without tenants, according to estimates from real-
estate broker Jones Lang LaSalle.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE) , made up of the shares of
three local developers, is down 39 percent this year.  Aldar
Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the biggest, was the first company in the
U.A.E. to receive a junk rating from Moody’s Investors Service.
Last month, the company reported a second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates following a year-earlier loss.  The election, for the  Federal National Council , will allow
voters to select half the members of the country’s advisory
council. About 15 percent of the country’s citizens are entitled
to vote, based on membership in an electoral college.  The U.A.E., a de facto monarchy, is run by a president and
vice president who inherit their posts. The rulers of each of
the seven emirates together comprise the Supreme Council, the
highest lawmaking body in the federal government.  ‘Way Behind’  “In so many ways the U.A.E. is modern and sophisticated
and yet this is an example of one area where we are way
behind,” said Abdulkhaleq Abdullah, a professor of politics at
the  United Arab Emirates University  in Abu Dhabi. “Now with the
Arab Spring taking place, they know they have to do something
about it. The question is, what?”  Economic statistics are hard to come by in the U.A.E. The
country’s government doesn’t publish official statistics on
unemployment, income per capita or details on budgetary
spending. Calls and e-mails to the Abu Dhabi government for
comment were not immediately returned.  The 2009  unemployment rate  among U.A.E. nationals was as
high as 20.6 percent in Fujairah, one of the northern emirates,
above the national average of 14 percent, according to the
latest survey from the Labor Ministry.  Power Cuts  Fujeirah, Ras Al Khaimah and Sharjah, the largest of the
northern emirates, continue to endure power cuts.  Emirates National Oil Co., a Dubai-based refiner and
gasoline retailer, shut filling points in the northern emirate
of Sharjah in June after running short of fuel at service
stations. Stations in Dubai remained open.  “Some of our citizens are living in houses that are
falling apart, some are neglected health wise, our education
system needs improvement and we have high unemployment,” said
Fatema Hadroom, 37, a financial controller at  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
the world largest oilfield-services company, a candidate in the
election. “The government knows we have problems. They see it
and they want to do something about it.”  If elected, Hadroom would represent Ras Al Khaimah, where
per capita income is 45 times less than Abu Dhabi.  In the capital, new hotels and residential clusters
continue to pop up across  Yas Island , site of the emirate’s
Formula One raceway and Ferrari World theme park. On  Saadiyat
Island , or Island of Happiness, high profile projects such as
the Louvre and Guggenheim museums are on track to open in 2014.  Manchester City  Abu Dhabi royal Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  spent
210 million pounds in 2008 to take over  Manchester City ,
allowing the English club to spend more than any other in
European soccer on players.  Two hours down the road in Ras Al Khaimah, located 60 miles
(97 kilometers) from  Iran  on the strategic  Strait of Hormuz ,
hotels and malls are running on generators.  “We are definitely a burden for Abu Dhabi,” said Youssuf
Al Naimi, chairman of the chamber of commerce of Ras Al Khaimah.
“But it’s in Abu Dhabi’s best interest to help. If we succeed,
the country benefits; if any of us fail, the country suffers.”  On June 14, the federal government said it would allocate 7
billion dirhams ($1.9 billion) of its budget to housing loans
for citizens, a measure aimed at maintaining “social
stability,” state-run Emirates News Agency reported. In March,
the government announced a 5.7 billion-dirham package to fund
water and infrastructure projects in the northern emirates.  ‘Difficult Times’  “Abu Dhabi has paid and continues to pay a lot of money to
Dubai,” said Ghanem Nuseibeh, founder of London-based
 Cornerstone Global Associates.  “Now all the emirates expect
that support will continue through these difficult times. Abu
Dhabi will have to pay the bill.”  While the U.A.E. has been spared the violent civil unrest
seen across the region, the government has taken steps to cap
dissidence. Activists circulated an online petition in April
demanding that seats on the Federal National Council be opened
to universal elections. Five of the activists were arrested.  Kaddourah, the hospital manager, had planned to move into
one of his new investment properties, though was forced to find
a home elsewhere when the development was delayed.  “The property just finished now,” Kaddourah said in an
interview. “What’s worse, I’ve had it listed on the market
since 2007 and haven’t received a single inquiry. Not one.” At
least two of his other properties are more than a year overdue
with no sign of completion. “Talk to any investor in Abu Dhabi
and they’ll tell you the same story,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  