-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Gain, End 10-Day Drop, on Bets Decline Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-21T13:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/abu-dhabi-shares-gain-end-10-day-drop-on-bets-decline-overdone.html
United Arab Emirates shares gained,
with  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock index snapping a 10-day drop,
amid speculation losses in the past two months have been
overdone given earnings prospects.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s biggest real-estate
company, jumped 2.5 percent.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  rose the
most in two weeks. The  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased less than 0.1
percent, rising for the first time since Sept. 6, to 2,557.99 at
the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The index is down 5 percent in
the past two months. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.5 percent
today, trimming losses in the period to 3.3 percent.  “The correction we saw in global markets already provides
attractive valuations for many stocks,” said Ahmed Talhaoui,
head of asset management at Abu Dhabi-based Royal Capital PJSC.
“In order to attract investors to the  Middle East  and North
Africa region, we need more time.”  A drop of 5.4 percent so far this quarter prompted by
global growth concerns has left the 66 companies in Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark gauge valued at an average 8.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with 9.9 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. Abu Dhabi’s measure is valued at about 1 time net assets,
or book value, while emerging markets stocks are valued at 1.6
times.  Volumes Decline  Investors awaited a U.S. Federal Reserve announcement today
that may signal increased stimulus for the world’s largest
economy. The central bank is scheduled to issue a statement at
2:15 p.m. in  Washington . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
economists this month in Minneapolis that policy makers have
measures at hand and are “prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate.” The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index, down 9.5 percent this year,
fell 0.2 percent today.  About 45 million shares traded in Abu Dhabi today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 74 million shares. Aldar
increased the most since Aug. 10 to 1.23 dirhams and Abu Dhabi
Islamic, the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank complying with Shariah
rules, gained 0.9 percent, the most since Sept. 7, to 3.25
dirhams.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  climbed 0.6 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
advanced 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s measure slipped 0.4 percent,
while Bahrain’s gauge was little changed. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  