-- 
Madoff Trustee Loses Bid to Quash Request for Rehearing on Who Gets Paid

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T14:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/madoff-trustee-loses-bid-to-quash-request-for-rehearing-on-who-gets-paid.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm lost a bid to quash investors’ request for a new hearing on
how he calculates who gets compensated for losses in Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  said Aug. 16 that
trustee Irving Picard can ignore fictitious profits on money
Madoff never invested when calculating losses and who is
entitled to be repaid. Some investors who wouldn’t get paid
under the formula asked for a “rehearing,” saying the appeals
court ruled differently in a previous case.  Picard’s move to strike the request was denied, according
to a court filing yesterday.  A group of Madoff investors had urged the court to require
Picard to use their final account statements, which included
fictitious profits on money Madoff never invested, to determine
losses. Picard’s formula limits the number of investors who can
claim money, and cuts the size of many claims.  Asking the court earlier this month to refuse to rehear the
issue, Picard said in a filing the investors failed to follow
the court’s rules. Some investors filed a 24-page petition
without asking for permission to file an oversized brief, he
said. Told by the court to shorten it, “the petitioners seek to
dodge the court’s order,” Picard said.  “They split the arguments into two 15-page petitions, put
some of the appellants on one petition and the rest on the
other, and ask the court to consider the petitions as one,”
Picard said. “The court should strike the newly filed
petitions.”  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in  North Carolina ,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud.  The case is In re Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 10-2378, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 