-- 
Madoff Trustee, Firm Seek $45 Million Fees for Four Months

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T22:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/madoff-trustee-firm-seek-45-million-fees-for-four-months-1-.html
Irving Picard , who is liquidating
con man Bernard L. Madoff’s money management firm, asked a judge
today to grant him and his law firm $45 million in fees for the
period Feb. 1 to May 31.  The Madoff trustee’s own charges for the four months are
$599,301 in fees and $479.80 in expenses, according to a court
filing today. His seventh request for payment would bring total
fees for Picard and Baker & Hostetler LLP to more than $224
million since Madoff’s arrest in December 2008, according to
court records.  Picard, who has filed 1,000 suits seeking $100 billion from
banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said
in the fee application he expects to spend more time working on 
cases that may go to the U.S. Supreme Court, the appeals court and
district court, as well as  bankruptcy court  where he originally
filed his suits.  He has appealed a July ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who threw out almost $9 billion in damages that Picard
demanded from HSBC and feeder funds. Of the $8.6 billion Picard
has recovered for investors in the Ponzi scheme, about $5.3
billion is tied up in court challenges and other “unresolved
issues,” said Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Burden of Litigation  By contrast, bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. today
dropped its bid to keep fighting in court for $11 billion from
Barclays Plc, citing the burden of litigation on the estate and
the need to conclude the bankruptcy.  Rakoff challenged Picard’s fees in a court hearing about
the trustee’s $59 billion suit against defendants including
Sonja Kohn and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   “I just keep reading in the papers how much is being paid
to Picard,” Rakoff said.  The trustee’s fees are paid by the Securities Investor
Protection Corp., which is funded by the securities industry,
Remus said.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 