-- 
African Union Condemns Massacre in Burundi as Probe Begins

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-09-21T12:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/african-union-condemns-massacre-in-burundi-as-probe-begins-1-.html
The  African Union  condemned an
attack in Burundi that killed at least 40 people and offered to
support efforts to consolidate peace in the East African country
as the authorities began investigating the incident.  African Union Commission Chairman Jean Ping “strongly
condemns this barbaric act,” the Addis Ababa-based organization
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Unidentified gunmen opened fire on patrons at a bar in
Gatumba, about 13 kilometers (8 miles) northwest of the
Burundian capital, Bujumbura, on Sept. 18. No one has claimed
responsibility for the attack. The gunmen fled to neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo after the attack, President Pierre Nkurunziza said on Sept. 19.  In November, the  United Nations  said Burundian rebels
including the National Liberation Forces, known by their French
acronym FNL, are using South Kivu Province in eastern Congo as a
base to recruit supporters. Agathon Rwasa, the head of the FNL,
went into hiding in June 2010 after withdrawing his candidacy
for Burundi’s presidential election.  Armed men wearing military uniforms have been involved in a
series of shootings this year in which army officers, policemen
and civilians have been killed. The attacks may be linked to the
start of an armed rebellion in the East African country,
Niyoyankana Bonaventure, president of the opposition Union for
National Progress, said last month.  Investigation Begins  Burundi appointed four judges and three policemen to
investigate the latest attack, Attorney General Valentin
Bagorikunda told reporters today in Bujumbura. The team is
expected to announce its findings within a month, he said.  The government also ordered the nation’s media regulator to
ensure newspapers in the country to refrain from reporting or
commenting on the incident, Interior Minister Edouard Nduwimana
said on state television last night.  Burundi is rebuilding its $1.33 billion economy after a
decade-long civil war that killed 300,000 people. Fighting broke
out in 1993 when the country’s first democratically elected
president was assassinated. One of the world’s poorest, Burundi
relies on coffee to generate two-thirds of its exports and the
industry is the main source of income for about 800,000
households, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 