-- 
AIG Hires Ex-IRS Deputy Counsel Potter to Protect Tax Assets

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-21T20:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/aig-hires-ex-irs-deputy-counsel-potter-to-protect-tax-assets.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, hired Clarissa Potter, former deputy
chief counsel of the  Internal Revenue Service , to help protect
tax assets accumulated by the firm.  Potter will be deputy tax director, reporting to Tal Kaissar, director of tax, the insurer said today in a statement.  Losses at New York-based AIG and its subsidiaries helped
rack up more than  $25 billion  of so-called deferred tax assets
as of Dec. 31 that may lower obligations to governments. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, said last month the
insurer is assembling a “world-class team” to manage the
assets and that they may be used for buybacks when AIG is
prepared to repurchase stock.  “The complexity of AIG’s global structure requires a
holistic approach to compliance with domestic and international
tax law,” Kaissar said in the statement. Potter’s “first-hand
understanding of  tax policy  makes her uniquely positioned to
help AIG in this regard.”  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc have said
AIG’s tax benefit may be worth at least $5 a share. The company,
which is majority owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, dropped
$1.65, or 6.7 percent, to $22.95 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Potter was previously an associate professor at Georgetown
University Law Center and had worked at the Treasury, Congress’s
Joint Committee on Taxation and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. She
holds a law degree from  Yale University  and a bachelor’s degree
from Miami University of  Ohio , according to the statement.  The insurer has turned to the public sector for other
managers including Brian Peters, a former Federal Reserve Bank
of New York employee. Peters joined AIG as a senior managing
director in the enterprise risk management group this year. The
Fed first rescued AIG in September 2008 and was fully repaid in
January of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  