-- 
AirAsia, Borneo, MISC, Nagamas, Proton: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-21T00:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/airasia-borneo-misc-nagamas-proton-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.2 percent
to 1,410.64.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  : Asia’s biggest budget carrier
carried 12.2 percent more passengers in August compared with a
year earlier, according to an e-mailed statement today. Its  load
factor  fell to 74 percent in August from 76 percent last year,
it said. The shares sank 4.8 percent to 3.19 ringgit.  Borneo Aqua Harvest Bhd. (BORN)  : The fish breeder will
seek to raise 9 million ringgit ($2.9 million) by selling new
shares in a private placement. The money raised will be used to
fund its operations, it said in a statement. Borneo was
unchanged at 44.5 sen.        Cuscapi Bhd. (CUSC)  : The software provider proposed to
raise about 9.8 million ringgit from a private share placement,
it said in a statement. The company will sell as much as 10
percent of new stock to help finance its operations, it said in
a statement. The shares were unchanged at 44.5 sen.  MISC Bhd. (MISC)  : Malaysia’s biggest shipping company
had its debt rating cut one level to Baa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service because of spending plans and expected operating losses
across different units. Moody’s has a negative outlook on MISC’s
rating. MISC rose 3.6 percent to 6.88 ringgit.  Nagamas International Bhd. (NGMS)  : The industrial gas
producer and  Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)   agreed to
jointly provide operation, management and other services for
airport development projects in China, according to a company
statement. Nagamas fell 1.4 percent to 69 sen. Malaysia Airports
lost 0.3 percent to 6.05 ringgit.  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)  : Malaysia’s state-controlled
carmaker has set up a subsidiary called Proton Motor Pars Co. in
Iran. The unit will be engaged in the assembly or building of
vehicles, Proton said in a statement. Proton increased 0.4
percent to 2.72 ringgit.  YTL Corp. (YTL MK): The Malaysian utilities, cement and
property group spent 1.8 million ringgit buying back 1.3 million
of its own shares, a stock filing showed. YTL decreased 1.5
percent to 1.36 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  