-- 
Malaysia’s Inflation Slows, Bolstering Scope to Hold Key Rate

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-09-21T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/malaysia-s-inflation-slows-bolstering-scope-to-hold-key-rate.html
Malaysia’s inflation rate slowed in
August for the second straight month, increasing the central
bank’s scope to leave  interest rates  unchanged and support
growth as the global recovery falters.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier after
climbing 3.4 percent in July, according to a report by the
Putrajaya-based statistics department today. The median estimate
of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.3
percent increase.  A struggling U.S. economy and  Europe ’s debt crisis have
dimmed the outlook for Asian exports, prompting officials from
 China  to the Philippines to avoid further rate increases in
recent weeks as they assess whether slower expansion will curb
price gains. Malaysian export growth slowed in July and the
nation’s factory output fell for the third time in four months.  “Inflation has likely peaked in  Malaysia ,” Daniel Wilson,
an analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Singapore, said before the report. “As external sector
slowdowns spill over into domestic growth prospects,
inflationary pressures will deflate. We do not see any rate
hikes in the rest of 2011.”  Bank Negara Malaysia left the overnight policy rate at 3
percent on Sept. 8 for a second meeting, and kept lenders’
reserve requirement ratio unchanged at 4 percent, saying a
“more challenging” external environment has increased the
“downside risks” to Malaysia’s economy.  Economic risks may have a “moderating impact” on
inflation, the central bank also said. The monetary authority
will hold its final policy meeting this year on Nov. 11.  Bank Negara forecasts consumer prices will climb 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent this year. Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said
on Aug. 17 that inflation may be closer to the higher end of the
range.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  