-- 
Malaysia Stock Movers: Borneo Aqua, Malaysia Marine, MISC, Sime

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-21T09:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/malaysia-stock-market-movers-berjaya-corp-misc-bhd-.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in Kuala
Lumpur.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 8.4 points, or 0.6
percent, to 1,419.04, snapping a four-day decline.  Borneo Aqua Harvest Bhd. (BORN)  , a fish breeder, slid
2.3 percent to 43.5 sen, the lowest close since Aug. 6, 2009.
Borneo wants to raise 9 million ringgit ($2.88 million) by
selling new shares in a private placement. The money raised will
be used to fund its operations, it said in a statement.  Malaysia Marine and Heavy Engineering Holdings Bhd. (MMHE)  , the rig-building arm of MISC Bhd. (MISC MK), advanced 0.8
percent to 6.15 ringgit, the largest increase since Sept. 2.
Malaysia Marine is bidding for projects valued at as much as 6
billion ringgit, Chairman Nasarudin Md Idris said in Kuala
Lumpur today.  MISC Bhd. (MISC)  , Malaysia’s biggest shipping company,
fell 1.7 percent to 6.76 ringgit. MISC had its debt rating cut
one level to Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service because of
spending plans and expected operating losses across different
units. Moody’s has a negative outlook on MISC’s rating.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  , a plantation and industrial
group, rose 4.2 percent to 8.24 ringgit, the biggest gain since
Jan. 4. Concerns that Sime paid too much for a stake in Eastern
& Oriental Bhd. and may have to make a general offer for the
rest of the property developer are “overblown,” UOB-Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. said. Sime’s purchase of a 30 percent stake in
Eastern & Oriental will help bolster its property division, UOB-
Kay Hian said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  