-- 
Taliban Bomber Waited Days to Give Afghan Peace Envoy Rabbani Lethal Hug

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-22T17:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/taliban-bomber-waited-days-to-give-afghan-peace-envoy-rabbani-lethal-hug.html
A Taliban suicide bomber waited for
days in Kabul to meet and kill Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 Afghanistan ’s top official pursuing talks with the guerrilla
movement, a member of the government’s peace body said.  The bomber stayed at the guest house of the High Peace
Council, which Rabbani chaired, and persuaded council members
that he had an important Taliban message to give to Rabbani
personally, said Mohammed Ismail Qasemyar. The man then killed
Rabbani by detonating a bomb hidden in his turban as he hugged
him in greeting, Qasemyar said in a phone interview yesterday.  Rabbani may have been assassinated Sept. 20 by the
Jalaluddin Haqqani faction of the Taliban, two U.S. intelligence
officials said. U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that  Pakistan ’s main spy agency, the
 Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate , is backing Haqqani’s
guerrillas in a sustained war against U.S. forces and Afghan
citizens.  The agency, known as ISI, must “disconnect from Haqqani
and from this proxy war that they’re fighting,” Mullen said  in
a speech  Sept. 20 at the Washington-based  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace . He told the U.S. Senate Armed Services
Committee today that the Haqqani group acts as a “veritable
arm” of ISI.  Embassy Attack  After years in which U.S. officials declined to speak
publicly about Pakistan’s support for Haqqani’s attacks on
American forces, Mullen, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and
other officials have demanded a change from Pakistan since they
said it was Haqqani’s group that hit the U.S. Embassy in Kabul
with rocket-propelled grenades Sept. 13.  One U.S. official cautioned that no hard evidence shows
that Haqqani’s organization killed Rabbani and said others might
be responsible. That source, and the intelligence officials,
spoke on condition of anonymity because the matters are
classified.  The man who killed Rabbani arrived in Kabul several days
ago “and contacted several peace council officials, telling
them he was an important Taliban envoy and had a peace message
to deliver only to Rabbani,” Qasemyar said by phone. The envoy
was escorted to Rabbani’s home by council officials and security
guards deferentially avoided searching his turban as they let
him enter, police spokesman Hashmatullah Stanekzai said.  Mullen, who is to retire when his term ends next week, said
he met for four hours Sept. 15 with Pakistan’s military chief,
General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, demanding that Pakistan end
support for Haqqani. He declined to say how Kayani responded.  Pakistan’s Denial  Pakistan denies backing the Haqqani group, which is based
in Pakistan’s North Waziristan district and nearby provinces of
eastern Afghanistan.  Mullen Sept. 20 repeated conclusions that have been stated
for years by the Indian and Afghan governments, and by
independent scholars such as Pakistani author Ahmed Rashid, who
has written that ISI uses Islamic militant guerrilla groups to
attack its foes in Afghanistan and to strike  India  over the
disputed territory of Kashmir.  “The ISI has been doing this, supporting proxies for an
extended period of time,” Mullen said. “It is a strategy in
the country and I think that strategic approach has to shift in
the future.” He then said, “The Haqqani piece of this has got
to be reversed -- period.”  U.S. Attacks  Mullen said the U.S. will take “appropriate action”
against further Haqqani attacks on its forces, while declining
to offer details. Since January 2008, nearly a quarter of the
254 U.S. missile strikes in Taliban-dominated areas of Pakistan
have targeted Haqqani’s guerrillas, according to  a database 
maintained by the Long War Journal, a U.S.-based monitoring
group.  Rabbani’s killing will complicate efforts by President
Hamid Karzai’s government, the U.S. and Pakistan to start a
 peace process  with the Taliban, said Waheed Mujda, a political
analyst at the  Kabul Center for Strategic Studies  who formerly
was a Taliban official. The three governments are competing to
shape such talks and any deal that might emerge, Waliullah
Rahmani, director of the research group, said in an interview
last week.  Karzai appointed Rabbani and the peace council 11 months
ago, including former Taliban officials among its members.  Rabbani failed to make progress because he was an old enemy
of the Taliban who failed to win their trust, said Mujda, who
served in the former Taliban government as a foreign ministry
official.  Relationship Bankrupt  Rabbani’s assassination will complicate peace efforts that
are critical to the Obama administration’s efforts to reduce
U.S. combat forces in Afghanistan, said Frank J. Cilluffo,
director of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George
 Washington  University in Washington. “I don’t see how we can
successfully wind down our presence in Afghanistan without being
able to point to a credible peace initiative,” he said.  Also, Pakistan’s unwillingness to combat the Haqqani
network reveals the bankruptcy of the U.S.-Pakistan relationship
said Cilluffo and Christine Fair, a professor at  Georgetown
University  in Washington.  “The litmus test for Pakistan is whether they are willing
to sever their ties with proxy groups such as Haqqani,” said
Cilluffo in a telephone interview. “The U.S. and its coalition
partners’ patience is wearing thin.”  “There’s really no alliance there,” said Fair, a
specialist on Pakistan. “Our allies are their enemies, and
their enemies are our allies. As we go into the endgame in
Afghanistan, it’s becoming increasingly clear that our interests
are different. The only good thing about that is that as it
becomes clear that our military and intelligence relationship is
going to pot, it may force us to focus more energy on the
civilian side of the relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  