-- 
Alstom, Datang to Build Trial Carbon-Capture Projects in China

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-21T12:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/alstom-datang-to-build-trial-carbon-capture-projects-in-china.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the third-largest maker
of power equipment, and  China  Datang Corp. agreed to develop two
trial projects to capture and store carbon in the country as the
world’s biggest consumer of coal seeks to curb emissions.  Alstom and Datang, the second-largest Chinese electricity
producer, will develop projects to gather carbon dioxide from
 power plants  and store it in the nation’s two biggest oilfields,
the Levallois-Perret, France-based equipment company said today.  China, the largest user of power according to the  BP Plc
Statistical  Review of World Energy, requires technology to help
it meet climate-change goals, while feeding electricity needs.
The  International Energy Agency  says carbon capture and storage
alone can deliver 19 percent of a goal of cutting world carbon-
dioxide emissions in half by 2050, compared with 2005 levels.  Alstom will fit its  carbon-capture  technology to the Daqing
coal-fired power plant in Heilongjiang province and Dongying
coal station in Shandong province. The two projects, adjacent to
the Chinese oilfields, will each trap more than 1 million metric
tons of carbon-dioxide a year in 2015, Alstom said. China has
pledged to cut emissions per unit of gross domestic product by
40 percent to 45 percent by 2020, from 2005 levels.  The gas can be used for so-called enhanced oil recovery by
pumping it into the field to loosen denser crude, boosting
output from aging deposits, Alstom said. The cost of achieving
the 50 percent emissions cut would rise by more than 70 percent
in the long term without CCS, the Paris-based IEA said in 2008.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  