-- 
Lan’s Purchase of Tam Cleared in Chile Court With Conditions; Tam Advances

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T17:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/lan-s-purchase-of-brazil-s-tam-cleared-by-chile-court-with-conditions.html
Lan Airlines SA (LAN) ’s planned purchase
of  Brazil ’s  Tam SA (TAMM4)  to form the world’s second-biggest carrier by
market value was approved by Chile’s antitrust tribunal with
several conditions.  Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia, or TDLC as the
court is known, gave final Chilean clearance for the transaction
in a split vote, according to a statement sent by e-mail today.
Conditions include Lan and Tam opening up their frequent flyer
program to other airlines, exiting one of their global alliances
and capping Santiago- Sao Paulo  fares until they exchange four
daily slots in Sao Paulo’s Guarulhos airport with other
carriers. The tie-up still requires Brazilian approval.  “The measures seek to promote effective competition in the
Chilean airline market, and while that doesn’t occur, protect
consumers from the effects of concentration,” the TDLC said in
its statement.  Lan was little changed at 13,020 pesos in Santiago trading
at 1:33 p.m. New York time after gaining as much as 4.1 percent.
Tam advanced 4.1 percent to 38.15 reais and earlier jumped 12
percent, the most since August 2010 when the deal was announced.  “At a first glance the conditions don’t seem too
restrictive,” Jorge Sepulveda, an analyst at Santiago-based
Euroamerica Corredores de Bolsa SA, said by telephone. “The
conditions are mostly related to defending competition in the
local market and are in line with what we expected.”  Biggest Market  A Lan-Tam combination would have a market value of $12
billion, overtaking China Southern Airlines Co. and Singapore
Airlines Ltd. as the world’s largest airline after Air China
Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal would
give Santiago-based Lan 41 percent of the domestic airline
market in  Latin America ’s largest economy and $6.5 billion in
annual sales.  Lan is reviewing the condition set by the TDLC, the
Santiago-based carrier said in an e-mailed statement.  Under terms of the transaction announced in August last
year, investors would receive 0.9 Lan share for each share of
Tam they own. Lan would have about 70 percent of a holding
company called LATAM Airlines Group while Tam’s controlling
shareholders would retain 80 percent of the Brazilian carrier’s
voting stock to comply with a law that caps foreign capital at
20 percent. Lan’s Enrique Cueto would be chief executive of the
new company while Tam’s Mauricio Rolim Amaro would be chairman.
Both airlines would continue operating separately with their own
brands.  Legal Review  Chile’s consumer defense association Conadecus filed in
January a petition to the TDLC to block the deal on grounds that
it would reduce competition. Separately, Lan and Tam had reached
an out-of-court agreement on mitigation measures with Chile’s
National Economic Prosecutor to speed up approval of the deal.
The TDLC agreed to review the case and put the deal on standby.  “Our lawyers are reviewing the conditions and we should be
in a position to make a statement hopefully within the next 24
hours,” Conadecus Chairman Hernan Calderon said today by phone.  Calderon said Sept. 16 that Conadecus could appeal a
favorable ruling for the deal if it didn’t appropriately protect
consumers, according to an interview with Diario Financiero.
Calderon declined to comment today on whether he planned to
appeal the ruling until reviewing the TDLC’s conditions.  Brazil’s competition defense authority Cade probably will
rule on the transaction by the end of October or early November,
Olavo Chinaglia, the commissioner responsible for the case, told
reporters Aug. 31. Brazil’s civil aviation agency, known as
Anac, approved the deal in March.  Gol Rallies  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) , Brazil’s second-largest
airline by market value, advanced 4.6 percent to 12.55 reais
after saying the country’s civil aviation agency, known as Anac,
approved its acquisition of Webjet Linhas Aereas SA. The deal
must still be approved by Brazil’s Cade.  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s fourth-largest aircraft maker,
gained 6.1 percent to 12.02 reais. The company said it forecasts
airline demand for regional jets at $320 billion in the next 20
years, according to its market outlook published on its website.
In July, Embraer had estimated demand at $200 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  