-- 
Apache to Acquire Exxon North Sea Assets for $1.75 Billion

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-09-21T20:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/apache-to-buy-exxon-s-north-sea-assets-for-1-75-billion.html
Apache Corp. (APA)  agreed to buy oil and
natural gas assets in the  North Sea  from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
including the Beryl field, for $1.75 billion as it seeks to
boost production in one of its most successful regions.  The fields produce 19,000 barrels of oil and 58 million
cubic feet of natural gas a day, Houston-based Apache said in a
statement today. Estimated proved reserves were the equivalent
of 68 million barrels of oil at the end of last year. Apache
said it plans to fund the transaction with cash.  The purchase adds to the $11 billion Apache spent last year
on acquisitions that included BP Plc fields in  Texas  and  Egypt 
and a gas business in  Canada . The company has almost doubled
production at the Forties Field, the U.K’s largest, since buying
it in 2003. The latest move is expected to increase Apache’s
North Sea output by 54 percent and proved reserves by 44
percent.  “They’re clearly going to attempt to replicate similar
success they had at Forties,” said  Leo Mariani , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Austin, Texas. “There’s a pretty good
chance that they make some nice money on it over time,”
Mariani, who has a “sector perform” on Apache shares and owns
none, said today in a telephone interview.  Cash Flow  The Exxon assets Apache is purchasing include the Nevis,
Ness, Nevis South, Skene and Buckland fields, a stake in the
Beryl/Brae gas pipeline and the SAGE gas plant, and non-operated
interests in the Maclure, Scott and Telford fields. Apache also
receives exploration acreage in Benbecula, west of Scotland’s
Shetland Islands.  Apache’s payment to Exxon will be reduced by  cash flow 
generated by the business from the effective date of Jan. 1,
2011, to the closing expected by the end of the year, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Steven Farris said on a conference
call with analysts and investors. The company’s cash outlay at
the closing may be $1.5 billion to $1.55 billion before a tax
benefit, he said.  Apache said 40 percent of the $1.75 billion price may be
deductible against future income. Farris said the transaction is
expected to add to earnings, cash flow and production.  Low-Risk Projects  Today’s agreement has a price of $25.74 per barrel of oil
equivalent of proved reserves, according to a note to clients
from  Sterne Agee  analysts led by Michael McAllister. That’s more
than four times the price per unit in Apache’s 2003 deal with
BP, though comparisons are misleading because of the increase in
Brent crude prices since then, said Sterne Agee, which has a
“buy” rating on Apache.  “There is a portfolio of low-risk exploitation projects,
and we believe the complex structural setting holds reserve
upside,” Farris said in the statement. “Apache has
demonstrated the ability to increase the efficiency of mature
North Sea assets, find new reserves to extend field life, and
operate in a safe and environmentally responsible manner.”  BP, Total SA and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are also trying to sell
mature assets in the North Sea. Deals have been hampered by the
cost of dismantling decades-old platforms. U.K. law holds
sellers responsible for decommissioning if the buyer can’t pay,
leading sellers to demand letters of credit for the potential
costs and adding to the expense of deals.  Apache can add value to the fields by pushing back
decommissioning and extending their life, spokesman Bill Mintz
said by phone from Houston.  An increased tax on production imposed in the last U.K.
budget has also scuppered transactions, according to industry
group Oil & Gas U.K.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Apache Corp. are vying to be
the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by market
value, based on fluctuations in their share prices.  Apache fell $3.17 cents, or 3.4%, to $91.35 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 