-- 
Brazil, Argentina Block Paraguayan Beef on Foot and Mouth

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-09-21T20:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/argentina-declares-state-of-alert-on-paraguayan-foot-and-mouth.html
Brazil  and  Argentina  suspended beef
imports from landlocked Paraguay, the world’s seventh-largest
shipper, after an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle
in the neighboring country.  Argentina declared a “state of alert” to prevent the
disease from entering the country and won’t allow imports of
Paraguayan beef or cattle, according to a  resolution  in today’s
Official Gazette. Brazil also  said yesterday  it would
temporarily suspend all imports of Paraguayan livestock or red
meat. Both countries are transit points for Paraguayan exports.  Paraguay  reported  the outbreak on Sept. 18. Total exports
from the country were expected to increase to 310,000 metric
tons in 2011, from 290,000 tons in 2010,  according  to forecasts
by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Beef is the country’s
second-largest export, after soybeans.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer, based in  Sao
Paulo , said Sept. 19 it suspended exports from its Paraguayan
unit because of the outbreak, and Minerva SA, based in Barretos,
Brazil, halted operations in Paraguay.  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,
Latin America’s second-largest beef producer, said in a
statement yesterday it doesn’t own beef plants in Paraguay.  Argentina is free of foot-and-mouth disease, while Brazil
is considered free of the disease with vaccination, according to
the World Organization for  Animal Health , or OIE. Foot and mouth
is one of the most contagious livestock illnesses and can kill
young animals, according to the OIE. The virus affects cloven-
hoofed animals including cattle, pigs and sheep.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  