-- 
Markit Sues Two Former Employees in Singapore Over Misuse of Trading Data

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-09-21T02:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/markit-sues-two-former-employees-in-singapore-over-misuse-of-trading-data.html
Markit Group Ltd., a provider of
data on bonds and credit-default swaps, sued two former
employees in  Singapore , claiming they breached their employment
contracts and misused the firm’s confidential information.  Zhibo Li and Shiyang Cui “systemically and deliberately
siphoned off” Markit’s proprietary information to set up rival
Fundamentrix Pte, according to a lawsuit filed with the
Singapore High Court earlier this month. The first closed
hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.  Li, who was fired in May as a vice-president of sales in
Markit’s Singapore office, induced Cui, an associate vice-
president, to break his employment contract, according to the
lawsuit. Cui had installed software on his computer at work that
allowed him to copy  trade secrets  including Markit’s
mathematical valuation models, London-based Markit said in court
papers.  A Notice of Appearance hasn’t been filed for the two men,
indicating they are not yet officially represented by lawyers.
Neither replied to two e-mails seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Li failed to get  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and China Development
Bank Corp. to sign contracts with Markit after claiming the firm
had won tenders with the Chinese banks, according to the
lawsuit. Markit said Li, who helped develop its business in
China from Singapore, had no authority to agree to offer its
services to  Bank of China  at “a deeply discounted price” or
sign a request for proposal.  China Caution  Markit, which doesn’t have an office in China, is in
discussions with Bank of China on how it can fulfill part of the
mandate stated in the proposal, according to the lawsuit.  Markit was “cautious” in considering when to open an
office in China because of costs, unfamiliarity with the
country’s business and regulatory environment, the lack of sales
achieved by Li and not having a suitable senior candidate to
head the office, the firm said in its lawsuit.  Caroline Lumley, a London-based spokeswoman at Markit,
declined to comment on the lawsuit or the company’s  China  plans.  Markit, with more than 2,300 employees, provides derivative
and bond data to its customers. Bloomberg LP, the owner of
Bloomberg News, competes with Markit in selling information to
the financial-services industry.  The case is Markit Asia Pte & Ors v Zhibo Li & Ors
S628/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  