-- 
Harper Running Out of Economic Drivers as Carney Warns About Canada Trade

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/harper-running-out-of-economic-drivers-as-carney-warns-about-canada-trade.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who has overseen one of the developed world’s most
robust economies during the global downturn, may be running out
of drivers to sustain its growth.  The world’s 10th-largest economy shrank in the second
quarter as exports plunged. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney
said yesterday trade will remain a “major source of weakness”
as the U.S. faces its slowest recovery since the Great
Depression. The IMF cut its growth forecast for Canada.  “The risks to our economy remain largely external and are
skewed to the downside,” Carney, 46, said in a speech in Saint
John,  New Brunswick .  Canada has relied on consumers and businesses to drive its
expansion in contrast to Canada’s three previous recessions.
That driver of growth may be waning as consumer debt levels hit
a record, job growth and wage gains have slowed and the
country’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX stock index has
dropped 9.2 percent this year.  “We are operating in a slow growth environment,” Royal
Bank of Canada Chief Executive Officer Gord Nixon said yesterday
in an interview in Toronto. “That’s what we’re going to have to
be used to for an extended period of time.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut Canada’s economic
growth forecast yesterday, citing weaker U.S. demand and slower
 government spending . The growth outlook for this year was
reduced to 2.1 percent from a June prediction of 2.9 percent,
according to the Washington-based lender’s World Economic
Outlook. The expansion will slow further to 1.9 percent next
year, down from the June forecast of 2.6 percent.  New Stimulus  “This is not an average recovery, and now the considerable
external headwinds our economy has faced in recent years are
blowing harder,” Carney said. “The  United States  is in the
midst of the weakest recovery since the Great Depression, and
the bank does not expect that to change at any time soon.”  The IMF said Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  can afford to
offer new stimulus if needed to sustain the recovery.  “For Canada, which is in a sounder fiscal and financial
position than the United States, ongoing fiscal tightening can
continue, but there is policy room to pause if downside risks to
growth keep rising,” the IMF said.  Canada has “fiscal room” to stimulate the economy, though
nothing has changed this week to warrant a shift in government
policy from its focus on reducing the deficit, Flaherty told
reporters in Ottawa yesterday.  Majority Government  Harper won his first majority government in May elections
promising to balance Canada’s budget by the fiscal year that
begins April 2014, after his Conservatives ran a record deficit
during the recession while cutting personal and corporate income
taxes to help sustain the expansion.  Flaherty has been encouraging his Group of Seven colleagues
to live up to deficit-reduction commitments, saying earlier this
month politicians may need to make difficult choices that
“affect their opportunities for re-election.”  Harper said he anticipates the global economy will continue
to recover and the Canadian economy will grow “slowly,” though
he would act if the situation deteriorated dramatically.  “That’s the scenario upon which our plans are based,”
Harper told reporters at the  United Nations  in  New York 
yesterday. “We’re always watching the situation very carefully.
It’s our number one priority, and should the situation change,
we’ll make appropriate modifications in our plan.”  Trade Falters  Trade has been a diminishing source of growth since 2000,
and became an outright drag in 2008 as a stronger dollar and
cheap imports from  China  prompted Canadians to buy more goods
from abroad. With Canada’s dollar rising more than 60 percent
against the U.S. currency during the past decade, hurting the
profitability of companies such as Montreal-based forest-
products firm Tembec Inc., the share of exports in national
output has fallen more than 10 percentage points over the past
decade.  To help counter slowing growth in the U.S., Carney said
 Canada  will need to increase its exports to emerging markets
that are growing faster. He also said he expects commodity
prices to remain at “elevated levels” on the back of sustained
demand in  Asia , and encouraged companies to bolster productivity
through “heavy investment.”  Harper also has taken steps to encourage business
investment, eliminating tariffs on imported machinery and
equipment for manufacturing. The government has also pressed
ahead with cuts in the country’s corporate tax rate, fending off
accusations from opposition parties and union leaders the move
was reckless at a time when the country is running deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 