-- 
Harper Calls U.S. Approval of $7 Billion TransCanada Pipeline ‘No Brainer’

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-09-21T17:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/harper-says-approval-by-u-s-of-transcanada-oil-pipeline-is-a-no-brainer-.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said U.S. approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7
billion Keystone XL pipeline is a “no-brainer” because it will
create jobs and add to America’s secure energy reserves.  “The need for energy in the U.S. is enormous, the
alternatives for the U.S. are not good, on every level,” Harper
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Harper said he’s
“confident” the pipeline will be built.  The U.S. may make a final decision on the project this year
after the State Department said Aug. 26 it would pose “no
significant impacts to most resources” along its route.
Environmental groups, along with Hollywood celebrities such as
Daryl Hannah, have opposed the pipeline, calling the  oil sands  a
source of “dirty oil.”  Keystone would  link   Canada ’s oil sands to U.S. refineries
on the  Gulf of Mexico  coast. The 2,673-kilometer (1,661-mile)
pipeline would begin in Hardisty, Alberta, and cross
Saskatchewan, Montana, South Dakota and  Nebraska .  Harper has promoted Canada as an “energy superpower,”
pointing to its political stability compared with other
suppliers. Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of oil to the
U.S., and provides the country with almost a quarter of its
crude imports, twice what  Saudi Arabia  does.  Energy Security   “We agree with the Prime Minister’s comments -- it’s what
we have been saying all along,” Terry Cunha, a TransCanada
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Keystone
XL will ensure energy security for the U.S and create 20,000
jobs and 118,000 spinoff jobs during this current economic
climate without any government subsidy.” The company still
expects a decision from the Department of State by the end of
the year, he said.  Resistance to the Keystone project is one reason Canada
needs to seek out partners such as  China  for exports of energy
and other products, Harper said.  “Canada should look at trade diversification and
particularly diversification of energy exports,” he said. The
U.S. buys three-quarters of Canada’s exports, and a drop in
those shipments helped push Canada into its last recession.  “We would like to see the trade dependence on the United
States fall, and it has been falling gradually,” Harper said.  Most trade with the U.S. is smooth even if Canadians often
focus on disagreements such as President Barack Obama’s jobs
bill with a “Buy American” provision, Harper said.  ‘Great Friends’  Asked if the U.S. should be concerned about Canada seeking
other markets, Harper said “Canada is a democratic country, the
ultimate friend of the  United States  and a market-based
player.”  “We don’t use oil or energy projects as strategic
resources to achieve foreign policy or political ends, and of
course we would never do that to our great friends in the United
States,” he said.  Harper, 52, won his first majority government in May
elections promising to balance Canada’s budget by the fiscal
year that begins April 2014. The  Conservative Party  led by
Harper won re-election after having been in government with a
minority of seats in Parliament since 2006.  On the global economy, Harper said policy makers from major
countries should be able to avoid another recession and solve
the most immediate threat posed by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  ‘Muddle Through’  “We need to see some real solutions that are going to last
and move us forward,” Harper said in reference to Europe. “I
still think there is every opportunity for governments to muddle
through and keep the recovery going, although admittedly we are
looking at a period of very low growth.”  The rise in Canada’s dollar against the U.S. dollar in
recent years has been another drag on Canada’s economy, Harper
said.  “There are some clouds and one of them is the upward
pressure on the dollar creates some practical problems for
Canadian producers,” he said.  The Canadian currency, known as the loonie because of the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.8
percent to C$1.0005 per  U.S. dollar  at 1:06 p.m. in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 