-- 
Harper Says Canada Would Prevent Speculative Dollar Move

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-21T19:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/harper-says-canada-would-act-to-prevent-any-speculative-move-in-the-dollar.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said
Canadian policy makers are prepared to act to stem an
appreciation of the country’s currency caused by speculative
capital inflows.  Harper, speaking in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York, said that while he doesn’t think
 Canada  will attract “extreme” flows of capital because of the
country’s close economic links with the U.S., the  Bank of Canada 
isn’t likely to tolerate any appreciation that undermines the
country’s economy.  Canadian monetary authorities “would be prepared to
intervene if they thought there were movements in the currency
that were contrary to the country’s interests and not being
driven by actual underlying fundamentals,” Harper said in the
interview.  Canada has received C$137 billion ($137 billion) in net
capital and financial flows since the last quarter of 2008,
Statistics Canada data show, more than the previous 34 years
combined. Most of the capital has come from the U.S., the data
show.  Harper said he doesn’t want to see another “speculative
spike” like the one in 2007, when the currency rose to a record
high about $1.10. The Canadian dollar was trading at 99.68 U.S.
cents at 3:04 p.m. in Toronto today. One  U.S. dollar  buys
C$1.0032.  Expressed Concern  “As you know we did have a speculative spike on the
currency I think in 2007 and as you know I did eventually
express my concern about,” Harper said. “I would not want to
see an incident like that repeated. I don’t believe under the
Bank of Canada today it would be repeated.”  Harper said if a deterioration of the  U.S. economy  triggers
capital outflows, those funds won’t likely all come to Canada.  “I just don’t see that happening on an extreme level,”
Harper said. “People understand that if the American economy is
in trouble that that’s going to have some impact on Canada.”  Harper said that the currency’s strengthening over the past
decade has been “to a large degree a positive reflection on the
country’s economic state and its economic policies.”  While Harper said there is some evidence of competitive
currency devaluations, particularly by the Chinese, he defended
the move by the  Swiss National Bank  to cap gains in the franc.
The SNB imposed ceiling of 1.20 against the euro on Sept. 6 and
pledged to purchase foreign currencies in “unlimited quantities”
to protect the economy. The franc’s ascent to a record last
month has hurt some of the country’s largest companies including
foodmaker Nestle SA and sparked an economic slowdown in the
second quarter.  ‘Defend Themselves’  “I would distinguish the Swiss case somewhat,” Harper
said. “I don’t think the case of Switzerland is being driven by
a desire to move away from market fundamentals.”  “The Swiss are simply trying to defend themselves from
speculative movements and I think one would understand under
some circumstances that’s necessary,” he said.  While central banks from  Switzerland  to  Japan  have sought
to offset currency gains through intervention, and emerging
markets have erected  capital controls , Canadian officials have
argued Group of 20 countries should have freely floating
exchange rates and no capital restrictions.  “We understand there are upward pressures on the dollar,”
Harper said. “As long as we think those are economically based,
the government is committed to flexible exchanges.”  No Major Changes  Harper also said he doesn’t anticipate any major changes to
the Bank of Canada’s mandate - to set policy aiming for 2
percent annual inflation - which expires at the end of this
year.  Policy makers have been studying whether to target the
level of prices instead of the inflation rate, whether to target
a lower inflation rate and how monetary policy should deal
financial stability issues.  “Realistically, I don’t see any radical changes to the
bank’s mandate,” Harper said. “I’m not anticipating
significant changes to the mandate but we are reviewing those
issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  New York  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 