-- 
Las Vegas Sands ‘Seriously Considering’ Dividend as Cash Grows

-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T11:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/las-vegas-sands-seriously-considering-dividend-as-cash-grows.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ’s board is
“seriously considering” paying a dividend as early as next
year as growing cash from Macau and Singapore exceeds the casino
company’s needs for potential expansion in Asia and  Europe .  The board also is mulling share buybacks after setting
aside enough cash to fund at least 30 percent equity in future
casino resort opportunities, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Sheldon Adelson  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.” Cash is growing at a rate that
would equal Las Vegas Sands’ debt by the end of 2013, he said.  Adelson, who predicted in May that his company would
generate more than $3 billion in cash flow this year as gambling
in  Asia  accelerates and Las Vegas recovers, said earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization may
“substantially exceed” those expectations if “reliability and
predictability” continue. The company’s Singapore resort,
Marina Bay Sands, is on schedule to earn “close to” the $2
billion in Ebitda that some analysts have forecast, he said.  “Having more money is not a bad thing,” said Adelson,
whose family owns a controlling stake in the company. “I want
to make sure that we have enough cash to put up the equity
portion of anything in development.”  Las Vegas-based Sands continues to negotiate with Spain to
develop a casino resort strip, Adelson said. He expects either
Japan or  South Korea  to decide to allow integrated resorts,
which include casinos and convention space, next year.  “If one makes noises about legalizing gaming, the other is
going to jump right in,” said Adelson, 78, whose company has
been lobbying both governments for years. “It appears it’s
coming to the top, coming to the fore.”  Massachusetts, Florida  Las Vegas Sands, which is hosting a meeting with investors
today in  New York , may pursue U.S. projects if new jurisdictions
such as Massachusetts and Florida allow casinos and if
shareholders push for smaller developments, Adelson said.  Singapore  authorized just two casinos, which were opened
last year by Las Vegas Sands and Malaysian rival  Genting Bhd. (GENT) 
Lessons learned from Singapore mean that Las Vegas Sands could
build an equivalent resort for about half the almost $6 billion
that  Marina Bay Sands  cost, Adelson said.  “We will not scale down, we will design the project and
tighten up the program,” Adelson said. “We’ve learned to be
more efficient on the building. We could cut down a lot of
space.”  Booming Macau  Macau, the only place in  China  where casinos are legal,
could “easily grow” total casino gambling revenue 50 percent
or more this year, Adelson said.  Las Vegas Sands, through its Hong Kong-listed unit  Sands
China Ltd. (1928) , is developing casino resorts in Macau to add to its
existing properties, the Venetian, Four Seasons and Sands.  Macau revenue surged 47 percent to 173.1 billion patacas
($21.6 billion) in the eight months ended in August. The
territory, about 40 miles west of  Hong Kong , surpassed the Las
Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest casino hub by revenue in
2006.  Las Vegas is recovering from a record two-year drop in
gambling and conventions. Gambling revenue on the Strip
increased 7.5 percent this year through July, according to the
latest data available from the  Nevada Gaming Control Board .  “I do feel Las Vegas is coming back, albeit slowly,”
Adelson said. “The gaming propensity in one respect has gone
down in the United States, and has gone up because more
foreigners, particularly Asians, are coming to  Las Vegas .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko via Beth Jinks in New York at   bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  