-- 
Murderer Turns Norway Against Xenophobia

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-21T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/mass-murderer-turns-norway-against-progress-party-s-xenophobia.html
Anders Behring Breivik may have
helped silence xenophobia in Norway as voters shun the anti-
immigration party he was a member of before he committed the
July massacre that left 77 people dead.  Popular support for the Progress Party, the second biggest
in Norway’s national parliament, fell by 6.1 percentage points
to 11.4 percent in a Sept. 12  municipal vote , the political
group’s worst result in 16 years. The  Labor Party  of Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg, which Breivik targeted in the attacks,
won 32 percent of the election, its best result in 24 years.  “The Progress Party largely built their base on spreading
suspicion, especially against Islam and Muslims,” said Thomas
Hylland Eriksen, an anthropologist at the University of Oslo, in
an interview. The attacks have “been very damaging for them and
that will have a civilizing effect on the debate,” he said.  Norwegians have spent the past two months working through
their horror over the killings and reaffirming Scandinavian
principles of tolerance and equality. That may help reverse a
pan-Nordic trend that had seen a surge in the popularity of
parties seeking to stem the inflow of immigrants from mostly
Muslim countries as voters balked at the prospect of sharing
their welfare benefits.  In neighboring  Denmark , voters toppled a Liberal-
Conservative government this month that ruled with the support
of the anti-immigration Danish  People’s Party . Backing for the
Sweden Democrats, an anti-immigration party in the largest
Nordic country, fell to 5.5 percent this month from 6.8 percent
in June, according a poll by TNS-Sifo.  Posted Manifesto  Breivik, who will remain in solitary confinement for at
least four more weeks as police continue their investigation,
went on a shooting rampage on July 22 at a Labor Party youth
camp that killed 69, including some as young as 14. A few hours
earlier, he detonated a car bomb in Oslo’s government district,
killing eight. The attacks were part of a crusade against
“cultural Marxism” and the “Islamization” of  Europe ,
according to a 1,500-page manifesto Breivik posted online hours
before the killings.  While Breivik’s attacks triggered a backlash against anti-
immigration policies, they also unleashed calls for better
police protection.  “It’s made us all a little bit more paranoid, a little
more insecure, a little less trusting,” Eriksen said. “And
that will remain, this loss of trust because we know that it
could happen again.”  ‘Terror Industry’  The Norwegian government proposed last week to increase
this year’s budget by as much as 723 million kroner ($127
million) to cover costs related to the attacks. Of that, 195
million kroner will go to the Justice Ministry to beef up police
and civil defense services.  “The counter terrorism strategy in  Norway  will change as a
result of this act and this of course will cost money,” Joakim
Hammerlin, author of the book “The Terror Industry,” said in a
Sept. 19 interview.  The Defense Ministry will next year get the biggest cash
boost of all state departments, according to a government
document obtained by Oslo-based newspaper Dagens Naeringsliv.  Norway’s government has appointed an independent commission
to probe why it took police 1 1/2 hours to get to the island
where Breivik shot members of the Labor Party’s youth faction,
himself disguised as a law enforcement officer. The police
blamed inadequate transportation and a shortage of staff.  Maximum Sentence  The  Norwegian Police Security Service  is under scrutiny for
failing to include Breivik on a watch list of suspected
terrorists, even after his name appeared on an Interpol list of
individuals buying dangerous chemicals over the internet.  “In European countries, as in the U.S., there has been a
tendency to introduce all these counter terrorism measures such
as profiling,” Hammerlin said. In Norway “the immediate
response has been less aggressive. We haven’t had these broad
surveillance measures.”  Breivik will be charged with acts of terror and may be the
first person in Norway to be indicted for committing crimes
against humanity. The offence carries a maximum sentence of 30
years. That’s nine years longer than Norway’s current maximum
prison term.  Breivik is in solitary confinement term at  Ila Landsfengsel 
outside Oslo, a prison built in the late 1930s and used by the
Nazis to incarcerate Norwegian prisoners of war.  Inmates in the Nordic country face prison sentences
designed to rehabilitate rather than just punish them, according
to the Justice Ministry.  Flat-Screen TVs  Norway’s newest maximum-security prison in Halden offers
cells with flat-screen TVs, unbarred windows, private bathrooms,
and access to work-out rooms and a music studio. The prison came
second in a competition for best  Norwegian interior design  this
month, an award won in 2009 by the Oslo opera house.  “I strongly believe Norwegian law is too soft on
criminals,” said Nina Myhre, a 37-year-old event planner from
Oslo. “When we’ve been subjected to such terrible, inhuman acts
by just one man, it’s obvious that Norway needs to change its
rules and laws.”  Someone like Breivik “shouldn’t be let out among normal
people again,” she said.  At the same time, the Progress Party is trying to reinvent
itself and pull off a comeback in Norwegian politics. Carl I. Hagen, a former Progress Party leader and a candidate for Oslo
mayor in this month’s elections, said his party is toning down
its rhetoric, while sticking to its basic policies.  Asylum Seekers  That may help the party persuade voters to reconsider its
agenda on immigrants once the shock of the July 22 attacks wears
off, according to Hanne Marthe Narud, a political scientist at
the University of Oslo.  Norway received the second-highest number of new asylum-
seekers per inhabitant after  Sweden  last year, according to a
survey of 44 industrialized nations by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees. Non-western immigrants and their
children accounted for 9.4 percent of Norway’s population last
year. In  Germany , non-western immigrants made up 6 percent, data
from the national statistics offices of each country show.  Stoltenberg’s Labor Party has argued in favor of “balanced,
controlled” immigration, which it calls “fundamentally
positive” on its website.  “Quite a few people are still skeptical about the
policies the government has had on immigration,” Narud said.
“Maybe they don’t want to say that right now. That might change
in a year or two when things get back to normal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  