-- 
Massachusetts Rewarded as Democrats Slash Costs: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-21T17:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/massachusetts-rewarded-by-investors-as-democrats-slash-costs-muni-credit.html
Massachusetts, which earned a
higher  credit rating  from Standard & Poor’s a month after the
company stripped the U.S. of its top grade, is being rewarded as
Democratic lawmakers defy union leaders and seek to curb worker
benefits.  The state increased its sale 5 percent to $500 million
today with yields down by half relative to AAA tax-exempt debt
since May. S&P raised its ranking last week, citing “progress
in improving financial, debt and budget-management practices,”
as well as a decision to replenish fiscal reserves as the
economy rebounds. Democratic Governor  Deval Patrick , 55, has
pushed to overhaul finances, including trimming public-pension
and other benefits.  The rating boost, by one step to AA+, the second-highest,
was the first for a state by S&P since the U.S. downgrade on
Aug. 5. It shows how Democratic-controlled Legislatures from
 Massachusetts  to  California  are joining Republican-led chambers
in cutting costs and delivering benefits to bondholders.  “Things have generally been on the upswing for the
states,” said Craig Brandon, a portfolio manager at Eaton Vance
Management in  Boston , which oversees about $25.6 billion of
municipal debt. “Massachusetts has been in the forefront of
states solving their problems from a credit perspective in a
more responsible manner.”  Revenue Increases  State tax revenue rose the past six quarters as it
recovered from the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009,
according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government
in  Albany , New York. States cut costs by slashing workers and
trimming benefits as they faced budget gaps totaling $511
billion in the past four years, data from the  National
Conference of State Legislatures  show.  Massachusetts bonds have the seventh-best total return this
year among the 26 states whose debt performance was ranked by
S&P Municipal Bond Indices. Including price and interest,
Massachusetts returned about 8.2 percent through Sept. 19, 0.6
percentage point more than New York, where Democratic Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  has also cut his budget by winning concessions from
state-workers’ unions after threatening to ax almost 10,000.  In California, which this week paid a third less in long-
term borrowing costs than in 2009, Governor  Jerry Brown  brokered
with fellow Democrats an $85.9 billion general-fund plan that
included $12 billion in spending cuts.  If the state falls $1 billion or more behind its revenue
forecast by December, it would cut funding for universities,
social services and other programs under a series of
“triggers” written into the budget.  Spread Narrows  Patrick’s state sold $500.5 million of tax-exempt debt in a
competitive auction to fund its capital program, with a portion
due October 2018 priced to yield 1.58 percent, or 13 basis
points above top-rated 7-year munis on Sept. 20. That compares
with a similar maturity sold in May at a yield of 2.2 percent,
or 27 basis points above the benchmark. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Massachusetts finished the fiscal year on June 30 with a
$460 million surplus after the state collected more  tax revenue 
than forecast. Lawmakers backed the governor’s proposal to put
$300 million into a rainy-day fund, bringing budget reserves
back over $1 billion. The state is one of only four with more
than $1 billion in reserves, according to Treasurer Steven Grossman.  ‘Positive Sign’  “The fact that S&P ultimately did upgrade us in the
current environment is a really positive sign,” said Jay Gonzalez, the administration and finance secretary. “They see
political leaders approaching these decisions like grown-ups,
putting ourselves in a much better position going forward.”  Nine other states have had their ratings raised by S&P
since January 2010, while six have taken cuts.  The governor sparked protests when he and Democratic
lawmakers sought to permit municipalities in Massachusetts to
alter health-care plans for workers and teachers without
collective bargaining. Unions also resisted legislation already
passed by the Senate that lowers a $20 billion unfunded pension
liability by $5 billion through increasing the  retirement age 
and changing how benefits are calculated. The measure, which
Patrick proposed, is pending in the  House of Representatives ,
which, like the Senate, is dominated by Democrats.  S&P also cited the governor’s management changes for the
upgrade, such as a decision to begin conducting a debt-
affordability study, as well as legislation including a law
requiring the transfer of capital-gains tax receipts into budget
reserves when they exceed $1 billion a year. Lawmakers also
boosted the  state sales tax  to 6.25 percent from 5 percent as
the economy began climbing out of the recession.  “There’s been a willingness on the part of commonwealth
officials to implement management improvements,” said Robin Prunty, an S&P analyst in  New York . “The other thing we’ve
observed through this recession is very proactive management of
budget gaps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  