-- 
Astana Finance Creditors to Absorb 80% Loss in Kazakh Deal

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-09-21T16:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/astana-finance-creditors-to-absorb-80-loss-in-kazakh-deal-1-.html
AO Astana Finance’s international
creditors will absorb a loss of 80 percent on its bonds under an
 agreement  reached with the Kazakh financial company that
defaulted in 2009.  Holders of Astana Finance’s foreign-currency debt will be
repaid 20 cents on the dollar, receiving cash and bonds maturing
in one and four years, according to the term sheet published by
the company today and signed with its international creditors’
committee Sept. 15.  Astana became the third Kazakh lender to default after it
stopped servicing its international debt in May 2009 as
 Kazakhstan  slipped into its first recession in a decade. The
company has $1.7 billion of debt outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Kazakh company will allocate $100 million in cash to
distribute to creditors and issue $75 million of one-year zero-
coupon bonds, Astana Finance said. It will also issue four-year
bonds so that total compensation reaches 20 percent of the debt
value now held by creditors, it said.  International creditors will also get at least 60 percent
of shares in Astana Finance as well as 12-year recovery notes,
under which they will receive a share of anything recovered from
impaired assets, the company said. Trade-finance lenders are
likely to accept the option, the company said.  Kazakh creditors will receive subordinated notes amortizing
after the four-year bonds issued to international creditors come
due, according to the statement.  Astana Finance’s creditors’ committee rejected another
debt-restructuring proposal last month for the second time, the
company said Aug. 23.  BTA Bank, Alliance Bank, AO Astana Finance and Temirbank,
then controlled by BTA, also defaulted in 2009, leaving about
$20 billion in debt to be restructured. BTA, Alliance and
Temirbank have completed their debt restructuring after
nationalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  