-- 
ASX Will Look for Partnership Opportunities, Chairman Says

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-21T23:30:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/asx-will-look-for-partnership-opportunities-chairman-says-1-.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  will continue to evaluate
partnerships with overseas stock-exchange operators even after
the government blocked its proposed merger with  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , Chairman David Gonski said.  “ASX believed strongly in the merits of the proposal,”
Gonski said, according to a stock-exchange filing today of an
address to shareholders given at the company’s annual general
meeting. “We remain committed to participate in regional and
global exchange consolidation, and ASX will continue to evaluate
strategic growth opportunities.”  ASX Ltd. last month named Elmer Funke Kupper, former head
of Australia’s biggest gambling company, as chief executive
officer, ending the tenure of Robert Elstone five months after
his attempt to merge with  Singapore Exchange  was blocked amid
opposition from politicians. Funke Kupper joins at a time when
ASX faces competition from a new rival, Nomura Holdings Inc.-
owned Chi-X  Australia  Pty.  Funke Kupper, a former chief executive of Tabcorp Holdings
Ltd., will start his new job on Oct. 6, ASX, operator of
Australia’s major stock exchange, said on Aug. 26. Elstone
didn’t seek to extend his contract when it expired in July.
Funke Kupper, a former banker, said his priority would be to
maintain ASX’s performance amid fast-paced change in the
industry.  ‘Not Interested’  Singapore Exchange, led by Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker , offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash-and-share deal
then valued at A$8.4 billion.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan blocked Singapore
Exchange’s bid for the operator of the Sydney-based bourse on
April 8, saying the deal was not in the nation’s interest and
would have left Australia as a junior partner.  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s No. 1
bourse operator by market value, isn’t interested in mergers
with other exchanges, Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said at
a conference in Hong Kong yesterday. Singapore Exchange is also
not looking for other merger opportunities, Bocker said at the
same conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 