-- 
AT&T to Seek Trial in Justice Department’s Lawsuit to Block T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/at-t-says-it-wants-trial-in-u-s-lawsuit-to-block-t-mobile-deal.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is seeking a “prompt
trial” of the U.S.  Justice Department ’s lawsuit challenging its
proposed acquisition of wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc., a
lawyer for the company said.  There was no talk of settlement yesterday in federal court
in  Washington  as Mark Hansen, an attorney for AT&T, told U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle that the company wants to get
to trial as quickly as possible. Huvelle, who had earlier told
the parties to come prepared to discuss settlement prospects,
set a trial date for Feb. 13.  “We’re seeking a prompt trial because we’re very
interested in closing this transaction,” Hansen, of Kellogg,
Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington, said
during the hour-long hearing. “We need to have the cloud of
uncertainty removed. We’re already a month beyond where we want
to be.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
case seeking to stop the $39 billion deal.  Huvelle pressed lawyers for both sides to limit the number
of witnesses and the amount of evidence they’ll present, noting
that each proposed interviewing 30 potential witnesses before
trial.  ‘Longer and Longer’  “This case is getting longer and longer every time I
ask,” Huvelle said, scheduling six weeks for the trial.  Joseph Wayland, deputy assistant attorney general of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said the government
plans to have AT&T and T-Mobile officials testify as “adverse”
witnesses.  “We’ll call them as part of our case-in-chief immediately
to begin the trial,” Wayland said.  Separate suits to block the deal have been filed by  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S. wireless operator, and
Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc., the ninth-
largest by customers.  Sprint, which claims the merged company would weaken its
ability to compete with AT&T and Verizon Communications Inc.,
asked Huvelle to be included in coordinated proceedings with the
Justice Department, as well as in motions about handling
confidential evidence and scheduling.  Similar Cases  Sprint’s lawyer, Steven Sunshine of Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP in Washington, told Huvelle that the
company’s case and the government’s are closely allied. He said
if the U.S. loses, most of the issues Sprint raised in its suit
will be resolved.  “If we lose that day, then we think we’ll be essentially
done,” Sunshine said.  Hansen called the effort by  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint to enter the case a tactical maneuver to slow the
litigation, which he said is already damaging both AT&T and T-
Mobile. Sprint’s complaint contains “exotic allegations” that
the government didn’t endorse, he said, adding that AT&T will
ask Huvelle to dismiss Sprint’s case.  Huvelle said that while she’s still considering Sprint’s
request for coordination with the government, she probably won’t
join the cases for trial. She set Oct. 24 for arguments on
whether to throw out Sprint’s lawsuit, and scheduled the next
hearing for AT&T and the government the same day.  Still ‘Hopeful’  AT&T is still “hopeful” it can address the Justice
Department’s antitrust concerns and reach a settlement, Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail after the
hearing.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson in March
announced the proposed purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-
Mobile. If the transaction falls apart, AT&T may be liable to
pay Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash, to give T-Mobile USA
wireless spectrum, and to reduce charges for calls into AT&T’s
network.  AT&T has taken a two-track approach to the case. It’s
challenging the government’s evidence that the deal would lead
to higher prices, less product variety and poorer quality in
services, while exploring compromises for asset sales that might
satisfy the government’s concerns. The company has reached out
to MetroPCS Communications Inc. and Leap Wireless International
Inc. to gauge their interest in buying assets, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the situation.  A merged AT&T and T-Mobile would have about 132 million
connections to mobile wireless devices and more than $72 billion
in mobile wireless telecom service revenue, the U.S. said in its
complaint. The T-Mobile transaction is scheduled to close by
March 20, a deadline that can be extended, according to company
filings.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  