-- 
AT&T Antitrust Hearing on T-Mobile May Offer Settlement Clues, Trial Date

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/at-t-antitrust-hearing-may-offer-settlement-clues-trial-date.html
Lawyers for  AT&T Inc. (T)  and the U.S.
will spar over a trial date and may offer clues on a possible
settlement as they appear in court for the first time since the
government sued to block the company’s merger with T-Mobile Inc.  Today’s hearing before U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington is intended to set a schedule for moving
the antitrust case toward a trial, which could begin as early as
January if AT&T gets its way. Huvelle also ordered both sides to
be prepared to discuss the prospects for settlement.  “It will be very interesting to see how strongly the
government responds,” said Andrew Gavil, who teaches antitrust
law at Howard University School of Law in  Washington . “Do they
leave the door open or do they shut it firmly? What kind of sign
do they want to send the judge about a negotiated resolution?”  AT&T may use the hearing to argue that the government isn’t
considering all of its proposals, such as asset sales, that in
its view might remedy the antitrust concerns raised by the deal,
Gavil said. The aim would be to enlist Huvelle in pressing the
Justice Department to ease its stance that the transaction must
be blocked, he said.  Huvelle could decide today when the case goes to trial
should settlement talks fail. AT&T is pushing for Jan. 16 while
the U.S. proposed March 19. The $39 billion T-Mobile transaction
is scheduled to close by March 20, though that deadline can be
extended, according to company filings.  ‘Last for Months’  “It would be a trial that could last for months and it
will be a full-time job for the judge,” said Bob Doyle, a
partner at Doyle, Barlow & Mazard PLLC in Washington and a
former official at the Federal Trade Commission.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson in March
announced the proposed purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based 
T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  If the transaction falls
apart, AT&T may be liable to pay Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in
cash, to give T-Mobile USA wireless spectrum, and to reduce
charges for calls into AT&T’s network.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Last week, seven states joined the government’s
case against the deal.  Two-Track Approach  AT&T has taken a two-track approach to the case. It’s
challenging the government’s evidence that the deal would lead
to higher prices, less product variety and poorer quality in
services, while exploring compromises for asset sales that might
satisfy the government’s concerns. The company has reached out
to  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and Leap Wireless International
Inc. to gauge their interest in buying assets, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the situation.  Of almost two dozen lawyers who have filed to appear in the
case, 13 of those are representing AT&T and T-Mobile.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S. wireless
operator, and Ridgeland, Mississippi-based Cellular South Inc.,
the ninth-largest by customers, filed their own antitrust
lawsuits seeking to block the deal.  Neither has asked that the cases be consolidated with the
government’s.  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, which claims
the deal would weaken its ability to compete with AT&T and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , asked Huvelle to be included in
coordinated proceedings with the  Justice Department  case, as
well as in motions about handling confidential evidence and
scheduling.  Sprint’s Participation  Huvelle hasn’t ruled on Sprint’s request. Still, the
company was invited by the Justice Department -- at Huvelle’s
request -- to participate in today’s hearing, according to court
documents filed by Sprint.  David Smutny, an antitrust partner at Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP in Washington, said Huvelle may signal at today’s
hearing how much involvement Sprint and Cellular South will have
in the Justice Department’s case.  While Huvelle could decide to join those cases with the
Justice Department’s, judges usually have related cases move
along on a “parallel track,” he said.  “Their complaints are similar, but not identical so I
could see the judge going either way,” Smutny said.  A merged AT&T and T-Mobile would have about 132 million
connections to mobile wireless devices and more than $72 billion
in mobile wireless telecom service revenue, the U.S. said in its
complaint.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 