-- 
AT&T Gave $963,275 to U.S. Lawmakers Urging Approval of T-Mobile USA Deal

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-21T15:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/at-t-gave-963-275-to-lawmakers-urging-u-s-approval-of-t-mobile-purchase.html
Representative Pete Olson and 99
fellow House Republicans signed a letter yesterday urging the
Obama administration to resolve a government lawsuit and let
 AT&T Inc. (T)  buy T-Mobile USA Inc.  All but one of the 100 lawmakers has received political
donations from AT&T employees since 2009, according to a
Bloomberg review of campaign finance records. The letter signers
took in $963,275, Art Brodsky, a spokesman for Washington-based
advocacy group  Public Knowledge , said in an e-mail.  “AT&T’s congressional support for its takeover of T-Mobile
comes at a price,”  Gigi Sohn , president of Public Knowledge, a
merger opponent, said in an e-mailed statement.  AT&T is working to rescue its $39 billion purchase of T-
Mobile from a U.S. lawsuit that seeks to block the transaction
as anticompetitive. The company is challenging a Justice
Department conclusion that the merger would bring higher prices,
and it is exploring compromises to satisfy regulators’ concerns.  Tomorrow, Olson, a  Texas  Republican, is to attend a
 Washington  fundraising luncheon backed by AT&T lobbyists.
Suggested contributions of $2,500, $1,000 or $500 go to the
Olson for Congress Committee, according to an invitation e-
mailed around Washington and obtained by Bloomberg.  The “Telecommunications Industry Lunch” at the  Capitol
Hill Club , a Republican institution one block from the U.S.
Capitol, shows AT&T buying influence as it seeks to salvage the
T-Mobile deal, according to  Public Knowledge .  Urging Settlement  AT&T isn’t sponsoring tomorrow’s lunch, Melissa Kelly, a
spokeswoman for Olson, said in an e-mail.  “They have been a long time supporter of Congressman Olson
and employ thousands of people in the State of Texas,” Kelly
said. “This letter simply urges the President to focus on
creating jobs in America and bringing other jobs back from
overseas to further strengthen our economic recovery.”  Olson and his colleagues in yesterday’s letter to President
 Barack Obama  said the U.S. should reach a settlement that lets
the merger proceed. The Justice Department in its Aug. 31
lawsuit said the transaction would lessen competition by
eliminating one of the four largest U.S. wireless carriers.  The lawsuit “will thwart  job creation  and economic growth
and undermine your own efforts to achieve our shared goal” of
economic recovery, the Republicans said in their letter. AT&T
last month offered to bring 5,000 call-center jobs back to the
U.S. once the deal closes.  The first hearing in the case was set for today before U.S.
District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington.  Help by Attending  J. Barry Hutchison, an AT&T assistant vice president who
once worked for former Republican House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ,
urged contacts to attend the Olson luncheon in an e-mail
obtained by Bloomberg. “Pete has been a leader on the Energy
and Commerce Committee and I hope you can help him by
attending,” according to the e-mail.  Hutchison and Michael Balmoris, a Washington-based AT&T
spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and telephone call
seeking comment.  The Olson-led letter is one of at least three to the Obama
administration from Congress since early September. Of the
letters’ 117 signers, 116 have received campaign contributions
from AT&T employees, according to records compiled by the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  “That’s why AT&T is so effective on  Capitol Hill ,”  Craig Holman , government affairs lobbyist at Public Citizen, a
Washington-based advocacy group, said in an interview. “The
game isn’t just lobbying activity, it’s making sure there’s an
extensive fundraising apparatus that goes on full time. That’s
exactly what played out here.”  Briefing Request  Three Republicans including Representative Fred Upton, of
 Michigan , the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, in
a Sept. 8 letter asked for a briefing from the  Justice
Department  and the Federal Communications Commission, which is
conducting a separate review.  AT&T employees have given Upton $96,600 since 1989, the
earliest records compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
That is his largest source of campaign donations. Another signer
of the Sept. 8 letter, Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas, has
received $97,559 from AT&T employees since 1989. The third
signer, Representative Greg Walden, of  Oregon , first elected in
1998, has received $56,000.  In a Sept. 15 letter, 15 Democrats led by Representative
Heath Shuler, of  North Carolina , said the Justice Department
should agree to a settlement of the lawsuit “that ensures
robust competition” while preserving the deal’s benefits.
Shuler has received $24,000 from AT&T employees since 2005.  Justice Rejection  The Justice Department in a Sept. 19 letter rejected the
lawmakers’ request for a briefing.  Such a meeting “may jeopardize our law enforcement
efforts, as well as inescapably creating the risk that the
public and the courts will perceive undue political and
Congressional influence,” Ronald Weich, the assistant attorney
general for legislative affairs, said in the letter.  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, declined to comment.  “AT&T is painting a false picture with its promise of job
creation,” Vonya McCann, senior vice president for government
affairs at  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , said in a statement yesterday.
“This acquisition will almost certainly lead to the elimination
of thousands of American jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Allan Holmes  at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 