-- 
Australia’s Bowen Presents Parliament With Migration Law Changes

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-21T00:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/australia-s-bowen-presents-parliament-with-migration-law-changes.html
Australian’s immigration minister,
Chris Bowen, has presented migration law changes to parliament
after the  High Court  last month rejected his policy of assessing
refugee claims for asylum offshore.  The changes, which don’t have the support of the opposition
Liberal-National coalition or the Greens lawmakers Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  depends on for her parliamentary
majority, aims to make it legal for the minister to send asylum-
seekers to another nation for processing, Bowen told parliament
in Canberra today.  Even though the legislation is likely to be blocked by
parliament, the government “wants to make a political point and
they feel duty bound to try and do something,” said John
Warhurst, a professor at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “They want to pin down the Greens and opposition to
vote it down. This way they can say ‘we tried.’”  Gillard is seeking to resurrect a deal with  Malaysia  to
process illegal immigrants in that country after the High Court
blocked the policy. The refugee issue is among reasons Labor’s
primary vote has slumped to a record-low 26 percent, according
to a Newspoll published by the Australian yesterday.  “It would be a travesty to lose this moment,” Bowen told
parliament in Canberra as he introduced the law amendments.
“This time with a crucial willing partner, like Malaysia.”  Leader of the opposition in the Senate, George Brandis,
told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. today that it doesn’t
support the changes and will introduce its own amendments to
enable offshore processing in Nauru.  “People are sick of watching the politics around all of
this,” Gillard told 2SM radio in Sydney today. “The most
humane way to deal with asylum seekers and refugees is to do
everything you can to deter people from getting on leaky boats
where they can lose their lives.”  Debate on the legislation was adjourned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  