-- 
Bahrain’s Default Risk Climbs to 6-Month High Before Election: Arab Credit

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-21T07:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bahrain-default-risk-rises-to-6-month-high-on-poll-correct-.html
Bahrain’s default risk climbed to
the highest since March, at the height of confrontations between
government troops and protesters, amid concern tensions may
flare up before Sept. 24 parliamentary elections.  The cost to insure Bahrain’s debt against default rose to
328 yesterday from a post-crisis low of 219 on July 22,
according to five-year credit default swaps from data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. The contracts surged to
359 on March 15 as Bahrain declared a three-month state of
emergency and Gulf troops arrived to help quash the one-month
rallies by mostly Shiite protesters.  The protests, by the mainly Shiite majority, left 35 people
dead, hurt tourism and spurred the central bank to cut its
forecasts for economic growth this year by two percentage points
to 3 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
reduced Bahrain’s credit ratings.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s
second-largest bank by assets, is relocating its regional
headquarters out of Bahrain, two bankers familiar with the
matter said last month.  “Political explosion aggravates credit risk,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage the equivalent of $8.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt , said in an emailed response to questions Sept. 19.
“Risk for more CDS rising will be much higher” if the
government and mostly Shiite opposition don’t reach a
compromise, he said.  U.S. Fifth Fleet  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Fifth Fleet, holds special
elections on Sept. 24 to fill seats vacated by 18 lawmakers who
belong to  al-Wefaq , the country’s largest Shiite party. The
parliamentarians left to protest the government’s crackdown on
the demonstrators. The group has said it will boycott the vote
and won’t field any candidates.  Shiites represent about 70 percent of the country’s
population of 1.2 million, according to the U.S. State
Department, and have long demanded rights equal to those of
Sunnis, including appointments to senior government and military
posts. In the 1990s, Bahrain was shaken by violence stemming
from Shiite disaffection.  Full-scale protests have stopped, though tensions persist,
with almost daily, low-level rallies in Shiite villages that
government troops respond to with tear gas and rubber bullets.
Checkpoints prevent the demonstrators from marching toward the
city and the Pearl Roundabout, the epicentre of the February and
March protests. The circle has been destroyed by the government
and replaced with an intersection.  More Violence  “We’re probably gearing up for a more violent end of year
for Bahrain,” Ahmad Alanani, Dubai-based head of fixed-income
sales for the Middle East and North Africa at Exotix Ltd, said
in a phone interview from Dubai yesterday. “It’s a problem
that’s going to continue growing and it’s going to continue to
put pressure on the economy and continue to put pressure in
terms of foreign direct investment coming to Bahrain.”  Bahrain’s default risk is the fifth-highest in the Middle
East, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Swaps in  Egypt , where a popular revolt toppled the
country’s long-time leader, Dubai, which was at a brink of
default in 2009, Lebanon and war-torn  Iraq , trade higher.  Economic growth this year won’t exceed 1.6 percent,
Standard Chartered Plc said in an e-mailed report yesterday.
Growth was 4.1 percent last year. The number of tourists in the
first quarter declined 36 percent and hospitality output slumped
29 percent, followed by a drop of 30 percent in the second
quarter, the bank said.  ‘Cautious on Bahrain’  “We are cautious on Bahrain from a credit perspective,”
Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce and Victor Lohle wrote in the report.
“Bahraini issuers -- both sovereign and corporate -- will find
it difficult to tap international capital markets in the current
environment.”  The Island nation’s 5.5 percent bond maturing in March 2020
has risen 24 basis points, or 0.24 of a percentage point, to
5.92 percent since this quarter’s low on Aug. 1, according to
prices on Bloomberg. The rate on sovereign debt in the  Middle
East  has declined 12 basis points in the period to 4.67 percent
yesterday, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  Bahrain’s situation is slated to become tenser as online
organizers of the “Blockade Bahrain” campaign are calling on
anti-government demonstrators to use their cars to block main
roads and highways around the capital, Manama, starting today.
The Information Affairs Authority said in a Sept. 19 e-mail that
those “who engage in this activity will not be acting out of
civil disobedience but instead will be breaking the law.”  Officials in the country, which became a monarchy in 2002,
have accused Shiite-led  Iran  of supporting the protesters, an
allegation al-Wefaq denies.  Saudi Arabia , a Sunni kingdom linked
to Bahrain by a causeway, is a rival to Iran for influence in
the region.  “These fights in Manama only underline the problem that
the political impasse is already there,” said Dergachev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  