-- 
Banco Commercial Portugues May Struggle to Sell Polish Unit Millennium

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-09-21T09:55:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/banco-commercial-portugues-may-struggle-to-sell-polish-unit-millennium.html
Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  may
struggle to sell its Polish unit as the global financial crisis
forces potential buyers to focus on shoring up their capital
rather than expanding, analysts and bankers said.  Banco Comercial has received three written expressions of
interest, along with other contacts, it said on Sept. 19,
without identifying the potential bidders. PKO Bank Polski SA,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  unit,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) ’s  BRE Bank SA (BRE)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA are bidding,  Gazeta
Wyborcza  reported, without saying where it got the information.  “The list of contenders is rather short given that
indicative bids are non-binding and that they allow banks to
conduct due diligence of the target, an opportunity often
explored by Polish players,” Dariusz Gorski, an analyst at Bank
Zachodni WBK SA, said in a note to investors yesterday.  Zbigniew Jagiello, chief executive officer of PKO, Poland’s
largest lender, wouldn’t be “surprised” if Banco Comercial
fails to sell Millennium because of “turbulence” in the
industry, he said in an interview with TVN CNBC yesterday.  “The information about the offers is an act of desperation
by the seller,” Jagiello said. He didn’t reveal whether PKO
placed an initial bid for Millennium.  Erik Burns, a Banco Comercial spokesman, today declined to
comment on the sale beyond what the bank said in the Monday
statement.  Millennium gained 0.6 percent to 4.73 zloty at 11:46 a.m.
in Warsaw, outstripping a 0.2 percent gain in the benchmark
WIG20 Index and bringing its gain for the week to 13 percent.
Banco Comercial fell 2.5 percent to 19.8 euro cents.  ‘Positive’ News  Carlos Peixoto, an analyst at Banco BPI SA, said in a note
yesterday that the “manifestations of interest in Millennium”
are “positive despite not having any news regarding the prices
offered.”  Warsaw-based PKO this year paid a dividend of 2.48 billion
zloty ($778 million) compared with management’s proposal of 1.38
billion zloty and won’t be able to buy Millennium without a
share sale, Michal Sobolewski, an analyst at brokerage IDM SA,
said by phone today. While the bank couldn’t get financing for
the acquisition “quickly,” it will “certainly” want to go
through Millennium’s books, he said.  The second-largest Polish bank, UniCredit’s Pekao, could
pay for the takeover and is benefiting from having fewer
competitors, at lower valuations, Sobolewski said.  Banco Comercial won’t get more than 1.5 times Millennium’s
book value, Gorski predicts. That compares with 2.7 times book
value for Bank Zachodni WBK SA, bought by Banco Santander SA
last year or 1.7 times paid by Raiffeisen Bank International AG
for Polbank this year.  Swaps, Loans  The chances for the sale “depend on BCP’s determination
and willingness to accept a low price,” Gorski said. While
“nobody is questioning the Polish market’s growth prospects,
Millennium’s swap portfolio and big Swiss-franc loan book are
perceived as risky by foreign players.”  For now, Banco Comercial’s “negotiating position is much
weaker than a couple of months ago,” according to Sobolewski,
as markets’ focus on French banks’ potential losses on debt owed
by  Greece .  “With increased attention to French banks it’s hard to
expect BNP will be taking over other lenders,” Sobolewski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  