-- 
BofA, Citigroup Credit Swaps Jump After Moody’s Cuts Debt Grades

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-21T19:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bank-of-america-credit-swaps-soar-bonds-fall-after-moody-s-cut.html
     Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) --The cost to protect debt from  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  rose
after Moody’s Investors Service cut credit ratings at the banks
today, saying U.S. support is less likely in an emergency.  Credit-default swaps tied to Bank of America added about 40
basis points from yesterday to 375 basis points as of 3:41 p.m.
in  New York , according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The
swaps were at 340 prior to the announcement. Swaps on Wells
Fargo jumped to the highest since July 2009, climbing 17 basis
points to 143 basis points, Phoenix prices show. Contracts on
Citigroup rose 19 to 250, according to data provider CMA.  Moody’s cut long-term senior debt grades at Bank of America
and Wells Fargo and Citigroup’s short-term credit rating, saying
government support has returned to pre-crisis levels. Bank of
America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo have combined total long-term
debt of $925 billion and $177 billion of short-term borrowings
as of June 30, according to the companies’ most recent
regulatory filings. That means most investors own their debt,
said Rajeev Sharma of First Investors Management Co.  “They’re such a big part of the index, when events like
this happen, everyone feels the pinch,” said New York-based
Sharma, who helps oversee $1.5 billion in investment-grade debt.
“These are definitely the names that if you’re playing the
financial space, you’re going to be exposed to them. You have to
be.”  Economy Threat  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk also
increased, showing investors’ concerns that a weaker financial
system would hurt the broader economy. Federal Reserve policy
makers said today they will replace much of the short-term debt
in their portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to
reduce borrowing costs and stave off a recession.
and here’s fresh CDX  Series 17 of the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 3 basis points
to 136.5 basis points, Phoenix prices show. The new series,
which began trading yesterday, was trading 7.5 basis
points wider than Series 16 of the index.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America has the
heaviest long-term debt load of the three banks with $427
billion of borrowings, according to the company’s most recent
quarterly filing.  Failure Risks  The government is “more likely now than during the
financial crisis to allow a large bank to fail should it become
financially troubled, as the risks of contagion become less
acute,” Moody’s wrote in statements today on Bank of America
and Wells Fargo. While Citigroup may lose backing as well, its
stand-alone credit has shown improvement, Moody’s said,
confirming the New York-based bank’s long-term rating of A3 and
cutting its short-term credit rating to Prime 2 from Prime 1.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, had its
ratings cut two levels to Baa1 from A2 for long-term senior
debt, and to Prime-2 from Prime-1 for short-term debt, Moody’s
said in a statement. The outlook on long-term senior ratings
remains negative, indicating another cut may be ahead.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo’s senior debt was
downgraded one level to A2 from A1, according to a separate
statement. The outlook remains negative on the senior long-term
ratings.  Downgrade Costs  Rating-firm downgrades could weaken liquidity, limit access
to credit markets and pressure businesses that rely on trading
revenue, Bank of America said in an Aug. 4 regulatory filing. A
downgrade of the bank by one level at all rating firms could
cost the company $1.5 billion in collateral-posting and
termination payments tied to derivatives and trading agreements
as of June 30, the bank said.  Bank of America’s $2 billion of 5 percent notes due in May
2021 tumbled 1.44 cents on the dollar to 93.31 cents with a
yield of 5.92 percent at 3:20 p.m., according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Relative yields on the debt rose to 405 basis points
after being issued at a 185 basis-point spread in May, the data
show.  That compares with spreads on overall dollar-denominated
bank debt of 322 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Bank of America is trading wider than most BBB
rated companies, which pay spreads of 283 basis points on
average, the data show.  “The magnitude of the Bank of America downgrade two
notches may have taken some of us by surprise, but as far as
where spreads have been trading on these names, they’re way in
line, or worse than a Baa1,” Sharma said.  Contracts on Morgan Stanley rose 28 basis points to 346.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. swaps increased 19 to 254,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  climbed 19 to 250 and JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose 9 to 141,
CMA data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  