-- 
BofA, Wells Fargo Downgraded by Moody’s

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-21T21:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bank-of-america-credit-rating-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-waning-u-s-support.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had long-term credit ratings downgraded by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said U.S. support has become less
likely if lenders get into financial trouble.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s short-term rating also was cut by Moody’s,
which said today “there is an increased possibility that the
government might allow a large financial institution to fail,
taking the view that contagion could be limited.” Citigroup’s
stand-alone credit has improved, Moody’s said in a statement,
leading the service to confirm the bank’s long-term rating.  The downgrade questions whether the largest banks will
always be “too big to fail,” a status conferred in 2008 when
they received government rescues to keep the financial system
from collapsing. Lawmakers have since overhauled regulations to
head off a repeat of the bailouts and ordered regulators to set
up a system for seizing and dismantling banks that founder.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, had its
ratings cut two levels to Baa1 from A2 for long-term senior
debt, and to Prime-2 from Prime-1 for short-term debt, Moody’s
said. The outlook for long-term senior ratings at the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company remains negative, indicating
another cut may be ahead.  Litigation Costs  “It makes sense they would get hit the hardest; there are
real questions about Bank of America’s assets and the extent of
their litigation liabilities,” said Michael Shemi, a director
at Christofferson, Robb & Co., a New York-based firm with
$1.4 billion in assets that invests in credit markets.  Bank of America was the day’s worst performer in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , falling 7.5 percent to $6.38 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. New York-based
Citigroup slipped 5.2 percent to $25.52, while San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo dropped 3.9 percent to $23.71.  Wells Fargo’s senior debt was downgraded one level to A2
from A1, according to a Moody’s statement. The outlook remains
negative on the senior long-term ratings.  Citigroup had its short-term credit ratings cut to Prime 2
from Prime 1. Moody’s confirmed the lender’s A3 long-term
rating, and the A1 long-term and Prime-1 short-term ratings of
Citibank N.A., saying the bank’s stand-alone credit profile had
improved. Liquidity has “strengthened significantly in the past
two years and is robust,” Moody’s said.  U.S. Support  The three firms benefited more than others from underlying
government support, according to Moody’s. Five other banks have
ratings that include the assumption of some support from the
U.S., according to Moody’s: JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-
biggest U.S. bank, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
State Street Corp. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. These firms
aren’t under review, said Abbas Qasim, a Moody’s spokesman.  Moody’s isn’t abandoning the idea of government help,
saying in its Citigroup statement that the rating’s new
assumptions represent a pre-crisis level of support. The rating
for Bank of America now incorporates two levels of “uplift due
to systemic support, down from four notches previously,”
Moody’s wrote.  Bank of America was unprofitable in three of the four
quarters ended June 30 as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, booked more than $30 billion in charges tied to
soured mortgages.  Mortgage Disputes  The lender dropped by about half this year in New York
trading as Moynihan settled disputes over defective loans. Under
so-called representation and warranty clauses, mortgage bond
investors can demand that the bank buy back any loans based on
faulty information about borrowers and properties.  “The risk to Bank of America, which has clearly generated
a lot of litigation and reps and warranties, is particularly
significant,” David Fanger, a senior vice president with
Moody’s, said in an interview. “We don’t see those adverse
outcomes as significant for a Wells Fargo or a Citigroup, given
the different mixes” of loan holdings.  Bank of America disputed Moody’s decision.  “Our ratings should be higher,” the company said in a
statement. Still, “to minimize any potential impact of this
decision on our business, we have been managing our liquidity
carefully and we have prefunded our planned borrowing needs for
the year.”  Impact of Downgrade  While Moody’s said Bank of America has made “significant
progress” in improving its capital levels, it didn’t upgrade
the firm’s stand-alone ratings because of continuing risks from
mortgage operations.  Lower ratings could weaken liquidity, limit access to
credit markets and pressure businesses that rely on trading
revenue, the bank said in an Aug. 4 regulatory filing. A
downgrade by one level at all rating firms could trigger demands
for $1.5 billion in collateral and termination payments tied to
derivatives and trading agreements as of June 30, the bank said.  The impact of Moody’s decision by itself “at this point is
unknown,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank. The
bank had about $400 billion in liquidity at midyear, enough for
two years without going to the markets, he said.  The downgrades may not have a significant impact on banks’
day-to-day funding, said  Nancy Bush , an analyst and contributing
editor at SNL Financial, the bank-research firm in
Charlottesville, Virginia.  Slack Demand  “The irony is that no one needs funding right now, they
have all the funding they need,” Bush said. “Moody’s
downgraded in an environment in which the banks are so much
stronger than in 2008.”  The cost to protect Bank of America’s debt from default for
five years jumped to 380 basis points at 12:38 p.m. from 340
before the downgrade, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bank of America’s $2 billion of 5 percent notes due in May
2021 tumbled 1.65 cents on the dollar to 93.10 cents with a
yield of 5.95 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Wells Fargo, led by CEO  John Stumpf , 58, has repaid $25
billion in U.S. funds and built capital to meet regulatory
thresholds and guard against further declines in housing prices.
In March, regulators gave the bank permission to increase its
dividend to 12 cents a share and buy back 200 million shares.
Bank of America has also repaid $45 billion in bailout funds.  Systemic Support  Moody’s decision “solely reflects a change in their
assumption regarding systemic support,” Wells Fargo said in a
statement.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, posted $29.3
billion in losses tied to subprime mortgages for 2008 and 2009
combined and took a $45 billion bailout from taxpayers, which
has since been repaid. Under CEO Vikram Pandit, the bank has
since sold troubled assets and returned to profitability.  “We completely disagree with Moody’s change to Citigroup’s
short-term rating,” Citigroup said in a statement. “It does
not accurately reflect the significant progress Citi has made
since Moody’s last rated Citi more than two and a half years
ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  