-- 
Bank of England Policy Makers See Greater Stimulus as Increasingly Likely

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-21T09:51:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bank-of-england-policy-makers-see-greater-stimulus-as-increasingly-likely.html
Bank of England  officials said they
may need to buy more bonds to bolster a faltering recovery after
holding off adding stimulus this month in a decision that was
“finely balanced.”  Most policy makers said it was “increasingly probable that
further asset purchases to loosen monetary conditions would
become warranted at some point,” the minutes of the Monetary
Policy Committee’s Sept. 8 decision said. “For some members, a
continuation of the conditions seen over the past month would
probably be sufficient to justify an expansion of the asset
purchase program at a subsequent meeting.”  The nine-member MPC, led by  Mervyn King , voted 8-1 to
maintain the size of the bond plan at 200 billion pounds ($313
billion) and were unanimous in keeping the benchmark rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  No-one joined  Adam Posen , who kept up his vote for a 50
billion-pound increase in purchases. His solo run on expanding
so-called quantitative easing comes as policy makers in the U.S.
and elsewhere refocus their attention on faltering growth and
threats from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The Federal Reserve may
announce a third round of asset purchases today to stoke growth
and reduce unemployment.  “There had been significant downside news on activity over
the month, including in the U.S. and the core euro-area
countries, which had pointed to a synchronized slowing in global
growth,” the minutes said. Along with surveys in the U.K.,
growth in the second half of 2011 may be “materially weaker”
than projected in the Inflation Report in August.  The central bank will publish new forecasts in November.  Pound Declines  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
release of the minutes, falling to an eight-month low of
$1.5614. It traded at $1.5670 as of 10:48 a.m. in London, down
0.4 percent on the day.  Government bonds  rose after the report
before slipping back, leaving the 10-year gilt yield up 3 basis
points at 2.42 percent. It fell to a record-low 2.18 percent on
Sept. 12.  Officials considered ways of loosening policy at this
month’s meeting, including “changing the maturity of the
portfolio of assets held” and “revisiting the earlier
decision” not to cut their key  interest rate  below 0.5 percent.
They also discussed whether to provide “explicit guidance” on
the future path of the benchmark.  “At the current juncture, none of these options appeared
to be preferable to a policy of further asset purchases should
further policy loosening be required,” the minutes said.  ‘Dovish Direction’  “This is clearly a major swing in a dovish direction,”
 James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in London, said in an
e-mailed note. “Should the Bank of  England  cut its growth and
inflation forecasts, as pretty much everyone else has, then a
November increase in asset purchases will look likely.”  The Bank of England said in its quarterly bulletin on Sept.
19 that the bond plan has so far had “economically
significant” effects. The asset purchases that began in March
2009 and finished at the start of 2010 may have raised gross
domestic product by 1.5 percent to 2 percent and equaled a cut
in the key interest rate of 150 to 300 basis points, it said.  Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in the report there was
“considerable uncertainty” around the effects of the asset
purchases. He will speak at the South Tyneside Manufacturing
Forum in South Shields, England at 12:35 p.m. today.  Fed’s Twist  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  policy makers will decide
to replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion portfolio
with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent of 42 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. “Operation Twist,” named for its
goal to bend the yield curve, will probably fail to reduce the
9.1 percent unemployment rate, 61 percent of economists said.
The Fed will issue a statement at 2:15 p.m. New York time.  In a separate report, the Bank of England said spending
growth on goods and services had “weakened further,”
employment intentions pointed to “only modest”  job creation 
over the next year and manufacturing growth had slowed. Still,
inflation remains “elevated” at more than twice the bank’s 2
percent goal.  “Justifying an explicit change in policy in favor of
easing when inflation and expectations for it are so high is an
extremely difficult communication challenge,” said Philip Rush,
an economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “So the MPC
has collectively started to prime the public and its policy
cannons for the launch of QE2.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  