-- 
Bass Pro Stores Denied Jobs to Blacks, Hispanics, U.S. Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-21T21:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bass-pro-stores-denied-jobs-to-blacks-hispanics-u-s-says.html
Bass Pro Outdoor World LLC, a
national retailer of hunting and fishing gear, refused to hire
blacks and Hispanics and retaliated against employees who
objected to its hiring practices, a U.S. agency said.  The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued the
Springfield, Missouri-based company for discrimination since at
least November 2005, according to a statement today. Store
managers in Houston and  Louisiana  made racially derogatory
comments, including that hiring blacks didn’t fit the corporate
profile, according to the agency statement.  “It is unlawful for employers to deny jobs to applicants
based on their race or national origin,” P. David Lopez,
general counsel of the agency, said in the statement.  Bass Pro Shops denied the allegations, and in a statement
said the commission made “unrealistic demands” during
negotiations before the lawsuit was filed and failed to provide
the company with evidence used to back up the lawsuit.  The investigation showed “a troubling tendency by the EEOC
to stereotype those who love outdoor sports and support
conservation as people who unlawfully discriminate,” Mike
Rowland, human resources vice president, said in the statement.
EEOC investigators told the company that Bass Pro’s sponsorship
of a NASCAR race team made the company more likely to
discriminate against minorities, according to the statement.  Managers at Bass Pro stores in Louisiana and  Texas  used
offensive terms to describe black job candidates, and a
department leader in  Indiana  discarded applications after he
determined that an applicant’s name “sounded” black, according
to the lawsuit.  Hire White People  In 2005, a store general manager in Houston said, “it was
getting a little dark in here and you need to hire some white
people,” according to the lawsuit.  A manager in Houston would use offensive terms daily to
describe Hispanics, and a lead employee in Indiana said,
“Hispanics should be shot at the border by the border patrol,”
according to the lawsuit.  Company officials responded to employee criticism of the
hiring by lodging false allegations, dismissing workers or
forcing resignations for opposing the discrimination, according
to the lawsuit.  Closely held Bass Pro, ranked the No. 1 outdoor retailer in
2007 by Sporting Goods Business Magazine, sells hunting and
camping equipment, nature gifts, clothing and fishing supplies,
according to its website. The company has 50 stores in 26 states
and  Canada , according to the website.  Complaints Rise  Complaints based on racial discrimination filed with the
U.S. agency rose to 35,890 in fiscal 2010 from 33,579 in the
previous year, according to the  EEOC website . Such cases account
for 36 percent of all complaints.  Money obtained in settling race-based complaints, excluding
litigation, was $84.4 million in fiscal 2010, up from $82.4
million a year earlier. In fiscal 1997, the total was $41.8
million.  The lawsuit seeks remedies, including back pay for those
harmed by hiring discrimination and retaliation, and
compensatory and punitive damages, according to the agency
statement.  The case is Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Bass
Pro Outdoor World LLC, 11-3425, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 