-- 
Batista’s MPX Targets China for Sales of Colombian Coal

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-09-21T13:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/batista-s-mpx-targets-china-as-main-market-for-coal-produced-in-colombia.html
MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , the energy company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said it’s
targeting  China  as the “main market” for the coal it will
produce in Colombia.  Utilities in China, India,  South Korea  and the rest of Asia
likely will buy half of MPX’s coal from Colombia, Gustavo Gomes,
the company’s chief operating officer for mining and gas, said
yesterday in an interview. MPX is seeking supply deals as well
as buy mine equipment in China, he said.  “China is the new demand,” Gomes said in Bogota. “The
future in Asia is certainly coal.”  Rising demand in China, the world’s biggest energy user, is
driving expansion by MPX,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and Drummond Co. in Colombia, South America’s largest coal
producer. China’s coal imports rose to a record in July,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said last month.  MPX will be aided by “excess capacity” in the market for
capesize ships that haul coal, a surplus that probably will last
until 2018, Gomes said. MPX’s mine in northern Colombia will
start output next year and is scheduled to produce 35 million
metric tons in 2020.  MPX rose 21 centavos to 37.61 reais at 10:39 a.m. in Sao
Paulo trading. The stock has climbed 41 percent in the past
year, compared with a 17 percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index.  In the long term, Colombian coal exports to Asia also will
benefit from the expansion of the Panama Canal, scheduled for
completion in 2014, the president of Drummond’s Colombian unit,
Augusto Jimenez, also said yesterday in Bogota. Alabama-based
Drummond plans a $1.3 billion investment in Colombia.  BHP, Xstrata  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, Anglo American and
Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  are also undertaking a $1.3
billion expansion at their jointly owned Cerrejon mine in the
South American country. The mine, near MPX’s development, will
increase production to 40 million tons in 2017 from about 32.5
million tons this year, according to the companies.  In June, Itochu Corp. agreed to pay 130 billion yen ($1.7
billion) for a 20 percent stake in Birmingham, Alabama-based
Drummond’s Colombian operations to add a source of supply to
Asia. Itochu said then it will sell its share of output to  power
plants  in Japan and the rest of Asia.  Drummond, which produced 24 million tons of coal last year
in Colombia, is investing to expand production to 25 million
tons from 3 million tons at its El Descanso mine.  Colombia ’s coal production this year will rise to at least
80 million tons from 74.4 million tons last year, according to
government estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Santiago at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  