-- 
Berlusconi Faces Vote on Ally’s Arrest as Employers Urge His Resignation

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-22T16:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/berlusconi-braces-for-vote-on-ally-s-arrest-amid-calls-to-resign.html
Italy’s Parliament rejected a
request to authorize the arrest of a former aide to Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti , in a show of unity of Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s government amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The Chamber of Deputies voted against the request by
prosecutors to arrest Marco Milanese, a ruling-party lawmaker
accused of corruption. The 630-seat lower house voted 312 to 306
against the arrest of Milanese. Seven members of the governing
coalition defied the premier and voted with the opposition in
the secret ballot, according to Italian news agency Ansa.  Pressure is mounting on Berlusconi after Standard & Poor’s
cut Italy’s credit rating one level this week, citing his
“fragile” government and weak economic growth. A defendant in
four trials, Berlusconi now faces calls from Italian employers,
long-time backers, to step down as the nation’s bonds succumb to
contagion from the debt crisis.  On Sept. 14, Berlusconi survived a confidence vote in the
lower house on his 54 billion-euro ($74 billion) austerity plan,
which aims to balance the budget in 2013, by a margin of 14
votes. The government had approved the package in exchange for
the  European Central Bank  buying Italian bonds after yields
soared to a record on concern about the fallout from a possible
Greece default.  Record Yields  Even as the Frankfurt-based central bank continued to buy
the securities this week, the yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was
at 5.7 percent as of 5:20 p.m. in Rome, as the spread with
German bunds narrowed to 396 basis points from yesterday’s
record close of 398.  While Berlusconi’s  People of Freedom Party  opposed
Milanese’s arrest, today’s vote showed that the  Northern League ,
his coalition ally, was not willing to break with the premier.
League leader Umberto Bossi and Berlusconi agreed yesterday that
the premier should stay in office at least until January, la
Repubblica newspaper reported today, citing a conversation
between the two politicians.  The Chamber of Deputies on July 20 had allowed the arrest
of another member of Berlusconi’s party, former judge Alfonso
Papa, who faces charges of influence-peddling and revealing
state secrets.  The Milanese case has forced Tremonti to explain his ties
with the man who served as his top political adviser until June
26. Milanese denies any wrongdoing. Tremonti, who is also a
member of the Chamber of Deputies, didn’t take part in the vote.
He will attend the annual meetings of the  International Monetary
Fund  starting tomorrow in  Washington .  In a July 7 statement, Tremonti said he was moving out of a
Rome apartment provided by Milanese. In a letter published on
July 29 in daily  Corriere della Sera , the minister acknowledged
he had made “mistakes” while denying any “unlawful acts”
related to use of the apartment.  Popularity Plunge  The premier’s legal woes have contributed to a fall in
voter approval and confidence in the government, according to
polls. Berlusconi, 74, faces charges including corruption and
paying a minor for sex, and a possible indictment in a fifth
case may come as soon as today for allegedly leaking wiretapped
phone conversations to discredit a political rival. He denies
wrongdoing and says prosecutors seek to destroy him politically.  Berlusconi’s popularity fell to a record low this month as
he pushed through the austerity measures amid the rout in
Italian bonds, according to a Sept. 15 poll by Rome-based IPR
Marketing. The survey also showed his ruling coalition would
lose power if elections were held today.  Following the S&P downgrade,  Italy ’s first in five years,
the head of the nation’s employers lobby piled on the pressure.
“Either the government is able within a week to pass serious,
bold and unpopular reforms” or it “should go home,”
Confindustria President  Emma Marcegaglia  said in a Sept. 20
speech in Bologna.  Call to Resign  That message was amplified the next day in a front-page
editorial in  Il Sole 24 Ore , Italy’s leading financial newspaper
that is controlled by Confindustria, which along with much of
the business community has supported Berlusconi since he entered
politics in 1994. Roberto Napoletano, the daily’s editor-in-
chief, demanded the premier’s resignation.  “The country most at risk now after  Greece  is Italy and
this is due to the fragility of your governing coalition, the
chain of embarrassing scandals that have directly touched you,
your ministers and your closest collaborators, and the
consistent incapacity to make painful, but necessary
decisions,” Napoletano wrote.  Italy has had average annual economic growth of 0.9 percent
since Berlusconi was elected to the first of his three terms in
1994, compared with 1.6 percent for the euro region. The
International Monetary Fund on Sept. 20 cut its forecast for
Italian growth this year and next, and said the government will
also miss its goal of erasing the  budget deficit  in 2013.  -- With assistance from Sonia Sirletti in Milan and Chiara
Vasarri in  Rome . Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  