-- 
Big Lots at Half-Price Signals 50% Increase: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-23T14:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/big-lots-at-half-price-signals-50-gain.html
(Corrects story published Sept. 22 in 16th paragraph to add
reference to Liquidation World acquisition in quote.)  For buyout firms looking for a
deal,  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  is now offering the biggest bargain among
discount retailers in America.  Big Lots, which sells discontinued and overstocked brand
name goods, trades at 13.9 times its so-called free  cash flow ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the cheapest
among its closest rivals and half the industry median. As
private equity firms circle  99 Cents Only Stores (NDN)  and  Family
Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , a buyer could pay a 50 percent premium for
Big Lots and still get the Columbus, Ohio-based retailer at a
lower price than any of its competitors, the data show.  Selling Big Lots would help Chief Executive Officer Steve Fishman hand owners a billion-dollar windfall after retailers
returned 10 times as much in the past three years. While Big
Lots had hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to explore options, the
stock plunged 26 percent since its April high as a sale failed
to materialize. The slide has made Big Lots even more affordable
now to private-equity buyers, Telsey Advisory Group LLC said.  “The truth is, it’s a lot more attractive given the sell-
off,”  Joe Feldman , an analyst at New York-based Telsey
Advisory, said in a telephone interview. “The company is
generating strong free cash flow, it’s operating well, and
there’s room for upside. It got way oversold.”  The company, which bought Brantford, Ontario-based
Liquidation World Inc. in July, doesn’t comment on rumors or
speculation, according to Timothy Johnson, vice president of
strategic planning and investor relations at Big Lots.  Shareholder Returns  “We’ve got a very unique, very profitable business that
generates a lot of cash and we believe we’ve put that cash to
very good use as evidenced by some of the growth in the business
and the recent acquisition we announced,” he said.  Founded  in 1967 as Consolidated International Inc., Big
Lots buys items from furniture to toys and small appliances and
then sells them for a discount at its more than 1,400 stores.  While Big Lots has more than doubled since Fishman, 60,
became CEO in July 2005, it has returned just 3.6 percent over
the past three years. In the same span, the average retailer in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark gauge for
American common equity, climbed 37 percent, including payouts.  Big Lots, which surged in February after people familiar
with the situation said it was approached by private equity
firms, has since lost almost all those gains. The Wall Street
Journal reported in May that Big Lots abandoned a plan to sell
itself after bids came in lower than it anticipated.  Relative Value  The company may now report the smallest profit increase
since the fiscal year ended 2005 after its Liquidation World
purchase, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not a fast-growing story by any stretch,” Mark Mandel, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in New York, said in
telephone interview. “They ran their business up the flagpole
trying to attract some strategic buyer to boost the  shareholder
value . They couldn’t come to terms” because of price, he said.  With Big Lots closing at $32.72 yesterday, the company is
now cheaper than any discount retailer, based on the $2.36 a
share it generated in cash in the past 12 months after deducting
capital expenses. The industry median of 27 times free cash flow
is now almost double the 13.9 times multiple for Big Lots,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That means a buyer can offer $50 a share for Big Lots,
higher than its peak of $44.04 in April, and still acquire the
company at a lower valuation than Chesapeake, Virginia-based
 Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR) , the next cheapest discount retailer.  Free Cash Flow  At 5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, a $50-a-share takeover of Big Lots would also
be less expensive than 99 Cents of City of Commerce,  California ,
or Matthews, North Carolina-based Family Dollar, which both have
offers from buyout firms and trade about 8 times Ebitda.  Big Lots has $2.6 million in net debt and produced $176
million of free cash in the past year.  “The valuation is even more attractive, they generate very
strong free cash flow and they have an underleveraged balance
sheet,”  Anthony Chukumba , an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in
New York, said in a telephone interview. In addition, Big Lots’
acquisition of Liquidation World has “very limited downside and
unlimited exponential upside,” he said.  The company has been moving its stores to locations that
will bring in more customers, which will spur sales growth and
boost productivity, he said. Earnings at Big Lots will also
improve as more U.S. consumers, hurt by unemployment that
economists forecast will remain above 8 percent through 2013,
turn to  discount stores , Matt Malgari, Boston-based managing
director of equity research at Knight Capital Group Inc. said.  Discount Shoppers  Big Lots will lift per-share profit by 2.8 percent this
fiscal year, before increasing by 17 percent and 34 percent the
next two years, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shoppers have been “trading down and the number of people
who are willing to go out and find a deal would seem to go
higher” in a weak economy, Malgari said in a telephone
interview. Big Lots is “incredibly well positioned for that
type of macroeconomic environment. I’m surprised at how cheap it
is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 