-- 
BlackRock’s Rieder Favors Junk Debt as Fed Readies Announcement

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-09-21T17:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/blackrock-s-rieder-favors-junk-debt-as-fed-readies-announcement.html
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
money manager, is favoring high-yield corporate debt as the
 Federal Reserve  considers whether to push longer-maturity
Treasury yields lower in a bid to revive growth, said Chief
Investment Officer Rick Rieder.  Investors may be more willing to buy riskier assets if the
 Federal Open Market Committee  says today it will undertake
“Operation Twist”, Rieder said, speaking on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop with Betty Liu.” In that adjustment,
the central bank will replace short-term Treasuries in its $1.65
trillion portfolio with long-term bonds, according to 71 percent
of 42 surveyed economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “People are expecting to get some form of sell-the-front
end to buy-the-back-end,” said Rieder, who is based in  New York 
with the investment firm, which manages $3.66 trillion. Many
banks and money managers expect the central bank to purchase
about $300 billion of U.S. government bonds, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade,
or junk-rated debt jumped 2.07 percentage points to 7.61
percentage points in the past two months on growing concerns
that a European debt crisis will freeze global credit markets.  On the assets BlackRock has been buying:  “We like the high-yield market. You’re talking high-yield
now at 8.5 percent.”  “We started in the last couple of weeks adding a bit to
financials.”  On where BlackRock is telling people to put their money:  “Depending on what Operation Twist does, there’s still
yield at the long end of the curve,” he said. “We like things
like long municipals and investment-grade credit.”  On Fed policy:  “I think  interest rates  are going to stay low for a long
period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  