-- 
Bloomberg Gathers Leaders in Andean Finance at MILA Conference

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-21T15:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bloomberg-gathers-leaders-in-andean-finance-at-mila-conference.html

  Press Release  Luis Miguel Castilla, Peru’s Minister of Finance; Maria Jose
Ramirez of Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, and Francis Stenning,
CEO, Bolsa de Valores de Lima Join Line-Up at Bloomberg MILA
Conference  NEW YORK -- After the Integrated  Latin America  Market (MILA)
saw its first historic trade take place on May 30, investors
are now concerned that a world economic crisis may impede the
second largest stock market in Latin America. Bloomberg LINK
will convene leaders in finance and economics to discuss what
the integration of the Colombia, Chile and Peru stock markets
means for the region and opportunities to invest in the
exchange at the Bloomberg MILA conference.  The Conference, to be held on Thursday, September 22nd at the
 New York  Academy of Sciences in  New York City , will look at
cross-border regulation issues such as taxation, reporting and
regulation, and lessons that can be learned from previous
stock market integrations. Additionally, panelists will
address concerns that a lack of a regional political union
could hamper MILA’s success.  “The formation of the MILA promises to bring new opportunities
for investors to participate in the Andean Markets, including
investing in smaller companies that may have been overlooked
before the integration,” said  Robert Bierman , head of
Bloomberg LINK. “With the world economy in mind, the
Conference will explore the outlook for companies in the
region and for investors, as well as examine whether or not
the combined market will result in more IPOs and increased
capital.”  Key speakers include:  - Luis Miguel Castilla, Minister of Finance, Peru  - Gerardo Hernández Correa, Chief Securities Regulator,
Colombia  - Bruno del Ama, Chief Executive Officer, Global X Funds  - Emilio Echavarria, President, Valores Bancolombia  - Daniel Gamba, Head of Latin America and Iberia, BlackRock  - Maria Jose Ramirez, VP, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia  - Lilian Rocca, Chief Securities Regulator, Peru  - Francis Stenning, CEO, Bolsa de Valores de Lima  The conference is being sponsored by CorpBanca Corredores de
Bolsa, Grupo Bursatil Mexicano (GBM), Corredores Asociados
S.A., Canacol Energy, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
(BTMU), Valores Bancolombia, and Banco de Crédito BCP.  For more information on the program and speakers, please
visit:  http://www.bloomberglink.com/mila   Follow us on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and Twitter ( @BBGLINK ). The
hashtag for this event is #BBmila.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg LINK  Bringing the power of Bloomberg to the executive conference
business, Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person
gatherings that combine world-class editorial programming with
peer-to-peer networking amongst the who’s who in influential
communities. In this environment, participants engage in open
discussions that lead to learning from each other’s expertise
and experience. For more information, please visit
www.bloomberglink.com.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and
accurately--is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional
service, which provides real time financial information to
more than 300,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise
solutions build on the company’s core strength, leveraging
technology to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute
and manage data and information across organizations more
efficiently and effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg
Government and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company
provides data, news and analytics to decision makers in
industries beyond finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered
through the Bloomberg Professional service, television, radio,
mobile, the Internet and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek
and Bloomberg Markets, covers the world with more than 2,300
news and multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72
countries.  Headquartered in  New York , Bloomberg employs more
than 13,000 people in 185 locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Angela Martin, + 212-617-1211,  angelamartin@bloomberg.net 
