-- 
BNP Faces South Africa Regulatory Delay on Crisis Concern

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-09-21T16:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bnp-paribas-s-south-african-entry-plans-hampered-by-european-debt-woes.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA’s application for a
South African banking license has been delayed by regulators in
Africa’s biggest economy, who are assessing the fallout from
 Europe ’s debt crisis on the French lender.  “The assessment process is taking longer as a result of
the global uncertainty,” Michael Blackbeard, who became the
acting regulator of South African banks in August, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “We are in the process of
carefully assessing each application, especially in light of the
financial crisis and uncertain developments in Europe.”  BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, met with South Africa’s
banking regulator in February to exchange information about
operating in the country. To obtain a license in  South Africa ,
the Paris-based lender needs to provide as much as 250 million
rand ($33 million) in capital, or 10 percent of its risk-
weighted assets, whichever is higher, Errol Kruger, the previous
banking regulator, said in February.  Shares in BNP fell 1.9 percent to 24.46 euros in Paris.
European banks are among the worst-performing shares in Europe
this year because of their holdings of Greek debt.  Italy’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on Sept.
19, the country’s first downgrade in five years, as  Greece ’s
worsening crisis fans concern that contagion will engulf other
countries.  More Applicants  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index has dropped 35 percent in the
last year, compared with an 18 percent decline in the broader
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index has fallen 3.7 percent.  The South African central bank has received applications
from other foreign lenders, according to Blackbeard, who
declined to provide their names.  Paris-based BNP spokesman Pascal Henisse declined to
comment on the South African application process.  With growth in many African nations forecast to outstrip
that in developed countries, banks are vying for market share
and profit as the continent’s population tops 1 billion.  BNP Paribas agreed on Aug. 4 to buy a 60 percent stake in
 Cadiz Holdings Ltd. (CDZ) ’s securities unit for 150 million rand to
gain a foothold in South Africa. The two companies hope to
complete the transaction before the end of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  