-- 
Liberty Media’s Starz Spinoff Can Proceed After BNY Mellon Loses Challenge

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bny-mellon-loses-challenge-to-liberty-media-s-splitoff-of-tracking-stocks.html
Liberty Media Corp. defeated Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Co.’s legal challenge to its splitoffs
of the Liberty Capital and Liberty Starz tracking stocks.  The Delaware  Supreme Court  yesterday upheld a ruling that
clears the way for Liberty, controlled by billionaire  John Malone , to transfer assets of the two tracking stocks to
shareholders.  The splitoffs are part of Malone’s efforts to simplify
Liberty’s financial structure and make it more attractive to
investors,  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
Ltd. in New York, said last year.  Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman, declined to
comment on the court ruling in an e-mailed statement. Liberty
Media executives plan to complete the splitoff of the units on
Sept. 23, Courtnee Ulrich, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  As part of the deals, officials of Englewood, Colorado-
based Liberty want to redeem outstanding shares of the units in
exchange for shares in a newly formed company.  Liberty Starz holds Liberty Media’s interest in television
company Starz Entertainment, according to the parent company’s
website. Liberty Capital holds assets, including production and
distribution company Starz Media LLC, and investments in  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) , Time Warner Cable Inc. and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Bond Sales  Liberty got its start as the cable-TV programming arm of
Tele-Communications Inc., the cable-service provider that Malone
ran for more than 25 years. Malone kept control of Liberty after
selling TCI to AT&T Corp. in 1999. AT&T spun Liberty off as a
public company in 2001.  During a four-year-period starting in 1999, Liberty raised
about $13.7 billion by selling bonds, according to court
filings. The sales agreements contained provisions barring
Liberty from transferring “substantially all” of its assets in
a single or multiple transactions, Bank of New York said in the
filings.  In 2004, Liberty began to spin off several units to
shareholders, according to Bank of New York. The media company
transferred more than $31 billion in assets during a five-year
period in such deals, the lawyers said in filings.  Asset Transfers  Liberty’s move in 2010 to split off Liberty Capital and
Liberty Starz meant the company would have transferred a total
of 71 percent of its assets as a result of such transactions,
violating the bond agreements, the bank said in court filings.  Liberty sued the New York-based bank, which holds the bonds
as trustee, in August 2010 seeking to have a judge find the
splitoffs were separate transactions that didn’t violate the
bond agreements.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster ruled in April
that the splitoffs couldn’t be “aggregated” because they
weren’t part of an “overall scheme” to liquidate Liberty’s
assets in a way that was detrimental to bondholders.  Bank of New York officials asked the state’s highest court
to hear the case on an expedited basis given Liberty’s push to
complete the deals by Sept. 23.  In its 43-page decision, the Delaware Supreme Court found
no flaws in Laster’s analysis of the splitoffs as separate
business transactions.  The lower-court judge “properly held that aggregation is
not appropriate,” Justice Randy Holland said in the decision.  The Supreme Court case is Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. v. Liberty Media Corp., 284, 2011, Delaware
Supreme Court (Dover). The Chancery Court case is Liberty Media
Corp. v. Bank of  New York  Mellon Trust Co., 5702, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 