-- 
Boeing’s Lack of Records Stymies Probe of American Airlines Jet-Skin Tears

-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-21T21:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/boeing-s-lack-of-records-stymies-probe-of-american-airlines-jet-skin-tears.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  didn’t keep
manufacturing records that might have allowed investigators to
determine why the fuselage on an American Airlines 757-200
jetliner tore in flight last year, according to the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board.  That lack of records has also hampered the NTSB’s efforts
to pinpoint the cause of a larger tear that forced the crew of a
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  737-300 to make an emergency landing
April 1, according to two government officials familiar with the
investigation. They asked not to be identified as the probe is
ongoing.  “Records of manufacture for the skin panels on the
accident airplane and the other airplanes with fuselage skin
cracking were not retained, and were not required to be
retained,” the NTSB, which investigates U.S. transportation
accidents and recommends safety improvements, wrote in a  report 
on the American incident, dated Sept. 19, on its website.
“Therefore, a cause for the manufacturing non-conformance could
not be identified.”  The  Federal Aviation Administration , which regulates the
aircraft manufacturing industry, may require manufacturers to
increase the length of time they keep records, Frank Paskiewicz,
acting deputy director of the agency’s Aircraft Certification
Service, told an NTSB forum on the fuselage-rupture issue today.  Record-Keeping Contrasts  Boeing keeps its records for 10 to 11 years, depending on
the date the plane was made, said Erik Nelson, deputy vice
president of manufacturing for the 737 program.  Three other commercial aircraft manufacturers -- Airbus SA,
a unit of European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co.; ,
Bombardier Inc. and  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  -- keep their manufacturing
records for the life of each airplane, executives of those
companies said at the NTSB forum today.  The American jet’s skin was too thin, which led to cracks,
the NTSB found. Without records detailing how the plane was
built and inspected, the safety board wrote, it could not
determine the source of the manufacturing defect.  In the Southwest incident, a 5-foot section of the jet tore
open at 34,000 feet, triggering an explosive decompression and
injuring one flight attendant. The plane made an emergency
landing in Yuma,  Arizona .  The accident has been tied to rivets not being secured
properly when the jet was built in 1996, according to the NTSB
and Boeing airplanes chief James Albaugh.  Records of how those rivets were installed and inspected
don’t exist, the officials told Bloomberg.  Unexplained Pattern  The reason records don’t exist was detailed in the safety
board’s report on the American incident, in which an 18- by 7-
inch tear opened above the left-side front passenger door at
32,000 feet, about 16 minutes after the jet left Miami Oct. 26.  The jet made an emergency landing in Miami. No one was
injured.  During its investigation, the safety board discovered two
other 757s with thin skin and similar patterns of cracking.
Manufacturing records for those planes also weren’t kept, the
safety board wrote.  The FAA in 2009 revised its rules to require that
manufacturers keep records for at least five years, according to
the Federal Register. In the case of “critical” components,
manufacturing records must be kept for at least 10 years.  ‘Opportune Time’  The previous rule, which dated to 1964, required that
records be kept for two years.  One aviation manufacturer,  General Electric Co. (GE) , advised
the FAA to require that records be kept for 40 years. The agency
said in the final rule that it was deferring to the advice of an
industry committee. A manufacturer “may maintain records longer
if it chooses,” the FAA said.  Manufacturers said it would be too expensive to keep the
records for longer periods when the agency last considered the
issue, Paskiewicz said today.  “A lot has changed since,” he said. “I think it’s an
opportune time to take a look at that.” Many inspection reports
and other documents on each aircraft built are now computerized,
he said.  The current rule took effect in April of this year,
Paskiewicz said. It wouldn’t have helped investigators in the
American or Southwest probes as both jets were built more than
10 years ago.  Withstand Cracks  The Southwest tear was one of the most serious malfunctions
of aircraft skin since an Aloha Airlines 737-200 almost broke
apart on April 28, 1988. A flight attendant was sucked out of
the plane and fell to her death after an 18-foot section of the
fuselage opened over Maui.  The FAA requires that jets be built to withstand cracks and
tears in the aluminum skin. Boeing builds its planes with a
thicker layer of skin every 20 inches designed to stop cracks
from growing.  Cracks in the Southwest skin spread through two of the
thicker strips before halting, meaning that the measures
designed to prevent an aircraft breakup failed, according to
preliminary findings of the NTSB investigation.  The NTSB has investigated several cases of jet skins
tearing open in recent years, prompting the agency to hold a
two-day forum on the topic starting today at its Washington
headquarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  