-- 
Boeing Loses Part of Atlas Air 747-8 Order in Jumbo-Jet Freighter Setback

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-09-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/boeing-loses-atlas-order-for-three-747-8-freighters-on-performance-delays.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s newest jumbo jet, the
747-8 that had its entry into service delayed this week,
encountered another setback when  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings
Inc. (AAWW)  canceled orders for three of the freighters.  Atlas cited “lengthy delays and performance
considerations” in terminating orders yesterday for three of
the earliest planes built. Atlas, the world’s largest operator
of 747 cargo jets, will now receive nine of the new planes
through 2013 instead of 12. The later jets have been improved,
Purchase, New York-based Atlas said in a statement.  The move is “absolutely unrelated” to Cargolux Airlines
International SA’s Sept. 16 decision to delay taking its first
two planes this week as the 747-8’s initial customer,  Jim Proulx , a Boeing spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. There are “no new issues” with the aircraft, though
the first ones to be delivered won’t meet performance
guarantees, he said.  “This is far from being a disaster for Boeing,” said
Michel Merluzeau, an aviation consultant with G2 Solutions in
Seattle. “What perhaps concerns me more is the clearly
inadequate management of customer expectations at such a point
in the program.”  The 747-8 is already two years late in entering service,
after Chicago-based Boeing diverted some engineers to its other
delayed jet, the 787 Dreamliner, and had to redesign the 747’s
wing and fix other problems discovered during flight tests. The
Dreamliner is set for its first delivery on Sept. 25, three
years behind schedule, to Japan’s All Nippon Airways Co.  Events Canceled  Cargolux cited “unresolved contractual issues” for its
deferral, which forced Boeing to cancel three days of events to
mark the handover of the first two 747-8 freighters to the
Luxembourg-based carrier at the planemaker’s wide-body jet plant
in Everett,  Washington .  Cargolux acted Sept. 16 after its new board met that day
for the first time since Qatar Airways Ltd. took a 35 percent
stake in the company in June. Qatar has three representatives on
the board, including Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al-Baker, who
has criticized Boeing for delays on the 787s he has ordered.  Atlas said the three 747-8s it rejected had been set to be
the first ones it received, starting next month, before Boeing
rescheduled them to early 2012 and pulled forward three others
that were in better shape.  ‘Slightly Short’  “Though the first airplanes off the line are slightly
short of expectations, these early-build models nonetheless will
be great airplanes with unparalleled efficiency and low costs,”
Boeing’s Proulx said. “We’ll continue to focus on performance
improvements that increase the value these airplanes will
bring.”  Proulx and Bonnie Rodney, an Atlas spokeswoman, declined to
comment on what improvements had been made to the planes built
later.  Each 747-8 has “very slight differences,” as occurs with
all jets “as airplane production matures,” Proulx said. “That
said, we don’t believe there to be significant differences
between these aircraft.”  Atlas said it will still receive the other three freighters
in October and November. The carrier remains “fully committed
to the 747-8F” and is studying options for “additional
aircraft in the future,” Rodney said.  “As prudent asset managers, terminating the first three
aircraft was the right decision for our fleet, our customers and
our stockholders,” Atlas CEO William J. Flynn said in the
statement. “We expect the remaining 747-8Fs in our order to be
better-performing aircraft than those we have terminated.”  Wing Redesign  Boeing fell $2.54, or 4 percent, to $61.02 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares were little
changed after Atlas’s 4:01 p.m. announcement. Atlas tumbled
$5.79, or 13 percent, to $37.65 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock
Market for the biggest decline since August 2010 after SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc. cut its rating to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Proulx said earlier this week that the four-engine 747-8 is
overweight after Boeing had to redesign the wing, making it
“significantly heavier.”  While improved aerodynamic efficiency will cut fuel
consumption, helping offset the weight, the initial planes will
be “somewhat short of initial specifications for fuel burn,”
Proulx said.  Boeing and  General Electric Co. (GE) , which builds the engines
for the 747-8, are working on performance improvement packages
and kits that can be retrofitted on any planes delivered in the
meantime, he said.  The 747-8 freighter has no competition since Airbus SAS
canceled plans to build a cargo version of the A380. It is meant
to replace the 747-400, which Boeing stopped producing in 2009.
Boeing stretched the wings and the iconic hump on top of the
fuselage and put on new engines to improve fuel economy.  Boeing now has orders for 75 of the $319.3 million
freighters and for 36 of the 747-8 Intercontinental, the $317.5
million passenger version that’s still being tested and is set
for its first delivery by year-end. Airlines typically get
discounts off the  list prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in  Seattle  at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  