-- 
Windows 8 Will Be Microsoft’s Multitasker: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-21T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bold-windows-8-will-double-up-for-tablets-pcs-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Big colorful tiles instead of tiny
icons. Functions controllable by touch and gestures.
Applications that are better designed and better looking than
you’ve ever seen before.  If Windows has a future, this is it.  Windows 8, the next version of the world’s most widely used
operating system, is probably still a year from release. But
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has begun to bang the drum for it, unveiling it
to developers and the media at a conference last week in
 Southern California .  I’ve been exploring the preview version for a week or so,
and am both impressed and intrigued. It may change significantly
on its way to your office, home or briefcase, but even at this
stage, it is the most radical overhaul of Windows ever.  Microsoft had little choice. The future belongs to mobile
devices: Sales of smartphones and tablets -- most of them
running software from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  -- are
 projected to surpass  traditional personal computers this year
for the first time. Meanwhile, Microsoft continues to lean
heavily on the Windows and Office franchises for the bulk of its
profits and can’t afford to sit back and watch them wither away.  Two in One  Moreover, even if the PC market is no longer the engine of
growth it once was, a huge number of people work on PCs and will
continue to for years. So Microsoft is attempting something
extraordinarily ambitious: combining a state-of-the-art
operating system for tablets and other mobile devices with a
traditional desktop environment. Two for the price of one.  The most striking thing about Windows 8 is its new “Metro
style” user interface. For a taste of it, try a device running
Windows Phone 7. Applications are represented by large tiles
that can be resized and can update themselves dynamically -- the
mail tile displaying the most recent incoming message, for
instance, or the calendar tile showing your next appointment.  One little irony of Windows 8 is that it de-emphasizes
windows. When you poke at or click on a tile, a Metro-style
program launches full-screen, with nary a toolbar or pull-down
menu in sight. The traditional taskbar is replaced by what
Microsoft calls “charms,” icons representing basic functions
common to all programs that are summoned by a finger swipe from
the right-hand edge of the screen (on the prototype Samsung
tablet PC handed out to developers last week, that is).  Apps Zapped  But what happens to the huge body of software written for
earlier versions of Windows? Some may be rewritten for Metro --
the developer’s preview includes a Metro-style version of the
Internet Explorer 10 browser -- but many won’t be.  Microsoft’s answer is a tile on the new Start screen that
launches a traditional desktop similar to what you get when you
boot up Windows 7. At the developer conference, Steven Sinofsky,
the executive in charge of the operating system, denied that
Windows 8 demotes the desktop to the status of a “penalty
box,” the place you’re exiled to if you can’t get with the hip
new program.  Still, you can’t help but wonder about the potential for
confusion. Let’s see: Does my program use the Metro start
screen, or the desktop? If I need to look something up on the
Web, do I launch Metro-friendly IE 10, or desktop-style IE 10?  Another bunch of questions concern one of Windows 8’s
biggest changes, one that will be invisible to the naked eye.  Hot Chips  Until now, Windows has always run only on “x86”
microprocessors -- the type of electronic brains made by  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.. (AMD)  Microsoft says that any
machine capable of running Windows 7 will also run Windows 8.
But the new operating system also promises to run on the
processors being used in tablets, smartphones and other mobile
devices. These chips, utilizing technology licensed from  ARM
Holdings PLC (ARM) , tend to be less potent than x86 chips -- but also
use less power, generate less heat and allow for longer battery
life.  While there was much talk at last week’s session about ARM
compatibility, almost everything shown was running on Intel-
powered machines. The demonstration tablet had an i5 chip -- the
same one that powers many desktop and laptop PCs today, and
generates so much heat that the tablet had an internal fan.  An ARM-based Windows 8 device wouldn’t have those issues.
But it also, according to Microsoft, will only run newly written
Metro-style applications, not the more traditional and familiar
desktop software. So here’s another potential layer of
complexity and confusion. Will a given program run on a given
Windows 8 device?  No one knows what the volatile digital marketplace will
look like when Windows 8 reaches consumers. And that must be a
little scary for Microsoft. The operating system may provide an
important transitional link between computing’s past and future.
On the other hand, it could just end up being remembered as a
last-ditch effort to squeeze a little more milk from the
greatest cash-cow in the history of technology.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 