-- 
Bolsa CEO Says 10 IPOs Planned as Ferromex Considers Share Sale

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-21T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bolsa-ceo-says-10-ipos-planned-as-ferromex-considers-share-sale.html
Mexico has 10 companies planning
initial share offerings that may proceed when economic
conditions improve, said  Luis Tellez , chairman and chief
executive officer of Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, the nation’s
stock exchange operator.  “They are in the pipeline and they are waiting to see when
they can come out to the markets,” Tellez said in an interview
yesterday. The potential issuers “have positive growth
expectations” despite concerns about European debt problems and
a slowing of the  U.S. economy , he said, speaking at the Mexico
City-based exchange.  Aerolineas ABC SA, which operates the low-cost airline
Interjet, is among the companies, Tellez said. ABC “wants to
tap the markets as soon as they can return and Interjet is doing
very well,” he said. Citing confidentiality agreements, Tellez
declined to name other companies seeking to sell shares.  ABC scrapped an IPO on June 29 because of “complex
situation” in financial markets. Chairman Miguel Aleman Magnani
said July 8 the company may try to sell shares again this year
for less than the original target amount of $300 million.  Grupo Mexico  SAB, the nation’s largest copper producer, may
go ahead with an IPO of its transportation division that holds
companies such as Ferromex, spokesman Juan Rebolledo said
yesterday in a telephone interview in Mexico City.  Ferromex  is
the nation’s largest railroad operator, Grupo Mexico said in its
second quarter report.  Elementia  Elementia SA, a manufacturer of copper and aluminum
products, seeks to sell shares, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named because the
plans are private.  Antonio del Valle, who controls chemical producer Mexichem
SAB and Elementia as chairman of holding firm Grupo Empresarial
Kaluz SA, said on May 30 the company plans to raise about $400
million in an IPO. He made the comments to Mexico City-based
daily El Semanario.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Grupo Carso SAB owns a 46 percent
stake in Elementia.  Grupo Alpura SA , a dairy producer, may seek to hold an IPO,
said  Carlos Gonzalez  an analyst at Monex Casa de Bolsa SA in a
telephone interview in Mexico City yesterday. Gonzalez predicted
investors would be interested in Alpura because as a producer of
staple goods, it wouldn’t be as vulnerable to market swings.  Alpura executives contacted by Bloomberg did not
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Servicios Corporativos Javer SAPI, a homebuilder that
specializes in low-income housing, will seek to hold an initial
public offering, Chief Financial Officer Eugenio Garza y Garza
said in a telephone interview April 26.  ’Looking For Money’  “We have companies ranging from transportation to
sophisticated petrochemicals or chemical companies which are
looking for money,” Tellez said. One of the companies seeking
to sell shares has an enterprise value of $5 billion, he said.
“I can assure you there are some large ones,” Tellez said.  Mexico has had three IPOs this year after Tellez forecast
last December that ten companies would sell shares in 2011.
Mexico had five initial offerings last year after a 22-month
drought, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility from international markets, in part because of
the default risks by European nations and the downgrade of U.S.
sovereign debt by  Standard & Poor’s , has hurt Mexican debt and
equity markets in recent months.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index,  Latin America ’s second
largest, has lost 11 percent this year, less than the 19 percent
loss by the Brazilian Bovespa, the benchmark gauge for the
region’s largest exchange.  Unfavorable Conditions  “Conditions for the rest of the year don’t look at all
favorable,” said  Martin Gonzalez , an equity analyst at Invex
Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. Potential share issuers will
wait “to see what things look like in the coming year.”  The Bolsa is diversifying products such as exchange-traded
funds and securities in the futures, options and swaps markets
to help investors hedge against ongoing volatility, Tellez said.  The bourse has “a sophisticated supermarket of financial
products” that allow investors to “hedge from economic and
political risks,” he said.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state oil company and Latin
America’s largest crude producer, scrapped a proposed sale of as
much as 10 billion pesos in local bonds on Sept. 13, citing
“high volatility and uncertainty.” Local debt sales slowed to
7.4 billion pesos in August after a monthly average of 16.7
billion pesos during the first seven months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Strong Fundamentals  Tellez said he wasn’t concerned about Pemex’s decision to
withdraw the sale. “Once market conditions are there, I think
Pemex will be able to issue whatever it needs,” he said.  “I do think in terms of debt, the Mexican fundamentals are
very strong at this point,” Tellez said. Political parties
won’t seek to excessively raise debt levels and local pension
funds have cash to invest in new issuances, he said.  For 2012, the administration of President Felipe Calderon
is proposing to increase spending in real terms by 2.5 percent
in 2012 while narrowing the deficit to 0.2 percent of gross
domestic product.  Investors overseas have shown appetite for Mexican debt
this year as the country has sought to take advantage of lower
benchmark borrowing costs in the U.S. to lengthen maturities.
The nation sold $1 billion of bonds due 2110 to yield 5.96
percent Aug. 10.  Mexico  first sold the 100-year bonds in October, issuing $1
billion of the securities at a yield of 6.1 percent to become
the only Latin American country with dollar notes of that
maturity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  