-- 
Swedish Krona No Haven as Crisis May Spark Losses, Borg Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-21T13:30:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/borg-rejects-swedish-krona-haven-status-says-currency-may-fall.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg rejected talk of the krona becoming a haven against the
backdrop of a deepening European debt crisis and predicted the
currency will fall if financial markets deteriorate.  “I don’t think the krona will ever have the same role as
the Swiss franc; we are two very different economies,” Borg
said in an interview in  Stockholm  today. “If we end up with
trouble in the international financial system, I’m convinced
that the krona will weaken.”  Borg responded to speculation that investors will turn to
the krona as an alternative to the franc after the  Swiss
National Bank  decided to cap its exchange rate in an effort to
protect exports. The krona has surged 10.4 percent against the
franc since the SNB’s Sept. 6 announcement.  Sweden ’s currency is
likely to strengthen against the euro, according to Danske Bank
A/S. The krona should reach 8.9 versus  Europe ’s single currency
“in coming weeks,” the bank said Sept. 7.  The krona fell 0.7 percent against the euro to trade at
9.1209 at 3:25 p.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, it lost
0.8 percent to 6.6676. Against the yen, the krona sank 1.1
percent.  The krona “might just as well weaken,” Borg said. “If
there is an accident in the European financial system it’s very
likely that the  exchange rate  will be hit hard.”  Tightening Shelved  Sweden’s central bank this month abandoned a planned
interest rate increase after global market turbulence threatened
the recovery outlook in Europe and the U.S. Policy makers
signaled they may still raise rates once more this year to 2.25
percent.  Borg slashed Sweden’s economic growth forecast last month
and estimates the largest Nordic economy will grow 1.3 percent
next year, versus a previous forecast for 3.8 percent.  Sweden’s economy is prone to “big fluctuations,” meaning
it’s “hard to believe” the krona will ever become a haven
currency, Borg said.  Sweden’s housing market, which has shown signs of declining
from its peak, is unlikely to see a significant fall, Borg said.  Stockholm-based lender SEB AB last month predicted Swedish
 house prices  will fall 10 percent “in the next few years” with
more downside than upside risk to the forecast, after rising
almost 200 percent in the last decade and a half. Swedish
 household debt  has risen to more than 170 percent of disposable
income from less than 100 percent fifteen years ago, the
government said yesterday.  “We have had a long period of rising prices,” Borg said.
“It’s advantageous that we’re now getting away from that
situation. The best scenario would be if we have a reasonable
price rise at the same time as growth recovers in the Swedish
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  