-- 
BP-Led Shah Deniz Investors to Pick Pipeline Project by Year-End

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-09-21T16:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bp-led-shah-deniz-investors-to-pick-pipeline-project-by-year-end.html
The BP Plc-led investors in the
Shah Deniz gas project will choose by the end of the year
between three pipeline projects designed to deliver gas to
 Europe , bypassing  Russia .  The partners are choosing a route to send 10 billion cubic
meters of the fuel, enough to supply  Austria  for a year, to
Europe in 2017, which may rise to 24 billion cubic meters in
2019, said Richard Tawse, head of finance at BP Azerbaijan.  The European Union-backed Nabucco link is vying for Caspian
fuel supplies with the smaller Trans-Adriatic Pipeline planned
by  Statoil ASA (STL) , a partner in Shah Deniz, and EON AG, and the
ITGI link proposed by  Edison SpA (EDN) , Depa SA and Turkey’s Boru
Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS. Nabucco may ship 31 billion cubic
meters a year to reduce reliance on Russia, which supplies about
25 percent of Europe’s gas.  Azerbaijan and Turkey may conclude a long-awaited deal on
the transit of the Shah Deniz gas to Europe “in the very near
future,” Tawse said at a gas conference in the Azeri capital,
Baku. The deal is necessary for the investors to proceed with
the second phase of the Shah Deniz project.  Reha Muratoglu, a department head at Turkey’s Energy and
Natural Resources Ministry, said his government intends to
complete the talks by the end of October.  The talks have dragged on for five years, said Elsad
Nasirov, vice president of the State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , a
partner in Shah Deniz.  “We are ready to sign a deal today even if the Turks are
also ready,” Nasirov said. “Talks are continuing, but I do not
know when they will produce results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku, Azerbaijan at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  