-- 
Brazil’s Lower House Passes Bill to Increase Spending on Health Care

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 
2011-09-22T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/brazil-s-lower-house-passes-bill-raising-health-care-spending.html
Brazil ’s lower house approved a
bill that would boost public spending on health care, making it
harder for the government to meet its fiscal target next year.  In a 355 to 76 vote yesterday, lawmakers set new criteria
for health spending that could boost outlays by 6.7 billion
reais ($3.6 billion). States and municipalities are already
required to spend 12 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of
their revenue on health care. The bill, which now goes to the
Senate, tightens the definition of what constitutes such
spending.  According to Sao Paulo-based consulting firm Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, 15 out of 27 states don’t spend the
required minimum on health care. Tightening the law would cost
6.2 billion reais for states and 500 million reais for cities,
Tendencias estimates.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s 2012 budget proposal, presented
to Congress last month, targets a  budget surplus  before interest
payments of 139.8 billion reais for the federal, state and local
governments, the equivalent of 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product. This year, the government is targeting a primary
surplus of 128 billion reais, or around 3 percent of GDP.  “The government may have to concede in terms of the
primary surplus target,” said Felipe Salto, Tendencias’s
specialist in public finance. “Since the fiscal target involves
all public sectors, states will get in trouble and the federal
government will pay the price.”  Rousseff on Aug. 30 urged congressmen to come up with extra
funding if they are committed to raising health care spending
though stopped short of threatening a veto.  The bill must still be approved by the Senate, where some
lawmakers are seeking changes that would commit up to 10 percent
of the federal government’s revenue on health care, or about 31
billion reais, according to Tendencias. The federal government
currently spends 6.6 percent of its annual revenue on health
care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  