-- 
Brazilian Real Hits 16-Month Low, Extends Month’s Drop to 15% on Rate Cut

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-21T21:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/brazilian-real-falls-to-weakest-since-june-2010-on-greece-default-concerns.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled, bringing its
decline this month to 15 percent as the worst performer in Latin
America, on growing concern the central bank is mismanaging
interest-rate policy at a time when global economic conditions
are deteriorating.  The real extended losses after Federal Reserve policy
makers said there are “significant downside risks to the
economic outlook.” The currency slumped as much as 5.8 percent
to a 16-month low of 1.8960 per dollar and ended trading down
4.8 percent at 1.8756 as of 5 p.m. in New York.  Brazil’s currency, which was up 46 percent from the end of
2008 through August as growth in Latin America’s largest economy
picked up, began sinking after the central bank lowered the
benchmark interest rate for the first time in two years on Aug.
31 to guard against a global slowdown. The government had taken
steps to weaken the currency, including boosting taxes on bond
investors, to help exporters compete.  “Cutting  interest rates , screwing around with currency
measures -- the fact these measures are coming at a time when
markets are really, really nervous about the world -- I think
it’s magnified it,” said  Win Thin , global head of emerging-
markets currency strategy at Brown Brother Harriman & Co. In New
York.  Longer Bonds  The Fed will buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities of
six to 30 years through June while selling an equal amount of
debt maturing in three years or less in an effort to further
reduce borrowing costs and keep the economy from relapsing into
a recession. The action “should put downward pressure on
longer-term interest rates and help make broader financial
conditions more accommodative,” policy makers said today in
Washington.  “The market became a little more negative” after the
Fed’s statements about the outlook for the  U.S. economy , Felipe Brandao, an emerging markets analyst at ICAP Brasil, said in a
phone interview in  Sao Paulo . “It could take more time for the
American economy recover.”  Japanese retail investors helped accelerate the decline as
they withdrew 60 billion yen ($786 million) from mutual funds
invested in foreign assets in the week ended Sept. 16, according
to data from Nomura Holdings Inc., the biggest brokerage firm in
 Japan .  “The real was the darling among foreign investors, but it
has not been so because of this deterioration in economic
policies,” said  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America
Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  Government Concern  The decline has been gradual and can be absorbed by the
economy, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today in
 Washington . Mantega, who accused the U.S., Japan and  Europe  last
year of sparking a global “currency war” by keeping rates near
zero and pushing capital to developing nations, imposed on 1
percent tax on foreign derivatives in July after the real surged
to a 12-year high.  Only a big decline in the currency would be a worry to the
government, Mantega told reporters today.  Since October, Brazil has tripled to 6 percent a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of bonds, raised the cost of foreign
borrowing by local companies and restricted banks from betting
against the dollar to prevent the currency from rallying.  President Dilma Rousseff today urged world leaders to stop
manipulating their currencies and said Brazil’s economy doesn’t
have limitless resources to weather a global crisis.  ‘Impose Controls’  “We know our ability to withstand isn’t unlimited,”
Rousseff said at the  United Nations General Assembly  in  New York 
today. “We need to impose controls on the currency war.”  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
lowered the benchmark interest rate a half percentage point to
12 percent last month even as inflation surged to a six-year
high.  The real tumbled 4.8 percent against the yen to 40.7750
yen, extending its decline this month to 15 percent. Japanese
individual investors held $102 billion in real-denominated
assets at the end of August, making them among the biggest
investors in Brazil, according to Nomura.  “The big thing this week is there’s been talk that
Japanese retail funds have been cutting out of Brazil
positions,” Thin said.  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose after
inflation accelerated more than economists expected though mid-
September.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013, the most actively-traded today in Sao Paulo, increased
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 10.79 percent.  Annual inflation in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
accelerated to 7.33 percent in mid-September from 7.1 percent a
month earlier, the government said yesterday.  The inflation rate doubled this month from the 0.27 percent
reading in mid-August, led by a 1 percent jump in clothing
prices and 0.72 percent increase in the cost of food and
beverages, the statistics agency said.  Inflation first breached the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
government’s annual target range in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  