-- 
BTA Bank Ex-Chair Ablyazov Says Georgian Stake Expropriated

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-22T11:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bta-bank-ex-chair-ablyazov-says-georgian-stake-expropriated-.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, ex-chairman of
 Kazakhstan ’s BTA Bank, asked a U.K. judge to order the lender to
hand over documents explaining how his personal stake in the
bank’s Georgian subsidiary was sold without his permission.  BTA, which has sued Ablyazov in Britain for fraud, “stood
by” as the unit sold the former executive’s 27 percent stake to
an entity with links to the Kazakh government, his lawyer,
Charles Bear, said yesterday at a London court. The transfer is
part of BTA’s attempt to expropriate Ablyazov’s wealth and may
have violated a U.K. freezing order on his assets, Bear said.  The sale in April 2010, “does appear to be an instance
exemplifying this campaign to steal my client’s assets,” Bear
said at the hearing. The documents sought by Ablyazov could
demonstrate BTA’s “complicity in the transfer,” he said.  BTA, which defaulted on $12 billion of debt before
restructuring last year, filed a series of U.K. cases against
Ablyazov and Roman Solodchenko, its ex-chief executive officer,
over claims they siphoned money from the bank using fake loans.
The men fled to London from Kazakhstan and deny the claims.  BTA Bank, based in Almaty, said in an e-mailed statement
that there is no evidence to suggest the lender had any
involvement in the transfer of Ablyazov’s shares in the  Georgia 
unit to an energy company called Silk Road.  ‘Unfounded and Irrelevant’  “This is yet another attempt by Mr. Ablyazov to distract
the U.K. courts from the underlying fraud proceedings against
him,” BTA said in the statement. “We are confident that, to
the extent necessary, the court will conclude that these claims
are unfounded and irrelevant.”  Ablyazov claims the case is politically motivated and that
Silk Road is controlled by the son-in-law of Kazakhstan’s
president, Nursultan Nazarbayev. Ablyazov’s lawyer with power of
attorney over his stake in the bank was thrown out of a board
meeting in Tbilisi, Georgia in April 2010, he said.  The U.K. court has previously rejected Ablyazov’s argument
that the case should be dropped due to his alleged political
dispute with Nazarbayev, which started after Ablyazov joined the
democratic opposition in Kazakhstan. Nazarbayev has been in
power for more than two decades.  BTA, the biggest Kazakh lender before its nationalization
in 2009, says litigation against the men will benefit  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and other
creditors that financed its rapid growth before the global
credit crisis.  Asset Disclosure  BTA asked a judge in May to jail Ablyazov for failing to
fully disclose his assets under the freezing order. The bank
said its forensic accountants uncovered evidence of more than
600 shell companies used by Ablyazov to hide his wealth. A
hearing on the request is scheduled for November.  Ablyazov was previously accused of violating the freezing
order by failing to reveal his ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project. The earlier dispute prompted the judge overseeing the
case in August to place an estimated $5 billion in Ablyazov’s
assets into receivership under the control of KPMG LLP during
the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  