-- 
Buffett to Attend Chicago-Area Fundraiser for Obama on Oct. 27

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-21T16:05:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/buffett-to-attend-chicago-area-fundraiser-for-obama-on-oct-27.html
Warren Buffett  will be the featured
speaker at a Chicago-area fundraiser on Oct. 27 to benefit
President Barack Obama’s re-election bid, marking the second
time this year the billionaire investor has agreed to help the
man who has named a tax-increase proposal after him.  The fundraiser in Obama’s political base will follow a
Sept. 30 event in  New York City  that Buffett is also attending.  The Chicago event, with a ticket price of $35,800 per
person, will be at the home of Byron Trott, the managing partner
and chief investment officer at Chicago-based BDT Capital
Partners, according to a copy of the invitation obtained by
Bloomberg News. Obama isn’t scheduled to be present.  “ I trust him completely ,” Buffett once wrote of Trott, a
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing director. Trott
confirmed this week that his firm is part of a group that has
bought the landmark Wrigley Building along Chicago’s Michigan
Avenue.  Buffett, 81, the chairman and chief executive officer of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , has been a longtime supporter of the
president. He hosted an August 2007  fundraiser  in Omaha,
 Nebraska , for Obama and has served as an informal economic
adviser.  The president has cited Buffett to counter critics of his
policies, particularly on raising taxes for the nation’s
wealthiest individuals and families. Buffett has called for
higher taxes for wealthy Americans, including himself.  Earlier this week, as part of his recommendations to trim
the nation’s long-term deficit by $3 trillion, Obama proposed
the “Buffett rule,” which would require taxpayers earning more
than $1 million a year to pay at least the same percentage of
their income in taxes as middle-class households.  Hosts of the  Chicago  event, which was reported earlier by
Crain’s Chicago Business, include Chicago billionaire
businesswoman  Penny Pritzker , who was Obama’s national finance
committee chairman for the 2008 campaign, and John Rogers Jr.,
chairman of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC.  -- Editors: Leslie Hoffecker, Bob Drummond  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  