-- 
Bullion Vaults Run Out of Space as Gold Rallies: Commodities

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n ,   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-09-21T16:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/bullion-vaults-running-out-of-space-as-gold-rally-accelerates-commodities.html
Deep in the 7.4-acre  Singapore 
FreePort next to Changi International Airport’s runways is the
bullion vault of Swiss Precious Metals, behind seven-metric-ton
steel doors built to survive a plane crash or earthquake.  The rooms are almost full after demand rose fivefold in the
year since the Geneva-based company opened the facility. The
firm plans an extension, and relocated Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Francois Pages to Singapore last month to cope with the
surge of investors willing to pay as much as 1 percent of the
value of their holdings each year to keep them secure.  “The European debt crisis and its impact on the solvency
of European financial players are driving European customers to
find refuge in tangible values like physical gold and other
precious metals,” Pages said. Demand “is totally compatible
with the current financial and political global turmoil.”  Barclays Capital  is building a new vault, The  Brink’s Co. (BCO) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may add more space, and the Perth Mint may
expand for the first time since 2003, a sign they expect demand
to keep increasing after the 11-year rally during which prices
increased sevenfold. Investors in exchange-traded products
backed by gold bought 2,236 tons of bullion since 2003,
exceeding all except four countries’ official stockpiles.  Gold climbed to a record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6.
Prices more than doubled since the end of 2007 as stock markets
slumped, economies contracted and central banks and governments
pumped more than $2 trillion into the global financial system.  Dollar Index  The metal rose 27 percent to $1,803.32 this year as the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated 11 percent,
led by financial stocks. Treasuries returned 8.5 percent, a Bank
of America Corp. index shows. The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of
the world’s reserve currency against six major trading partners,
slumped 10 percent in the past 15 months.  Gold will exceed $2,000 this year, according to the average
estimate of 16 respondents in a Bloomberg survey at the  London 
Bullion Market Association’s conference in  Montreal . The metal
will peak at $2,268 next year, the survey showed.  Storage companies are responding. The 112-year-old Perth
Mint, which refines more than 8 percent of all supply and is
owned by the Western Australian state government, may add a new
vault within the next year, according to Treasurer Nigel Moffatt. The mint sells everything from gold coins to 400-ounce
(12.4-kilogram) bars.  Bullion Carrier  Brink’s, the largest bullion carrier in the U.K., is
considering adding more storage after opening a new London vault
earlier this year. Barclays, based in London, is building a
vault in the city that will open next year, the bank said in a
statement last week.  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , is considering expanding
existing facilities and developing new ones to meet demand,
Matthew Keen, a director at the bank, said earlier this month.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  started a vault at the Singapore FreePort
location last year and opened another in the financial district
of  New York .  “With gold prices where they are, we encourage people to
keep it in safety-deposit boxes at banks or vaults, which gives
that sense of security,” said Scott Carter, chief executive
officer of Goldline International Inc., a Santa Monica,
California-based precious-metals retailer established a half-
century ago.  ETF Trust  Gold bought for investment accounted for 38 percent of
total demand in 2010, compared with about 4 percent a decade
before, the World Gold Council estimates. Holdings in gold-
backed ETPs are equal to more than nine years of U.S. mine
production. The SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion ETP,
exceeded the market capitalization of the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust
in August, beating what had been the industry’s largest
exchange-traded fund since 1993.  The Brink’s vault business is part of the Richmond,
Virginia-based company’s value-added global services unit, which
accounts for about 35 percent of total revenue, according to
Bradley Safalow, chief executive officer of New York-based PAA
Research. The shares will rise about 62 percent to $40 in the
next 12 months, he estimates.  The company operates its storage business on long-term
contracts that guarantee revenue, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Michael T. Dan said in a conference call with investors
in July. Brink’s benefits when prices appreciate, he said.  ‘Ultimate Asset Bubble’  Malca-Amit Global Ltd., owner of two gold vaults at the
Singapore FreePort and looking to add another, may see revenue
from precious-metals storage in the city state climb by 30
percent next year, said Ariel Kohelet, executive director of
Malca-Amit Singapore Pte.  The surge in demand is a warning to some investors.  George Soros  called gold “the ultimate asset bubble” in 2010. Soros
Fund Management LLC, founded by the 81-year-old billionaire,
sold 99 percent of its stake in the SPDR Gold Trust and all
shares in the iShares Gold Trust in the first quarter, a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing in May showed.  “We are now in the final, overheated phase of gold’s
protracted bull market,” Chris Eibl, a partner at Zug,
Switzerland-based Tiberius Asset Management AG, which has $2.8
billion in assets, wrote in a report distributed Sept. 15. Gold
“is already so overbought in the wake of panic selling of bank
stocks that a calming of the European financial markets could
well trigger a tactical pullback by about $200 to $300.”  Warren Buffett , the world’s most successful investor, says
the metal has no utility.  Private Investment  “They take it out of the ground in  South Africa , ship it
to the  Federal Reserve , where they put it back in the ground,”
Buffett said on April 30 at Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s annual
meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska . “If you were watching from Mars,
you might think it’s a little peculiar.”  All gold ever mined totaled about 168,300 tons by 2010 and
would fit inside a cube measuring about 21 meters (69 feet) in
length, according to the World Gold Council. Private investment
in the metal reached about 31,100 tons by the end of last year,
according to the council.  The gold stored in vaults typically meets the LBMA’s so-
called good delivery standard, where bars are of at least 99.5
percent purity and include a serial number, the year of
manufacture and the refiner’s assay mark.  “The days where a secure vault in a basement was
sufficient are long gone and in today’s operating environment,
the expertise required in order to manage the substantial, and
expensive, quantities of bullion are far reaching,” said Orit Eyal-Fibeesh, managing director for Brink’s in the U.K.  Silver Surges  Brink’s, the third-biggest provider of vaults in the U.K.
behind New York-based JPMorgan and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , is
considering building another facility in London, said Eyal-
Fibeesh. The company’s clients include banks, trading houses,
institutions, individuals, governments and sponsors of ETPs.  As gold surged 27 percent and silver 31 percent this year,
so did the cost of insurance. Fees charged by Lloyd’s of London
members are pegged to the value, not volume, of the metals.
Individuals preferring to hoard bullion under their own names in
private vaults pay about 1 percent or more of the total value a
year, compared with about 0.4 percent for investors in metal
held through some ETPs.  Insurers typically set maximum values for the metals they
are willing to insure.  “Many vaults are hitting the insurance limit as prices of
gold have surged and even if space is available, the full
replacement insurance may not be available,” said Savneet Singh, the CEO of New-York based Gold Bullion International,
which offers precious-metals storage to wealthy individuals,
 hedge funds  and financial institutions. “The smaller customers
are already getting squeezed.”  Singapore Vaults  Swiss Precious Metals, whose Singapore vault will be 80
percent full by December, charges as much as 1 percent of the
market value of gold and silver stored, depending on the
quantity, Pages said. The charge covers storage, insurance and
related documentation, he said. The company has already arranged
for more space for expansion.  If insurance costs rise by more than 50 percent, then the
firm may ask for higher fees, according to Pages, who predicts
gold may reach $2,500 by the end of the year. Swiss Precious
Metals is owned by Geneva-based Palaedino Group SA and Euroasia
Investment SA. Euroasia Investment is an investor in the
Singapore FreePort through affiliates, according to Pages.  Lloyd’s of London, which offers so-called specie insurance,
declined to provide information on rates or demand. Brink’s
declined to elaborate on storage and insurance costs. JPMorgan,
which also rents space at the Singapore FreePort for its gold
vault, declined to comment.  Bullion Depository  Sometimes the secrecy needed at vaults backfires.  Ron Paul ,
a Republican congressman for  Texas  and three-time presidential
candidate who has called for a return to linking the dollar to
gold, isn’t sure there’s any metal at the U.S. Bullion
Depository at Fort Knox in  Kentucky .  Paul told Bloomberg Businessweek’s June 20 edition that the
government “is asking the American people to trust that all the
gold is there, while not allowing site visits and not publishing
all the data.” Eric M. Thorson, the inspector general of the
Treasury, said he has seen and accounted for it all.  The U.S. has the world’s largest gold reserves, 8,133.5
tons, according to World Gold Council data. The Kentucky vault,
opened in 1937, stores more than 4,500 tons at a book value of
$42.22 an ounce, according to the U.S. Mint’s website. The
facility admits no visitors.  “Gold is simply a mirror of economic and political
failure, of all the uncertainties that make people worry,” said
Gerry Schubert, the head of precious metals at Emirates NBD in
Dubai, who has traded the metal since 1979. “If you have $50
million, what would you do with that money? You buy gold. Hedge
funds, central banks, sovereign funds: all are buying gold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at   droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at +1-312-443-5931 or
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  