-- 
Buy Apple, Coca-Cola Calls as Economy Slows, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-21T16:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/buy-apple-coca-cola-calls-as-economy-slows-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy bullish  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , Coca-Cola Co. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  options
because those companies depend less on economic growth, which is
projected to slow this year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Those equities are attractive for bullish options
strategies based on the levels the firm’s stock analysts project
the shares will reach, Katherine Fogertey and  John Marshall , New
York-based equity-derivatives strategists, said. They
recommended buying over-the-counter  call options  5 percent above
the share price while selling calls 15 percent above, a strategy
known as a call spread which cuts the cost of the transaction
while capping potential profit.  “Consumer staples and telecom services provide an
attractive combination of defensiveness, 2012 earnings growth
and high dividend yields,” Fogertey and Marshall wrote in a
report to clients today. They said the strategy team likes the
technology industry because of its “overall strong balance
sheet, high foreign sales exposure and stable earnings
outlook.”  The  S&P 500  declined 11 percent from July 22 through
yesterday amid concern that the world’s largest economy may slip
into a recession. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its
forecast for global growth yesterday and predicted “severe”
repercussions if Europe fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S.
policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  Industry Weightings  The proposals were based on industry-weight recommendations
made by Goldman equity strategists, who suggested that investors
buy so-called defensive stocks that are less reliant on economic
growth, Fogertey and Marshall said. David Kostin, Goldman’s
equity strategist, cut his year-end S&P 500 forecast to 1,250
from 1,400 last week. That compares with the average 1,311
estimate among 12 strategists tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge
fell 0.2 percent yesterday to 1,202.09.  “Our portfolio strategy team recommends that investors
overweight Staples given their defensive characteristics and
improving margin outlook,” the options strategists wrote.
“Consumer staples has outperformed on average during the late
expansion phase of the business cycle and is also well-
positioned in a recessionary scenario.”  U.S. gross domestic product may expand by 1.6 percent this
year, according to the median of 66 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. That’s down from a median forecast of 1.7
percent in August and below last year’s 3 percent rate.  Fogertey and Marshall recommended buying the call spreads
on Apple, Coca-Cola, Verizon,  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , EMC Corp.,  Crown Castle
International Corp. (CCI) ,  Dean Foods Co. (DF)  and  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)   Goldman also suggested buying six-month puts 5 percent
below the share price while selling put options 15 percent below
on 10 companies in the consumer-discretionary, industrial and
materials categories. They recommended the trade on  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) ,  Gap
Inc. (GPS) ,  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and Manitowoc Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  