-- 
Camp Says Congress Should Consider Revenue From Tax Overhaul

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-21T19:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/camp-says-congress-should-consider-revenue-boost-in-tax-overhaul.html
House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  said congressional revenue analysts should consider the
economic growth effects of an overhaul of the U.S. tax code when
estimating its revenue costs.  “I would hope that we would get dynamic analysis that
would be used to come to a more accurate score,” the  Michigan 
Republican said after a hearing on the topic. Revenue from
economic growth could be used to lower the  U.S. budget deficit ,
said Camp, who is opposed to tax increases.  Such a scoring approach would be a departure from the
conventional method, which doesn’t consider how a legislative
proposal affects growth. Republicans have long favored such
“dynamic scoring” that includes macroeconomic feedback.  Camp, also a member of the deficit-reduction
supercommittee, has been working on a proposal to overhaul the
U.S.  tax code . He has set a target of 25 percent for the top
corporate and individual tax rates, down from 35 percent today.  Driving rates to that level would require curbing tax
expenditures such as the mortgage interest deduction and
accelerated depreciation for businesses. An approach that
generated economic growth could, in theory, reduce the need to
curtail tax breaks.  ‘Key Issue’  Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican who is a member of
the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate’s “Gang of Six,”
though not of the supercommittee, said today in  Washington  that
moving to dynamic scoring is a “key issue” that must be
settled for the supercommittee to reach agreement on  deficit
reduction . He made the comments at a forum sponsored by the
Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a non-partisan group
that educates the public on fiscal issues.  John Buckley , a former House Democratic tax aide, said
including growth effects could raise questions of political
interference.  “Those estimates then have no credibility,” said Buckley,
who now teaches at  Georgetown University ’s law school in
Washington and testified at the hearing.  Panelists at the hearing said producing a macroeconomic
estimate is subject to uncertainty and requires assumptions
about actions taken outside the tax code by Congress and the
 Federal Reserve .  The Joint Committee on Taxation, the official congressional
scorekeeper for tax legislation, already produces estimates that
consider macroeconomic factors for major legislation, even
though they aren’t officially used by Congress.  Official Estimates  The tax law passed in December 2010 that extended expiring
income tax breaks for two years had an official 10-year revenue
estimate of $858 billion.  Without other policies to offset the deficit effect, JCT
estimated, a dynamic estimate of that law would have cost the
government $791 billion over the first five years in forgone
revenue, or about $100 billion less than the official score for
that period.  In the second half of the decade, the dynamic estimate
shows an additional revenue loss of $205 billion compared with a
$35 billion revenue gain under the conventional method. That
result stems in part from the economic drag of the  budget
deficit , debt and the eventual expiration of the tax breaks,
according to the  JCT report .  Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the committee’s
top Democrat, said the hearing on dynamic scoring was
counterproductive and distracted from what he said should be the
main focus of reviving the economy.  “We need analysis,” Levin said. “We also have a crisis
facing this country and its families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  