-- 
Canada’s Dollar Reaches 2011 Low as Fed Cites ‘Downside Risks’ to Economy

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-21T21:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/canada-s-dollar-pares-drop-as-annual-inflation-rises-in-august.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to the weakest
level versus its U.S. counterpart this year, exceeding parity,
as the  Federal Reserve  cited “significant downside risks” to
the economy.  The Canadian dollar dropped for a third day as crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, and stocks tumbled after the Fed
statement. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Canadian policy
makers are prepared to act to stem an appreciation of the
country’s currency caused by speculative capital inflows. The
Fed also said after a two-day meeting it will replace some bonds
in its portfolio with longer-term debt to cut borrowing costs.  “The response overall in terms of the markets hints that
they were expecting more, that they were pricing in something
more dramatic” than the Fed provided, said  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar, known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 1.5 percent to
C$1.0081 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0089, the weakest since Dec. 27. The three-day losing streak
is the longest since the period ended Aug. 8. One Canadian
dollar purchases 99.20 U.S. cents.  Crude oil for November delivery fell 2.5 percent to $84.74
a barrel in New York, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 2.9 percent.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing yields on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year note down seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.12 percent. Earlier they increased as
much as four basis points. The price of the 3.25 percent
securities due in June 2021 gained 64 cents to C$109.83.  ‘Downward Pressure’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement it
will buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30
years through June and will sell an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less.  The action “should put downward pressure on longer-term
interest rates and help make broader financial conditions more
accommodative,” the FOMC said.  “A lot of the risk assets did sell off quite quickly after
the announcement,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “Clearly the market
was looking for a more aggressive Fed. As soon as the market saw
that the Fed was not going to be as aggressive as they thought,
instantly it was in a risk-off mode.”  Growth Concern  The loonie fell earlier versus the greenback as concern
economic growth is slowing outweighed data showing higher-than-
forecast inflation, discouraging demand for riskier assets.  Bank
of Canada  Governor Mark Carney said yesterday he may keep
 interest rates  low beyond when full output is restored as the
domestic recovery is hobbled by a weak economy in the U.S., the
nation’s biggest trade partner.  Speculation that the central bank will raise its benchmark
overnight target rate from 1 percent this year has faded as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and slow U.S. growth fueled
concern the global economy may be headed for a recession.  The Canadian economy shrank at a 0.4 percent annualized
pace in the second quarter, the government said Aug. 31, the
first contraction since the recession two years ago.  “Given current material headwinds, the policy rate can
return to its long-run level after inflation is projected to
reach the 2 percent target and output is projected to reach its
potential,” Carney said in a speech in Saint John,  New
Brunswick .  Forecasts Cut  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered Canada’s economic
growth forecast yesterday to 2.1 percent for this year from 2.9
percent, citing weaker demand from the U.S. and slower
 government spending . It said the world economy will expand 4
percent this year and next, compared with June forecasts of 4.3
percent in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012.  Harper, speaking in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York , said that while he doesn’t think
Canada will attract “extreme” flows of capital because of the
country’s close economic links with the U.S., the Bank of Canada
isn’t likely to tolerate any appreciation that undermines the
country’s economy.  Canadian monetary authorities “would be prepared to
intervene if they thought there were movements in the currency
that were contrary to the country’s interests and not being
driven by actual underlying fundamentals,” Harper said in the
interview. Central banks intervene by selling or buying
currencies to influence prices.  ‘Long Way’  “The government has a very clear intervention policy and
hasn’t used it in many years,” Scotia Capital’s Sutton said of
Harper’s comments. The Canadian currency is not surging now,
“so I suspect we’re a long way from intervention,” she said.  Canada’s dollar has lost 2.3 percent this year versus nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback fell 1.2
percent, while the euro gained 0.3 percent and the yen climbed
5.5 percent.  Canada’s consumer prices advanced 3.1 percent in August
from a year earlier after a 2.7 percent gain the previous month,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The median forecast of
26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.9 percent
annual pace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  