-- 
Canada Must Preserve Jobs in Foreign Takeovers, Harper Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-09-21T18:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/canada-must-preserve-jobs-in-foreign-takeovers-harper-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Canada will “proceed with caution” as it considers
opening its doors to more foreign takeovers, making sure they
don’t lead to a loss of head office jobs and declining industry
leadership.  The Canadian government is looking at ways to liberalize
foreign investment in various industries, Harper said today in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . The
challenge is to ensure that the loosening of foreign-ownership
rules doesn’t trigger the “loss of all Canadian presence in the
sector,” he said.  “The important issue for me is that Canada continue to
have head offices and some economic leadership in the world,”
Harper said. “I don’t think we would want a situation,
especially one that might not be driven entirely by market
forces, where the Canadian economy were entirely owned and
operated essentially from headquarters and offices based in
every place but  Canada .”  Harper has tried to reassure potential investors that
Canada remains open to foreign takeovers since the government in
November rejected a proposed takeover of fertilizer maker Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. by Australia-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
Under Canada’s foreign-takeover legislation, known as the
Investment Canada Act, foreign acquisitions of companies with
assets worth more than C$312 million ($312 million) are reviewed
by the federal government to determine whether the transaction
is a “net benefit” to the country.  Develop Leaders  Harper, who was re-elected in May and leads a majority
government for the first time, said he needs to balance the need
to attract more foreign investment with the goal of developing
global industry leaders based in Canada. Industries that are
protected from foreign takeovers in Canada include the telephone
companies, such as  BCE Inc. (BCE) , airlines such as Air Canada and
lenders including Royal Bank of Canada.  “Our government is looking at ways of liberalizing
investments in a number of sectors,” Harper said. “The
challenge for a government is one would never want a situation
where we liberalize the rules, and the immediate result was the
loss of all Canadian presence in the sector, so we’re obviously
proceeding with some caution.”  The prime minister said his government is reviewing whether
it can make changes to the law, which contains strict
confidentiality provisions designed to protect commercial
secrets, that would allow the government to communicate more
freely without hurting companies attempting to buy Canadian
assets.  Communicate With Public  “The government, at the same time, has to communicate with
the public, and I think we should be in a position where we can
communicate more,” Harper said. “We do have to be able to have
flexibility, and we do have to be able to be in a position where
we can assure investors that we’re not operating from a
prejudicial viewpoint.”  Harper, 52, defended the government’s decision to block the
Potash acquisition, arguing that no other country would have
approved the deal.  “If it had been in  Australia , to put the shoe on the other
foot, I don’t believe that takeover would have been approved,”
he said. “I think the objectives of BHP, in fairness, probably
were beyond merely what we would consider good business in a
market sense, but probably more an issue of strategic
positioning, and that strategic positioning was obviously not in
the interest of the Canadian economy.”  The government welcomes investment by  China  and other
countries, as long as such acquisitions are “economic in nature
and don’t have other strategic or political objectives,” he
added.  MacDonald Bid  In 2007, the Canadian government issued guidelines for
foreign takeovers by state-owned enterprises, requiring that
such enterprises operate on a “commercial” basis.  The government also blocked a bid by Minneapolis-based
Alliant Techsystems Inc. in 2008 to acquire the aerospace
division of Vancouver-based MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates
Ltd.  The two decisions are the only times the Canadian
government has blocked a foreign takeover bid since the
Investment Canada Act came into force in 1985.  Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis met last month
with executives from telecom and cable companies including BCE,
Telus Corp., Rogers Communications Inc. and Shaw Communications
Inc., his office said. Paradis sought input from the industry on
its news auction of wireless spectrum, as well as the nation’s
rules on foreign ownership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at ‘ or
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 