-- 
Canada August Inflation Quickens to 3.1% on Gasoline, Food

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:55:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/canadian-august-inflation-accelerates-to-3-1-on-gasoline-food.html
Canada ’s inflation rate accelerated
more than economists forecast in August, with gains led by
gasoline, insurance premiums and food.  The  consumer price index  increased 3.1 percent in August
from a year earlier, compared with a July pace of 2.7 percent
and a May peak of 3.7 percent, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 2.9
percent reading according to the median of 26 responses.  The core inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
items such as gasoline, quickened to a 1.9 percent pace, the
fastest since April 2010, from July’s 1.6 percent. Economists
expected the rate to be unchanged.  Inflation has been above the  Bank of Canada ’s 2 percent
target for nine months, even after the economy shrank in the
second quarter. Governor  Mark Carney  said in a speech yesterday
that Canada’s recovery is hobbled by a weak U.S. economy and
Europe’s debt crisis, and he may extend a period of low  interest
rates  beyond when full production returns.  “It is still the external environment that’s the real
concern,” said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada’s Capital Markets unit in Toronto.
Investors are still betting the central bank’s next move will be
a rate cut, and it may take reports proving “a decent bounce
back in growth for the third quarter” to change that, he said.  Dollar Down  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.4 percent to 99.66 cents
per U.S. dollar at 8:31 a.m. in Toronto, from 99.27 cents
yesterday. The yield on the two-year Canadian government bond
rose to 0.95 percent from 0.94 percent.  The yield on the three-month overnight index swap, a gauge
of what investors predict the bank’s rate will average over that
time, was unchanged at 0.96 percent today. The Bank of Canada’s
key rate has been at 1 percent since last September.  Gasoline prices rose 22.8 percent in August from a year
earlier,  Statistics Canada  said today. Insurance premiums rose
by 7.5 percent on home and mortgage policies, and by 4.4 percent
on automobiles. Food prices rose 4.4 percent.  The Bank of Canada forecast in a July 20  outlook  that
inflation would average 2.8 percent from July through September
and 2.6 percent in the last three months of this year.  The central bank runs monetary policy with a goal of
achieving a 2 percent annual inflation rate, the mid-point of a
1 percent to 3 percent target range.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.3
percent in August from July. The core measure rose 0.4 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted monthly inflation of
0.1 percent and a core rate of 0.2 percent.  “Domestic demand in Canada remains fairly firm”  Rudy Narvas , senior economist at Societe Generale SA in  New York ,
said by telephone. “If things improve slightly and you see some
improvement in  Europe , the Bank of Canada could put its bias
back toward tightening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  