-- 
Canada August Consumer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-21T11:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/canada-august-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's consumer price index report for August released
by  Statistics Canada .  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 3.1% in the 12
months to August, mainly as a result of higher prices for
gasoline and food purchased from stores. This follows
increases of 2.7% in July and 3.1% in June. On a
seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices rose
0.3% in August.  The 0.4 percentage point difference between the year-
over-year increases posted in August and July was mainly
the result of price increases for the purchase of
passenger vehicles, electricity, homeowners' home and
mortgage insurance, telephone services and jewellery.  The 12-month change in the CPI and the CPI excluding food
and energy  Energy prices rose 13.4% during the 12 months to
August, following a 12.9% increase in July. Gasoline
prices went up 22.8%, compared with the 23.5% increase in
July. Prices for  fuel oil  and electricity also rose, while
natural gas prices fell.  Food prices went up 4.4% in August, following a 4.3%
increase in the previous month. Consumers paid 5.0% more
for food purchased from stores and 2.7% more for food
purchased from restaurants.  Food and energy prices rose 7.2% in August, following a
7.1% increase in July. Excluding food and energy, the CPI
increased 1.5% in August after advancing 1.2% in the
previous month.  The 12-month change in the gasoline price index since
August 2006  Seasonally adjusted monthly CPI advances  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, consumer prices
rose 0.3% from July to August, following a 0.1% increase
from June to July. The transportation index, which
includes the purchase of passenger vehicles, rose 0.8%
following a 0.1% increase in the previous month. The food
index went up 0.3%, after advancing 0.5% in July.  Seasonally adjusted monthly  Consumer Price Index  advances  The seasonally adjusted shelter index rose 0.2% from
July to August, while the household operations,
furnishings and equipment index increased 0.4%.
Conversely, the recreation, education and reading index,
as well as the clothing and footwear index, decreased
0.2%.  12-month change: Prices increase at a faster rate in five
of the eight major components  On a year-over-year basis, prices increased in all
eight major components of the CPI in August. Except for
health and personal care, clothing and footwear, as well
as recreation, education and reading, prices rose at a
faster rate in August than in July.  The cost of transportation increased 7.0% in the 12
months to August, following a 6.5% gain in July. Consumers
paid more for gasoline, passenger vehicle insurance
premiums and air transportation.  Food prices rose 4.4% in the 12 months to August, after
increasing 4.3% in July. There were broad-based price
increases for food purchased from stores. Consumers paid
more for bakery and cereal products (+6.1%), for meat
(+5.7%) and for dairy products and eggs (+3.4%). They also
paid more for fresh vegetables and fresh fruit.  Shelter costs rose 1.8% in the 12 months to August,
following a 1.3% increase in the previous month. In
addition to paying more for fuel oil, consumers also paid
more for homeowners' home and  mortgage insurance ,
homeowners' replacement cost, and electricity. However,
mortgage interest cost decreased.  Prices increase at a faster rate in five of the eight
major components  Provinces: Prices increase at a faster rate in eight
provinces  On a year-over-year basis, gasoline and food purchased
from stores continued to be the major contributing factors
to the increase in consumer prices in all provinces. For
the second consecutive month,  New Brunswick  posted the
largest increase in consumer prices and British Columbia
the smallest.  Prices increase at a faster rate in eight provinces  In Ontario, consumer prices rose 3.1% in the 12 months
to August, after rising 3.0% in July. Gasoline prices rose
25.4%. Prices for passenger vehicle insurance premiums and
homeowners' replacement cost also went up. Prices for
electricity fell.  Consumer prices in  Quebec  went up 3.4% in August,
following a 3.3% gain in July. On a year-over-year basis,
gasoline prices rose 27.1% in the province. Consumers also
paid more for fuel oil and for food purchased from
restaurants.  Prices increased 2.1% in British Columbia, following a
1.7% increase in July. Drivers in this province paid 12.3%
more for gasoline. Homeowners' home and mortgage insurance
and food purchased from restaurants also went up.  In  Alberta , consumer prices advanced 2.9%, after rising
1.9% in July. In addition to paying 19.5% more for
gasoline, consumers in Alberta paid 33.8% more for
electricity. They also paid more for homeowners' home and
mortgage insurance and for natural gas.  Bank of  Canada 's core index  The Bank of Canada's core index rose 1.9% in the 12
months to August, following a 1.6% gain in July. The
higher increase in August was primarily a result of a rise
in prices for passenger vehicle insurance premiums, food
purchased from restaurants as well as bakery and cereal
products.  The seasonally adjusted monthly core index advanced
0.3% in August, matching the increase in July.  Note to readers  The special aggregate "Energy" includes electricity;
natural gas; fuel oil and other fuels; gasoline; and fuel,
parts and supplies for recreational vehicles.  The Bank of Canada's core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index's most volatile components (fruit,
fruit preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable
preparations; mortgage interest cost; natural gas; fuel
oil and other fuels; gasoline; inter-city transportation;
and tobacco products and smokers' supplies) as well as the
effects of changes in indirect taxes on the remaining
components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  