-- 
Canada Regulator Bans Exclusive Mobile Phone Broadcasting

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T23:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/canada-regulator-bans-exclusive-mobile-phone-broadcasting-1-.html
Canada ’s broadcasting regulator
said it will prohibit large “integrated” telecommunications
companies from offering television programs on an exclusive
basis to their mobile-phone and Internet subscribers.  The Canadian Radio-television Telecommunications Commission
announced the new “framework” today on its website. Any
program broadcast on TV, including hockey games and other live
events, must be made available to competitors under “fair and
reasonable terms,” the regulator said.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s largest phone company, bought
broadcaster CTV last year for C$1.3 billion ($1.26 billion) to
add content that it can sell to customers on their mobile phones
and tablets. The deal posed a challenge to Toronto-based  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , which owns TV channels including Sportsnet.
Montreal-based BCE in June urged the CRTC to drop a ban on
negotiating exclusive programming deals. Today’s decision
reinforces that restriction.  BCE spokesman Mark Langton said the company is preparing a
statement on the decision and had no immediate comment.  BCE fell 11 cents to C$38.04 at 4:47 p.m. in Toronto Stock
Exchange trading as Rogers dropped 82 cents, or 2.2 percent, to
C$35.74. BCE has gained 7.6 percent this year while Rogers has
climbed 3.3 percent.  “It’s a big win for the consumer,” Philip Lind, vice
chairman at Rogers, said in an interview. While it restricts the
company’s ability to negotiate deals in the future, Rogers,
which also owns  Major League Baseball ’s Toronto Blue Jays, is
“good with that,” he said.  “We’re not giving it away for free but at the same time we
argued, ‘Why should a customer have to take three or four
different handsets to see the NFL, the CFL, Major League
Baseball, and the NHL?’” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net 
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  