-- 
Cargill Aims to Pay Farmers $2.2 Million for Certified Cocoa

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-21T16:47:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/cargill-aims-to-pay-farmers-2-2-million-for-certified-cocoa.html
Cargill Inc. aims to pay cocoa
farmers more than $2.2 million in premiums next year for the
sales of sustainable beans.  Sustainable implies meeting the needs of the present
without compromising the ability of future generations to
fulfill their own needs, according to the  United Nations . Global
cocoa demand has exceeded production for 10 of the past 15
years, according to the International Cocoa Organization.  “We believe if we don’t change there will be long-term
deficits in cocoa at current prices,” Taco Terheijden, manager
of sustainable cocoa at Cargill Cocoa & Chocolate, said in an
interview at a conference in London today. “It’s about changing
farmers’ productivity.”  Chocolate makers and traders are driving demand for
sustainable cocoa, with many having made commitments to
increasing the amount of certified beans they buy. The
Netherlands wants 100 percent of all cocoa consumed in the
country to be sustainable by 2025, according to the country’s
Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation.  Cargill’s sustainable cocoa program has led to a 30 percent
increase in yields in projects in top producer  Ivory Coast  in
two years, Terheijden said, adding that the cocoa sector must be
made more attractive to farmers.  “We need good agricultural practices on the ground, we
need access to fertilizers, we need to increase revenue for
farmers otherwise they will move to other crops,” he said. “If
you don’t increase productivity you cannot generate higher
income and if you don’t generate higher income you cannot talk
about poverty alleviation.”  Ivory Coast Farmers  Cargill paid $2.2 million in premiums to 26,500 farmers
across 21 cooperatives in Ivory Coast this year, the U.S.
agribusiness said in a statement Aug. 22. The premiums were paid
for the delivery of 20,000 metric tons of certified cocoa
between October 2010 and May, according to the statement. That
represents about 10 percent of the company’s total cocoa
sourcing in Ivory Coast, it said. The company aims to increase
the amount of sustainable and certified cocoa it buys to 100,000
tons by 2015, Terheijden said.  More than 50 percent of the payments made this year will go
to farmers and the remainder will be used by cooperatives to
invest in community projects, according to Cargill.  Armajaro Trading Ltd., a supplier of cocoa, coffee and
sugar, wants 50 percent of all the cocoa it trades to be
sustainable in five years, Nicko Debenham, director of
development and sustainability, said on June 13.  Coffee Sales  The London-based trading house aims to collect at least $2
million in premiums from sustainable cocoa and coffee sales this
year, Debenham said on Sept. 5. The premiums collected will
be directed to  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  and Ferrero SPA-backed non-
profit organization Source Trust, which will then invest the
money in boosting yields, training farmers and replanting trees,
he said. European chocolate makers will drive the demand for
sustainable beans, Debenham said in June.  Sales of cocoa under the UTZ sustainability program from
January to August reached 26,620 tons, Britta Wyss Bisang, a
certification manager at  Amsterdam-based UTZ , said at the London
conference. UTZ-certified sales may increase to about 125,000
tons by 2013, she said.  “The cocoa industry has realized that they could
jeopardize their business if cocoa is not produced sustainably
because there won’t be enough,” she said in an interview.
“Yields in Ivory Coast are extremely low.”  Coffee roasters are starting to take a greater interest in
sustainability, she added.  “We are at that tipping point in coffee now in which the
first public commitments have been made,” she said.  Sales of UTZ-certified coffee from January to August
totaled 99,089 tons. Demand is forecast to reach 140,000 tons by
the end of the year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 