-- 
Caterpillar CFO Says U.S. Must Retool Tax Code With Lower Rates

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-21T19:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/caterpillar-cfo-says-u-s-must-retool-tax-code-with-lower-rates.html
Congress must revamp the U.S.  tax
code  by lowering corporate rates and adopting a territorial
system of taxation for overseas profits, said Edward Rapp, group
president and chief financial officer of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   Rapp spoke at a briefing for reporters on  Capitol Hill 
today held by chief financial officers of some big corporations.
He said a lower corporate rate is needed so U.S. companies can
be competitive globally.  “We need to do a teardown of our corporate tax
structure,” said Rapp. Caterpillar is based in Peoria,
Illinois.  Rapp suggested that a 25 percent corporate rate, with 20
percent or 21 percent from federal taxes and the remainder from
state taxes, would make the U.S. competitive with businesses
based in other industrialized countries.  The corporate income tax currently tops out at 35 percent.  In rebuilding the corporate tax code, lawmakers should
strive for a lower rate and adopt a territorial system for
taxing overseas profits, Rapp said. They should also include
incentives for developing intellectual property.  Lawmakers also need to consider questions about the
structure of the economy, such as whether they want to foster
manufacturing jobs, Rapp said.  Research and Development  Rapp said that although two-thirds of Caterpillar’s sales
are outside of the U.S., the bulk of its $2 billion global
research and development budget is spent domestically.  “It’s a key part of our global network,” Rapp said.  He didn’t offer details as to what tax expenditures
Caterpillar would be willing to give up for a 20 percent or 21
percent U.S. corporate tax rate.  Rapp suggested that lowering rates corporate tax rates
could lead to higher  tax revenue .  “If you improve competitiveness, do you improve growth
that leads to higher revenues?” Rapp asked.  Robin Beran, Caterpillar’s chief tax officer, who also
attended the briefing, said “it would be pretty hard to get
there on a revenue neutral basis.”  John Buckley , a former House Democratic tax counsel, said
in a phone interview today that “you couldn’t get to that rate
without increasing the deficit.”  Buckley, now a visiting professor at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington , also said lawmakers could choose to target a rate
focused more narrowly to manufacturers, who already benefit from
a manufacturing tax deduction and in many cases have the ability
to move operations offshore.  Taxing Manufacturers  “You logically could do it with manufacturers. They’re
already paying a reduced rate and they could leave,” he said.  Another executive at the briefing, Kurt Kuehn, chief
financial officer of Atlanta-based  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
said businesses must be flexible as they suggest changes to the
tax code.  “We see all tax expenditures being on the table,” Kuehn
said.  UPS is a member of the newly formed RATE Coalition, a
business group that includes  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) 
It advocates for lower corporate tax rates.  The RATE Coalition, (short for Reducing America’s Taxes
Equitably) doesn’t specify by how much the corporate rate should
drop.  Kuehn said he thinks it’s better to achieve a framework for
lower rates before tackling other corporate tax issues such as
repatriation of overseas profits.  “We see repatriation as a secondary issue,” he said.  Kuehn said a temporary tax holiday sought by some companies
holding profits outside the U.S. is “a Band-Aid,” and not a
solution to the offshore tax issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  