-- 
Centrica, EDF Face Rising Windfall Atomic Tax Risk, Analysts Say

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-09-21T12:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/centrica-edf-face-rising-windfall-atomic-tax-risk-analysts-say.html
Centrica Plc (CNA)  and Electricite de
France SA are more likely to face windfall taxes after the
U.K.’s Liberal Democrat party called for trimming returns from
nuclear generation, analysts say.  The party, the junior partner in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government, yesterday proposed a windfall
tax on nuclear power to help “fuel-poor” households. The
measure would attempt to claw back profit arising from the
adoption of a carbon floor price from April 2013.  EDF, the U.K.’s largest nuclear power generator, may earn
as much as 154 million pounds ($242 million) of “extra profit”
as a result of a tax on carbon-dioxide emissions from 2013,
according to Citigroup Inc. The Treasury imposed the tax of 4.94
pounds per metric ton of emissions from fossil-fueled plants in
its March budget, effectively raising the price EDF can charge
for nuclear power, which emits less greenhouse gas. Centrica
controls 20 percent of EDF’s eight reactors.  “It is difficult to come up with a counter argument to the
‘windfall’ tax,”  Lakis Athanasiou , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd., said in a note to investors today. While
passage of the measure doesn’t bind Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
to adopting a tariff, “under the right circumstances it could
get legs.”  Risk ‘Clearly Rising’  An additional carbon tax of 11 pounds per ton would boost
the electricity price by about 5 pounds per megawatt hour in
2015, Athanasiou said. This would leave EDF and Centrica with a
210 million pound tax charge, he said. The charge could rise to
about 471 million pounds by 2020, the analyst said. The total
tax burden between 2013 and 2020 could exceed 2 billion pounds.  “Regulatory and political risk for U.K. utilities is
clearly rising,”  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  analyst Scott Phillips said in a
note to investors today. “The rhetoric on the supply companies
meanwhile has been getting tougher for a while, with the
government and Ofgem taking a very critical look at supply
margins.”  A proposed windfall tax is likely to meet resistance as it
counteracts the carbon floor and may deter investment in new
reactors, Tom Burke, a co-founder of Brussels-based
environmental lobby E3G, said by e-mail. EDF has plans to build
four new reactors in Britain with its first at Hinkley Point in
southwest  England  coming online by 2018.  The carbon tax “is part of the deal to get new nuclear,”
Burke said. “It is a sweet deal as long as no-one pays too much
attention: the nuclear industry gets a slug of money to help
cover its construction risk, the Treasury gets a lot more money
from a stealth tax and environmentalists take the blame for the
price increases.”  Other companies considering building nuclear power stations
in the U.K. include  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG, as well as  Iberdrola SA (IBE) 
and  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc. (SSE)  Britain can currently get
about 20 percent of its power from its 10 nuclear stations, five
of which are due to shut over the next decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  