-- 
Cheapest Gas Buoys Kirby Shipping Dow Chemicals: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/cheapest-gas-brings-boon-for-kirby-shipping-dow-chemicals-freight-markets.html
The world’s cheapest natural gas
means  Kirby Corp. (KEX)  barges are making more trips along the
Mississippi River and  Quality Distribution Inc. (QLTY)  tanker trucks
are rolling along America’s highways more frequently.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  is among customers calling on vessels and
vehicles to haul their gas-derived products to railways, ports
and other facilities as they expand production in the U.S.,
where the fuel costs less than half what it does in Europe or
 Asia . The share of Kirby’s ships in use has reached the highest
in almost three years, and Quality is generating more revenue
from each truck than it did before the last recession started.  “Kirby is the 800-pound gorilla on the water, and Quality
is the Kirby on the road,” said  Kevin Sterling , a senior
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,  Virginia , who has a
“buy” rating on both companies. “They’re both in businesses
that are growing despite headwinds of an economic recession.”  Even as U.S. economic growth cools to the slowest pace
since the recession ended in 2009, both companies are moving
more chemicals, like ethylene and benzene, made from natural
gas. Demand for the household goods containing these products,
which include water bottles, mouthwash and diapers, tend to
“hold up pretty well in a slow-growth environment,” according
to Joe Pyne, Kirby’s chairman and chief executive officer.  “The  U.S. economy  is anemic at best, yet our business is
doing well,” Pyne, who has been at Houston-based Kirby since
1978, said in an interview. “Although you do hear rumblings
about a global slowdown, we certainly haven’t seen it.”  Shipments Overseas  Railcar loadings of chemical products, a proxy for demand,
have risen an average 4.4 percent year-over-year into the week
ended Sept. 10, Association of American Railroads data show.  Overseas demand for petrochemicals has also held up.
Exports to  Brazil ,  Europe  and Asia have gained “appreciably”
this year, and overall shipments to other countries are up about
10 percent to 15 percent year-over-year, said Kevin Swift, the
American Chemistry Council’s Washington-based chief economist.  “Freight flows all say that the economy is continuing to
grow,” said Donald Broughton, a senior transportation analyst
at Avondale Partners LLC in  St. Louis , who has an “outperform”
rating on Quality. “Somebody has to provide the first and last
mile because it can’t get everywhere via pipeline and rail.”  Shares of Kirby have returned 28 percent since the end of
last year, while Quality is up 9.5 percent. Both are members of
the Russell 2500 Index, a small-to mid-cap barometer of U.S.
equities that’s declined 9.3 percent in the same period on
concerns the global economy is slowing.  With 837 vessels, Kirby owns about a third of the U.S. tank
barge fleet, making it the largest and only publicly traded
liquid product mover on the nation’s inland waterways. Because
of the Jones Act, a federal law restricting domestic marine
transportation, Kirby has no foreign competitors.  Petrochemical Transport  Almost 70 percent of Kirby’s transportation revenue comes
from petrochemicals, while about 30 percent comes from hauling
petroleum products, such as crude oil, asphalt and gasoline, the
company said in its second-quarter  report .  Quality, based in Tampa,  Florida , takes over when chemicals
need to be transported on land. The operator of the country’s
biggest network of chemical bulk tank trucks, it manages 29
independent affiliates. Quality accounts for about 14 percent of
the $4 billion chemical and food transportation market, the
company told investors in a March presentation.  “Quality Distribution is a travel agent for chemicals,”
said  Peter Nesvold , a senior analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New
York, with a “hold” rating on the company. “They don’t own
the tractors and don’t have drivers directly on their payroll.
They get paid to match buyers and sellers.”  Joseph Troy, the chief financial officer at Quality, said
his company declined comment for the story.  ‘Game Changer’  Fuel from shale formations across  North America  has sent
the country’s natural gas prices down and led Dow and others to
build new plants to produce petrochemicals in the U.S. for the
first time since 2001. Dow is the third-largest ethylene maker
in the country by annual capacity, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  “The shale gas revolution is a game changer,” the
chemistry group’s Swift said. “Outside the  Middle East , we have
the lowest natural gas costs in the world, which gives us a
distinct advantage. If there was a free market in the Middle
East, it would be priced comparable to what we pay in the U.S.”  Natural gas at the Henry Hub in Erath,  Louisiana , the
benchmark U.S. pricing point for  New York  Mercantile Exchange
futures, reached a 6 month-low this week, before gaining 5
cents, or 1.3 percent, to $3.83 per million British thermal
units at close yesterday. In  Canada , it traded at $3.64 per
million Btu. Gas in the U.K. was trading at $8.48 and  Germany  at
$9.72, while gas in  Japan  was $14.54.  The Marcellus  The Marcellus Shale formation, which stretches from New
York to  Tennessee , alone contains about 84 trillion cubic feet
of recoverable natural gas along with 3.4 billion barrels of
natural gas liquids,  according  to the U.S. Geological Survey.  Production of such gas-derived chemicals as benzene and
ethylene will expand 5.6 percent in the U.S. this year and 3.1
percent in 2012, according to Swift’s group’s July mid-year
outlook. As intermediates, petrochemicals are used in materials
ranging from automotive antifreeze to nylon fiber.  At Quality, revenue per truck is up 4.3 percent on a year-
over-year average basis, rising in the second quarter to $3,467,
the highest since at least 2004, according to Broughton. He said
he expects the figure, which is a proxy for shipment volumes, to
climb 5.9 percent for the full year.  Kirby’s utilization, a measure of fleet usage that affects
the amount it can charge for transport, exceeded 90 percent from
April to June, the highest since the third quarter of 2008,
according to its second-quarter report. Pyne said he expects the
rate to hold near that level in the third quarter.  Hydraulic Fracking  The shale formations are also adding to Kirby and Quality’s
revenue as both become involved in natural gas extraction.
Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, pumps millions of
gallons of water, sand and some chemicals underground to break
apart rock formations and release the fuel.  An additional 30 percent to 40 percent of Kirby’s revenue
comes from servicing, selling and manufacturing diesel engines.
In April, it bought United Holdings, which makes the equipment
used in fracking. The purchase increased the engine segment’s
operating income by 328 percent from the second quarter of 2010,
the company told analysts in a July 28 teleconference.  Opening a gas well with fracking requires a constant flow
of fresh water for 21 days, and during the well’s 30-year life
it will produce wastewater 24 hours a day, BB&T’s Sterling said.
Trucks used in fracking generate about $300,000 per year,
compared with $100,000 from chemical trucks, he estimates.  Quality announced on Aug. 1 it would provide logistics
services for 100 trucks to move fresh and disposal water in the
Marcellus Shale region, which management expects to generate
between $30 million to $40 million in revenue in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  