-- 
Chile Raising Growth, Copper Price Estimates, Larrain Says

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-21T15:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/chile-to-grow-faster-than-4-in-second-half-larrain-says.html
Chilean government advisers raised
their estimates for copper prices and economic growth, enabling
the government to spend more on education and social programs
next year, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said today.  Independent experts convened by the government every year
to develop forecasts for the fiscal budget raised their
estimates for non-inflationary growth to 4.9 percent for 2012
from 4.8 percent in 2011, Larrain said at a forum in Santiago.
Experts also raised copper price estimates used to forecast
government revenue to $3.02 a pound from this year’s $2.59 a
pound, he said.  The estimates will allow the government to increase
spending on education without abandoning its commitment to
austerity that has made  Chile  Latin America’s only net creditor,
Larrain said. The value of Chile’s sovereign funds, which were
$18 billion in July, will continue to grow, though the
government may tap them if the global outlook worsens, he said.  “We will introduce an undoubtedly responsible budget that
meets our objectives and the government’s commitments,” Larrain
told reporters after his speech. “The budget won’t include the
contingency plan. We’re developing a plan that we will unveil if
the circumstances merit; in fact, we’d like to not have to use
the contingency plan at all.”  Copper rose 0.3 percent to $3.735 a pound at 10:23 a.m. New
York time from yesterday.  Chile’s government is scheduled to present its budget
proposal to Congress this month. Students who have been
protesting for more than three months will stage a march
tomorrow to pressure authorities for spending increases to
improve the quality and cut the cost of schooling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 