-- 
China Stocks Advance Most in Four Weeks as Leading Indicator Shows Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T07:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-nuclear-power-companies-may-advance.html
China ’s stocks rose, sending the
benchmark index to its biggest gain in four weeks, after a gauge
of economic indicators signaled growth is withstanding Europe’s
debt crisis and the faltering expansion in the U.S.  PetroChina Co. led gains by commodity producers after the
Conference Board said its leading indicator index rose 0.6
percent in July. Dongfang Electric Corp. jumped the most in
eight months, pacing a rally by nuclear power-related companies,
after the China Securities Journal said the government may
resume approvals for nuclear-power projects.  “The worst period for China’s economy and inflation has
passed,” said Mei Luwu, a  fund manager  at Lion Fund Management
Co., which oversees more than $7.8 billion. “Valuations have
reached a bottom, leaving limited room for further declines.”  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 2.7 percent to 2,512.96
at the 3 p.m. close, the biggest advance since Aug. 25. Stocks
on the measure trade at 11.6 times estimated profit. Valuations
dropped to the lowest level on record this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 3 percent to
2,771.01.  The Shanghai index has slumped 11 percent in 2011 as the
government increased measures to cool inflation that’s at an
almost three-year high. Shares have also fallen before Sinohydro
Group Ltd.’s initial public offering. The nation’s biggest
builder of dams will start selling as many as 3.5 billion shares
in Shanghai on Sept. 26, according to a statement to Shanghai’s
stock exchange. It may be China’s biggest initial public
offering in more than a year.  Conference Board  A gauge tracking energy producers on the CSI 300 rallied
4.6 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. PetroChina,
the nation’s largest oil producer, added 1.5 percent to 9.77
yuan. China Shenhua Energy Co. rose 4.9 percent to 26.59 yuan.  The Conference Board’s gauge is designed to capture
prospects over the coming six months. June’s index was revised
to a 0.9 percent gain from a previous 1 percent increase.  The index “signals a continuation of economic expansion
through the end of this year,” Jing Sima, the board’s New York-
based economist, said in a statement. “The rate of economic
growth will be slower in 2011 than last year.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecast
for global growth and said “downside risks are growing” as
 Europe ’s debt crisis widens. The Washington-based lender also
lowered its estimate for China’s expansion because of monetary
tightening and a weaker outlook for exports.  The IMF estimates the Chinese economy will grow 9.5 percent
this year, down from a forecast of 9.6 percent in June, and 9
percent in 2012. The fund lowered its estimate for world growth
this year to 4 percent from the previous 4.3 percent forecast.  Nuclear Power  An index of industrial companies climbed 3.1 percent.
Dongfang Electric surged 7.1 percent to 23.05 yuan, the biggest
gain since Jan. 27. Shanghai Electric Group Co. jumped 8.5
percent to 6.13 yuan. China First Heavy Industries Co., the
maker of equipment used in the mining and energy industries,
rose 9.9 percent to 3.98 yuan.  New projects will be required to use reactor technology
offered by Westinghouse Electric Corp. and Areva SA under
China’s nuclear safety plan, which may be out to seek public
opinion at the end of this year, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing unidentified people.  Offshore Oil Engineering Co. and China Oilfield Services
Ltd. jumped by the daily maximum of 10 percent on speculation a
government development strategy will bolster earnings prospects.  Development Strategy  Offshore Oil rose 0.54 yuan to 5.90 yuan, paring this
year’s losses to 27 percent. China Oilfield climbed 1.38 yuan to
15.21 yuan, paring a 40 percent slump this year.  “The gains may be related to the marine engineering
development strategy issued some days earlier,” Yan Fuyin, an
analyst at Great Wall Securities Co. said by phone from
Shenzhen. “The shares have already dropped a lot.”  The National Development and Reform Commission published a
development strategy on the marine engineering equipment
industry on Sept. 16, according to the agency’s website.  The volume of shares traded in the  Shanghai  Composite fell
to 4.6 billion yesterday, the lowest level since June 28, 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Benchmark money-market rate climbed for a third day, the
longest increase in a month, as demand for funds rose before
Sinohydro’s share offering and next month’s holidays. China
Securities Co., one of the leading underwriters for Sinohydro’s
IPO, said a reasonable pricing range is 5.39 yuan to 6.41 yuan a
share, China Business News reported today, citing a pricing
report from the brokerage.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  