-- 
China’s Cars Grab Brazil Market Share

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w ,   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-09-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-paving-brazil-silk-road-with-hard-to-beat-prices-cars.html
Chinese automakers are targeting
cost-conscious consumers in Brazil, taking sales from  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   As the second-largest emerging market after China and the
fifth-biggest car market, Brazil is key for China’s automakers
as they start a world expansion. Chery Automobile Co. and others
are trying to follow in the path of Korean makers such as  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and become global players.  “There’s been a quicker uptake than I think any of us
expected for Chinese brands here in Brazil,” said  Jon
Sederstrom , director of research firm J.D. Power & Associates in
the Sao Paulo office. “Right now, there certainly seems to be
consumer interest in the new brand and a product that costs
less.”  Brazil’s government, concerned that a surge in imports from
China and elsewhere will cause job losses, last week raised a
tax by 30 percentage points on all cars with a high proportion
of foreign-made parts. President Dilma Rousseff’s government and
Finance Minister Guido Mantega have repeatedly expressed worries
about damage to Brazil’s manufacturers by imports crowding out
locally made goods.  Before last week’s tax increase, a Chinese  Chery QQ  with
air-conditioning, power steering, air bags, CD player and
electric windows cost 23,990 reais ($13,440), including import
tariffs. That’s 300 reais to 2,100 reais cheaper than the most
stripped-down models -- without most of the Chery’s features --
for  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Gol G4, GM’s Chevrolet Celta or Ford’s Ka in
Brazil, according to data on the companies’ websites. (These
cars are all produced within the region, so they don’t pay
import duties.)  Local Production  Chinese producers will continue to sell low-cost cars in
Brazil, though they may move more of their production there to
get around the new rules, Sederstrom said in a telephone
interview.  The increase in the so-called Industrial Products Tax means
that a car with an engine of 1 liter or less will pay a tax of
37 percent. (More than two-thirds of new cars sold in Brazil
have 1-liter engines.) Cars with 65 percent of their parts made
in the Mercosur trade bloc in  South America , or in  Mexico , will
be exempt from the tax increase and pay only 7 percent.  The measure will raise the cost of imported cars by as much
as 28 percent and force foreign automakers to build or buy key
components in  Brazil , Mantega said Sept. 15. After the tax
increase, the Chery QQ may cost more than 30,000 reais if
Mantega’s estimated increase is correct.  Import Duties  Brazil’s motor industry is dominated by Wolfsburg, Germany-
based Volkswagen, Turin,  Italy ’s Fiat and Detroit-based GM,
which control about two-thirds of the market between them.
Currently, all of the Chinese cars sold in Brazil are imported.
They’re charged import duties of as much as 35 percent, plus the
Industrial Products Tax and sales taxes.  Chinese automakers’ market share in Brazil expanded to 3.3
percent in August, from virtually zero in April 2010, according
to Fenabrave, the national car dealers’ association.  Brazil is one of several emerging markets where long-
established manufacturers from  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  have
been losing market share to new producers from  China , which
overtook the U.S. last year to become the world’s largest car
market.  Research by  J.D. Power  found that for Brazilian consumers,
the cost of owning a car is a more important consideration than
quality, design or service, since the price is a bigger
proportion of household income than in developed countries.  Trade Ties  The appearance of Chinese cars in Brazil is part of a
“Southern Silk Road” of growing trade ties between emerging
markets that is revolutionizing the global economy, according to
Stephen King, chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London .  Chinese companies attuned to consumer tastes in  developing
countries  have some advantages over rivals from rich nations in
markets like Brazil’s, King said.  “These are cars for people on relatively low incomes, who
are not likely to buy the kind of cars that would typically
appeal to a wealthy American or European consumer,” King said
in a telephone interview. Enhanced safety features, and the need
to cater to “bigger, fatter” Westerners, have increased costs
for automakers based in the U.S. and Europe, he said.  Chinese automakers “have a lot of cost advantages,” said
Andre Beer, a former vice president at General Motors of Brazil,
who now runs a consulting firm specializing in Brazil’s auto
industry. “They don’t have all the benefits or all of the taxes
that we have here,” Beer said in a telephone interview.  Brazilian Plants  In the past year, Wuhu, China-based Chery, Beibei, China-
based Chongqing Lifan Auto Co. and Hefei, China-based Anhui
Jianghuai Automobile Group Co.’s JAC Motors have all announced
plans to build plants in Brazil. A $400 million Chery plant with
capacity to produce 150,000 to 170,000 cars a year is scheduled
to open next year, Luis Curi, chief executive officer for
Chery’s Brazilian unit, said last month in an interview.  GM’s share of the Brazilian market fell to 19.4 percent in
August from 20.5 percent a year earlier, according to the
National Car Makers Association, or Anfavea. Fiat’s market share
fell to 22.3 percent from 23.2 percent, while Ford’s fell to 9.2
percent from 10.1 percent. Volkswagen saw its sales rise to 23.3
percent of the market from 22.5 percent.  Brazil’s car industry has managed to grow this year, even
as other industries stalled, as near-record-low unemployment
boosted demand for  consumer goods . Vehicle sales rose 4.7
percent in August from a year earlier, while production rose 5.5
percent to a record 325,000 vehicles.  Slowing Growth  Economists forecast that Brazil’s growth will slow this
year. The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  at
five of its six meetings in 2011, and a sluggish global recovery
is cutting demand for Brazil’s iron ore, oil and soy exports.  J.D. Power  reduced its forecast for 2011 growth of light-
vehicle sales in Brazil to 3.4 percent in July from 9.8 percent
at the start of the year, as inventories rose and the economy
showed signs of cooling.  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy cut their 2011
growth forecasts for a seventh straight week, to 3.5 percent, in
a Sept. 16 central bank survey. Last year the economy expanded
7.5 percent, its fastest pace in more than two decades.  Car sales also are being dampened by central bank measures
to reduce credit growth. Auto loans fell to 8.4 billion reais in
July, down 24 percent from December, when the central bank set
 capital requirements  that encourage higher down payments and
fewer installments on car loans. Late payments rose to 8
percent, from 6.3 percent in December, while defaults rose to 4
percent, from 2.5 percent, according to central bank data.  Still, there are plenty of potential buyers looking for a
bargain. Bernardo de Lima, a 46-year-old taxi driver in Brasilia
who now has an old Fiat Tempra, said he’s thinking of buying a
Chery QQ.  “The most attractive thing about this car is the price,
and that it comes with all the accessories,” de Lima said in a
telephone interview. “Also, gasoline is very expensive, so it
would be good to run a more fuel-efficient car.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  