-- 
Chinese Police Arrest Two for Killing of ’Gutter Oil’ Journalist

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T07:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/chinese-police-arrest-two-for-killing-of-gutter-oil-journalist.html
Police in central  China ’s Henan
province arrested two suspects today in connection with the
death of a 30-year-old journalist who had links to reporting
about the illegal sale of ’’gutter oil’’ or reprocessed cooking
oil.  Li Xiang, a journalist working for Luoyang Television, was
robbed and stabbed to death in the early morning of Sept. 18,
according to a statement on the website of the  Luoyang Municipal
Public Security Bureau . The police will hold a briefing on the
case soon, according to the statement, which didn’t give more
details.  China began a crackdown this month on the sale of gutter
oil, which is reprocessed from waste taken from restaurants, as
part of the government’s campaign to improve  food safety  after
incidents of tainted milk, illegal additive in pork and
excessive bacteria in duck fueled public outrage.  Li had previously worked on a story about gutter oil,
Xinhua News Agency reported. The  China Daily   said  he posted a
story on a microblog about a suspected underground factory
producing the oil.  Police in China have arrested at least 32 people for
producing illegal cooking oil and seized more than 100 tons of
the substance, the Ministry of Public Security said on its
website on Sept. 13. The People’s Daily reported on Sept. 15
that the government had pledged to “thoroughly” destroy
production and sales of illegal cooking oil, citing the State
Council’s food safety commission, which is led by Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang .  Authorities in the city Luoyang had offered a reward of
20,000 yuan ($3,136) for information about Li’s death after the
incident, the China Daily reported today. Li’s laptop was
missing and police said an early investigation indicated that Li
was killed in a robbery, according to the newspaper.  The China Daily also cited You Kai, deputy director of the
office where Li had worked since 2006, as dismissing speculation
that the journalist’s death was related to gutter oil because
Li’s beat rarely involved investigative reporting.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  