-- 
China Agrees Plan to Alter Resource Tax That May Cut Profit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-22T05:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-s-state-council-approves-resource-tax-changes.html
China  will levy a tax on resource
producers based on the value and volume of their output,
according to a statement on the government’s  website , citing a
decision from a State Council meeting presided over by Premier
 Wen Jiabao .  The country will adjust tax ratios on crude oil and natural
gas exploration, yesterday’s statement said, without giving
details. It currently imposes a tax on producers of oil, gas and
coal based on output volume. The State Council is China’s
cabinet. A higher tax will likely cut profits of oil explorers
including PetroChina Co. and coal miners including China Shenhua
Energy Co.  The government has proposed increasing resource taxes
nationwide to fund development of the nation’s western regions,
which contain oil, gas and coal reserves. It introduced a trial
tax of 5 percent of oil and gas production by value in the
Xinjiang region in June 2010 before extending the levy to other
western provinces.  The tax on power-station coal is currently at 3 yuan (47
cents) a metric ton,  Helen Lau , a  Hong Kong  based analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., said in a note to clients today. This is
equivalent to less than 0.4 percent of the price of thermal coal
at Qinhuangdao, the nation’s biggest port for the fuel. The tax
on steelmaking coal is 8 to 15 yuan a ton, Lau said.  If a tax of 5 percent of production by value is
implemented, and assuming coal prices are unchanged, Chinese
coal producers’ earnings will be cut by 9 percent to 23 percent,
according to Lau.  China will raise environmental protection standards for
thermal power plants from Jan. 1, 2012, according to another
statement posted on the government’s  website  yesterday.  The new emission standard is expected to boost the
environmental-protection industry’s “market size” by 260
billion yuan, the statement said, citing Tao Detian, spokesman
for the Ministry of Environmental Protection.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  