-- 
China Leading Indicator Shows Economy Maintaining Momentum

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T02:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-leading-indicator-shows-economy-maintaining-momentum-1-.html
A Chinese leading indicator climbed,
adding to evidence that the world’s second-biggest economy is
withstanding  Europe ’s debt crisis and faltering growth in the
U.S.  The index rose 0.6 percent to 158.6 in July, The Conference
Board said on its  website  today, citing a preliminary reading.
The gauge is designed to capture prospects over the coming six
months. June’s index was revised to a 0.9 percent gain from a
previous 1 percent increase.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecast
for global growth and said “downside risks are growing” as
Europe’s debt crisis widens. The Washington-based lender also
lowered its estimate for China’s expansion because of monetary
tightening and a weaker outlook for exports.  The index “signals a continuation of economic expansion
through the end of this year,” Jing Sima, The Conference
Board’s New York-based economist, said in a statement. “The
rate of economic growth will be slower in 2011 than last year.”  The IMF estimates the Chinese economy will grow 9.5 percent
this year, down from a forecast of 9.6 percent in June, and 9
percent in 2012. The fund lowered its estimate for world growth
this year to 4 percent from the previous 4.3 percent estimate.  The leading index’s six components are loans by financial
institutions, raw-material supplies, deliveries and new export
orders information from the manufacturing purchasing managers’
index, consumer expectations, and total floor space started. The
central bank publishes the first two components and the
statistics bureau releases the other four.  The leading index, first published in May 2010, has
successfully signaled turning points in  China ’s economic cycle
if plotted back to 1986, the organization says.  --Yanping Li. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  