-- 
China Calls on Iceland for Energy Help in Bid to Tap Hot Springs

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-calls-on-iceland-for-energy-help-in-bid-to-tap-hot-springs.html
China , the largest consumer of coal
for power generation, is sending engineers 5,000 miles across
the world to learn how the Earth’s bubbling hotspots can help
utilities clean up their act.  Cui Yu, geothermal projects manager at Beijing’s Geology
Minerals Development Bureau, said the government sent her to the
volcanic island of Iceland for six months to learn how to
develop an industry tapping underground heat. The country in the
north Atlantic warms 90 percent of homes from geothermal supply.  China, aiming to get 15 percent of its energy from non-
fossil fuels by 2020, is seeking Iceland’s expertise as it
pursues a five-year, $10 billion district heating program. China
Petrochemical Corp. has pledged to make geothermal one of its
main business units over the period, and Xianyang-based Shaanxi
Green Energy Geothermal Development Co. plans to become the
world’s largest supplier of Earth-generated heat.  “The demand for energy in Beijing and in China is growing
fast,” Cui said in an interview. “One of the ways to satisfy
the increasing demand is to utilize more geothermal energy,
which is both economical and clean.”  Geothermal energy is so plentiful in  Iceland  that it melts
ice on Reykjavik sidewalks in winter, helps grow bananas in
greenhouses and warms more swimming pools per capita than in any
other country. The United Nations University has run a
 Geothermal Training Program  there for more than 30 years.  Chinese Students  “Iceland has a huge advantage due to its experience and
knowledge in regard to the utilization of hydropower and
geothermal power,” Cui, 34, said by telephone from Reykjavik,
the country’s capital. “China can learn from Iceland’s
experience and Icelanders can teach us many things.”  The world’s second-biggest economy has 26 megawatts of
installed geothermal capacity, compared with 575 megawatts in
Iceland, according to Stefan Linder, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. China, which gets 80 percent of its power from
coal and is the biggest polluter, has sent the most students to
the UN training program, followed by  Kenya  and the  Philippines .  The East Asian nation attaches “strategic importance” to
developing geothermal projects, Su Shulin, former president of
China Petrochemical, also known as Sinopec Group, said in June
2010. Sinopec Star Petroleum Co., a unit of the oil producer,
signed a deal with Iceland’s Geysir Green Energy last year to
develop underground heat.  The Chinese company last month agreed with Shaanxi Green
Energy and Iceland’s Enex China Ltd. to expand capacity in
geothermal space-heating more than sixfold to 20 million square
meters (215 million square feet). Once complete, Shaanxi will be
the world’s largest utility to supply geothermal heat, according
to Enex China.  With Iceland’s help, “it won’t be too long until China
will become a leader in the field,” Cui said. “China will
become a superpower in terms of utilizing renewable resources
such as geothermal energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 