-- 
China Faces Surge in ‘Hot Money’ Inflows on Market Turmoil, PBOC Data Show

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-21T08:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/china-faces-hot-money-surge-on-global-turmoil.html
Turmoil in global financial markets
may be spurring a surge in flows of speculative capital into
 China  as investors bet on the nation’s growth and prospects for
gains in the yuan.  Financial institutions’ yuan positions, accumulated from
purchases of foreign exchange by the central bank, had a net
gain of 376.94 billion yuan ($59 billion) in August, 72 percent
more than in July and the biggest increase in five months,
central bank data showed today. Economists watch the numbers for
signs of inflows of so-called hot money.  Inflows of capital may complicate central bank efforts to
tame inflation and limit the risk of asset bubbles in the real-
estate market. With lenders’ reserve requirements already at
record levels, the People’s Bank of China may rely on selling
bills to soak up cash.  “It’s clear money is flowing into China if you consider
the global turmoil last month and the low yields available
elsewhere,” Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist with
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said in an interview in Beijing
today. “Given the liquidity crunch facing small and medium-
sized enterprises it would be difficult for the PBOC to raise
 reserve requirements  any further.”  Inflows of money may add pressure for China’s currency to
climb and help to suppress money-market rates. The People’s Bank
of China set the yuan’s reference rate 0.17 percent stronger at
6.3772 per dollar today, the highest since 2005.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates  China’s economy 
will grow 9.5 percent this year.  Stability, Returns  “U.S. Treasuries yield below 2 percent and  Europe  is
facing a crisis, so China offers stability and better returns in
addition to the prospect of yuan appreciation,” Shen said.  Banks’ yuan positions rose to 25.26 trillion yuan ($4
trillion) in August from 24.89 trillion in July, according to
 data  on the central bank’s website today.  The PBOC has raised  interest rates  five times in the past
year, boosted banks’ reserve ratios nine times and imposed
restrictions on lending to help curb inflation that’s exceeded
the government’s 2011 target of  4 percent each month this year.
Consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent last month from a year
earlier.  The banks’ positions reflect the net result of the purchase
and sale of foreign exchange with clients for transactions
including trade and foreign investment.  China’s trade surplus last month dropped to $17.8 billion
and foreign investment amounted to $8.5 billion.  --Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  