-- 
OBR Blames Local-Authority Data for U.K. Budget-Forecast Error

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-13T12:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/chote-signals-budget-office-to-cut-u-k-growth-forecasts.html
Better data on spending by U.K.
local authorities would make it easier to forecast the public
finances, the government’s budget watchdog said.  In an analysis of its own forecasting record published in
London today, the  Office for Budget Responsibility  said an
overestimate of local-authority spending accounted for a third
of the error in projecting the  budget deficit  in the year that
ended in March.  The  Office for National Statistics  cut its estimate of the
deficit for 2010-11 by 5.9 billion pounds ($9.3 billion) last
month to 136.7 billion pounds, saying the bulk of the change
related to better-than-expected finances at local authorities.  In June 2010, the OBR predicted a deficit of 149 billion
pounds for the period. The overestimate of 12 billion pounds was
slightly lower than the average error in official forecasts in
the last 10 years, it said. Quarterly estimates of local-
authority spending that became available for the first time
recently should improve the accuracy of its projections, the
watchdog said.  “Keeping track of the income and spending of local
authorities has long been one of the biggest challenges in
preparing public-finance forecasts,” OBR Chairman  Robert Chote 
said in a statement. “New quarterly data should help,
especially once we have a long enough run of data to understand
the patterns during the year.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  created the OBR
after the Conservative-led government took office in May 2010,
saying he wanted to rid forecasting of political interference.
The watchdog produces twice-yearly forecasts for the Treasury
and monitors fiscal policy.  Chote said in a speech last month that the OBR will cut its
growth prediction for this year. Economists’ forecasts compiled
for the Treasury indicate it is also likely to increase its
deficit projection for 2011-2012, currently 122 billion pounds.
The budget office is due to publish new forecasts on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  