-- 
UAW Turns to Ford to Negotiate After Extending Its Contract With Chrysler

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-22T20:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/chrysler-uaw-agree-to-another-contract-extension-amid-contract-talks-1-.html
The  United Auto Workers  will shift
to bargaining with  Ford Motor Co. (F) , an automaker it can strike,
after extending its contract with Chrysler Group LLC.  The union will “focus its attention on Ford” while
continuing to negotiate with Chrysler,  Michele Martin , a
spokeswoman for the Detroit-based UAW, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The union, which reached a tentative agreement
Sept. 16 with  General Motors Co. (GM)  after two extra days of
bargaining, would not comment further, she said.  UAW President  Bob King , 65, has said a pay package Ford
awarded to Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , 66, earlier
this year makes it more difficult to get member support for a
deal with the automaker. Ford has said its hourly labor costs
are higher than those of GM and Chrysler.  “It certainly has the potential for conflict,” said
Robert W. Clark, a former Ford labor negotiator and president of
RWC Consulting LLC. “There’s nothing in it for Ford to get
their costs pushed further out of line with competitors, and
nothing in it for the UAW to take them to brink. The old notion
of brinksmanship doesn’t seem to make much sense in this case.”  The union agreed to no-strike pledges at Chrysler and
Detroit-based GM as part of the automakers’ U.S.-backed
bankruptcies in 2009. UAW members at Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford, which didn’t seek protection from creditors or receive a
U.S. bailout, rejected a strike ban.  Chrysler and the UAW, having extended their labor agreement
one week already, lengthened the contract by as much as four
more weeks.  Marchionne’s Criticism  Chrysler’s 2007 contract with the union was stretched
through Oct. 19, the company said in an e-mail. Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  criticized King in a Sept. 14 letter,
saying he was ready to complete negotiations while the union
president had “competing engagements.”  Marchionne met King yesterday before the talks were
extended again, two people familiar with the negotiations said.  “The derailing at Chrysler was a surprise, but hardly a
shock,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at  University of
California  at Berkeley. “The union strategically felt an
alternate route would be to everyone’s advantage, so they took
the Ford exit.”  Ford has said it has the highest labor costs of the three
U.S. automakers, at $58 an hour including benefits. GM’s labor
costs are $56 an hour, according to the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor . Chrysler has said its labor costs are
about $50 an hour.  Ford, UAW Gear Up  “We look forward to working with the UAW on a new
agreement that is fair to our employees and makes Ford more
competitive,”  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail yesterday. “It’s too early in the process to know” if
Ford can follow the pattern on wages and benefits set in the
UAW’s tentative agreement with GM, she said.  Ford and the union agreed Sept. 13 to extend the contract
while negotiations continue.  “I can tell you that our negotiators have already been
working hard,” Jimmy Settles, vice president of the UAW’s Ford
Department, said in a posting on the union’s Facebook page.  Ford rewarded Mulally in March with $56.6 million in stock
for leading the automaker’s turnaround. In addition, his 2010
compensation rose 48 percent to $26.5 million.  King called Mulally’s compensation “excessive” and
“outrageous” in a July interview with Bloomberg Television.  ‘Little Bit Extra’  “That’s a very real problem for the UAW’s leadership in
trying to get ratification,” Clark, who negotiated national
agreements for Ford for more than 30 years before retiring in
2002, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “If the
membership at Ford is more restive and more irritated, they may
be looking for the icing on the cake, the little bit extra.
That’s going to be very tough for Ford to manage given the labor
cost differential and disadvantage they already have.”  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker after salaried workers received
raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches last year. An
arbitration hearing on that dispute began Sept. 15.  The UAW traditionally reaches a labor agreement with GM,
Chrysler or Ford and then uses it as a template for a deal with
the other two. The union is seeking new contracts this year to
replace accords reached in 2007 that established two tiers of
wages, with new hires getting less than senior workers.  Moody’s Reviews GM  Moody’s Investors Service is reviewing GM’s credit rating
for a possible upgrade, the New York-based company said today in
a statement. Moody’s cited the pending resolution of GM’s new
contract, which at first view is “constructive” and could
preserve its competitiveness, said  Bruce Clark , an analyst for
the ratings company.  “A lot of the costs associated with the agreement are
variable,” Clark said in a phone interview. “It’s very
important that this industry has moved away from, and never goes
back to, this very high fixed-cost structure.”  GM has a corporate family rating of Ba2 from Moody’s, or
two levels below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates GM
BB-, three levels below.  GM fell $1.04, or 4.9 percent, to $20.24 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Ford slid 35 cents to
$9.62.  The GM agreement calls for boosting starting pay of entry-
level workers to at least $14.78 an hour from $14. That wage
rises to as much as $19.28 an hour by 2015 from a previous
maximum of $16.23. The UAW-GM agreement is now subject to a
ratification vote by union members.  Signing Bonuses  The GM agreement also includes a signing bonus of $5,000
for each union member. Chrysler had balked at signing bonuses
that high, wanting its bonus to be about $3,500, according to
two people familiar with the discussions, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  A raise for entry-level workers would be more costly at
Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler compared with GM or Ford. Chrysler,
with about 25,500 UAW-represented employees, has said it has at
least 12 percent of its workers at the entry-level rate while
the rest are senior workers who are paid about twice as much.  Ford has fewer than 100 out of 41,000 UAW members receiving
the lower wage rate, according to Evans, the company
spokeswoman. About 4 percent of GM’s U.S. hourly workers are
paid the entry-level wage, according to the UAW.  Buyout Packages  GM, under its new labor agreement, will offer buyout
packages worth as much as $75,000 to its roughly 10,000 skilled-
trades workers, the UAW said in a Sept. 20 briefing with
reporters. Other employees eligible to retire can take $10,000
to stop working within two years so that GM can replace them
with new hires at the lower wage rate.  Chrysler, after a net loss of $652 million last year, aims
to turn its first annual profit this year of $200 million to
$500 million, excluding certain costs. It reported a first-
quarter net profit of $116 million and a $370 million loss in
the second quarter, including losses from paying off U.S. and
Canadian government loans early.  Ford has not had a national strike since 1977. “At Ford, a
deal is possible and a strike is unlikely,” Shaiken said. “But
that is a factor that’s out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  