-- 
Chrysler’s U.S. Advanced-Vehicle Loan May Lose to Disaster Aid

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-21T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/chrysler-s-u-s-advanced-vehicle-loan-may-lose-to-disaster-aid.html
Chrysler Group LLC and plug-in car
battery supplier  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  may not receive some or all
of the U.S. Energy Department loans they’re seeking to produce
more fuel-efficient vehicles, under a proposal the House is
scheduled to debate today.  Automakers and their supporters, including Democrats from
Michigan’s congressional delegation, are trying to keep the
House from cutting $1.5 billion of the $4 billion remaining in a
loan program that has benefited  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Nissan Motor
Co. Ltd. (7201)  Republicans including House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
of Virginia say the money is needed for disaster assistance to
states hit by storms.  Energy Department loan programs have come under
congressional scrutiny since solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC
failed after getting about $527 million in U.S. loan guarantees.  “This would cripple the program at a time when advanced-
technology vehicles are both beginning to take off and when
there are new standards that the auto companies and the
administration have agreed to” on fuel economy, said  Dan Becker , head of the Washington-based Safe Climate Campaign,
which supports raising fuel-economy standards.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, and controlled
by  Fiat SpA (F) , is seeking $3.5 billion in loans from the program,
according to an Aug. 12 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the potential cuts.  Jobs Focus  Eleven advanced-vehicle loans that the Energy Department
may approve by the end of the year won’t be awarded if money for
the program is reduced, Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan
Democrat, told reporters yesterday on a conference call.  “It’s unclear how many of the loans that are about ready
to be approved could be funded,” said Stabenow, who helped
create the loan program in 2007. “Why in the world would we
zero in on a program that’s actually creating jobs?”  The  program , which has given out five loans and has a
conditional commitment on another, has 18 applications pending,
according to Representative Norman Dicks of  Washington , who is
the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee.  The Energy Department, which has committed about $3.5
billion worth of loans for six projects under the program since
2009, doesn’t release the list of applicants and won’t comment
on the House debate, Bill Gibbons, a department spokesman, said.  President George W. Bush’s administration created the
program as part of a compromise for automakers to agree to raise
fuel-economy standards from 2012 to 2016. President  Barack Obama 
in July said automakers agreed to double the fuel economy of the
vehicles they sell in the U.S. to a fleetwide average of 54.5
miles per gallon by 2025.  ‘See-Sawed’ Policy  The program “has a well-established pipeline of
applicants, and it expects to utilize the remaining $4 billion
in appropriated funds to support American investment in this
growing global market,” Gibbons said in an e-mail.  The  auto industry  wants consistency in federal policy on
what types of vehicles they should make, said  Gloria Bergquist ,
vice president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers.
Chrysler is a member of the Washington-based trade group.  “Government funding for advanced fuels and vehicles has
really see-sawed in recent years,” she said in a telephone
interview. “We’ve had funding to support hydrogen and then that
funding was stopped. We’ve had funding to support ethanol and
then that was altered. Once they set out a road map, let’s stick
with it.”  ‘Not Squeamish’  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both Chrysler
and Fiat SpA, has said the loans are “an integral part of the
refinancing plan of Chrysler going forward.”  When  General Motors Co. (GM)  withdrew its request for $14.4
billion in government loans in January, Marchionne said Chrysler
wouldn’t.  “I’m not ashamed of saying this, that I am not squeamish
to accept Department of Energy funding in connection with the
investments we are making in terms of architecture and power
train development,” Marchionne said. The loans, he added, would
be important for the “long-term stability of Chrysler.”  Without a loan, or with less money than it requested,
Chrysler may not improve its vehicles’ fuel efficiency as fast
as it would with that assistance, said Alan Baum, a West
Bloomfield, Michigan-based industry consultant with Baum &
Associates.  “They’d need to fund some of that from either internal
sources or private sources,” Baum said in a telephone
interview. “They’re looking at the price of this money and
saying it’s a good deal. They made a judgment different from
General Motors and deciding they wouldn’t be negatively affected
from a perception standpoint. Or they don’t have as much
opportunity to get the money from other sources.”  A123 Costs  A123, which last month got a contract to supply  lithium-ion
batteries  and electronic parts to GM, has requested a $233
million loan, said Deutsche Bank analyst Dan Galves, who  rates 
the shares “buy.”  “The cost of capital would be certainly higher if they
weren’t to get the loan,” Galves, who is based in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “These loans would be an
extremely good way to help a young company bridge the gap from
relatively low revenue and low profit over the next couple
years.”  A123 spokesman Dan Borgasano didn’t respond to a phone call
seeking comment. The company is based in Watertown,
Massachusetts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  