-- 
Cincinnati Bell Must Face Investor Lawsuit Over Executive Pay, Judge Rules

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-09-21T23:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/cincinnati-bell-loses-bid-to-have-executive-pay-lawsuit-dismissed.html
Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBB)  must face an
investor lawsuit challenging millions of dollars in bonuses and
compensation paid to executives after the Ohio-based telephone
and wireless company reported a drop in earnings.  An Illinois-based pension fund can proceed with its suit
alleging Cincinnati Bell’s directors erred in approving more
than $8 million in compensation payments to the phone company’s
top managers, U.S. District Judge Timothy Black in Cincinnati
ruled yesterday. The pay raises ranged from 54 percent to 80
percent for executives, according to court filings.  The fund’s suit raises “a plausible claim that the
multimillion-dollar bonuses approved by the directors in a time
of the company’s declining financial performance violated
Cincinnati Bell’s pay-for-performance compensation policy,” the
judge said in an 11-page ruling.  Cincinnati Bell shareholders opted in May to reject the
company’s compensation plan in a so-called say-on-pay vote
mandated by new U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  Lisa McLaughlin, a Cincinnati Bell spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the judge’s ruling.  Dodd-Frank Act  The SEC rules, which also call for companies to hold votes
on how often shareholders should consider executive pay, was
part of the agency’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.  In response to the 2008 credit crisis, that law directed
regulators to let investors vote their view on executive pay
amid public furor over incentives rewarding risky trading that
helped topple Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Cincinnati Bell, which bought data-center operator CyrusOne
last year for $525 million, reported that its 2010 earnings fell
to $28.3 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with
$89.6 million, or 37 cents a share, the year before. In
regulatory filings, the company attributed the loss to costs
associated with the CyrusOne acquisition.  Lawyers for Decatur, Illinois-based  NECA-IBEW Pension Fund ,
a Cincinnati Bell shareholder, sued the company’s board in July
seeking to recoup bonuses and compensation paid to executives
including Chief Executive Officer John F. “Jack” Cassidy.  The fund’s attorneys contend directors weren’t acting in
investors’ best interests in approving the bonuses and raises at
a time when Cincinnati Bell’s net revenue has dropped 68 percent
and generated “negative 18.8 percent annual shareholder
return,” according to court filings.  ‘Factual Allegations’  Cincinnati Bell’s lawyers countered that directors acted
within their discretion in approving the pay plan and said the
pension fund can’t show any evidence of fraud or wrongdoing in
connection with the creation of the compensation system.  Black concluded the pension fund had raised enough
questions about directors’ decision to award the bonuses and
raises to allow the suit to proceed.  The fund’s suit “provides factual allegations and not
simply conclusory allegations,” the judge said.  The case is NECA-IBEW Pension Fund v. Cox, U.S. District
Court, 11-cv-00451, Southern District of  Ohio , Western Division
(Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  