-- 
JPMorgan, Citigroup Seek Dismissal of Thornburg Lawsuit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-21T14:04:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-21/citigroup-banks-seek-to-dismiss-ex-thornburg-mortgage-lawsuit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and other banks asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by
defunct Thornburg Mortgage Inc., saying the complaint didn’t
adequately show that fraud occurred.  Trustee Joel Sher sued the banks for $2 billion in April,
alleging they helped push Thornburg, now called TMST Inc., into
a “free-fall” bankruptcy. Making “unjustified” margin calls,
the banks extracted more than $700 million of margin and
interest payments from Thornburg, then sold their collateral and
left the company to file for Chapter 11 protection during the
credit crisis in May 2009, Sher claimed.  The banks, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc and UBS AG, or their affiliates, were trading
partners of Thornburg’s in repurchase and swap transactions used
to finance its mortgage business, the banks said in yesterday’s
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Baltimore. Under the repo
agreements, they could make margin calls at any time if the
counterparty had a margin deficit, they said.  Sher didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment
on the banks’ filing. He has updated the suit since it was
initially filed.  Banks are sometimes targeted by bankrupt companies that are
trying to recover money for creditors.  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  sued JPMorgan for $8.6 billion, saying the bank helped to
cause its downfall. The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s
defunct firm is demanding $19 billion from JPMorgan, accusing it
of assisting Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. New York-based JPMorgan is
fighting both lawsuits.  Bear Stearns  JPMorgan was named in the TMST suit because it bought
assets from Bear Stearns Cos., a lender to Thornburg.
Thornburg was organized as a real-estate investment trust and
mainly invested in residential mortgage-backed securities.
Assets totaled $24.4 billion as of Jan. 31, 2009, according to
court documents.  Sher filed at least eight lawsuits from April 28 to April
30, seeking money from Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Bank of America Corp. and other companies.  The bankruptcy case is Thornburg Mortgage Inc., 09-17787,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 